LIFE

      LETTBES AND JOUENALS

                                                                       OF

SIR CHARLES LYELL, BART.

                            AUTHOR OF 'PRINCIPLES OF GEOLOGY' &C.

         EDITED BY HIS SISTER-IN-LAW, MRS. LYELL

                                 IN TWO VOLUMES-- VOL. I.

                    fgffitlj ariraifc

JOHN                    LONDON         STREET

      MURRAY, ALBEMARLE

                                 1881

      All fights reserved


           P BE FACE.

The Geological Works of Sir Charles Lyell are the best

monument which he has left to the world as a record
of his labours in Science, but something more may be
desired to be known of the life of one who loved
Nature's works with an intensity which was only
equalled by his love of Truth.

     These volumes contain a sketch of the early days
of Geological Science, and of the Geological Society of
London, with glimpses of some of the bright characters
who adorned it.

     An autobiographical account of his boyhood is given,
and large extracts from the private journals and letters
to his wife, his family and friends, as these record
better than any panegyric the untiring energy and
enthusiasm which never flagged during a long life,
rendering it a useful and a very happy one.

     His cultivated mind and classical taste, his keen
interest in the world of politics and in the social pro
gress and education of his country, and the many
opportunities he enjoyed of friendly intercourse with
the most leading characters of his age, make the letters

vi PREFACE

abound in lively anecdotes and pictures of society, con
stantly interspersed with his enthusiastic devotion to
Natural History.

     The geological information is given, as he gathered
it in, from his personal observations at the time, though
he afterwards may have arrived at different conclusions
as he advanced in the study of the subject.

      Many thanks are due to all who have kindly lent
me their letters, and have thus contributed to the com
pletion of these memoirs.

               CONTENTS

         THE F I E S T VOLUME.

         CHAPTER I.

         NOVEMBER --1797 1812-14.

Birth at Kinnordy -- Bartley Lodge -- School at Ringwood --Adventures -- PAGE
    School-life at Salisbury -- Old Sarum -- More School Adventures --
    Entomology --Dr. Fowler --HI, and sent Home --Love of Insects --
    Dr. Bayley's School at Midhurst -- Reflections on School-life --
    Classicus Paper-- Taste for Poetry --Latin Verses --Petty Gambling
     -- Chess -- Music -- The enraged Musician-- Co wdry Park and Birds-

nesting                                                               .1

                            CHAPTER II.                                     32

                         FEBRUARY 1816 -- NOVEMBER 1817.

Letters from Oxford -- Fellow Students--Gifford -- Kirke White -- ' Chris-
    tabel '-- Examination --Lord Exmouth --Ammonites Bucklandi --Visit
     to Mr. Dawson Turner at Yarmouth -- Dr. Arnold -- Geology -- Journey
     to Scotland-- Trip to Staffa -- Iona -- Return to Oxford -- Lines on

      Starfa

         CHAPTER III.

         JUNE, JULY 1818.

Tour on the Continent -- Paris -- Jardin des Plantes-- Versailles-- Mai-
maison -- Theatre Francais -- Corneille's Play -- Practical Efficiency of
the Bibliothequedu Roi -- Visit to Pere la Chaise -- The Louvre Journey
continued to the Jura Mountains -- Grand View over Switzerland
Chamouni --Glacier de Bossons -- Mer de Glace --Couvercle, and le
Jardin -- Flowers and Insects -- Return to Geneva -- Basle --Holbein
Falls of Schaffhausen -- Lucerne --Ascent of the Righi  . . .57

Viu CONTENTS OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

               CHAPTER IV.
            JULY --SEPTEMBER. 1818.

Meyringen-- The Giesbach-- Glacier of the Rhone-- View from the Grirnsel
--Theory of Pink Snow explained-- Grindelwald Glacier-- La belle
Batteliere-- Avalanche from the Eiger --Berne and Dr. Wittenbach --
The Vail ais-- Desolation from the bursting of the Drance-- Val cle
Bagne-- The Bridge of Lourtier-- Convent of St. Bernard-- Ancient
Temple of Jupiter-- Brieg-- The Simplon--
Verona --Venice --Bologna --Florence           Lago  Maggiore-- Milan-

                                                                         .84

            CHAPTER V.

            SEPTEMBER 1820 -- JULY 1823.

Letter from Rome--Impressions of the Forum -- Political Discontent at
Naples -- Geological Anniversary Dinner --Geologising in Surrey--Visit
to Romney Marsh -- Geology of the Isle of Wight -- Geological Club
Dinner --Paris --Soiree at Cuvier's --Alexander von Humboldt -- La
Place --Arago --Politics -- Aliments for ever
                                                                               112

            CHAPTER VI.

            JULY 1823 -- OCTOBER 1824.

Alexander Brongniart -- Manufacture of Sevres -- M. Pichon -- Tertiary
    Formations at Meudon -- M. Constant Prevost-- Marshal Soult's Gallery
    -- Political Discussion at Cuvier's --Excursion to Fontainebleau with
    M. Constant Prevost-- Division of Property --Baron de Ferussac -- His
    Cosmogony--Political Changes in France -- Versailles -- Geological Ex
    cursion to the Marne -- Centralisation of Paris -- Return to England --
    Rev. W. D. Conybeare -- Plesiosaurus from Lyme Regis -- Constant
    Prevost's Visit to England --Kinnordy --Accompanies Dr. Buckland to

Ross-shire                                                                     132

            CHAPTER VII.

            JULY 1825 -- DECEMBER 1827.

Clathrarium Lyelli --Entomology --Lockhart becomes Editor of the
' Quarterly Review' -- Breakfast at Lockhart's with Sir Walter Scott --
Visit to Cambridge --Pleasure in reading Lamarck --Planning his
future Work -- On Intolerance in Science
                                                                               160

                         CHAPTER VIII.

                                 JANUARY -- SEPTEMBER 1828.
Arrival of Ava Fossils -- Botanical Chair, London University -- Dr. Flem

    ing's History of British Animals -- Paity at Sir George Phillips' -- Tour

CONTENTS OF THE FIRST VOLUME.                                                ix

                                                                                                                                                      PAGE

abroad with Murchison -- Paris-- Journey to Auvergne -- Secondary and
Freshwater Formations of France --Volcanic Phenomena near Cler
mont -- Count de Montlosier -- Beautiful Scenery about Mont Dor --
Cantal Fossils -- Entomology -- Nice -- Murchison Overtaxing his
Strength -- Paper on Excavation of Valleys -- Determines to go to Naples
and Sicily -- Letter to Herschel -- Parts from the Murchisons at Padua
-- Giotto's Paintings . . . . ' . . . . . .175

                              CHAPTER IX.

                           OCTOBER 1828 -- JANUARY 1829.

Parma --Professor Guidotti -- Fine Collection of Fossil Shells -- Adventure
    at the Douane at Parma -- Geology of the Valley of the Elsa River near
    Siena-- Ancient Volcanos near Viterbo -- Geology of Rome -- Naples --
    Embarks for Ischia --Passtum -- Temple of Neptune -- Catania --Ascent
    of Etna --The Casa Inglese --The Gem me liar os -- Hardships and
    Adventures -- Syracuse --Agrigentum -- A Festa -- Palermo --Banditti
    -- Difficulty of leaving Sicily -- Return to Naples . « . . . 205

         CHAPTER X.

         JANUARY -- DECEMBER 1829.

Borne --News from home on Geological speculations --Dr. Wollaston's
Death -- Tivoli -- Grand section of Travertin --Geologists at Genoa --
Journey to Geneva --De Candolle --Necker -- Paris -- Lecture of Pro
vost's -- Cuvier--Arrangement of his Library-- Return to London --
Lively Meeting at the Geological Society -- Fossils in pavement-stone

....in Forfarshire -- Sedgwick and Murchison geologising abroad --Letter
from Constant Pre vost-- Project of going to Iceland                         236

         CHAPTER XL

         FEBRUARY -- AUGUST 1S30.

Di\ Fleming's remarks on Conybeare -- Determination not to enter into

controversy-- Opening of the Athenseum      Club-- Milman's ' History    of     ·
the Jews '-- Proposed trip to the Crimea--  Letters to Poulett Scrope   on   259
the ' Principles '-- Leaves England with                               Py
renees --Excursion into Catalonia .         Captain Cooke for the

         CHAPTER XII.

         AUGUST-- NOVEMBER 1830.

Volcanos of Olot-- Earthquakes -- Count d'Espagne-- Cork-trees on the
French side of the Pyrenees-- Pine-trees--
try -- Expedition to Mont Perdu -- Letter   Political state of   the coun
                                                                Geology
                                               to Scrope on

Ripple-mark-- Paris-- Louis Philippe-- Political agitation in Belgium

VOL. I.  a

         CONTENTS OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

and France-- Studying shells with                                                                         PAGE
mob -- Returns to London-- Scrope's
to Raymond Buildings                 Deshayes-- Disturbance by the
                                     review in <Quarterly '-- Removes

                                                                                                  283

         CHAPTER XIII.

         FEBRUARY-- SEPTEMBER 1831.

Appointed Professor of Geology at King's College-- Visit to Cambridge-
Journal to Miss Horner -- Mrs. Somerville's ' Mechanism of the
Heavens' -- Party spirit on the Reform Bill-- On Education of Boys--
Madame de Stael and her Writings-- Sir William Napier-- Goes to
Scotland --Edinburgh -- Lord Cockburn --Dr. Greville --Kinnordy
                                                                       .315

         CHAPTER XIY.

         SEPTEMBER DECEMBER 1831.

New Volcanic Island in the Mediterranean -- Life at Kinnordy with his
    family-- Election excitement-- Murray of Simprim --Returns to Lon
     don -- Dinner at the Linnasan Club -- Cumming, the sail-maker --
    Geological Society Meeting -- Duke of Sussex at the Royal Society--
    Visit to Jermyns --Thinks of giving up his Professorship at King's

College                                                                      339

          CHAPTER XY.
         JANUARY--MAY 1832.

Conversation with Babbage-- Mrs. Lockhart -- Visit to Dr. Fitton at
Hendon -- Dinner at Mr. Mallet's at Hampstead -- Entomology --Anni
versary Dinner of the Geological Society -- Party at Murchison's --
Sedgwick declines a Living -- Captain Basil Hall-- Zoological farm at
Kingston Hill -- Butterflies -- On Religious Toleration -- Lectures at
King's College-- Reform Bill
                                                                             361

         CHAPTER XYI.

         JUNE 1832 --APRIL 1834.

....His Marriage --Tour to Switzerland and the Italian Lakes --Return to
London -- Lectures at the Royal Institution -- Heidelberg --Von Leon-
hard's Lecture -- Dr. Schmerling's work in the Caves near Liege -- Dr.
Bowstead -- Sydney Smith -- The Drummond Light
                                                                             387

                         CHAPTER XVII.

                                  MAY --JUNE 1834.

Departs for Sweden -- Liibeck -- Picks up Shells on the Baltic --Arrives at
    Copenhagen --Expedition to Moen with Dr, Forchhammer -- The Crown

CONTENTS OF THE FIRST VOLUME.                                               xi

Prince Christian --Visit to the Country Palace of Sorgen-frey --Geo PAGE
logy-- Departs for Sweden-- Engages an Interpreter -- Legend of the
Backe-hasten-- Castle of Kalmar
                                                                            407

               CHAPTER XVIII.

               JUNE --DECEMBER 1834.

Stockholm -- Berzelius-- Review of the Fleet by Prince Oscar -- Upsala --
Herr Adjuncter Marklin--Linnaeus' Garden -- Liber Argenteus --Mea
sures the Sea-level -- Returns to Stockholm-- Gotheborg-- Sails to Hull
--Edinburgh Scientific Meeting --Agassiz
                                                                            423

                           CHAPTER XIX.

               JANUARY DECEMBER 1835.

Buckland's Bridgewater Treatise-- Crag shells of Suffolk --Paris --Von
    Buch --Berzelius -- Geology of Switzerland --Meeting of Naturalists at
    Bonn --Agassiz' Catastrophe System --His Love of Natural History --

Deshayes' zeal for Conchology                                               444

                    CHAPTER XX.
               FEBRUARY --DECEMBER 1836.

On money for Museums being frittered away in Buildings -- Letter to Sir
John Herschel on the Origination of New Species -- Kinnordy-- Dr.
Fleming appointed Professor in Aberdeen--Dr. Fitton declines Presi

dentship of the Geological Society-- Letter to Darwin against his

undertaking official work                                        . .462

               LIST OF PLATES.

Portrait of Sir Charles Lyell, after a Crayon Drawing by George
Richmond, R.A
                                                            Frontispiece.

Kinnordy, Forfarshire, the Birthplace of Sir Charles Lyell  . To face p. 1.




         LETTERS AND JOURNALS

                                                                              OF

SIR CHARLES LYELL, BART.

                             CHAPTER I.

                           NOVEMBER 1797 -- 1812-14.

BIRTH AT KINNORDY -- BARTLEY LODGE-- SCHOOL AT RING- WOOD-- ADVEN
    TURES -- SCHOOL-LIFE AT SALISBURY -- OLD SARUM -- MORE SCHOOL
    ADVENTURES-- DR. FOWLER-- ILL, AND SENT HOME-- LOVE OF INSECTS
    --DR. BAYLEYS SCHOOL AT MIDHURST-- REFLECTIONS ON SCHOOL LIFE
    -- CLASSICUS PAPER -- TASTE FOR POETRY -- LATIN VERSES -- PETTY
     GAMBLING-- CHESS-- MUSIC-- THE ENRAGED MUSICIAN-- COWDRY PARK
     AND BIRD-NESTING.

     [Charles Lyell was born November 14, 1797, at Kinnordy, the
family estate in Forfarshire. He was the eldest of ten children,

having two brothers and seven sisters, who all grew up. His father

was a man of cultivation and refinement, and had both literary and

scientific tastes. In early life he devoted himself to Botany, espe

cially to the cryptogams, and latterly took up the study of Dante,

and published several works on, and translations from, the great poet.
His mother, the daughter of Thomas Smith, of Maker Hall, Swaledale,

Yorkshire, was gifted with strong sense, and a tender anxiety for the

welfare of her children.
In 1832 he married the eldest daughter of Mr. Leonard Horner,
F.R.S., and in his letters to her, when she was living abroad at Bonn

on the Rhine, he wrote at her request the following autobiography,
which only extends to near the end of his school-days.]

VOL. I.                   B

/Q

SIR CHARLES LYELL.                                                         chap. i.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY.

I was born November 14, 1797, at Kinnordy.1 'The front

of heaven was not full of fiery shapes, at my nativity,' but it

was a remarkable winter and spring, so warm that my mother
slept all night with her bedroom windows open --which no
doubt portended something remarkable in the bairn; and sure

enough he was pronounced to be the loudest and most in

defatigable squaller of all the brats in Angus, and while he
kept others awake all night by his noise, thrived the while

Imost vigorously. Besides this, it was more than twelve

months before cut a single tooth, and some old woman in

ISouthampton, finding that my .gums were very hard, and

that could eat well, very considerately tried to persuade my

mother that her first-born would never have any teeth !

   IBut have travelled to Hants too fast. At the age of
Ithree months, was taken on a tour to Inverary, afterwards

to Ilfracombe in Devon, then to Weymouth, and finally to

Southampton, where Tom2 was born. My father then took
a fourteen years' lease of Bartley Lodge in the New Forest,

Hants, and stayed there twenty-eight years. The first thing

Iof which have a very distinct remembrance is learning the
I Ialphabet. was about three, believe, at that time, and was

four and a half when an event happened which was not

likely to be forgotten. My father and mother were on their
way to Kinnordy to spend a summer there, and were within
a stage and a half of Edinburgh, with Tom and me in their
carriage, and behind came a post-chaise with two nursemaids
and the cook, with Fanny and Marianne3 (then the baby).'
On a narrow road, with a steep brae above, and an equally
precipitous one below, and no parapet by the roadside, a
flock of sheep jumped down into the road, and frightened the
horses. Away they ran, and with the chaise, man, horses
and all, disappeared clean out of sight, over the brae in an
instant. No one was hurt but one of the maids, whose arm
was cut by the glass being broken. My father broke the upper
pane of glass, and pulled Fanny and Marianne through the

opening. All were afterwards got out, and while they sat by

                           1 See vignette, on title-page.  3 His sisters.
2 His next brother.

1804. SCHOOL AT RINGWOOD.                                  3

the roadside, one maid fainting, and the other with my mother
washing the blood from her arm, a chaise with two ladies

and a gentleman came past, who stared on them, and went
on without offering any assistance. A shepherd was more

Iobliging. Meanwhile Tom and were left in the carriage.
IWe thought it fine pastime, and am accused of having

prompted Tom to assist in plundering the pockets of the
carriage of all the buns and other eatables, which we demo
lished with great speed for fear of interruption. The next

Ievent remember was a daft woman, who came and haunted

Kirriemuir,4 and often and often visited Kinnordy, swearing
that she would not leave the country till she had one of c the

laird's bairns.' She attacked the nursery-maids one day
most furiously, when they were out with us, who, frightened
at her frantic questions, ran away. After several of these

visits, which made a great impression on my imagination,

Ithey caught the poor creature, and locked her up in the stable,
after which she never returned.  really cannot recall any

thing worth mentioning for nearly three years after. We

lived at Bartley, and walked out among that beautiful wild

forest scenery with the nurses, &c. My Grandmamma Lyell

came from Scotland with her two daughters, and settled in

Southampton, and their frequent visits to Bartley were

Iagreeable incidents to the children, always with presents of
toys, sweetmeats, &c.  was kept back nearly a year from
going to school, in order to wait till Tom could go with me.

I IThen, when was seven and three-quarter years old, was
Isent to Eingwood, to a Rev. R. S. Davies, about fifty boys

there suppose. What an event is this in a boy's life ! It
is completely a new world, and a rough one enough, if they

have been humoured and petted.

    It is a great amusement to me to recall scenes that seem

so distant, and yet which are so vividly impressed upon my
mind. Tom and I, and about three others, were the youngest
in the school. One of these was a little fellow of the name of

Montague, who must have been a complete 6 Billy Bottom,'

ready to undertake everything, and who undertook to direct
Ius, teach us games, &c, and to whom we appealed for
explanations.  went in the middle of a half year, and

               4 The neighbouring town in Forfarshire.

                       b2

4  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                   chap. i.

stayed, therefore, about ten weeks before the holidays. A

few weeks after my arrival, a quarrel happened between the
boys of the town, and ours. The former were familiarly

Icalled < the blackguards/ and they termed us < the Latin

cats.' A challenge was carried, know not from which party,

to tight, accepted, day fixed, weapons   (sticks) agreed upon,
                                        was decided upon by
their size, and everything else. It

a council of war that we five little ones were too small for

soldiers, so we were to be left, but sworn to secrecy. Each

one was called up, and told that if he blabbed, every bone of

him should be broken. When the evening came, every one
of the whole school marched and met the foe. They must
have had a regular ' shindy/ as the Irishmen call it, for
although the news of it spread in time for Davies and some
of the tradesmen to rush in and separate them, a great
number of heads were broken. All holidays were taken

away for ten days, and extra tasks imposed, and a sermon
read to them on their atrocious guilt. At that time
smuggling was very active on the coast, and c smugglers '

was our favourite game. One party were the custom-house

officers, the other were the contrabandists, with the kegs,

I&c. The first time went out, not knowing what was to

Ihappen, was so frightened by the surprise and hallooing,
Iand row of the sham fight, when we were set upon from

behind a hedge in a dark lane, that verily trembled for

my life.

    At that time the expectation of a French invasion was
general, and 6 the volunteers y were incorporated. My father
accepted a captaincy, and his corps were ordered to King-
wood, a pleasant event for us. Before my first return for

the holidays, the rejoicings for the victory of Trafalgar were
celebrated. There were bonfires on the summit of every

hill round Eingwood, which had a grand effect at night :

an illumination in the town, where almost every candle was
blackened on the outside, in mourning for Nelson. The
band of the volunteers played 'Eule Britannia' and 'Battle

of the Nile,5 while the people sang standing round a great
bonfire in the market-place. The volunteers had a spite
against the Mayor of Eingwood, because he would neither
subscribe to their funds, nor let them exercise in a field of

1804.        ADVENTURES.                                       5

his, so they threw squibs into his windows, and set fire to

Ithe drawing-room curtains, which were extinguished with
difficulty.  remember participating perfectly in the mixed

feeling of sorrow for the death of Nelson and triumph for

the great victory. The Government, by way of making the

volunteers on the alert, gave a sham alarm at Portsmouth
Iand Southampton that the French were landed.
                                               have

since heard that this was a party ruse, to stir up the anti-

Gallican feeling. The drums beat to arms. My father's

troop turned out. My mother packed up a travelling trunk,

to fly into the interior. It nearly cost my grandmother her

life, she was near dead of fright.

The return to the liberty and luxuries of home, after
Iroughing it at a boys' school, is of all things the most

delightful, yet always got rather weary of the idleness of

Ihome, and was almost glad to go back. Soon after my

return to school, saw two strange exhibitions. One was

the chopping off of a duck's head, and the bird running for

a short distance afterwards, which we thought good fun.
IThe other was the killing of a calf, which remember
I Ishocked me exceedingly.
             think see the animal stunned
Iby the first blow now, the only execution have ever seen of
the kind. Little Montague, who let us into these good things,
took us the same half year to see a corpse. A female rela

tion (not an old person) of Mrs. Cleater, no less a personage
than the accredited vendor of gingerbread and pies, &c, to

the school, had died next door to the school. We saw the

Icorpse laid out, covered with flowers ; recollect thinking it
Ia pleasing sight. Montague knew that and Tom were
great pets of Eachel Davies, a girl of about thirteen,

daughter of our reverend schoolmaster, so he bethought him
to send me to Miss Eachel to ask, as a great favour of her
father, to let us little ones, M. included, go to the funeral.
This favour she obtained, and took us. Her father officiated.
We thought ourselves in great luck, for a private soldier was
buried the same day, and they fired over the grave. For
weeks afterwards there was nothing but acting funerals,
which superseded every game. Small graves were dug near
the corner of the playground, or to whatever place the boys
walked out, and some blocks of wood covered with apiece of

6          SIR CHARLES LYELL.                    CHAP. I.

Icrape carried as coffins, and some going with their pocket-
handkerchiefs to their eyes as mourners.  seem to see

Montague now, with something like a gown on, lifting up

his hands, and repeating, in exact mimicry of our old peda

gogue, 6 Ashes to ashes, and dust to dust.' When we

buried soldiers, we made a grand row, to represent the

musketry, and threw handfuls of dust for smoke.

   Of all the dreaded penances which we had to undergo we

thought going to church, sitting whole hours doing nothing,

Iincomparably the worst ; far more intolerable than lessons, in

which always had some mixture of pleasure. We took
marbles in our pockets, to play at ' odd or even/ to relieve the

Itedium, and many other devices, for which we often got
punished.  one day, as we returned from church, asked
                                        be the meaning of "to beat down
MSaotnatnaguuneder'wohuar tfeceotu"ld?
                                        ' He was always ready with an an

swer, by which means he kept up his authority amongst us,

and we gave implicit faith to his decisions and explanations.

I IBut this was nearly a poser. He replied, however, without

hesitation : < cannot tell you, but will show you by-and-by
how to do it.' So he took our little squad to a shallow pool

of water, and taking off his shoes and stockings, jumped

Iabout in it, splashing us all over, and then said he had been
beating down Satan.                     did not presume to doubt his inter

pretation, bub for years afterwards thought it so odd that he
bad not jumped on a piece of satin, instead of water, which

was only soft like satin.

   I have not reached the beginning of my tenth year, and
Ihave not left Ring wood. The last half-year was there, a
set of strolling players set up a stage in a barn, and per

suaded our master to let the whole school attend. They
Iacted ' Hamlet.'
                   had never read a play, nor had any notion
Iof such a thing before, yet entered into it so much that

I Ithe impression remained very vivid, and when, years after

wards, read the play, thought the effect much heightened

I Ifrom my former recollection. In almost every other instance

when have read Shakspere first, have found the acting fall
short of mj conceptions of the play from reading; besides

Ithe natural indignation one feels for the liberties they take

in altering the text, which never could endure even as a

1806. HARTLEY LODGE.                                   7

Ischoolboy.  remember being puzzled at the play within

play in ' Hamlet/ but my delight in the Ghost scene was very
Igreat.   should like much to know what was the degree of
I Imediocrity of the poor itinerants, for question whether

Ihave ever thought any acting since comparable to them.

    It was now decided that Tom and should leave Mr.

Davies's, who was no great scholar, and whose set of boys

was of a very mixed kind, and not so select as my father
thought he might get at Salisbury -- at Dr. R,adcliffe's. This

Dr. Radcliffe was a good man, and kept a school of about

fifty boys, and all of the very best families in Wilts, Dorset,
and part of Hants. We had the Port mans, Windham s,

Beresfords (Irish), Beckfords, Preston, &c. The Doctor

was a good Oxonian classical scholar, and had two good

ushers. We had a long holiday at home between the

schools.

Bartley belonged to a Major Gilbert, and consisted of

eighty English acres, seventy of which was laid down in

grass, and produced hay, which was celebrated as the best in
the county for the hunters --for Lyndhurst was only two

miles off where the New Forest hounds were kept. The

hay harvest, therefore, was a great concern at Bartley, and

when we returned home for each summer holiday the mow

ing was always just beginning. We (Tom and I) used to
attend the mowers all day, and learnt to mow a little, and

used to tumble about with Marianne and Fanny in the hay

cocks, and ride in the loaded waggons to the haystack. It

lasted the greater part of our five or six weeks' holidays, as

Ipart of the land was always three weeks later in being cut.
  have always since thought haymaking the most delightful
of sights. We always had our small rakes and forks, and

used to try how much we could glean after the waggon. As

the whole of this grass land was unenclosed, and surrounded

the house, it made a good-sized park, and was full of fine

old oaks, some of which the Major cut down whenever he

Iwanted a few hundred pounds, for which always owed him
Ia grudge, for knew every tree, great and small, and used to

Imiss them as you might a piece of old furniture in a room.

To every clump and single tree in the park gave a name.
One was ' Ringwood/ another ' Salisbury/ or ' London/ or

©  SIX CHARLES LYELL.                    chap. i.

' Paris/ &c. Single trees were named after flowers, an odd

fancy : thus one was called ' Geranium.' These names were

afterwards adopted by the rest of the young ones. Although

I never forgave the Major for cutting the large oaks, yet
Ithere was nothing was so fond of as seeing trees felled.

   IWe were now allowed to roam about a good deal by our

selves, and always contrived to learn where the trees were

to be cut within reach of a walk, which was very frequent,

for the demand for the navy was then most pressing; and

besides the thousands of splendid oaks then cut near Lynd-

hurst, a great number of beech trees were also consumed,

Ifor every house has a right to a certain share of firewood,
by old custom, from the king's forests.  have been reading

lately that the Government surveyors found that forty acres

of the best soil for oaks were required to build one seventy-

four gun-ship, the oak being a century old, and a fair pro
portion of young trees being left. In other words, that forty

acres of good oak soil would produce a seventy-four per cen

tury. The ' Agricultural Journal ' adds : ' In all Scotland

there is not now ash timber enough to build two large men

of war.' You may suppose that when such numbers of

Ifrigates and so many men of war were built at the time

allude to, at Portsmouth, which was so near, and when the

price of timber was at its height, how annually, at c one fell

swoop/ large spaces were denuded of their noblest trees.

In order that a large tree might not injure younger wood in

its fall, much skill was required in so driving in wedges, after

the tree was sawed through near the root, as to direct its

weight to some clear space. The last wedge being driven in,

the tree was supported by its roots, and when all were severed

but one strong root, and this half cut through, the axe used

to be given to us boys, and we had the pride, at one blow, of
finishing the work. The tree at first moved slowly, then fell

with great rapidity, and with a magnificent crash as the

I Iboughs reached the ground.
         had only reached my tenth year when went to Salis

bury, sixteen miles from home, to Dr. Eadcliffe's --a school

in the middle of a large town, whereas Ring wood school was

in the suburbs of a small one. In this respect we thought

the change for the worse. Instead of a large meadow for a

1807.  OLD SARUM.                                            9

playground, near a river, where we could bathe, and where
we were in the country the moment we walked out, which
we enjoyed at Davies's, we had now a small yard surrounded
by walls, and only walked out twice or three times a week,

when it did not rain, and were obliged to keep in ranks
along the endless streets and dusty roads of the suburbs of
a city. It seemed a kind of prison by comparison, especially
to me, accustomed to liberty in such a wild place as the New_
Forest. Our favourite walk on holidays was to Old Sarum,
the celebrated rotten borough where one alehouse, with its
tea-gardens attached, sends two members to Parliament, and
which Lord Caledon bought no great time since, at its full
price, little thinking of the evil day which approached. Sir
Eufane Donkin remarked to me that the fact of Alexander

Baring having given 42,000L for a borough, within a year
of Schedule A, had destroyed his (Sir E.'s) confidence in
the funds, for in this case too, he says, shrewd merchants

Imay equally miscalculate the approaching era of the sponge.

But must not run into such digressions. This Old Sarum
Iis a singular isolated chalk-hill, on the summit of which is a
splendid old camp, with a deep triple trench.  have seen

many, but not one where the moats are so deep, and the
slope of the high banks so rapid. We used to heap piles of

large chalk flints on the opposite ridges, and set them run

ning to the bottom, where they broke on meeting and dash

ing against each ether, as they descended from the opposite
sides. Then we examined to see which had crystals of calce-

dony in the middle, or of sparkling quartz. Near the centre

of the flat space enclosed within the mounds and trenches

was a deep long subterranean tunnel, said to have been used

by the garrison to get water from a river in the plain below.

IBut whatever its former use, it was to us a great source of

fun. According to established custom, and some other new

comers were taken to the mouth of a subterranean passage,

in which the air was very cold. While we stood looking down

and wondering, all sorts of tales were told of its enormous

depth, and how it grew steeper far down, and ended in a

pool of water, &c. Then some of the initiated got behind

us, and knocked off all our hats, which began to roll down,

and were soon out of sight. After a great laugh at our

10  SJR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. I.

expense, and when we were in dismay at the thoughts of
parading the streets of Sarum in hatless plight, a guide was
appointed, whose duty it was to take all of us down in search

Iof our lost property. We went down many hundred yards,

standing upright, then were obliged to stoop. Here found

my hat, but the others had gone farther, and their owners

were obliged to crawl on, upon all fours, with their guide.
They soon came to a large chamber, very dark, where, after
groping about in the dark, they found their hats, greatly
improved, of course, as was mine, by knocking about upon
dripping chalk and hard flints in their descent. The passage

Iwent on, but how far, know not.
   IAt Eingwood think my studies were confined to English,

Ito writing and reading, and getting things by heart. At

Sarum began the Latin grammar, which, disagreeable as
it is, is considered by most schoolboys as a piece of promo

Ition when they first begin it. There was nothing at B,ad-

cliffe's for exciting the emulation of the boys, and as had

I Ian aversion to labour, which nothing but such a stimulus

could overcome, learnt but little during the two years
was at this school.

     Bartley appears still to me, and all of us, more a home

than even this (Kinnordy). It is the home of our recollec

tions, at least, and it was the place where as schoolboys Tom

I I Iand spent our holidays. Had spent them here, am
I Isure should have had a delight in Kinnordy which shall
Inever have now, -- much as like it. All the trees in the

park were oaks, and in the surrounding hedge and ditch

Iwere oaks, beech, and a few clumps of fir. Near part of a

group which named ' London ' there was an old brick kiln,
overgrown with briars, which 1 may mention again. A
clump of trees on the slope of the hill was ' Eomsey,5 and a
single tree in front of the right wing of our house was always

styled ' The Umbrella,5 from its shape. It was a fine oak,

spreading equally on any side.
     To return to Salisbury, we called our pedagogue Dr. "Rad-

I Icliffe ' Bluebeard/ because he had then his third wife. She

died soon after left, and he married a fourth, who believe

is now alive. He was a diligent teacher and fair scholar,

and had a very rare merit, that of impartiality, which many

1807.  TRICKS AT SCHOOL.          11

of his ushers had not. One of these, Monsieur Borelle, the

French master, was much disliked for favouritism. He was

an emigrant, had been in the army, and being very poor,
IDr. R. gave him leave to sleep in the house. His room

was within one in which and eight others slept. One
night, when we were very angry with him for having spatted
us all round with a ruler, for a noise in the schoolroom,

which only one had made, and no one would confess, we de

termined to be revenged. We balanced a great weight of

heavy volumes on the top of the door, so that no one could
open it without their falling on his head. He was caught

like a mouse in a trap, and threw a book in a rage at each

boy's head, as they lay shamming sound sleep. Another

stratagem of mine and young Prescott (son of Sir G. P.)
was to tie a string across the room from the legs of two

beds, so as to trip him up : from this string others branched

off, the ends of which were fixed to the great toes of two

sound sleepers, so that when Monsieur drew the lines, they
Iwoke, making a great outcry. At last we wearied him out,
and he went and slept elsewhere.  conclude that there

were far too many hours allotted to sleep at this school, for

at all others we were glad to sleep after the labours of the

day, and got punished for ]ate rising in the morning, and

being too late for roll-call. Here, on the contrary, a great

many of our best sports were at night, particularly one,

Iwhich, as very unique, and one which lasted all the time was
Ithere, must describe. It consisted of fighting, either in

single combat, or whole rooms against others, with bolsters.

These were shaken until all the contents were at one end,

and then they were kept there by a girth of string or stock

ings. This made a formidable weapon, the empty end being
the handle, and the ball at the other would hit a good blow,

or coil round a fellow's leg, and by a jerk pull him up so

that he fell backwards. The rules of our military code for

the < bolster-fight,' which were observed with the rigour

which boys always introduce into their sports, were as fol

lows. No one could put on any clothes, save chemise and

nightcap ; no one might return kicks or fistycuffs for blows

with a bolster ; no more than two rooms which were con

tiguous, or leading into the others, could join forces either

12  SIX CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. I.

for attack or defence. The invading party were always to
station a watch at the head of the stairs, to pive notice of
the approach of < Bluebeard/ for he was particularly severe
against this warfare, though he never succeeded in putting
it down. He used to come up with a cane, which, as none
were clothed, took dire effect on those caught out of bed.
He had a fortunate twist in his left foot, which made his

step recognisable at a distance, and his shoe to creak loudly.

This offence was high treason, not only because it led to
broken heads and made a honible row in the night, but be
cause Mrs. Radcliffe found that it made her bolsters wear

Iout most rapidly.
          shall never forget the confusion when the scout gave
notice that the enemy was approaching. The invaders ran
most risk, as they had to make their way back to their
room, but in compensation they were able, when they sur
prised a chamber of sleepers, to give them all a good blow

Iround before they began to fight. If some could not make

good their retreat, have known them get up the sooty
chimney, and when the Doctor was in the inner of the two
rooms, descend and get to their bed before he came back; or

if they were so unlucky as to be in the inner room of the

two invaded, they could only conceal themselves, and their

friends at home would sometimes get them off by putting a
bolster into their bed with a nightcap on, to be mistaken for

them.

     Among other amusements, was keeping field mice in
boxes, concealed under our beds. These were dug up in the
fields, with their stock of nuts and grain, a favourite sport.
The young mice were carefully educated in the use of a small

musket, for they were very docile, and would hold the small
piece of wood between their fore feet, and shoulder, ground,
and present arms, at word of command, and go through a

whole drill. You may suppose that by this odd feat being-
taught the little animals, that we were at that time in the
habit of seeing a drill. In fact a sergeant was employed
twice a week to drill us, and we had all guns with tin barrels

Iand locks, a strange fancy rather, but as there were volun

teer corps everywhere, suppose Dr. E. had his head full of

1808. ILL--SENT HOME.                         13

the chances of invasion. The exercise, however, of the drill,

was very proper at a school.
I Ihad the measles at this school, my first year think,
I Ivery severely.
                 was in a high fever, thought myself for

two days going round a number of wheels in all directions,

Ione of which transferred me to another, until was giddy ;
Iand thought there were thousands of others going round
Iin the same manner, which appeared whichever way turned.
I had long a fear of going to sleep afterwards, lest this, which,

however, was a waking dream, should return.

    At this time, in my eleventh year, 1808, my Aunt Ann

married Captain Heathcote, R.N. This connection brought

us into still greater intimacy with Mr. Heathcote, then M.P.

Ifor Hants, afterwards Sir Thos. H., and during our holidays.

Tom and paid some pleasant visits to Embley. My Grand
mamma Lyell had till now resided at Southampton with her

two daughters, the eldest of whom, Mary, still lived with her

there. They came over once to the music meeting at Sarum,

Ia triennial fete, and took Tom and me to part of it. Soon

after this was ill, and Dr. Fowler of Sarum rather alarmed
my mother about the air of Sarum beiug bad for me, and
Ithat seemed falling into a consumption, and that my lungs
Iwere affected.  thought it all stuff at the time, though
I Icertainly had some complaint on my lungs, which have
Inot had since ; but as I did not like Sarum, did not try to
make light of it, and was taken home for three months. As

Ithey were afraid to overtask me, began to get annoyed with
Iennui, which did not improve my health, for was always
Imost exceedingly miserable if unemployed, though had an

excessive aversion to work unless forced to it. It happened
that a little before this time my father had for a short time

exchanged botan}r for entomology, a fit which only lasted
just long enough to induce him to purchase some books on
Ithe latter subject, after which he threw it up, principally
Ibelieve from a dislike to kill the insects.  did not like this

department of the subject either, but soon satisfied myself
that their feelings must somewhat resemble that of plants,
that one part can live long without the other, that they will
eat after many of their limbs are cut off, fight when

14  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                 CHAP. I.

pins are stuck through, them, fly away when all their insides

are emptied out, and other signs which imply a kind of

vitality too remote from that of the higher warm-blooded

animals to awaken any feeling of disgust in one who studies

them much, at the idea of giving them pain, by the length,

of time which it takes to slay them, at least, unless the

operation be unskilfully performed. Collecting insects was

just the sort of desultory occupation which suited me at that
time, as it gave sufficient employment to my mind and body,

was full of variety, and to see a store continually increasing,

Igratified what in the cant phrase of the phrenologist is termed
the ' accumulative propensity.'      soon began to know what
Iwas rare, and to appreciate specimens by this test. In the

evenings used to look over ' Donovan's Insects,5 a work in
which a great number of the British species are well given

in coloured plates, but which has no scientific merit. This

Iwas a royal road at arriving at the names, and required no

study, but mere looking at pictures. At first confined my

attention to the Lepidoptera (butterflies, moths, &c), as the

most beautiful, but soon became fond of watching the

singular habits of the aquatic insects, and used to sit whole
mornings by a pond, feeding them with flies, and catching

Ithem if could.
   I had no companion to share this hobby with me, no one fco

encourage me in following it up, yet my love for it continued

Ialways fco increase, and it afforded a most varied source of

amusement. was chiefly attracted by the beauty of the Le-
pidopterous tribe; in common parlance, by the butterflies,
moths, hawk-moths (sphinxes), besides the procuring thechry-
salis and seeing its transformation; and the feeding andbreed-
Iing of caterpillars was another reason for preferring this nume
rous and showy class.  soon, however, learnt to prefer the

rare to the brilliant species, and was not long in discovering,
by the comparison of one season with another, that each
species had its peculiar time for appearing, some twice, some
once only in the year, some by day, some in the evening, and
others at distant hours of the night.
    IThe only other insects that engaged in the least my atten
tion at that time were the aquatic.    was greatly surprised

to find every pond tenanted by water-beetles of different sizes

i8o8. LOVE OF INSECTS.                             15

Iand shapes, and to observe them row themselves along by
the broad row of bristles attached to their legs.  threw flies

and moths into the water and observed them rise, and learnt

their relative strength, seeing some species relinquish the

booty on the appearance of others. The long spider-like flies

which run on the surface, the glimmer chafers which thread

the surface, in what we called a figure-of-eight movement, the

beetles which swim on their backs, and many others, such

as the red tick, used to be caught and brought in a basin

into my bedroom, and there kept, to the annojrance of the

housemaids when the water was none of the sweetest ; and
then the whole were fed with window- flies, until some died,

Iand others took wing in the night, and flew back to their

native waters. passed nearly the whole day alone fishing
for this small fry in some deserted gravel pit, or often in a

great pond called the brick-kiln, just by the fir-trees called by

Ius ' London.5 This sport could be pursued even in winter, and

often have found the large water-beetles frozen in the ice

which covered our ponds, and have brought home blocks and

melted them out. By this same brick-kiln (out of which
all the brick clay of which the house was built had been

taken) there were a great quantity of brambles, the flowers
of which in summer were usually ornamented by numbers

of the most beautiful and rarest of the English butterflies.

IAmong these, three varieties of Frittilary and the black
Admiral (Camilla) were conspicuous.                was very ill
supplied with instruments, both for taking and preserving
Imy prey, and many insects of real value to the entomologist,

as afterwards discovered, were mutilated by being knocked

down by iny hats, and then pressed between the leaves of a

Iwhite paper album. As my hats shared often in the mutila

tion, received sundry admonitions on that score, till at last

Miss Newlands, the governess, knit a small string net, a very
poor substitute for the gauze apparatus which would have

equally secured the flies, and kept them there when once in.

The larger ones, however, could not escape from these toils,

Iand the number caught was soon greater than had the

patience to preserve. After a time my Aunt Mary gave me a
piece of furniture, henceforth called ' Charles's Secretary/ an
heirloom, which was not wanted in their new lodging when

16           SIR CHARLES LYELL.          chap. i.

they quitted that which niy Grandmamma Lyell and her
·unmarried daughter had previously lived in in Southampton.

    This valuable acquisition was immediately turned into a
cabinet for insects, which, for want of a lining of cork in the
drawers, were impaled on the softish wood in the bottom of
each, which was nevertheless hard enough to turn the pins
Isometimes.
             still possess this piece of mahogany, and
Ialthough only fitted for a bedroom, still look upon it as a
favourite, and used to have it in my sitting-room in the

Temple. Transfixing these insects upon the soft wood of these
drawers was a great step beyond pressing them between

paper, and some of the varieties thus preserved were after
wards useful to Curtis the entomologist. My father's head
livery servant, John Devinish, who had been employed to
botanise, and showed some skill in discovering some of the

rare species of that minute tribe the Jungermannise (allied
Ito the mosses), was the only associate  ever remember to
Ihave obtained in my rambles through the Forest. With him
formed as strict an alliance as his scanty leisure permitted,
but any sympathy was valuable, any one sufficiently familiar
with the commoner species to be capable of appreciating a
Igreat treasure when carried to him on some triumphant occa

sion. Instead of sympathy, received from almost every one
Ielse beyond my home, either ridicule, or hints that the pur

suits of otherboys were more manly. Whether did fancy that
insects had no feeling 9 what could be the use of them P The
contemptuous appellation of ' butterfly-hunting ' applied to my
favourite employment always nettled me, yet since one class
of insects was sought to the exclusion of almost every other,
a naturalist even might have found     some point in such a
disparaging designation of the hobby.
                                        It must be confessed,

too that the organ of acquisitiveness, of which craniologists
talk was more bent on the miserly delight of amassing
treasure than in using it, for it was less for information than
the love of possessing the specimens that they were accumu

Ilated. Of their history knew but little, and still less of
Itheir structure, yet knew most accurately to distinguish
several hundred species, some very minute ; and still retained
a very perfect recollection of nearly all, and could select the
English butterflies and moths out of a foreign collection,

i8o8. ENTOMOLOGY.                        17

and without the aid of books, gave names to certain tribes,
Isuch as the c fold-up-moths,' c theyellow-underwings/ &c. &c,

which afterwards found were natural genera or families,

and my rule of thumb classification had thrown them into

Inatural groups. In the course of each holiday, for three or

four years successively, fell back into my old haunts in the

woods, and became so keen before my return to school, that

I could seldom resist the temptation of employing my leisure
Ihours there in the same way. could not see a rare moth with

out catching it, especially if not exposed to be laughed at by

any witnesses of such a queer fancy. When taken, they were

put between the leaves of my dictionary, as the only book

I Inot taken up to lessons. When looked out a word, often

found the two pages firmly glued together by some moth, the

contents of whose body had been squeezed out between the

Ileaves. The disrepute in which my hobby was held had a

considerable effect on my character, for was very sensitive

of the good opinion of others, and therefore followed it up

Ialmost by stealth ; so that although never confessed to
Imyself that was wrong, but always reasoned myself into a

belief that the generality of people were too stupid to com

Iprehend the interest of such pursuits, yet got too much in
Ithe habit of avoiding being seen, as if was ashamed of what
I did.
Among the things which supported me in my secret

Iestimation of entomology, was the number of expensive books

on the subject which found in my father's library. Many
of these were full of plates, but these did not weigh so much
with me as those written in Latin, and full of dry descrip
tions and hard terms, for it was evidence of the learned and

studious sages who had devoted their time to it. But with the
Iexception of a few scraps of Linnaeus, never troubled any
Ione of these learned writers, but whenever got anewthino-,
I Iturned over all the plates, till saw whether could find the
Ifname by that royal road to knowledge.
                                         found, the first
I Iinquiry was, whether it was rare.
        have now reached the eventful period when was about

to leave Salisbury, and go to a new and last school. There
Iwas an interregnum of near half a year, in which Tom and
Iwere taught by my father at home.
                                    believe we got on
vol. i.
         c

18          SIR CHARLES LYELL.       chap. i.

pretty well. We read at that time Virgil's ' Eclogues/ &c,
and a French master came out twice a week. At length it
was decided that we should go to Winchester, but it was

found that our names should have been down on the College

Ilists for two years, to give us a chance of entry. So another

school, as a sort of preparation believe, was decided upon,
kept by Dr. Bayley (once a master at Winchester, and an
Oxonian), who had about seventy boys, in a school of ancient
foundation, at the old (rotten) borough of Midhurst in
Sussex, a beautiful spot just opposite the old park of the

Castle of Cowdray, which belonged to the Montague family,
the title of which is now extinct, and which belongs to
Poyntz, who married the daughter and heiress. Dr. Bayley
had married a G-oodenough, one of the Bishop of Hereford's
first cousins. He had been long in good society at college,

and then at Winchester, and it was natural perhaps enough

that he should feel the change to a small provincial place,

Iwhere there was no society but a few tradespeople, &c. The

school into which was now ushered was a very different
world from either of the former. From the age and number
Iof the boys, and the system adopted, it had all the character
of one of our great public schools.  was now past the age

of twelve, and no longer reckoned one of the little boys.

IWhatever some may say or sing of the happy recollections

of their school days, believe the generality, if they told the

truth, would not like to have them over again, or would

Iconsider them as less happy than those which follow.
Ifelt for the first time that had to fight my own way in

a rough world, and must depend entirely on my own

resources.

    You have never heard, perhaps, how much the different

boys struggle for power, and how exactly each learns at last
to know who is his master, a supremacy which depends
partly on spirit, or as they term it pluck, and in part on
physical strength. There are always some pugnacious fel
lows who rather delight in affrays, and in setting others on,

and are the dread of the weak quiet-spirited youngsters.

They are often bullies, who are afraid of many of their own
age and strength, and knock under to them, but who tor
ment the quiet souls, and are hated as tyrants by the weaker

i8io. SCHOOL LIFE.           19

and younger in the school. There are some from kindly
feeling, but many more who from a love of affording protec
tion, and feeling their own consequence by shielding others,
take a certain number under their care. You often hear

some luckless wight who has been struck, exclaim, c I'll tell
C. of you if you hit me again.5 As to telling the master,

that is an appeal against the law whatever cruelty may pre
vail, and finds sympathy with none of the boys. One of

the oldest boys in the school, Deacon Senior (for there were
three of them, Senior, Secundus, and Junior), voluntarily

Itook me under his charge for nearly all the first half year,

out of pure kindness, and then told me was old enough,

and had been there long enough, to shift for myself. No
Isooner was it known that could not resort to a patron any
Ilonger, than
               began to be cuffed about and persecuted.

Aloiost every boy has to fight one battle before he gains a
position -- before it is settled who is to be afraid of him, and

of whom he has to be in fear. It required a good deal to

work me up to the point to defend my independence, although

I could not brook being put upon by my juniors, and about
Ithe middle of the second half year was set down by many
Ias incapable of resistance. At last saw that not to resent

and to fight, was a sure way of suffering more than any

Ibattle could entail, yet this was the result of reasoning, and
  was never ready to retort immediately. One day a vulgar
low sort of a boy, of the name of Tilt, had got into a quarrel
with me, and a good many of the complimentary epithets so

common among schoolboys, such as ass, fool, raff, and

finally coward, were exchanged, upon which he hit me a blow

which knocked me to the ground, and gave me a severe

bruise on my head. As Tilt was a fall year younger and

Ihalf a head shorter than me (though stronger built), was

annoyed beyond measure by this ignominious occurrence,

and after some hours mustered up courage to declare to
some boys who came to ask me if it was true that T. had
'Iknocked me down, that
                         should like to see him try it
Iagain.5 Immediately the report was spread that was
ready to fight. The delight which the intelligence of an im

pending battle occasions is always great, and numbers came
to pat me on the back, to offer to be my ' bottle-holder,5 to

                         c2

20  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                           CHAP. I.

advise nae to have c two minute rounds,5 &c, and every expe
dient for prolonging the diversion. One was appointed to

hold the watch and proclaim when the rounds were to hegin.

It was decided that instead of two, only one minute should

be allowed between each bout, so if one was knocked down,

and was not up again and ready in one minute (the other
calling on him to fight), the affair was over, and the one who

declined coming to the scratch was to < receive the cowardly

blow/ a gentle tap, followed by a shout of the friends of the

victor, and then sometimes, but rarely, by a shaking of the
hands of the two combatants. This fight lasted two days,

five or six hours each day, for there was no half holiday,
and we were pretty equal, Tilt having learned to box, and so

being nearly equal, though weaker than me. Both his eyes

were black and his side much hurt, and his head swollen for
I Ia week after.
    was, believe, very much hurt, but my
Iwounds were not in the face ; and though ought to have

been put to bed, as he was, my friends advised me to put a
good face on it, and pretend not to be hurt, c as it would
Imake others twice as much afraid of me.5 suffered severely
Ifrom sustaining this character for eight days.
                                                 recollect
Ithe pain at this moment -- every bone ached, and was black
Iand blue all over my body, and so stiff, that when walked
Iup 'to hills5 on half holiday, was obliged to get the arm

of a friend. After an affair of this kind, there is a discus

sion amongst the different boys of the same age and stand

ing whether such and such a one ought to be afraid of the

conqueror. Every disparaging circumstance is brought for

Iward, and as was a year older than Tilt, it was said that
I ought to be ashamed of having taken two days to do him

up ; 6 besides, Lyell's more damaged than he pretends to be,

Ihis is a skin that don't show it so much as Tilt's,5 &c. In

fact gained less than most would have done from so severe

a combat, yet every boy who was afraid of Tilt bad from

I Ithat day of course great respect for me and my fist ; and

this saved me from much molestation, and felt had

gained a great point.

    A short time after this, a most desperate battle took place

between Carter (one of the cousins of the present M.P.), a
Portsmouth boy, and Norris, two of the biggest in the

i8i2. SCHOOL LIFE.                                     21

school in the second class. It lasted three days, and was a

most savage concern. The pluck with which they fought on,
after both had grown pale with the blood lost from the nose,

Iand black with bruises, and when each could scarce totter

on his legs from weakness, was a sight that recollect think

ing barbarous and brutal; but the eager enjoyment and

i admiration of the school at their pluck was surprising.

You cannot imagine the extent to which the stronger and

more spirited, domineer over the milder and more timid.

You will see on a cold day, when a crowd of little boys are

round the fire shivering, three larger or more powerful walk

up, and, without any order or hint, the crowd steals off, and

the three monopolise the warmth for hours, and will let none

but themselves toast or boil or bake on the fire. There is often,

too, a sort of tribute paid by the weaker to propitiate these

majestic powers. They receive all kinds of presents, in

order to make them less free with their cuffs and exactions.

For though fagging was not allowed, as in some public

schools, yet there is always much hard service exacted by

the older and stronger from their inferiors in age and

prowess. Some boys quite sink under this roughing, but in

general they become more manly and hardier. If they have

come from a comfortable home, have been petted and spoiled

to some degree, are sensitive of insult and hard usage, and

yet not possessing force of character enough and active

courage to fight their way, they must go through a most

painful ordeal before they feel themselves at all comfort

Iable, especially when about the middle of the school. The

recollection of it makes me bless my stars have not to go
through it again.

     There were about seven classes, two of which were in

Iferior bo the one was placed in, and at the bottom of which
I found myself. Every year some from the top of each class

were draughted into the class above --not those who hap

pened to be at the top when the half year was over, but, by a

much more judicious arrangement, those who during the
Ifive months had been oftenest at the top or near it.
                                                       must

Idescribe to you how this was ascertained. The c Classicus

Paper,' an invention adopted believe from time immemorial

at Winchester, and some other of our great public schools,

22                                     SIR CHARLES LYELL.                                                         CHAP. I.

was kept by each class, in which document each boy's place
at the end of the day was noted down. Thus, suppose there
were eight boys in the class. Their names would be arranged
according to the number which they had got the week before,
when Forbes being least was Classicus, and had the fag of
keeping the Classicus Paper. But as he obtained the mark
of 13 during that week, and topped Lyell Senior, the last-

mentioned dunce would take his place, and be Classicus for

the ensuing week. The great satisfaction with which the

said paper is handed over to another to keep, may be con-

      Feb. 2.                  o                        Bailey           Deacon                                                        CO
    A.D. 1811.                                                              5 37 7 6 5                  CO
                                                                Teriius                 Dunbar  324143 sCO o
                                                                               Junior                   P5
                                                                                  |
    Monday    ..   .           858678  |                56                              4                 213212  1 42321
                                               77658 7
    Tuesday        ...                                                                  3

    Wednesday                                           6658                            4

    Thursday  ...                                                                       1

    Friday.        .                                                                    8

    Saturday       .                                                                    4

    Total .        it is it .  42 40 36 33 24 17 11 13

ceived, for                    is      considered as a place of some reproach.

Every boy put on to translate a passage in his turn, and

as often as he fails, the word passed on to the next below      is                                                                         :

if he knows he takes the other's place. In this manner
the attention of all kept alive, for the boys at the top of
                                       is

the class are liable immediately to lose ground unless they
are constantly attending to what those at the bottom are

doing for when the last cannot answer to question passed
    it ;

                     a
                                                                        a

                                                               if

                                                                                           is
down, goes over to the first boy at the top, and he

absent, he loses place immediately, however easy the query.

1 8 12.  CLASSICUS PAPER,  23

I believe this and the Classicus Paper to be an admirable con

trivance for exciting a constant spirit of emulation, for
checking favouritism in the teacher, for ascertaining the rela

tive strength of different boys, knowing how to promote

them into other classes, fixing their attention, &c. At the

end of the half year, all the totals being added together, the

boy who had the highest number received a prize, and three

or four of the first or more were raised into the class above.

The competition was greatly increased, as boys rose to the
higher classes, because those of the first had many valuable

privileges. They were called c The Seniors/ and constituted
the magistracy, being empowered by the head master to keep
the rest in order, to report on all boys found ' out of bounds '
or guilty of any other delinquency. Of course the entrust
ing such powers to young boys of sixteen to eighteen was
liable to some abuse occasionally, yet it works well, and the
effect upon the whole is, that much of the tyranny that
would otherwise prevail, of mere physical force and bold

daring dispositions over the meek and tenderer bodies, was

kept down by the supremacy of responsible magistrates,
raised to their station by talent, and usually younger than
some of the idle bullying dunces in the inferior classes. To
strike a 'Senior5 is viewed in the same light by the head
master as for a junior officer in the army or navy to strike
or challenge a senior, and such an act of insubordination

was quite unknown. Besides, there were almost always one
or two in the first class stronger than any other in the
school, who made a point of enforcing the most complete
-respect to the weakest in the ' magistracy ' from the greatest
of the junior boys. We used to see with great delight some
youths who had been kept under by certain dreaded charac

 ters, suddenly put over their heads by being promoted to the
 first class. The Senior might retaliate then upon his old
 enemy in a legitimate way, by being very strict in looking
 after him, and reporting any breach of the law, which might
 have been winked at in a less obnoxious individual.

      My ambition during the second half year was excited by
 finding myself rising near the top of a class of fifteen boys,

I Iin which was ; and when miserable, as often was, with
I Ithe kicks and cuffs received, got into a useful habit of

24  SIX CHARLES LYELL.                              CHAP. I.

Ithinking myself happy when got a high number in the
Iclass-paper. So great an effect had this on me, that if was

lower than usual, and we failed to get on certain occasions a

half holiday on Friday (an extra treat given now and then

Ifrom fine weather and other occasions), used immediately
Ito comfort myself with the idea that should probably get a
Ihigher mark. On the other hand, if unusually high up, my

anxiety was great to get the holiday, as then was secure

of that number. By this feeling, much of my natural

Iantipathy to work, and extreme absence of mind, was con

quered in a great measure, and acquired habits of attention,

Iwhich, however, were very painful to me, and only sustained

when had an object in view.
    At the end of the first year arrived the anniversary, or

what was called c the speaking,5 when certain boys recited

verses written by themselves, those in the first two classes ;

and the rest different Greek, Latin, and English passages.

The rehearsal first began, at which every boy had to exhibit,

Iand then ten were selected to perform before the public.

obtained one of the places for reciting English, and was

I Iaccordingly gifted with a prize, Milton's ' Paradise Lost/ of

which was very proud. Every year afterwards received
invariably a prize for speaking, until high enough to carry

off the prizes for Latin and English original composition.

My inventive talents were not quick, but to have any, is so
rare a qualification, that it is sure to obtain a boy at our

Igreat schools (and afterwards as an author) some distinction.
  had a livelier sense than most of the boys of the beauty of
English poetry, Milton, Thomson, and Gray being my fa
vourites ; and even Virgil and Ovid gave mc some real pleasure,
I Iand knew the most poetic passages in them..
                                                was much
Itaken with Scott's ' Lady of the Lake ' on holidays, when

had risen to the second class, and presumed, when the prize
was given on ' Local Attachment 5 in English verse
                                                    being
    a
             '

                                 :

                                                   it

                                                                                    (it
                                                                                                         a
an understood thing that the metre was to be the usual ten-

syllabic rhyme), to venture on writing in the versification
of Scott's Lady of the Lake.' The verses were the only ones
out of the first class which had any originality in them, or

poetry, so the Doctor was puzzled what to do. The innovation

was bold one my excuse was that he had not given out

18 13.  LATIN VERSES.                 25

precise metre ; on which, he determined that this case was not
to serve as a precedent, that in future the classical English

metre was to be adopted, but mine was to have the prize,

Ibeing eight- syllabic and irregular, and not in couplets.
     When in the second class, wrote a Latin copy of verses

(a weekly exercise required of all) on the fight between the
land-rats and the water-rats, suggested by reading Homer's
battle of the frogs and mice --a mock-heroic. Dr. Bayley

had just drained a pond much infested by water-rats, which

was on one side of our playground, and they used to forage

on not only our cakes and bread and cheese in the night, but
Iliterally on our clothes and books.
                                      am sure that from the
Idate of this early achievement to the present hour have
Inever thought of this copy of verses ; but can recall with
Ipleasure the incident, and it convinces me that must very

early have felt a pleasure not usual among boys of about six

teen in exerting my inventive powers voluntarily. The plot

was begun with a consultation of water-rats, to each of whom

altisonant Greek names were given, after the plan of Homer

-- cake-stealer, gin-dreader, book-eater, ditch-lover, &c.

The king began by describing a dream in which the water-

prophet covered with slimy reeds appeared to him, foretelling
that the delicious expanse of sweet-scented mud would sooii

dry up, and foreboding woes. Part of the warning was

copied or paraphrased from the Sybil's song to the Trojans

Iin the ' iEneid ' of what should happen when they reached

Italy. The dream and warning, taken, suppose, from

Agamemnon's to the Grecian chiefs, being communicated,

the others entered into the debate what they should do, and

it was agreed that, as the fates had decreed the drying up of

the waters, they should migrate to a neighbouring sewer,

and should destroy the house-rats, who consumed so much

provender in the schoolroom, and who had usurped their
rights. One passage, in which a chief was described as a

great map-eater, and having at one meal consumed Africa,
Europe, Asia, America, and the Ocean, was admired as a
good specimen of pompous description of mighty deeds, on
the first entrance of a hero in an epic poem. The verses

Iran on to thirty-eight, and when done, there was great

discussion whether should dare show up such a thing. It

26  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                        CHAP. I.

was thought, however, a wondrous feat, till the second master,
IMr. Ayling, a youth of nineteen, who heard of it, said, '
Idare say it's all nonsense a.nd bad Latin.'
                                              was requested,
in vindication, to let him see it before it went up to Dr.

Bayley. To justify his own anticipation, he cut it up as

much as he could, pointing out all the grammatical errors and

one false quantity. Though he thus made many think light
of it, and checked my growing vanity not a little, it of course

had the effect of my correcting the lines, and rewriting a copy.

Dr. Bayley, when he saw it, was much surprised at the

correctness of the Latin, and struck, more than he chose to

Iadmit to us, with the invention displayed in the whole thing.

He told the class that it was such good Latin that deserved
great credit, but he did not wish them or me to send him up

I Imore mock-heroics.                         should one
    From this time took it into my head that
day do great things in a literary way, but my ambition was
quenched afterwards, by failing in carrying off any prize at

Oxford.

   IBut
Iagain.
Ihighest
      must not digress, but return to my school-days
    Indeed, have already been running on to near the
    class in the school, whereas must return to the

Ilong toilsome ascent of the ladder, and to my second half

year, when was just fighting my way among the boys, and
getting out of the fifth into the fourth class by high numbers

in the Classicus Paper, It was the custom of Dr. Bayley to

have the highest classes chiefly under his immediate care,

but once in six weeks each of the others came before him

in review. This much dreaded inspection was intended

not only for the boys, but also for the under-masters, and
when the great Doctor called out in a thundering voice,

'This class is disgracefully backward/ not only every boy
in it quaked with fear, but the under-masters, if they had
been idle, participated in the feeling of reproach. Two of
these were university men--Ayling and Belin, the latter the

Ison of a French emigre, and who had been brought up at

Winchester, and believe New College, Oxford. Although

I abhorred these reviews as much as any one, yet when they
I Iwere over had usually the comfort of feeling had gained

in the Classicus Paper. The reason of this was that my

i8i3- PETTY GAMBLING.               27

father used during every holiday to require ine to read with

hiin, a certain part of every day, on the books we were going

to work at the half year following. In this exercise he
always went out of the beaten path, and instead of confining
me to the mere translation of the Latin and Greek, used to

teach me the geography and mythology, &c. Now Dr. Bayley

usually finished each day by a few questions quite out of the

Iordinary line, and often astonished the class by answering
I Ithem. Well do recollect a day when was within two of
the bottom of a class of about fifteen, the first boy being

asked what the iEgean Sea was now called P It was passed

all the way down, every one staring with astonishment, and
Iwhen  answered, 'The Grecian Archipelago/ and was
Iordered to take all their places, sat down, feeling quite
Idizzy at the sudden elevation. From this height should
Ihave been at once precipitated to my former place if had
Ibeen ' put on ' afterwards, but it was the end of the lesson,

and we were dismissed, scoring fifteen, a number nearly

equalling an ordinary week's work.

About the end of the first year a spirit of gambling

began in the school, which reached its height about the
middle of the succeeding half year. First it was draughts,

a penny a game ; then some got cards, but these being

against law, the Seniors suppressed them. The draughts,

however, and betting on the game, and on other players,

continued, and when all our money was gone, we gambled

like savages for our food, and would have played for our

clothes, if they had been part of the disposable goods
belonging to us. It was common to hear this challenge,

I6 Fll bet you my Wednesday's top slice, against your Friday's

bottom slice, that beat you most games out of five.' Now

this you must know was wagering half a breakfast against

another moiety, but as the two slices were of unequal value,

the top, as we called it, of the round of the loaf being less

than the bottom half, the better player who wished to tempt

his antagonist by offering him odds, either staked his bottom

slice against the other's top slice, or to-morrow's against one

not to be paid for several days hence. Schoolboys gene

rally are as ravenous as wolves, and always almost fancy they

have too little to eat. They take much exercise, are usually

28     SIR. CHARLES LYELL.                       CHAP. I.

in fine vigorous health, not over-fed, as at home, and ready
to devour the allotted portion. You may imagine, therefore,

the misery of the famished gambler, who was obliged, when

the sound of the breakfast bell rang, to go and seat himself

in the midst of the others, who were eating their bread and
butter, and drinking each a small basin of warm milk and

water, without having himself more than half, and often

none, of his ration. Payment was always rigorously exacted

and made, but some were able to borrow when in distress,

though usually on usurious interest. ' If you'll lend me half
a slice to-day, I'll pay you a whole one on Saturday.' Some

Iof those who had lost all their breakfasts for several morn

ings running, of whom was occasionally one, got into a
habit of taking out one of the iron bars of the window, and

getting into the breakfast-room, or stealing in when the door
was left open, while John Budd, the purveyor, was gone out
to get the milk, having laid out the bread and butter.

When in, they clipped small bits off the slices of the larger

rounds, which would best bear it, and picked the butter out

of all the holes in the spread slices. They were caught more

than once at this petty larceny, and made severe examples

Iof by the other boys, without the interference of judge or
jury.  was cunning enough to escape one of these summary

Ipunishments, but was often in a dreadful fright ; and once,

when heard Budd approach, had nothing left for it but to

disguise my face and rush out, knocking him over, with half

his milk streaming in the gutter. Upon this he complained

to the Seniors of the depredation, and on their instituting an

inquiry, they soon got to the bottom of the whole evil, and

made a regulation that no boy should pay away more than

half his breakfast on one morning. They also kept guard on

Ithe breakfast- room.                            gave my

    A rage for chess succeeded to draughts, and
self over to this with great devotion, to the great detriment

Iof my advancement in the school. Instead of wholesome

exercise, football, cricket, fives, &c, confined myself with

others during the hours of play to the schoolroom, over a

chess-board, when the mind was excited with the same kind

of feelings which are aroused by gambling, and the lassitude

which follows is perhaps greater. Instead of allotting an

1813.   MUSIC.                                29

Iextra half-hour to work, to get a higher place in the Clas-

sicus Paper, was ever contriving means to steal a game of
chess, out of sight, during school hours. At the end of the
second year, a new hobby took possession of me -- music.

One of the boys had a flageolet, another a flute, which they

played tolerably. Mr. Ayling also played the flute pretty
Iwell.
        had an ear, and was very desirous of accompanying,
I Iso set to work for it on a small octave flute, and when
returned home my father gave me one of his large flutes,

Iwhich he had once played very well. As always took up
Ievery hobby with energy, soon learned to play a certain

number of tunes from notes, and to accompany. Some of

the boys who had finer ears were good at setting our flutes,
so as to be in perfect unison; and as there are no discordant

sounds on wind instruments, at least flutes, the music we

produced was by no means despicable, and among the boys

greatly admired. Some theatricals having been got up, we
had a regular orchestra to play between the acts -- three

flutes, two octaves, a tambourine, and, by way of melodious

accompaniment, a triangle. The second year of my hobby

I had eight flutes in my band, as it was called, of which, how
Iever, was an unworthy leader, two of the others beino-

much better players, and having taken lessons. Dr. Bay ley
became at last annoyed at the incessant flute playing, which

Iwas heard even at his house, but knew not how to interfere.

One day happened to observe that one of the hall tables,

when set in a particular way, gave a sound very like a

Ikettle-drum, the middle boards, which were long, vibrating,
and producing a fine mellow drum-like sound.  accordingly

got my band into the dining-hall, to the great delight of the
boys, but it attracted a crowd in the street every evening

and gave the Doctor an excuse for putting a stop to it. Our

first French master, Monsieur Flambard, an emigre, had now

left, and in his place a Monsieur Simon  (?)  came, a believer

in animal magnetism, and who looked like a thoroughbred
fiddler. He played well, and having no person to listen to
Lim, he wished to join our musicians, and to instruct us.
But his notions of application were far beyond those which

idle schoolboys could tolerate. Most of the boys liked our
flutes better than the thin meagre sounds of his cat-gut,

30     SIR CHARLES LYELL.                    chap. i.

Ithough he really played excellently, and suspect had been
professionally in the orchestra in the London theatres. So

after several unsuccessful attempts to drill us into perform

ing an overture with him, he cut us, protesting there was

I Inot one note in tune, from beginning to end of our perform
ance.  suppose this was nearly true, but for one felt this

aspersion on our musical talents a vile libel, and we gave out

that he was jealous of the superior melody of wind instru
ments ; and his miserable violin, and the attitudes in which

he placed himself, and his cries to us not to play so loud in
the c tenderer passages,' and other directions, became a
standing joke and subject of ridicule. At last we pretended
that we were overwhelmed with contrition, and coaxed him
back to an evening rehearsal. Just as he was performing a

solo infinitely to his own satisfaction, we all, at an agreed
signal, burst in with flutes, three fifes, triangles, tam

Ibourines, and every noise we could make, to the infinite

delight of the bystanders ; and am sure the Enraged Musi

cian in Hogarth would not have supplied a better subject

for a picture.
     About the second year of my Midhurst campaign, before

Tom went to sea, Lady Eamsay (of Banrff, Perthshire) put
her two eldest sons to Dr. Bayley's, induced by my father
having us there (Sir James E. and his brother George, who
afterwards went to Harrow). She used to have us out on
Sundays once a fortnight, a great treat, principally because
we got off one of the churches, which all boys abhor, and
then we got liberty to walk where we liked. We employed
the time chiefly in hunting for the eggs of partridges and

pheasants. It was a great game country, and the preserves
Iof the Poyntzes of Cowdray, Lord Eobert Seymour, Mr.
Blake, and others, afforded us great sport.  remember

once finding a nest of pheasants, in which there were fifteen
chicks and two eggs. We broke the latter, and out stepped
the two chicks, and immediately thrust their heads under the
egg-shells, all the rest of the body being exposed, apparently

supposing that if they could not see us they were concealed.

We often brought home enough good eggs to fill two coffee
pots, which were boiled next morning,  and were esteemed a
great treat; besides a vague notion
                                       that if detected we

1813.              BIRDS'-NESTING.          31

might be transported to Botany Bay for this kind of poach

ing, added much in our estimation to the superior flavour of

these eggs over those of a barn-door hen.
     One of the favourite amusements of many boys in the

Ischool, during our walks, was birds'-nesting, and learnt the

egg of almost every bird in that country, where there were
Ia great variety.
                   was able to climb some trees which no
Iother boys could scale, of which was very proud, and this

Iaccomplishment made me greatly in request on certain occa
sions.  remember in particular an owFs nest, which could

only be taken by a long-legged and long-armed boy, who could

Istretch up from one bough to the next. Once took the

young owls, which were petted, and fed for some time at

home. The old ones flew out in my face. My way of des

cending these difficult trees (fine aged beeches in Mr. Poyntz's
park), for the descent was the most dangerous part of the

Itask, was one which found out myself. Instead of coming
Idown by the main trunk, got along one of the long boughs
I Itill it bent down within reach of six or eight feet of the

ground, and then let myself off. But could never take

the jackdaws' nests, which were on trees without branches,

and could only be mounted by boys who had power to grasp
with their arms and knees. There were many beeches of

great height, which ran up like palm trees, and up which

some . . .

            [Here the autobiography ends.]

32  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap. n.

                         CHAPTER II.

                       FEBRUARY 1816 --NOVEMBER 1817.

 LETTEES FROM OXFORD--FELLOW-STUDENTS-- GIFFORD-- KIRKE WHITE --
      C3RISTABEL-- EXAMINATION --LORD EXMOUTH --AMMONITES BUCKLANDI
      --VISIT TO MR. DAWSON TURNER AT YARMOUTH -- DR. ARNOLD-- GEOLOGY
      -- JOURNEY TO SCOTLAND-- TRIP TO STAFFA --IONA -- RETURN TO OXFORD
      -- LINES ON STAFFA.

                    HIS EARLY STUDIES.

     [At tlie age of seventeen, Charles Lyell was matriculated at
Exeter College, Oxford. He was neither a hard student, nor idle at
college, but he took respectable honours in classics, being in the
second class. He gave occasionally some hours to entomology, with

the late well-known naturalist, the Rev. Lansdown G-uilding of St.
"Vincent's. Bakewell's ' Geology,' which he found in his father's
library, was the first book which gave him an idea of the existence of
such a science as geology, and something said in it about the antiquity
of the earth excited his imagination so much that he was well pre
pared to take interest in the lectures of Dr. Buckland, Professor of
Geology at Oxford, who was then at the height of his popularity.
Lyell attended a course of these lectures and took notes of them.

     He paid a visit in July 1817 to Mr. Dawson Turner and his

family at Yarmouth, and the following month went to Forfarshire
with his father. He then accompanied two college friends on a trip
to Staffa.]

To Chaeles Lyell, Esq., Baetley Lodge, Stony Ceoss,

                                        Hants.

                                                                 Exeter College : February 29, 1816.

   IMy dear Father,-- There is fall as much necessary busi

ness here as had at Midhurst the last year and a half. But
at Corpus it is beyond everything. Although Norris has
been diligent lately, fagging in the evenings and refusing

1816.           FELLOW-STUDENTS.                                    33

invitations, yet yesterday he and Richards, during a holiday

which they had, sat five whole hours, from breakfast till

Idinner, working. Considering the expedition with which

Norris gets over things, think they have too much. It has

prevented his writing for the Latin prize, which he was ex

tremely desirous of. In spite of all this he succeeds to the

utmost of his wishes in keeping up among his acquaintance

the highly honourable and fashionable title of a complete idle
fellow. And it amuses me not a little to hear a certain

friend of his, who is not over desirous that 1ST. should out

shine him, so far as to take a first class, deplore the manner
in which ' so clever a man throws away his abilities ! '
                                                                    men
   I have become acquainted with several gentlemanly
I Ihere, but as at present know nothing about them,                 will
not fill the letter with empty names. Mr. Selwood has this

I Imoment been here to ask me to breakfast with him to
morrow. Unfortunately am engaged.  have subscribed

to the music room three guineas, being told by my out

Icollege acquaintances that might be sure all the men here

Idid, and that should be forced to go now and then, which

would amount to more than the subscription for the year.
IThere is to be no grand music-meeting here, although it is

the third year. believe the Imperial visit1 is to be thanked
for it, which disburdened the University chest of rather
Imore than 6,0001. It will be long, they say, before it is en
cumbered with so much again.  bave been into the theatre,

Ito see the magnificent chairs which the great people sat in,

and the Rostrum, which should like to be reduced to the

awkward situation of being exposed in. They have begun a
reform at Trinity, at least as far as the enormous expense.
Everything which goes on there is inspected, and one of
their gentleman commoners told Norris yesterday that he
should take his name off positively, for the Principal has
declared that not an ice or a pine-apple shall enter the col
lege ! Dreadful extremity !

       Believe me, my dear father, your affectionate son,

                                               Charles Ltell.

                1 The visit of the Allies to England in June 1814.

       VOL. I.

34  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                       chap. ii.

To Charles Lyell, Esq., Bartley Lodge, Stony Cross, Hants.

                                                                                 Oxford : March 20, 1816.

   IMy dear Father,-- have got Gifford's <Juvenal.' A short

life of the author, written by himself in the most unaffected

style possible, which precedes the translation, will prejudice
you much in his favour. His mother, he tells us, was a

carpenter's daughter, and his father scarcely so respectable.

He was bound apprentice to a cobbler, and his first attempt

at versification, indeed the first time he had heard of it, was

a competition between his brother apprentices about writing
some lines for the sign of an alehouse. So true it appears
that great obstacles are rather assistants than otherwise to

genius ; indeed, he confesses that nothing would have ever
induced him to finish his translation after he had arrived at

a state of affluence, unless he had received a subscription

while at this college, which obliged him from motives of

Ihonour to fulfil his engagement.

    With Kirke White was acquainted a long time ago,
having met with his ' Remains ' at Midhurst. There is a

delicious poetical, placid melancholy, which pervades almost
all his writings, either in prose or verse, which is very inte

resting ; and nobody, we may venture to assert, ever joined a

Imore amiable disposition to a more elegant mind. A small

ode of his to ' An early Primrose ' is the only thing know

in English in the light way, which supports itself thoroughly

Iwithout rhyme, so as to be as beautiful as any of Cowper's.
   can conceive nothing which would give a person, who knew
nothing of Latin, a better idea of what the Odes of Horace

may be, though so distinct from our poetry.
    I have gone to the expense of an Oxford Calendar, for
Ifear of being too strictly examined in Hampshire.
                                                        shall

now shelter my ignorance with 'read, and you'll know.'
    The decision of the Property Tax has decided not a few

bets this morning, and caused great joy here, though by no
means general exaltation through Oxford. This is a com
plete Whig college, which you need not go twice into the
common room to discover. They pretend that it was by far
the greatest support of Lord Grenville, which is sufficiently
improbable ; because, though we are strong in the number of

1816.                   OXFORD,                                35

resident members, the number of names on our books is

very few, consequently there are some colleges much smaller
who have double and treble the quantity of votes. Most of

the men here come from Devon and Cornwall, and who of

course, when they have taken their degree, never think any

more of this part of the world.

My love to all at home, and believe me, my dear father,

your affectionate son,            Charles Lyell.

To Charles Ltell, Esq., Bartley Lodge, Stony Cross, Hants.

                                                          Exeter College, Oxford : May 14, 1816.

   IMy dear Father, -- have just been down to Dr. Williams.
IHe is not at home to-day, but called there yesterday with
Tragitt, and thanked him for the roses. There is a most

beautiful wild flower lately opened in Magdalen meadows,
Iwhich reddens the whole meadow.  saw a plant of it in the
IBotanic Garden, and there was written on the stick, if
Iremember right, Fritillaria Meleagris. But it does not

flourish in the garden, for suppose it to be some water

plant.
I was very glad to hear you were satisfied with the
Iverses,2 as shall now care less about a disappointment, as
Ithey certainly have not been written in vain.
                                                    am afraid you
Ihave no idea how backward find myself in classics. Though
I did not come here puffed up with Deacon's high ideas
Ithat should shortly become the first scholar in Oxford, and
Ithough am not such a Caesar as him, who, when he found

he could not reach the height of his ambition, determined

Iin despair never to look in a book again, yet am confi
Idently sure, that without working very hard indeed, shall
never arrive at the ' Mediocriter/ or at least never pass it.
I Icannot help being sorry when reflect that since last
I I IJune, when left Midhurst, can only say have read the
IOdes of Horace ! For as to Herodotus, that part which
I Ithought knew perfect, found the other day, in the schools,
I knew nothing of, so puzzling are their questions in
Ihistory.
           was hearing a Corpus man examined. And here

           2 The Horses of Zysijtpus, by C. Lyell.

                                            d2

36                  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                                         chap, ii.

is June coming round again ! The list of books which they

take up for an under -the-line is very great, and the exami

nation strict. C, the man of C. C. C, showed us what was

to be done by attending to the Corpus lectures. He has

always been otherwise an idle, dissipated, gaming man,

notorious in name, even to my knowledge. Yet he certainly

would have got a first class if he had taken up a little more

IAristotle.
         heard a story out of college the other day, which,
though probably made in the first instance, shows in what

estimation the Devonshire-Exeter-men were held when the

college was entirely provincial. Now the greatest part of

those West-countrymen that remain have rubbed off their

dross in our public schools. This story that one of our
          '

               I
                                             c
                                                                   ? ' is,
                                                                                  '
                                                                                                  ?'
men being examined for his degree, was asked, for the first

question in divinity, who Moses was                                            Moses                  he

answered, knows nothing about Moses, but ax me about

St. Paul, and there has ye.9 There was a concert here last

night, Matthews on his way from Bath, and performed gratis.

    My love to all at home, and believe me, dear father, your

affectionate, son,                                 Charles Ltell.

To Charles Lyelk, Esq., Bartley Lodge, Stony Cross, Hants.

                                         Exeter College May 30, 1816.
                             is

                                                                            :
    My dear Father, --There an address gone from Oxford,

as perhaps you saw by the papers. It takes away the Vice-

Chancellor, Proctors, &c. &c, by which means the prizes will

not be decided this fortnight perhaps. There were sent in

sixty-four copies for the English, double the usual number.

Ellison, the tutor of C. C. C, who was elected Fellow of Baliol

last term, and who one of the cleverest men there, offers
                    is

                                      a
to take any bet in favour of Baliol man, whose verses he

thinks fully equal to any which have ever gained the Newdi-

          have seen a copy of this college, which am afraid
gate.  I                                           e

                                                      I

                                                             ' is
                                                                    a
would be preferred to mine, as they lay more stress on

describing the horses. The men here have taken good

deal of interest about Christabel/ as the author an uncle
                    3

                          '
of our Coleridge.3 The criticisms in the Times are so

                    Lord Chief Justice Coleridge.

i8i6. CHR1STABEL.                                             o<

Igood in general on dramatic pieces, that was surprised to

see anything so bad as that on ' Christabel.' You would take
it for a long poem, from that naming account, instead of a
thing about as long as that column and a half in the ' Times '
about it. You would read it through at breakfast easily.

    Its appearance now seems very strangely timed, though
the < Times ' finds, as a cause, the ' Indolence of Genius.'

IUshered in by Lord Byron's recommendation, and supported

by this puff, can't help considering it as a vehicle to raise
money. There are certainly poetical beauties in it, but it is
curious that when Scott had shown us all the powers of this

new style, the original discoverer of which certainly deserves
infinite praise, and when he had himself exhausted it, and
the ' Lake Poets ' had increased our fastidium, and the
Imitator es servum genus, had worn it out --when it had
flourished in youth, and died a natural death in old age --

then is produced its birth ! It is rather like a prophecy

which is related after the event. Though you don't wish to
dispute the fact, one cannot help thinking it a pity that it

was not told you before the circumstance fell out. But the

evil the public must feel in some manner their duty now,
a                   it
         is,
                            is
when all the pleasure of novelty fled, to give Mr. Coleridge

great part of that unbounded applause which Scott carried

ofF. But my opinion of Scott not at all diminished.
                                is                is        lay

                                                         I
so much stress on the style, because      it  strikes me in that

consists all the originality. In the story there not a clue,

nothing to interest you but singularity.

I  daresay you will laugh at my presuming to pass my

opinions on this, with all the insolence of the Edinburgh
                                                  '

                                                           I
Keview,' unsupported by their soundness of judgment, but
have my excuse. It
                    the common vice here,
                    is                            Defendit

                              I
numerus, -- a latitudinarian principle, confess.

Give my love to all at Bartley, and believe me, my dear

father, your affectionate son,                Chaeles Lyell.

To Charles Lyell, Esq., Bartley Lodge, Stony Cross, Hants.

                                           Exeter College: Thursday, October 31, 1816.

My dear Father, --You will be surprised to hear that the

examination   over, and, much to my satisfaction, have
              is

                                                 I

38  SIR CHARLES LYELJL                             CHAP. II.

I Ihad but few days here, but do not know what should
Ihave done without them. As soon as arrived here, and it
I Iwas known that meant to go up, was sent for before the

Ithree tutors. Jones evidently was offended, that after
attending his logic lecture for a term,            had thought

myself so ignorant in it, as to choose mathematics ; but

IDalby was still more so, because, after refusing to attend his

mathematics, had taken them up. ' And how did you get
Ithem up ? And when P Who assisted you ? '
     He told me to come to his rooms, and unless             was

advanced a certain way, it was ridiculous to think of passing.

He found me perfect in the propositions taken singly, but he

puzzled me dreadfully in general questions about the relation
of one to another, and he dismissed me peevishly. ' Well, you
can go up, but you will make but a very, very poor show ! y
    I worked most perseveringly all the week, and when he
Iexamined me afterwards, the day before
Ideclared me marvellously improved.                went up, he

                                     was the last on the

list, that is of the eight who were examined the same day, and

they gave me, to employ the time, three propositions to prove

on paper which were not in Euclid, which, as some of my

companions who took up six books could neither make head

or tail of, they gave me great /cvSos for doing correctly, and

Igave me another stiffener, the proof of which got at, to

their surprise, though they said it was neither by the short

est road nor by the way they intended. Horace and

Sophocles went off without a blunder, except in the declen

sion of one unfortunate Greek noun. Dalby gave me the

viva voce examination in mathematics, but he did not give

me one of the questions which he did in preparing me. He

paid me some flattering compliments this morning after an

IAristotle lecture, but am well aware that it was not solely
I Ibecause did well, but because he thought
                                                   should have

Idone so much worse.         was surprised to find what a
     Speaking of Aristotle,

number of deep scholars there are, even in this college,
which has but till very
great literary character.  lately   not pretended  to bear   any
                                   no presumption  in me to  say
                           It is

I Ithat Dalby has chosen the picked men of the College, though
  am included, since found myself so infinitely inferior to

!8i6. LORD EXMOUTH.                                              39

Ithe greater part.  was thunder-struck to find that Enys,

one of the idlest of our gentlemen commoners, a Winchester
man, who seems to attend the lecture as a mere lounge, and
I Iwho never intends to take a class, acquits himself better

than do, when get it up carefully. They all, however,
                                            read other parts of
almost, are  above my standing, and  have
Aristotle.   He is an astonishing           author. It is the
                                     stiff

seeing the superiority of others that convinces one how

much is to be, and must be done, to get any fame ; and it is
this which spurs the emulation, and feeds that ' Atmosphere
of Learning ' which Sir Joshua Eeynolds admirably describes

as c floating round all public institutions, and which even the

idle often breathe in, and then wonder how they came by

it.'

   IT was surprised at Eamsay's 4 calling on me the other day,

though owed him a call.
     He seems to have been delighted with his call at

Kinnordy. He came into the gallery to hear me examined
yesterday, but had not patience to wait till my turn, which

Ia great many kind friends did ; and the rush they made from

the top benches to the lower ones, when was called up, so

Icompletely deprived me of all confidence, that it was not till

after many exhortations and entreaties that could raise

my voice enough for the masters to hear me.

     As for the confidence and quickness which you were

Ispeaking of, as one of the chief requisites of the Bar, don't

know whether intercourse with the world will supply it, but

I IGod knows have little enough of it now in company, and
Iwas surprised at feeling so much unconcern as did in the

Schools, but that was no criterion, since all things flowed

then secundo flumini. Lord Exmouth 5 paid a second visit
here last week : he was presented with a Doctor's degree the

first time, and the last with the freedom of the city. Our

Eector was honoured with his last visit, therefore we got a

good view of him.

I We have had torrents of rain here these last two days.

  hope it is not so in N. B. Eamsay describes the tenants

at Bamff as being in as miserable a state as any of those

               4 Sir James Eamsay, Bart., of Bamff, Perthshire.
      5 Admiral Viscount Exmouth, who bombarded Algiers, 1816.

40           SIR CHARLES LYELL.                               chap, in

Iround Kirriemuir can be.     have not heard from BartJey
I Isince have been up, but
                              shall write to-morrow, and

believe me,  my dear father,  your affectionate son,          Lyell.

                                                Charles

To Charles Lyell, Esq., Bartley Lodge, Stony Cross, Bants.

                                                              Yarmouth : 6 July 20, 1817.
    IMy dear "Father, -- got to London after not a very good
Inight's rest, which attribute more to the length of my legs
I Ithan any other cause.
                    am sure could sleep soundly if
Ithey could be shortened, but as have no wish to undergo
Ian operation like that practised with so much success by

Procrustes, shall hope that some opposition coach will be

I Iestablished, deeper and longer, to tempt the long-legged.

As soon as arrived at the Gloucester Coffee House,
dressed, put my letters in the post office, took my place in

the Norwich coach, and walked to Sowerby's.

    When searching about the Eow for his house, behold the

very identical Ammonites Bucklandi 7 was lying on the steps !
I went in and introduced myself, telling him by what means
I Ihad discovered his house. 'Ah/ said he, 'little
Ibelieve did they think at Oxford what advantage should
Itake of that joke. hear Buckland was perfectly astonished
Iwhen he read it.'  exclaimed involuntarily, ' Well he

Imight be/ which he took in good part, laughing heartily.
        visited the cast of Phidias and (talking of things on a
Mgruasnedumsc--aleg) ottheseevleeprahlanctomatmiEsxsieotnesr  Change ; also Bullock's
                                                              from Bullock to Mr.

Hooker.8 Saw the whole of Francillion's collection of
foreign and British insects, the first in the world. Might

     6 On a visit to Mr. Dawson Turner, F.L.S., antiquarian and botanist.

     7 Kemarkable for having frequently lost the inner whorls, which circum
stance has given rise to its name, in honour of the Rev. W. Buckland, who,
having found a large specimen, was induced by his ardour to carry it himself,
although of considerable weight, and being on horseback it was not the less
inconvenient. But the inner whorls being gone, so as to allow his head and
shoulder to pass through, he placed it as a French horn is sometimes carried,
above one shoulder and under the other, and thus rode with his friendly com
panions, who amused him by dubbing him an Armnon Knight

    8 Sir William J. Hooker, F.R.S,, F.L.S., author of many important botani

cal Works, and Director of the Royal Gardens at Kew.

18 £/.           DR. ARNOLD.                               41

Ihave identified all wished, but, as you may imagine, had

only time to write down the names of a few. The famous

Kangaroo Beetle, the only one ever taken, is a Scarabseus,

Iits hind legs of wonderful length and size, though
Iconfess admired it as the father in Horace his pet child :

                 Hunc Varum distortis cruribus. -- Sat.

Let those who wish to have an idea of the magnificence of

Nature, visit the elephant, those who wish to judge of her
Ivarietas insatiabilis, see Francillion's collection.
                                                         saw Sir

James Smith 9 at Norwich and the Linnsean insects, with

some British added by Kirby. Saw the cathedral, and view

from the spire, and found an immense number of Belemnites,

Echinites, and bivalves in the chalk-pits near Norwich.

Set off by the afternoon coach and arrived here safe. All

well here, and desire their kind remembrances to you. Dr.

Arnold,1 the Javanese traveller, is indeed impenetrable, but

you soon see he has much in him. The only subject

on which he launches out is on Fossil Remains, and then

only if you get him quite alone. He has a large collection

here, obtained from Norfolk and Suffolk, of Echini, Ammon

Iites, and mostly Alcyonia found in flints. He has had
the good nature to go over them all with me.             have copied

for Buckland part of his paper, being a list of those which

are described, and shall copy the rest. Avery large part are
nondescripts, which he thinks of publishing. A Mr. Wigge,

a botanist, who breakfasted here this morning, wished to

know particularly if you had discovered any new Junger-
mannia, and why I, being in the New Forest, where you have

found so many, did not also take up botany. He is a

character, but a very good-humoured, pleasant old man.

Mr. Turner surprises me as much as ever. He wrote

twenty-two  (!)  letters last night after he had wished us
good-night. It kept him up till two o'clock this morning,
                                                           it

is     true. A great many letters are constantly arriving from

      9
        Sir James Edward Smith, botanist, founder of the Linnasan Society,
1                a
b. 1759, d. 1828.
a
       Dr. Joseph Arnold, F.L.S., zealous naturalist, who accompanied Sir
Stamford Baffles, the governor, to Sumatra, and fell a sacrifice to his exertions
on their first tour into the interior, when they discovered the gigantic flower
of new genus of plants, afterwards named Eafflesia Arnolds

42          SIR CHARLES LYELL.      CHAP. II.

travellers abroad, which he entertains us with by reading.
His smack scheme was a good one, after all. They always
know by signal, regularly kept up, of the arrival of Scotch
smacks in the roads, nine hours before they can come
opposite the town.

     My dear father, your affectionate son,

                                             Charles Ltell.

To Charles Lyell, Esq., Bartley Lodge, Stony Cross, Hants,

                                                             Yarmouth : July 28, 1817.

    IMy dear Father, -- received your letter yesterday, and

am not passing my time less pleasantly than you conjectured.

IWhat see going on every hour in this family makes me
Iashamed of the most active day ever spent even at Mid-

hurst. Mrs. Turner has been etching with her daughters in

the parlour every morning this week at half -past six!
Harriet has as much talent as all the others united, and her

Iknowledge of Latin is astonishing. She has a more perfect

conception of Virgil than had at fourteen, and earns a
shilling at least three times a week by doing her Latin
composition without a fault, and does all with energy and

good will.
    Dr. Arnold returned on Saturday, after being away four
Idays.
            was very glad of it, for as Mr. Turner has been
Imuch, employed in the bank, have had time to examine

and consider the geological wonders of this country. The
Doctor says my conclusions are exactly like his, which
nobody ever knew he had made, and has become in conse
quence very communicative, and quite another person.
Yarmouth is a delta formed at the mouth of the Tare.

When first these sands rose, by the opposition of the sea-tide

and river, Norwich was a great seaport (as we find records
of), tne violence of the tide being kept off by that bank, the
estuary filled up with ' fluviatile detritus.5 The Yare then
wound through the present marshes, and entered the sea
north of Yarmouth (Mr. T. says 'No
                                    The reason that
            a

                 it
                         it
                                    it ').

                                                                  it
then turned off at right angles was, that the mouth being

stopped up by the sea, was obliged to find a new course,
and the north river meeting there, flowed with it, south

ward, and entered little south of the town, then two miles

]8i7.  GEOLOGY.                             43

Ifarther off, then four miles, at Gorleston, where the pier is,

which you saw. All these ancient channels found, and the

Doctor confirmed them, though Mr. Turner laughs in spite

of facts and tradition. The last movement of the river

threw inland at least a mile of perpendicular sand, cliff

15 feet high, on which the village of Gorleston stands. The

terrace or platform on the top of this cliff is on a level with
the marsh land reaching to Norwich. A friend of Mr. T/s

told us yesterday, that thirty-five years ago he could stand

by the river, and see the hulks of the ships over the Deens,

which rise now six feet and more, too high on the sea side

Ifor such a prospect, and yet the sea has not been over them

all that time. Dr. Arnold and examined yesterday the pit

which is dug out for the foundation of the Nelson monument,

and found that the first bed of shingle is eight feet down.

Now this was the last stratum brought by the sea, all since
was driven up by wind, and kept there by the ' Rest-harrow ' 2

and other plants. It is mere sand. Therefore, thirty-five years

ago the Deens were nearly as low as the last stratum left by

the sea ; and as the wind would naturally have begun adding

from the very first, it is clear that within fifty years the
sea flowed over that part. This, even Mr. T. allows, is a

strong argument in favour of the recency of the changes.
Dr. Arnold surprised me by telling me that he thought that

the Straits of Dover were formerly joined, and that the great

current and tides of the North Sea being held back, the sea
Ifflowed higher over these parts than now.
                                            he had thought
a little more, he would have found no necessity for all this,
for all those towns on this eastern coast which have no

river god to stand their friend, have necessarily been losing
in the same proportion as Yarmouth gains, viz., Cromer,

IBakefield, Dunwich, Aldborough, &c. &c. With Dunwich

believe it is Fuit Ilium.

The Doctor told me that he has always thought that it

was the meeting of the great north current with that of the

IEnglish Channel that burst open the Straits of Dover. With

this was delighted, for he did not know that to the very

same cause both Werner, Humboldt, Buckland, and others,

       2 Ononis arvensis*

44                 SIR CHARLES LYELL.           CHAP. II.

as well as myself, have been attributing the existence of
Great Britain as to its insular and probably political situa
tion, and by means of which it must for. ever maintain the

Iformer, and will, let us hope, the latter also for a very

long time. Had not the Tare been turned off, as told you,
at right angles, it would have split into the Septem ostia
Nil% and Yarmouth would have now been an extensive

growing delta. All the acquisitions are now making south

wards, of course.
    IA Mr. Edwards, an entomologist, dined here yesterday.
Ihave found some Coleoptera scarce at Bartley.
                                                have been

learning Musaus's c Hero and Leander,' a Greek poem which is

Ivery beautiful. Mr. Turner has it at his fingers5 ends. We
play chess every evening.  have played twice with Mr. T.,

and beat him once. Miss Elizabeth plays nearly as well as he

Idoes. Mr. Turner has given me some plates of mosses for

you, believe from Mr. Hooker.
     Between Dr. Arnold's long catalogue of Norfolk fossils,

I Iand a map which think shall be able to make of this
I Icountry, flatter myself shall compile some interesting
information for Buckland, who is quite of White's opinion.

c Local information, from actual observation, tends more to

promote Natural History and Science than all that is done

by the speculations and compilations of voluminous authors.'

I Iwant to find chalk cliffs at Norwich, which must exist,
I Iam confident, and think shall have an opportunity of

going there this week.

    Pray give my love to all, and believe me, my dear father,

your affectionate son,     Charles Lyell.

1 8 17.  YORKSHIRE.  45

                                 JOTTBNAL.

     [Extracts from Journals in August and September, 1817, while
travelling with his father to Forfarshire, and afterwards on a trip to
Staffa with Sir James Ramsay, Bart., and Mr. Corbett, of Christ
Church, Oxford.]

    August 20, 1817. -- The York coach carried us out of
London early in the morning. The tunnel at Highgate was
a new object, it was dag through the London clay almost
entirely. We took a chaise to Helmsley in going out of York,
and saw Lord Pitzwilliam's carriage and six, with six out
riders, and his son Lord Milton's carriage and four, with
four outriders, both beautiful equipages. Lord F. runs a
good many horses, and gained most of the plates this year.
Lord Harewood was there ; his equipage exactly the same
as Lord F.'s ; he runs no horses. Mr. Fawkes told my
father that in the grand election contest between Lord F.
and Lord H., to get their sons in for the county, when Wil-
berforce was brought in free of expense, it cost each of
them 200,000/. Lord Lascelles was ousted, but the majority
in favour of Lord Milton was very small. Lord H. imme

diately raised his rents lO,000L a year.

     At a small hamlet near this we saw an TJlmus montana,

on a steep c brae,' the most beautiful study for a landscape

that can be imagined. A sort of stone work has been built
under it, evidently to prevent the chance of such a treasure
falling by the wind. We changed horses at Helmsley, and
went through Duncom.be Park. The old castle at the
entrance is a fine ruin.

                     And Helmsley, once proud Buckingham's delight,
                   Slides to a scrivener, and a city "knight --

alluding to this castle, and the present proprietor of Dun-
combe Park. This was not the first entrance to this beauti
ful seat which we had passed to-day : the first was a large
arch with this inscription --' To the memory of Lord Nelson,

and the unparalleled achievements of the British Navy.' In
ascending the Black Hambleton Hills, we passed up a very

46                     SIR CHARLES LYELL.                                                  CHAP. II.

deep narrow glen, without a river (unfortunately for tlie

Huttonians), and in descending the same hills we had a

beautiful view of Whitestone Cliff, and Gorinire, a tarn on

the top of a conical hill. From thence we saw the whole

Ivalley into which we were journeying.
        walked to Sowerby, a small village near Thirsk, and

learnt from an old stonemason there, of the name of Dukes,

that the lake of Gormire, which the common people think

has no bottom, was fathomed once, and its depth was seven

fathoms. The bottom is probably sandstone, as the whole

hill is quarried for that rock. There are so many springs,

that the crater overflows even after long droughts. Grouse

are found on the Black Hambleton range, a-nd the Duke of

Rutland shoots there generally every year. These hills con

sist of magnesian limestone. The whole face of Whitestone

Cliff fell down about twenty years ago, and left it in its pre

sent perpendicular state. It was dusky when we approached

Newcastle, and the collieries made a magnificent spectacle.

The heaps of loose small coal catch fire accidentally, they say,
on account of the pyrites, which is highly probable. We

slept at Newcastle.

   August 24. -- We dined at Dr. Headlam5s,3and they showed

us Sir Humphry Davy's newly-invented safety lamp. The

dispute concerning the priority of invention (or rather the
doubt entertained, for Sir Humphry has not condescended

to notice     warmly espoused by Dr. Headlam in favour of
         is
              it)      service of plate has been voted to Sir H.,
                  is

                    A
Stephenson.4

which to cost 15,000L at least. There are large iron

works near Newcastle, and lead-mines. The workers of the

latter are very destructive poachers of the muir-fowl of the

hills for having powder allowed them to blow the stones
    ;

with, and being able to cast shot themselves, they have

ammunition put into their hands. There are several steam
boats on the Tyne. The Eagle packet carried 500 people by

way of experiment 250 accommodates pleasantly.
                       :

                               it

                                           a
    August 25. --We got into                  coach to go to Edinburgh,

where we called on Jamieson in George's Square. He could

not show us the museum and collection, as they are packed

         A cousin of his mother's.                                                         The eminent engineer.
       8
                                                                                        *

1 8 17.                      EDINBURGH,                      47

up, on account of the college being at present building. The

Regents Bridge, which is nearly finished, will make a grand
entrance to the town. We walked on the Calton Hill, and

admired the new walks. There are a greater number of strik

Iing views from different points of this town than any place
  ever saw in nature, or painting. The new prison is built

with great spirit, and from the bridge forms a good support

to the Nelson monument.

    August 27. --We dined at Mr. Mason's.5 He told us

that a few days before, Sir H. Davy had given him an

account of an artificial island formed by a Cornish miner in

the sea, to get at a mine (of either lead or copper), which
was truly wonderful. Mr. Mason, speaking of the Crown

Church at Edinburgh,6 told us that the pinnacles of Gothic

architecture are not mere ornament, but in dispen sable, for

unless an arch is loaded, it flies at the top, its first tendency
being to fly at the bottom. This of course it cannot do in
Iground arches, but in the arches of the Crown it was neces

sary to add those ornaments, which think disfigure it
much, and make the Crown of Edinburgh much inferior to

that of Newcastle. The next disposition is to fly laterally
when secured at top and bottom : an additional weight there

fore is added to the centre. In the Roman semicircular

arch the shape was perpendicular. The Grecians had none,

which is very extraordinary.

    August 28. --We had engaged places in the Dundee coach,
and set off early. Leaving Kinross, Ave came to a most beau
tiful glen, called Glen Farg, well wooded, and with a small

river passing through        I it,which tumbled over the rocks the

whole way. We could get no horses at Dundee, and were

obliged to sleep there. walked to the top of Dundee Law
where there seems to have been an old fortification, perhaps
Pictish. We travelled over the Siedlaw Hills the rock was
whin7 chiefly.                                    6
September -- Kinnordy.                                    :
         ;                          I             walked up towards Glen
                         1.
Prosen the banks of the Prosen consist of whin wherever

they are rocky; took several Phalcenw. The rocky glen

         Laing Mason, of Lindertis, Forfarshire.  St. Giles's Church.

         aWhinstone, Scotch provincial term for greenstone and other hard trap

rocks,

48       SIR CHARLES LYELL.                    CHAP. II.

formed by tlie Carrifcy is through, whin. Took P. napi and

Ipolychloros ; Sylpha atrata, and a new one, 8. stercolarius,
fimelarius, and several Phalcence. Afterwards  examined

the Kirriemuir quarry, an enormous rock of red sandstone,

with a little terra ponderosa or sulphate of Barytes in it.
We found this same earth afterwards in greater plenty

in Mr. Mason's quarry at Reedie.
       ISeptember 3. -- We called at Cortachie and saw Lord
Airlie.  rode to Forfar and examined the slate quarries.

They told me they sometimes found in the slates the impres

sions of planis and animals, but they showed me no satis
Ifactory specimens.
                     then rode four miles farther on the
Iold Brechin road, to some slate quarries, where obtained
Isome crystallised sulphate of Barytes, if am right in sup
Iposing it to be such.
                        have not seen the terra ponderosa
in sandstone, whin, and slate. The vein of it in the quarry

two miles from Forfar, on the Dundee road, is very con

siderable.
     September 6. -- Rode to Finhaven over the bridge of

Shielhill, through Tannadice. At the foot of the castle

Ihill is the old ruin of the castle ; at the summit a large

vitrified fort, length 160 yards, breadth 40, as near as
could measure by stepping ; height of mound or wall, 10
feet. The western side of the hill is a considerably lower
level, and at this part there is an excavation 30 feet deep or

more.

                              Trip to Staffa.

     September 14, 1817. -- Set out on a tour to Staffa with Sir
James Ramsay and Corbett (of Christ Church, Oxford) . Passed
through Blairgowrie, and following the Tay through Athol,
we arrived at Aberfeldy, and saw the Falls of Moness in all
their beauty : the accompanying wood and enormous cliff
are only surpassed by the fall itself. Saw Schiehallion in

the distance. Slept at Kenmore.
     September 15. -- Rode by the side of Loch Tay. We stopped

at Killin, the town on the western end of Loch Tay, where

the rivers Dochart and Lochy, uniting, form the loch. Lord
Breadalbane's grounds occupy both sides of the lake : they

i8i7. TRIP TO STAFFA.         49

are well wooded -- oak, birch, larch, hazel, alder, and ash.

Ben Lawers we could hardly see for the mist. Visited the

Castle of Finlarig, which our learned host, a Cameron, in
formed us signified etyrnologically Larig the abode, Fin of
IFingal, and Killin itself was Kill the churchyard or burying-
ground, In of Fin or Fingal.  was surprised to find that

the people here spoke English so infinitely better than those
in Angus, but they told me it was taught them at school as

Latin was, Erse being so exclusively their native tongue.

They showed us the grave of Fingal, and MacNab's burying-

ground, with the Dochart roaring around us.

    September 17. --We set off for Tyndrum, through Glen

Dochart, and after sleeping at Dalmally we proceeded along

ILoch Awe, passing under Cruachan. After this, we had the

finest mountain view had ever seen. On our right was Ben

Cruachan, some way off Ben Lawers, and the prospect ter

minated by a fine conical hill. After riding past Bonaw we

saw a monument to Lord Nelson, which a person might feel

more proud of than of all the columns and pillars erected

to his memory by committees of counties and towns. An

immense mass of unhewn granite, of a beautiful red colour,

has been erected by the Lorn furnace- workers, the people
employed in the iron-works. They found it in the valley,
and have brought it to a small hill, from the summit of

which it forms a conspicuous object. It is about twelve feet

high. The country from thence to Oban is very singular.

You pass by high cliffs of whin, rising suddenly here and

there, yet you have never to mount any, but seem going
through the cracks in a torrent of lava. One view from

here of Cruachan with a double peak was very fine. We

arrived at Oban by the middle of the day, and engaged a
small cutter. We passed Kerrera and came near Lismore.

The next morning we came into Aros Bay, the hills of Mull

on the west, and the Morven on the east. Aros is a collec

tion of two or three small houses and the ruins of an old

castle. We landed and walked to the head of Loch-na-Kael,

took a boat there, and sailed down Loch-na-Kael with a

prosperous wind, and had a fine view of Ulva, with its
Iranges of basaltic steps, like Salisbury Crags, Edinburgh.
  believe we counted thirteen. We arrived at Staffa in the

VOL. i.  e

50              SIR CHARLES LYELL.                       CHAP. II.

Ievening, and the wind being northerly we were able to enter

the cave, with the width of which was much disappointed.
When the boat was in they could nearly touch each side at

once with their oars. The height is magnificent, and two or

three broken lines of columns at the bottom on each side

form a superb base to the pillars. The roof, hung with the

broken heads of pillars, is likewise grand.

    There was a slight agitation and swell of the sea, which

prevented us from going in very far. The wave which entered

sucked us in, and the boat sunk at the same time several

feet. We then heard the wave creeping up towards the end
of the cave, till it struck against we in the mean time re
                :

                                      it,
maining motionless then the wave returned, and gently

heaved us up, and carried us to the mouth of the cave.

This was very fine, but after two or three trials we rowed

away for fear of an accident. The pillars in the Boats'

Cave are higher and finer than those in Fingal's, but a

striking part of the entrance of Fingal's that the pillars
                is
                                                     is
are ranged in a fine rounded swell on each side, instead of
being straight in the manner of a wall. With the beauty

of Buachaille and the cliff we were astonished and delighted.

The Clam-shell Cave also curious.

    Instead of returning to the inn at Ulva, which we had

intended, we went on to Icolmkill that evening, as Mr.

McDonald of Ulva, to whom we had letters of introduction,

was not at home. It was late when we landed at Iona, but

the landlord of the inn and his family had not returned

from shearing. We were obliged therefore to go into But/ c
in as miserable specimen of shieling as can be imagined,
    ':             a
             a       a
a   conical hut open at top, with large fire on the ground in

the middle of the floor. Hound the walls above us were

immense stores of dried fish, tied two by two, and slung

over a rope it appeared winter's store. The whole was
                a

dirty in the extreme, and lacrymoso non sinefumo, as may be

supposed. When the landlord returned, and we were intro
duced into Ben,5 we were but little better off, the smoke,

our great enemy, being as dreadful as ever.              It was
     To avoid this, and relieve my eyes, walked out.
                                           I
                                              I
moonlight, and the finest aurora-borealis ever witnessed
was lighting up the east. The ruins of the abbey appeared

i8i7. IONA.  51

 to great advantage, but they are but poor after all. Sir

IJames got a bed at the schoolmaster's, and Corbett and

 slept at the inn.

      September 20. --The children crowded round us in the
 morning, with Icolmkill pebbles to sell. They are Serpen

 tine, which they find on the beach, very unctuous to the

 touch, and yellow.
      The schoolmaster, McLean, showed us the antiquities,

 and told us the customary story of the interment of St. Oran,
 &c, and pointed out the tombs of the kings of Ireland,
 Norway, and Scotland. There were two fine crosses stand
 ing seven or eight feet high, of which there were once 360
 standing. They were all thrown down at the time of the Be-
 formation. The Coltsfoot 8 flourishes most magnificently over
 the tombs, and hides much of the rubbish and treasures.

 The ruins of the church look like so many gable ends of

 houses, set up rank and file, and one of the inducements to
 go directly from Staffa to Iona might be to contemplate the
 triumph of the architecture of nature over that of art.

      McLean informed us that the inhabitants now on the

 island, who amount to 450, only hear divine service four
 times a year, and not that often, as the roughness of the
 weather sometimes prevents the Presbyterian clergyman
 from coming over from Mull, for Iona belongs to a parish
 in Mull. He preaches in the open air, and in English, which
 part only of his congregation understand. What a change
 from the state of the island when the monks had service
"morning and evening. The schoolmaster, it is true, reads
 prayers every Sunday, but, as he confesses, no one scarcely
 but his scholars will attend. He teaches them English only,
 which they speak fairly. The islanders seem to exist by
 their fishing. Their only traffic is kelp, and a few black
 cattle which they rear. We saw some black cattle embarked,

 which was a very amusing and ridiculous scene. A rope is

 tied to the horn of the animal, and he is driven to the sea
 side. At first they make violent resistance, and the driver,
 while they are kicking and prancing, yields with the rope,
 and lets them exhaust themselves, as an angler does a large
 trout. They show great dexterity in always keeping in front

                                           8 Tuss-ilago farfara.

                                                                      e2

52  SIR CHARLES LYELL.    chap. ii.

of the animal. The beasts are then pnlled into the sea, into
which both men and women walk with as much unconcern

as if they were by nature amphibious. The fore-legs of the

animal are first lifted up by one person on each side, and
then the hind. We saw one lassie seize hold of the tail, and
help to lift him in that way.

     About half -past nine, after having paid an enormous bill
for our bad entertainment, we set off in our Aros boat,

determining to get back to Oban by passing along the south
of Mull. The immense multitude of small granite rocks

which we passed through was very entertaining. This
south-west end of Mull is a coast of red granite, and in
McLeod's Bay it takes a decided columnar shape, the pillars
being four-sided, whereas most of those at Staffa which we
examined were pentagonal, none square. There is a large
creek. in this bay, with the pillars on each side about 150
feet high, and broken into regular steps like the basalt.
Between these two cliffs, which face one another, and are

only divided by a large rent two or three feet wide, a large
rocky mass is supported. We sailed on with a good breeze,
the granite structure in the coast still continuing. The small
islands were like so many Buachailles, the coast like so
many churchyards, pillars standing up with their square
sides, like tombs. The last point to which this reached,
they called Ardtornish, about four miles from McLeod's

Bay.

    CORRESPONDENCE.

    To Charles Ltell Esq., Kinnordy, Forfarshire.

                          Exeter College: October 21, 1817.
    IMy dear Father, -- find so few of my old acquaintance
Icome up this term, that  could almost fancy it a new
college. It will be less difficult, therefore, to acquire what

Paley so strongly recommended to his pupils, Q courage to be
alone.' Ramsay tells me there are four new noblemen and
eio-ht gentlemen commoners this term. We have only one
of the latter -- the son of a man of consequence in Ceylon.

1817.      RETURN TO OXFORD.                              53

He is a copper-coloured black, under tlie care of Lord

Bathurst. Our Government educated his elder brother, as

Ithey are doing this one, first under a private tutor, then at

Trinity Hall, Cambridge. They say, but believe without any
foundation, that he is a nephew of the King of Candy. His
manner is very pleasant, a,nd he talks admirable English.
He is to take orders, they think at present, and then follow
his brother to his native country. His name is M. de

I ISaram.                                                 received an
       saw Dr. Arnold in London, since which
unexpected letter from him at Portsmouth, chiefly to inform
me that he had just discovered a paper written in the last
number of the ' Geological Transactions ' by Buckland, on

flints owing their formation and shapes entirely to animals.
The pear-shaped flints we saw with Mr. Taylor at" Norwich
are touched upon in it. Now that the time of parting is
come, the Doctor seems almost to shrink from the thankless

and dangerous task before him.9
     Dr. Williams tells me that Buckland will not be in

Oxford till late this term, if at all. He has not been on the

Continent this long vacation, but making several 'home

circuits.'

  I IWhen was at Muddiford l the other day, found the
Icliff composed of what think must be decidedly the green

Isand of Werner, which you remember Phillips says always
accompanies chalk.  found at Bullock's Mona Marble

Exhibition in Town some fine specimens of Serpentine among

the unpolished rocks, some of which are precisely the rock
at the Bridge of Cortachie. with that green, shining, glu
tinous matter on the outside, but none of course with the

Iporcelain appearance, which must be owing think to heat.
I spent the morning at the British Museum, studying the

Icollection of minerals, a very great and splendid treat.
       received a letter this morning from Mr. Turner, sending

me an etching of Captain Manby and Talma, much good

Iadvice, and an invitation to spend my Christmas vacation at
Yarmouth.  seem to have been at Yarmouth a day or two

ago, so very near did we pass within the roads. The sail

           9 Going with Sir Stamford Raffles to Sumatra.
           1 A bathing-place near Christchurch, Hants.

54  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                                CHAP. II.

up the Thames, at the rate of twelve knots an hour, with

generally 300 vessels near us, moving rapidly in all direc

tions, was delightful beyond description. A side wind shows

off every vessel in the most picturesque view.

    One side on high, one "buried in the deep,
    Her deck to meet the ocean, slanting steep,

    Beneath the swelling sails her mast ho wed low,

    She mocks in speed the following "breakers flow.

    Back from her hows the "broken waves are cast,
    And far "behind her in the moving waste

    A level track declares her well-sped way,

                    Where swiftly circling sports the eddying spray.

   I admire my mother's picture 2 very much --a strong and
Ipleasing likeness, nor should have discovered its unfinished

state at the usual distance of viewing it. Believe me, my

dear father, your affectionate son,  Charles Lyell.

     To Charles Lyell, Esq., Kinnqrdy, Forfarshire.

                                                                Exeter College: November 11, 1817.

   IMy dear Father,-- have been sitting in the schools for
Iseven hours this morning, a ceremony which must undergo
Iagain before am qualified to go up myself. The day was

almost entirely taken up with Baring,3 a gentleman
commoner of Christ Church, son of an East India Baring of
immense property. His examination will last perhaps three
days more, as he goes up for a first class in both. He went
on to-day in a splendid manner. He is a young genteel-
looking man, and has mixed with society in Christ Church
pretty freely since his residence. He was examined to-day in
Aristotle's Ethics, Rhetoric, Thucydides, Herodotus, Polybius,
Xenophon, Livy, Euripides, Sophocles, iEschylus, Virgil,
besides Divinity. The examinations are expected to be un
usually severe, and it is feared there will be many before the

Iend of the term.
        had a letter this morning from Guilding, from the island
of St. Vincent, favoured by the Hon. W. Edwards, H.M.S.
' Hydra/ now at Portsmouth, who was to have delivered it to

     2 By Thomas Phillips, R.A.
    3 Son of Sir Francis Baring, and afterwards first Lord Northbrook.

i8i7. LINES ON STAFF A,                                                55

me here, and been lionised by me over Oxford, but is detained
from doing so at present. Guilding bad procured then

(17 September) 700 entirely new species of insects, one sphinx
measuring eight inches from tip to tip of the wing, which
he means to present to the Linnsean Society, with other
rarities. He has got duplicates of most things for me, and is
to send them shortly. He has also collected birds, fishes,

I&c. &c.
       have also received another letter from Dr. Arnold. They
encountered a dreadful storm in the Downs, and lost their

best bow anchor, put back into the Thames again, and after

wards were driven back by another gale off Scilly to port.
He wrote from Kelston in Cornwall. He was making a tour,
with Sir Stamford and Lady Raffles, through the mining
district, and gives a wonderful account of that interesting

country.
     Oxford is of all places the most barren of news. Eather

Ithan send an empty letter so far, will give you the only
Iverses liave found time to make lately, which are but the

beginning of a subject.

                            Lines on Staffa.

                   Ere yet the glowing Lards of Eastern tale
                   Had peopled fairy worlds with beings bright,
                      Roamed o'er the palace and enchanted vale,
                   And dreamed a heavenly vision of Delight,
                   And told of realms rich with unborrowed Light,
                      On which the needless sunbeams never fell,
                   Whose noon of splendour never knew the night,
                      Illumed by lamps that burnt unquenchable,
                And dazzling hung in air, upheld by magic spell :

               All these and more, with which their wizard strain

                   Led far away deluded Fancy's child,
                 Till he would turn on Nature's self again,
                   And deem her charms a desert bleak and wild,
                   Himself from visionary heavens exiled ;
                    While yet unheard that strain, the Time had been

                When Nature's hand as if in sport she toiled

                   To build e'en more than could the thoughts of man,
                Amid the Ocean vast, had framed a fairy scene.

                   Eor she had found a lone and rocky isle,
" And at her voice a thousand pillars tall,

56  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. II,

       She bade, uprising lift the massy pile,
       And far within she carved a stately hall
       Against whose sides the entering waves did fall,
      "While to their roar the roof gave echo loud --
       And she had hid each column's pedestal
       Beneath the depths unseen of Ocean's flood,
    While towered their heads on high, amid the passing cloud.

       And she had fashioned with an artist's pride
       The dark black rock where hung the sparkling foam,
       And many a step along its sculptured side
       Had hewn, as if to tempt some foot to roam,
       Some favoured foot of Mortal yet to come.

        She hade no shapes of Terror there abound,
       That pillar'd hall no guardian dragon's home,
       But Ocean rolled his mighty waves around,
    To guard from vulgar gaze her fair enchanted ground.

    Whatever you may think of the poetry, you will agree

with me in regretting that Werner should have died without

the knowledge of this geological discovery concerning the

Iorigin and formation of basalt.
         am perfectly well, and believe me, my de&r father,

your affectionate son,  Charles Lyell.

              TOUR ON THE CONTINENT.              57

                      CHAPTEE III.

                                JUNE, JULY, 1818.

TOUR ON THE CONTINENT--PARIS-- JARDIN DES PLANTES-- VERSAILLES --
    MALMAISON -- THEATRE FRANC AIS -- CORNEILLE'S PLAY -- PRACTICAL
    EFFICIENCY OF THE BIBLIOTHEQUE DU ROI --VISIT TO PERE LA CHAISE --
    THE LOUVRE-- JOURNEY CONTINUED TO THE JURA MOUNTAINS-- GRAND
    VIEW OVER SWITZERLAND -- CHAMOUNI -- GLACIER DE BOSSONS --MER DE
    GLACE -- COUVERCLE, AND LE JARDIN -- FLOWERS AND INSECTS -- RETURN
    TO GENEVA-- BASLE-- HOLBEIN --FALLS OF SCHAFFHAUSEN-- LUCERNE-
     ASCENT OF THE RIGHI.

              JOURNAL.

     [In 1818 he made a tour in France, Switzerland, and Italy, with
his father, mother, and two eldest sisters, and kept a close journal,
from which the following extracts are made.]

June 8. --We left Dover and embarked on board the c King
George ' packet, and in three hours were landed on the pier

at Calais, and the carriage and luggage having been taken
Ito the custom-house, we went to L'Hotel Dessin. In the

morning mounted the tower, where all the town and sea

Ican be viewed, and then went into the church, the first
Catholic one  had ever seen. A painting attributed to

Vandyke   was shown me, with,   many    others,   and images of
saints.                        we left   Calais.     Pour miser
         It was twelve before

able nags were fixed to the carriage, tied on with tackle

which any Hampshire wood- stealer would have been ashamed

to see round his Forest colts. But the appearance was a

small part of the evil : every two miles something (as might
have been expected) went wrong. The strong fortifications

round each town are of course one of the most striking
novelties to an Englishman. Those of Boulogne presented

a very different appearance from Calais, the town being

58         SIR CHARLES LYELL.                         CHAP. III.

divided into la haute et basse ville, the former only being

enclosed by walls, and commanding the lower part. English

inscriptions over almost every shop pointed out how many

of our countrymen were residing there. The different

chateaux which we passed between Boulogne and Samer were

inhabited chiefly by English officers, and when we arrived at

the inn at Samer, we heard a British bugle sound, to rest

the horse- artillery, who are quartered there. It seemed that

the English had taken quiet possession, both military and

Icivil, of this part of the country.  was roused by the

    June 10. --Early in the morning

drums and fifes of 400 French soldiers, which passed through

Samer on their way from Montreuil to Boulogne. They

Ilooked much out of feather, partly from their march perhaps,

but partly, as understood from our soldiers, from their

national dirtiness. The scene was much changed when the

British horse-artillery were drawn up in the market-place.

There were 170 men of these, most of whom wore Waterloo

medals, all admirably mounted. Six cannons, each drawn by

eight fine horses, and six ammunition waggons, each with
four horses, added much to the spectacle. When we had
climbed the hill out of Samer, on our way to Montreuil, it

was a beautiful sight to look back upon them following in

separate corps, each detached body having with them one

cannon and one ammunition waggon. They were coming
up from the town to exercise near the wood of Montreuil.

Going on through a flat chalk country, we passed through

the Forest of Crecy, and came on to Abbeville, and having
dined, we proceeded to Amiens, and were six hours in going

five posts. Clermont was the next fortified town through
which we passed. The citadel is on a very commanding rise.

Here for the first time we left the chalk (?), which we had

been on every step from Calais, and which we entered again
before we got to Paris. The country changed with the soil,
but not much for the better (with regard to scenery). We

slept at   Chantilly.  the  morning  we visited  the  magnificent
     June
            12. --In

stables which belonged to the Palace of the Prince of Conde,
destroyed at the Revolution. The exterior is in grand style
and good taste. The apartment in the inside which includes

i8i8.  PARTS.  59

the length of the whole building is 620 feet long, and accom
modated for some months 320 horses of the British cavalry,

when part of our army were quartered at Chantilly lately.
As we drew near Paris small towns began to thicken, as in
the neighbourhood of the British capital. St. Denis was the
principal place. Here we visited the church, which is very
fine. The choir contracts at the east end, much in the style
of Canterbury. The heights of Montmartre soon made their
appearance after we left St. Denis, and vineyards became
common. The road was a straight avenue, with a row of

trees on each side all the way, till we entered Paris by the

Rue de Clichy, then down Rue Mont Blanc and Rue de la
Paix, into the Place Yendome. Here we saw the splendid
column made of the melted cannons taken by Napoleon in

his different victories.

     We dined at the Hotel Meurice, Rue St. Honore, and in

the evening drove to Tivoli, a kind of Vauxhall. It was

not a full night for these gardens. We tried by way of
experiment les montagnes, and the whole party descended in

these sledges.

     Sunday, June 14. --After service at the English chapel,

Iwent to the Tuileries. After Mass, Louis came out on the

balcony, and was received with what thought a very cold
Vive le Roi ! We dined at Verey's, the restaurateur in the
Palais Royal. The views from his windows of the square
filled with people, the avenues of trees, and the flowers, all
kept in the highest order, and the fountain in the middle,

formed a cheerful scene.

    In the evening we drove up the Champs Elysees to the
Beaujean Prancais, something like the gardens of Tivoli,

which we had before seen^ but on a larger scale, and more
crowded, Sunday being the gala-day in Prance. Different

groups were spread over the gardens, some round a band of
music, in another place round a conjuror ; in another, shoot

Iing at a mask with an air-gun was the amusement. Above

all towered the Montagnes Pra^ais, down which descended

in a car- A balloon went up from these gardens, and the

evening closed with fireworks.
    June 15. --We visited the Jardin des Plantes, which

occupied the greatest part of the morning. The Museum,

60  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. III.

Iparticularly the room of fossil remains, amused me greatly.
   lamented not being able to bear Cuvier lecture, as be is
now in England. The living animals are allowed each a fine

space to range in. Martin the bear would not be persuaded

to climb his pole. Some time since he had a fall, by which

he broke his ankle, or some joint, a sad misfortune to many

Englishmen, to whom the sights of Paris must now appear
comparatively a blank. We next visited the church of St.

Germain, the screen of which is worthy of notice. Capt.

Ogilvy l called on us early, and informed us that the water
works of Versailles were to play that day in honour of the
Duke of Wellington, and invited us to dine with him at his
house in St. Germains, the day after. We lost no time in
profiting by this intelligence, but set off in a caleche. The
garden view of the Palace of Versailles is very grand, but it
appears to me too large even for a palace, at least in &ny

situation besides the capital. Many thousand people were

collected round the large basin of the Dragon, where the
Duke of Wellington was to pass. He was dining with some

French marshals at the Trianon. At their arrival, with a

small body of guards, forty-two immense columns of water
rose out of the basin, the great Dragon, with all the dolphins,
&c. &c, began to spout out streams of water, and the effect

was beautiful.

     June 17. --We departed in good time to pay Capt. Ogilvy
a visit at St. Germains. The distant view of Paris from this
road is interesting. As Malinaison was on this road, we
stopped to see it. The house might be that of any country
 gentleman in England, but derives its interest from having
 been so long the residence of Josephine, and so often that of

 Napoleon. There are no pictures of value there, but the

Igreat gallery is a fine room, and the full-length picture of

 Josephine is said to be a good likeness. But was most
 delighted in seeing the garden and grounds laid out in the

Ibest taste, for though Versailles is a magnificent specimen of

 art, confess the sight of winding walks, instead of straight
 alleys; trees spreading their branches naturally around,
 instead of being cut and tortured into shape; rose-bushes
 growing on the ground, instead of being grafted, according

                     1 The Hon. William Ogilvy, brother of Lord Airlie.

1818.  MALMAISON.                                  61

to the French fashion, and looking like flowers bound on

the top of a hop-pole, gave me more of the real charm of a

I Igarden than thought was ever to experience in France.
I understand that the Trianon at Versailles is laid out in

this manner, and that the French look upon both as singular

Icuriosities, and have taste enough to admire them. A tulip

tree at Malmaison was the first ever saw in flower. That

Englishman who, when he first beheld this tree, and mar

velled at the industry of the gardener who had clipped every

leaf so evenly with his scissors, would meet in France with

enough real instances of labour employed in perverting

nature. We saw some very vivid lightning on our return to

IParis, but escaped a storm which fell round us. A few

glowworms on the bank were the first had seen in France.

    June 18. -- In the morning we paid a visit to the Louvre,

where, besides the paintings, we had a view of Louis XVIII.
setting out for St. Cloud, from the Tuileries. We saw

him well, as we looked down into his open carriage, which

was drawn by eight horses. We went in the evening to the
Opera Comique. This was the first theatre we had been at

in Paris, for besides the heat of the weather, Talma and all

Ithe first-rate actors and actresses were away from Paris, at
different country theatres.  saw little to admire in the

house, and was not Frenchman enough to follow the very
rapid pronunciation of French comedians ; but the orchestra
Itwas good, and music is an universal language.
                                                   was the

composition of Gretry.
     June 19. -- We went to the Jardin des Plantes, to see the

collection of comparative anatomy, which is very beautiful,

and might tempt anyone who had the opportunity of stay
ing in Paris to take up ardently the study of anatomy.
There are a vast number of exquisite models, coloured to the
life, descriptive of the anatomical structure of the human
Iframe ; besides skeletons of a vast number of quadrupeds,
birds, fishes, serpents, &c. &c.    afterwards visited the

Panorama of London in the Boulevard des Capucins. We
dined at Beauvilliard's, a restaurateur in the Rue de Richelieu,

Iand afterwards went to the Theatre Francais       and heard
Corneille's play of ' Le Menteur.'  followed       the actors
                                                    and lauo-h
with the help of a book well enough to enjoy  it,

62  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                         CHAP. III.

Iheartily, but often while was cutting a leaf with my knife,
Iand turning over, found to my astonishment that they had

got down half the next page. ' Le Menteur 9 is more of a

farce than a comedy.

    June 20--1 went in the morning to the Bibliotheque du

Roi, and called for the first volume of Cuvier's work on Fossil

IRemains, which was immediately brought, as was a French

Dictionary and map of France which asked for. They

seem even to take pleasure in waiting on you. The library

is of great use, there were six or seven tables full of students,

most of them writing. How different in every respect to

I Ithe Bodleian at Oxford ! except in books, in the number of
which suppose it cannot surpass the Bodleian.  read

Cuvier's paper on the Geology of the Country round Paris

(theJucnhealk21.b--asWin eofwPeantrist)h.is morning to hear Mass performed

Iin Notre Dame. Service was going on iD several different
parts of the cathedral at the same time.  could neither

understand a word they said, nor admire a word they sung ;

Ithere was no music in the chant, and it was unaccompanied

by the organ. A single instrument, a bass-viol, believe,

now and then joined its bass notes with their voices. We

next visited the model of the colossal elephant which is to

be erected over the canal near the ruins of the ancient Bastille.

The idea of this is said to have been entirely Napoleon's.
Water is to be conveyed into the animal, and it is to spout

it out at its trunk, and thus serve as a gigantic fountain.

The taste of this is much disputed, and what the effect will

Ibe when the whole is of bronze, and when it stands as a

public monument in this city, will not pretend to antici

pate ; but the idea is unquestionably no mean one, and the
proportions of the model are so good, though above seventy
feet in height, that the front view is wonderfully striking.

It is done over with plaster of Paris, and has quite the ap
pearance of stone.
     We then went to the cemetery of Pere la Chaise, a large

burying-ground in the same quarter. It would be well worth

visiting were it only for the extensive view of Paris which
presents itself from this rise. But it has sufficient interest
in itself. The immense number of tombstones and monu

1818. JARDIN DES PLANTES.                               63

ments, the order and neatness of the walks, and of each
little plot round the sepulchres, which are filled with beauti

ful, and sometimes valuable plants. It would seem here

that the cypresses were not -- as Byron says, --

               The only constant mourners of the dead,

for we observed wreaths of flowers lately placed on the

tombs of some who had departed a long time since. We

Iwent in the evening to Les Jardins Ruggieri, which
thought the best of the kind we had visited. But its being

Sunday probably added much to the crowds which were

there. Sunday in Paris is celebrated like most of the old

Roman sacred rites, by dancing as well as prayer. Le saut

de Niagara is the most conspicuous object in this garden.

It is like the other montagnes, except that before the car

descends it is suspended in the air on a kind of drawbridge,
which, like the cross board of a see- saw, is balanced on its

centre and loose at the extremities. The declivity down

which you are shot is infinitely more rapid than any other
in Paris, but very delightful, not only to Parisians. Some

splendid fireworks finished the evening.

 IX/June 22. --Went to the Jardin des Plantes, where again

looked over Cuvier's lecture-room, filled with fossil remains,
among which are three glorious relics of a former world
which have added several new genera to the Mammalia.
-We also walked over the greenhouses, and admired many

fine tropical plants. We had a great treat afterwards at
the Opera. < Le Devin de Village ' was first performed, in
teresting not only from its real merit, but as a literary cu
riosity, since both the poetry  and the music are
' Le Rossignol ' followed, and  then the ' Carnival     by Eousseau.
                                                         of Venice ' a
pantomime, both excellent in their way. The whole was got
up with great splendour and magnificence, but a filthy
curtain which was let down between the acts could not fail
to remind us of that total want of convenance which one
has so  often   heard remarked as characteristic of
               the filthy Stygian pool which flows      the French.
It was  like                                            perpetually

Idown their finest streets.

    June 23. -- spent all the day in the Louvre, and became
more than ever convinced of how much there is there worthy

64               s/jR CHARLES LYELL.              CHAP. III.

of admiring and studying for as many weeks as we had
hours to give to ito

     June 24. -- We drove to the Royal Observatory, and then
to the Church or Abbey of Yal de Grace, but on entering
were astonished to find, instead of the signs of a consecrated

place, nothing but enormous piles of blankets and sacks of

Istraw and other things. By a remarkable conversion, it has
now become a military storehouse and hospital.    got

Iback to the Louvre in time to spend one hour there before

its closing. There met Sir James Ramsay and Mr. Mal

colm, two Oxford friends, who had just arrived from London.

In the evening we attended the Opera. The piece was 6 Les

Danaides.' Nothing very striking in the music, still less in

the poetry, but all good, and the scenes magnificent, parti
cularly the concluding one of the infernal regions. There
were a great number of soldiers about the door, as there are

wherever you turn in Paris. They keep excellent order, but
bayonets are not very pleasant things to see in a crowd, and
the very authoritative tone in which they order about gentle

men's servants and coachmen cannot at all suit an English

man's feelings.
    IJune 25. -- I spent again nearly all the morning in the
statue gallery of the Louvre.  was particularly struck with

the Demosthenes on the right as you enter the Salle de la

IPaix, with Venus Genetrix, and many of the Roman empe
rors, Trajan, Augustus, and a bust of Caracalla.  was

much delighted also with Jason stooping to untie his sandal,

but more than all with the Fighting Gladiator.
    June 26. -- We left Paris on our way to Switzerland, in
time to reach Fontainebleau, where we slept. In the Forest
of Fontainebleau a (limestone) rock bursts up in huge

masses through the soil, and presents a very singular appear

ance not in any way in character with so tame and flat a
country. The timber here is magnificent, of many species

andJugnreeat27e.x--tenTht.e exterior of the Palace of Fontainebleau
is perfectly inelegant, not to say frightful, and the gardens,
if intended for the French taste, very inferior to those of the
Tuileries or Versailles, and if meant for English, they are
nothing compared to Malmaison. In fact they seem an

1818. FONTAINEBLEAU.                    65

absurd attempt to combine these two contrary styles.

Garden grounds in France openly profess to display the

skill and perfection of art, and have certainly the advantage

of show and splendour ; but in England they are laid out on

the principle of Artis esse celare Artem, and to make these

two opposites meet in the smallest degree is evidently im
practicable. The rooms in the Palace are many of them

fine, and the furniture princely. And though the apart

ments in which the Pope was confined by Napoleon are in

themselves nothing peculiar, and still less the small table on

which Buonaparte signed his abdication before going to Elba,

yet they all serve to remind us of events of History.
    June 28. --Through our whole journey from Auxerre to

Maison-Neuve there was no single point of interesting

Iscenery, and my only pleasure was from the few passing

remarks was able to make on the geology of this country.

It is chalk as far as St. Bris, between which and Yer-
Imanton it becomes more like a white limestone, and after

leaving Yermanton observed stratification unlike chalk.
At Lucy le Bois it remained much the same, and between

this place and Avallon we came upon a blue limestone

abounding in Ammonites, some as large as the crown of my
hat, some considerably larger, with many gryphites and other

shells, continuing to Eouvray. Here the fields are enclosed

Iwith hedges, and the country exactly resembled some parts of
England.  was astonished at the small village of Eouvray

to see the streets paved and the houses built of granite. On

our way to Maison-Neuve we found the road cut deep
through a red porphyritic granite. Yet there was no change
in the scenery, as is usually the case upon entering a portion

of primitive country.

    June 29. --Upon leaving Maison-Neuve we came again
upon the limestone we had left at Eouvray, containing
Gornu Ammonis and other fossils in abundance. We had to
mount a steep limestone hill on leaving Yitteaux. Every here

and there were large stones of the colour of ruddle,2 con

taining apparently the same fossils as the limestone. At

Dijon we slept, the largest place we had been in since

Paris.

VOL. I.   2 Or reddle, red iron-chalk.
                           F

66  SIR CHARLES LYELL.          CHAP. Ill

   IWe passed through Dole, a pretty town, between this

and Van dray. saw gravel strewed in large hillocks over the

plain, as it is in Scotland. In some small villages near

Poligny we were surprised at the change of the buildings,
for some were roofed with wooden tiles, and the roofs of

some projected a great way over the side of the house, in the

Swiss style.

     July 1. -- The Jura chain rises abruptly from the flat plain.
Poligny lies under the mountains, being built on the slope.
We had to thank Napoleon for the noble road which carried

us by an easy ascent up the precipitous rise of these moun
tains. Large limestone cliffs presented themselves, the

stratification very horizontal. On looking down from the

Iheight, we had an extensive view of the plains of Burgundy

which we had left. The limestone in the Jura conclude is

of a different age from what we passed through before Dijon,

Ifor the latter abounded in organic remains, whereas could
Inot discover one fossil in the Jura. By the roadside picked

up many beautiful petrifications, which must be forming

daily here, where the water is charged plentifully with lime.

IThe minute veins in the leaves of many of these petrifactions
were preserved with exactness.  was surprised to see one

limestone cliff, which had been cut through to make the road,

spotted with dark flints, something like moderate-sized

chalk flints, but not in layers as in chalk. Between Cham-

pagnole and Maison-Neuve the steep rocks covered with

fir-trees reminded us of Dunkeld, and the situation of

Morez, where we slept,, was at the bottom of a deep valley,
where the cliffs and steepness of the rocks on each side, and
the large bed of a river at the bottom, formed a romantic

scene.

      From Morez we ascended to Les Eousses, the frontier town.
Here our passports, &c, were examined. We had now
climbed to nearly the summit of the Jura. La Dole was full

in view, a mountain that reaches more than 5,000 feet above

the level of the sea. It was not many hundred feet above

us. On this, and on a few other mountains, small patches
of snow were pointed out to us. Now that we had gained
the height of the loftiest mountains in Scotland, we could
not help reflecting with astonishment on the contrast

i8i8. CHAMOUNI.                                                            67

 between the Grampians and the Jura. Instead of a colda
 piercing wind, we were here glad of an umbrella to screen
 us from the heat of the sun ; instead of a desolate waste, theit,

 dwelling of moor- game alone, here were towns and housesa
 scattered about, and cattle ; in place of a boundless expanse
of heath, here were tall forests of fir, with the Alpine roseI I
and a thousand beautiful flowers. The Veratrum in particular,          aI
                         a
and Gentiana lutea, with their broad leaves, covered thea

ground in some parts, and gave to me, the appearance ofaa

garden ground. In descending the Jura from Lavatay toit

isGex, we had most magnificent view of a vast extent ofa
country. Below us the Lake of Geneva and the Pays dea
Yaud, before us the Savoy Alps towering up to the clouds,
and, in spite of their great distance and the height on which
we stood, extended in long line before us like an army of
giants, Mont Blanc rising high above all in the middle as
their chief. We saw the Dent de Midi to the left, shooting
up his two remarkable peaks, with many more of extra
ordinary and picturesque forms. We went to Secheron,
and visited Geneva, about half mile from our hotel. was

rather disappointed in the town itself, but the appearance of

the people thought great improvement on France. The large

spreading straw bonnets are very becoming to the women,
and a pretty girl seems not such rarity in a shop here as in
Paris. We crossed bridge over the Phone, which flows
through the town, coming out of the lake with a rapid
current, of a most peculiar deep blue colour. We called on
Professor De Candolle, but found he was gone to Paris.

     July 4. --We departed from Secheron early on an ex
pedition to the Valley of Chamouni. Geneva we found busy
and lively in all parts, being market-day. A few hundred
yards carried us out of the precincts of this republic, and

upon entering Savoy, at the small village of Carouge, we
underwent the farce of having our baggage examined. We
soon passed Mont Saleve on our right, and the Yoirons on

our left, the two nearest hills to Geneva, both calcareous, as

   the Mole, picturesque mountain on all sides, and very

verdant up to the top. We passed the Menoge, small

torrent which winds along a deep ravine, apparently the
gorge of old of vast body of water. Here should have

68  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                            CHAP. III.

expected, as in approaching the Primitive country in Scot

land, to see large micaceous boulders of the old rocks, but

there were scarcely any of the kind. Whether they are buried
in the soil, or whether the ruin of the Mole (a large part of
which seems evidently to have been torn away) has covered

everything. The scenery towards Bonneville, where we

dined, and after it, improved at every step. We had been

following the Arve for some distance, and after passing
through the town of Cluse, we turned with it up a deep valley,

or rather an enormous ravine, where the rocks rose to our left

to a very precipitous height, and quite perpendicular. Le

Brison on the right was a very picturesque mountain.

    Le Cascade d'Arpenaz, a fall of 800 feet perpendicular,

was looking very beautiful on our left. There was not much

water, but the wind carried that little quite away in smoke,

before it descended half way, so that farther down, where the

scattered spray fell, and collected on a projecting portion of

the cliff, a new cascade seemed, to spring forth. Our ride
was truly romantic the whole way to St. Martin, where we

slept. Mont Blanc had been concealed by clouds the whole
day, but this evening we enjoyed a full view of him. The
setting sun rested on his summit long after it had ceased to

I Ilight up the valley and neighbouring mountains. Though
the outline from here is beautiful,  confess      was dis

appointed in the near resemblance which it bears to a cloud,

for the snow naturally takes the same tints as white vapour

from the- sun. L? Aiguille de Yarens, a calcareous crag
which overhangs the village of St. Martin, is of immense
height and very grand, especially when half buried in clouds,

and the steep rock appearing through them, cut off from

its base.

    July 5. -- Leaving St. Martin, we wound round the Aiguille

de Varens, the base of which mountain is partly of slate,

partly of schist. The Cascade de Chene is pretty, but the
Chute d'Arve we saw from such a height, that it seemed only
a river roaring over a rocky bed. The view from the Pont

Pelissier is very delightful. Here we passed the Arve, and
soon came in view of the glaciers. After passing the small

ItGlacier of Taconay, the Glacier de Bosson, the  most pictur
esque of all, came in view.  has advanced         farther than

1818.         GLACIER BE BOSSON.                                                                       69

any of them in a direct line across the valley, and particu

larly in the last three years. A nr wood on the farther side
marks the spot to which it used to extend before that time.
Marching on with its enormous bulk, it has trodden down

the tallest pines with as much ease as an elephant could the

herbage of a meadow. Some trunks still are seen projecting

from the rock of ice, all the heads being embodied in this

mass, which shoots out at the top into tall pyramids and

pinnacles of ice, of beautiful shapes and of a very pure

white, which is finely set off by a background of dark fir.

This lower part of the glacier is urged on by an enormous

precipice of ice above, descending from the upper parts of

the mountain, and which increases in weight every year.

It has been pressed on not only through the forest, but over

some cultivated fields, which are utterly lost. The poor

woman whose land has been thus destroyed, came to present

us a petition signed by the minister. They have placed a

small wooden cross at the bottom, with the intention, no

doubt, of arresting the progress of the evil which threatens

to overwhelm many houses immediately before it, and

indeed all human power can do nothing else towards saving

them.

The Glacier de Bosson marches almost in a straight line,

though inclining a little down the valley. There is a decli
it
                it it,

                   it
                      it it

                                       it
                                           it

                                                             it

                                                                                                    a

                                               I

                                                                            it
vity before all the way to the opposite side, which think

must reach in less than twenty years, even were to

advance at half the pace of the late three extraordinary

winters. Should ever do so, must cause a hundredfold

the calamity that has just befallen the Valley of Bagne and

Martigny, since would flood the valley above, by stopping

the Arve, and then deluge  below when  broke loose.

The mischief  has already caused, and the much greater

evils which threatens, must raise in every one feeling of
horror, in spite of the admiration excited by contemplating

this picturesque phenomenon. When you walk over the ice

you find the air very cold, though a burning sun was warm

 ing the valley when we saw it, and causing the vegetation
 to flourish with luxuriance up to the very foot of the glacier.
 One of the choicest of our garden shrubs, the Ehododendron,
. was in flower there.

70  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. III.

   IJuly 6. -- took a guide early in the morning, and leaving

the inn at Chamouni, began to mount VAiguille de Brevent,
a mountain which rises on the opposite of the valley, and

affords the nearest general view of Mont Blanc. It rises

steeply, nearly 6,000 feet above the valley, and, as may be

supposed, requires some labour to mount, but it well deserves

it. Planpraz, a point about two-thirds of the way up, affords
a grand view of the summit, and all the points of Mont
Blanc, but at every step you ascend, he still rises, till at the

top of the Brevent you may consider yourself raised opposite

Ihis middle height, the most advantageous station of course.

My guide, Joseph Marie Coutet, found very intelligent.
He was the son of one of those who attended Saussure in his

famous ascent, had travelled much as a soldier under Napo
leon, but was not in the Eussian campaign, to which a vast
number of the inhabitants of Chamouni were taken, and few

ever returned. Tet Buonaparte's policy has augmented the

population of Chamouni. By never requiring married men to

go, many were driven to this alternative, and as we are told,

and might have expected, many very unhappy marriages
have been the result. We crossed some large patches of

Isnow in mounting, and found the top of the mountain quite

covered, except the highest crag, on which sat down to eat

my dinner. It was the height of luxury in such warm

weather to be able to cool my wine by plunging the bottle
in snow. The view from this point is truly magnificent.
Mont Blanc full in front, with his four largest glaciers de

scending down his sides --of Bosson, Mer de Glace, Argen
tine, and Tour ; the villages of Servoz and Tour at each

extremity of the valley, and Chamouni at our feet, and the
river Arve. Behind us rose the snowy summit of Buet,
with the Aiguille de Varens, and many others, the Jura in

the distance.

    In going down the Brevent, my guide chose out as care

fully the tracts of snow as he had avoided them in ascending.
He had provided me with a pike, tipped with an iron nail,
which he used himself. He directed me to lean back on

this with one hand, as he did himself on his, and then lock

my other arm firm in his. We thus slid down together with
amazing rapidity, and precipitous places, that required half

1818.  MER DE GLACE,                          71

an hour's labour in mounting, were conquered in two or

three minutes. It reminded me much of the Parisian amuse

ment of les montagnes. This, however, lasted no farther

Idown than Planpraz, which we soon reached, and there

found my father and the ladies, and we descended together
to Chamouni. The Rhododendron reddened some of the

Icliffs, with many other flowers.             set out a
    July 7. --Having got my breakfast early,

little before six o'clock, with Marie Coutet as a guide, to

Ivisit Le Jardin on Mont Blanc. We ascended the Montan-

vert in less than two hours. rested a few minutes at Blair's

Hut, to look over some of the small collections of specimens
of ihe different rocks of Mont Blanc. The Mer de Glace is

by no means a picturesque object from this point. We then

had to scramble by a difficult path which leads along the
cliff which overhangs the Mer de Glace. The whole of this

steep side, covered with the Rhododendron in full flower, was

Ia wonderfully beautiful sight. It was now growing hot, and
  was glad to refresh myself with a second breakfast, and
some cool water mixed with my wine at the fountain.
Hanging from the vaulted roof of the high hollow in the

rock, Prom the bottom of which the fountain bursts, is the

Ranu%culus glacialis, a rare plant. It was in full flower, and

a very beautiful and conspicuous ornament, with its white

blossom, to the black rock above. It is impossible to climb
up to this. A few steps from hence brought us to the place

where we were to embark on the Mer de Glace. The first

part cf this is the most formidable and hazardous of all, and

causes many a traveller to relinquish the enterprise. The

Iice is traversed in every direction by rents and deep fissures,
over y Inch you must leap.  could scarcely summon confi

dence at first, not from any fear of the depth of the chasm,

but tie unsafe appearance of the landing-place on the oppo
site side, which, though in fact hard frozen, looks exactly
like soft snow, a resemblance which the multitude of small

holes in it full of water serves to confirm. In one place a

narrow bridge of frozen snow, not above a foot or two deep,

leads over a chasm of great depth. This we were obliged to

pass.

~We had to follow the course of this glacier nine miles up,

72     SIR CHARLES LYELL.                  chap. hi.

Ibut the six last are comparatively easy.  did not find the

air so nmch cooled by the ice as the day before, on the

Glacier de Bosson, but this might have arisen from the con
Itrast not being so great with the air had just left as in the
Ibottom of the valley.  saw, however, that even in July,

this large body of ice creates frost enough in the night to

encrust over the water which fills many of the chasms.

Thus there are but a few months out of twelve that can

melt the glaciers at all, and in these not twelve hours per

haps out of twenty-four, and even these twelve hours must

Iin the hottest month be partly occupied in doing over again

the work which each night undoes. We had proceeded,
believe, more than half way, before we arrived at what may

be considered the river Arveiron, yet unborn. All the melt

ings of the upper part of the glacier from the summit of
Mont Blanc, collect and form a torrent, which confines itself
in as correct a bed down the ice as any river does in a plain ;
and rushing along with great swiftness, it suddenly conies to
a deep round well in the ice, just large enough to receive it.

It plunges down this and appears no more, till under the

name of the Arveiron in the Valley of Chamouni. This
chasm is called ' Le Grand Moulin.' As you stand on the

opposite side to where the torrent enters, you feel a current
of air blow on your face, caused by the water. We saw a

Irainbow on many sides of this, a phenomenon which am
Isorry did not pay more attention to at the time. It is
Ialso wonderful, think, that since the well is perpendicular,

the side against which the water is thrown with great
violence, instead of being worn away and hollowed, seems

rather to project.

     While we were here, an avalanche broke loose from a
rock which overhung the Mer de Glace, and came down
with a noise like thunder. Many butterflies were flying
over the glacier. Every here and there huge boulders of
white granite covered the ice. Two in particular, my guide
led me to, each of which had one side covered with ciystals
of quartz, some very perfect and richly charged and coloured
with green chlorite. The large space that was covered with
these made a splendid show as the sun shone full upon

them.

1818.         THE COUVERCLE.                              73

After a walk of nine miles over the ice, it was a won

derful transition, on arriving at the foot of the Couvercle, to

sit down on a plot of grass so richly strewed with our blue

garden violet that the air was really perfumed. The large
Veratrum, blue gentian, and ' Forget-me-not ' were in plenty
Ithere. Here
              took a repast, and seeing my guide fast
Iasleep, could not resist following his example. After

about half an hour he awoke me, and we climbed up a long

and steep precipice to the summit of the Couvercle, a pro

jecting rock, which forms part of the lofty Aiguille du

Moine. From the foot of this rock you see a valley of ice

extend up to the summit of Mont Blanc : around you are all

his shapeliest points, ending in beautiful pinnacles of pointed

rock. The picture is in short entirely composed of the sub
lime and terrible -- bare rock, ice, snow, and sky, with a dead

silence round. The Couvercle is the very seat which the

imagination of Virgil chose for the poet Orpheus, when

abandoned to despair.

       Solus Hyperboreas glacies, Tanaimque nivalem, &c.

IBefore descending from the Couvercle, was glad to

Itake a second dinner, for the mountain air has certainly a
wonderful effect on the appetite.  observed below me, on

Ithe side of the Mer de Glace, a double moraine remarkably

regular. The only way in which can conceive this to have

happened, is by the gradual decomposition of two cliffs

above, of different altitudes. The fragments from the higher

would naturally be thrown out farther, and form the exterior

line. The granite sand of the moraine near the head of the

glacier contains, as might be expected, much mica, but at

the source of the Arveiron, and foot of the Glacier de Bosson,
it contains none, but is a white powder and as soft as pounce,

consisting probably of quartz and feltzpar, and mostly of the
latter. It is this which gives the Arve its milk-white colour,

Iand not, as one often hears said, mere melted snow, than

which nothing is more clear, as was often glad to find when
thirsty.

The Arve is much of the colour of streams and ponds

on chalk in England, than which nothing can be more Tin-

picturesque, unless perhaps the torrents which rush from

74          SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. III.

1'Aiguille de Varens wlien the snow melts in the spring,

which my guide assured me are as black as ink, from the

slate. We had two miles and a half still to walk before we

could reach Le Jardin, a fatiguing addition to the march,

since we were up to our knees in snow at almost every step.

This little oasis, a small plot of ground only a few hundred

yards in circumference, and always surrounded by a glacier,

is the highest elevation at which vegetation exists in Europe,
but this is not the only reason which renders it worth visit

ing. You stand on considerably higher ground here than at

the Couvercle, and the highest part of Mont Blanc seems to

Ihave risen much.
        took a third dinner at this place, and after writing my

name on a slip of paper, to put into the wine-bottle there,
Iwhich is full of names, began to retrace my steps to the
Couvercle.  was surprised here at the number of insects,

but my guide assured me they were surprisingly diminished

since the year 1815. It is only strange they are not com

pletely annihilated at this elevation, since their number has

been so sensibly affected all over Europe by the late extra

ordinary seasons. Many would attribute this to the scarcity

Iof entomologists near the summit of Mont Blanc, but the

fact is, suppose, there are no birds. A night of hungry

swallows would destroy in one evening more than an ento

mologist in a year.

   IOn the snow which we had to pass between the Couvercle

and Le Jardin, observed that rose-coloured tint which is so

difficult to account for, but the snow was not harder in those

Iplaces, as had heard affirmed.
   I followed my guide with very rapid steps on returning

Iover the Mer de Glace, for began to be afraid of night

overtaking us. The chasms are much easier to leap in de

scending, since you are always on the higher side, and for the

same reason you can leap many which before caused a great

detour. We stopped only a few minutes at the Fountain,

Iwhere, after some pelting, a stone brought down two flowers

from Ranunculus glacialis. At Blair's Hut found two

English travellers, looking over the collections of rocks. They

informed me that my father and the ladies had just left the

IHut, and were gone to visit the source of the Arveiron.

x8i8. THE ARVEIRON.                              75

Ifollowed them there, by descending the contrary side of the

Montanvert to what had climbed in the morning. This
lengthens the return a little. The precipice here is very

Isteep.                                          did not
     There is an album at the Montanvert, which
Ilook into, but one of our party discovered in it a stanza

which ran, believe, nearly thus --

Mont Blanc is the monarch of mountains,

   They crowned him long ago,
Enthroned in ice, with rohes of clouds,

   And diadem of snow--

Iwhich, however far from perfection, contains more real poetry

than thought could be found in all the albums of Europe.
The blue vault out of which the Arveiron bursts full-grown

at its birth is well worth visiting. While we were there, a
fine avalanche fell, which we saw and heard to great advan
tage. The sands of the Arveiron are delicately white and
fine, but the grains of gold which they say are found in it
must be transferred, like those of the Pactolus, to the poet's
verse, before they will serve as ornaments to the scene. The
rest of our party rode from thence to Chamouni in chars-a-

bancs, but I, though much fatigued, preferred finishing this

short distance on foot. The shortest way from Chamouni to
Le Jardin and back they reckon forty-eight miles, eighteen
being over the Mer de Glace, and five over the Glacier du
Jardin. Too much for one day.

    July 8. --The number of visitors to the Yalley of
Chamouni last year they told us was 1,400, 1,000 of whom
were English. The town was perfectly inundated while we
were there, fifty arrived in one day. We determined to-day
on a visit to the Col de Balme, from which there is by far
the finest view down the Valley of Chamouni. Chars-a-bancs

Icarried us some way, and mules nearly all the rest, which
Iwas very glad of, as was very tired from my preceding

day's expedition.

     The Mer de Glace is advancing terribly every year, but
fortunately is going down the valley.3 The Glacier d'Ar

Igentine is perhaps more threatening, from its nearness to

the Arve. In the valley took no less than seven specimens

                 3 The Mer de Glace has of late years much diminished.

^  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. III.

of that rare insect Papilio Apollo. The rock of the Col de

Balme is a brown ligneous slate, with some veins of white

Iquartz intersecting it : the appearance is very curious. On

the top was the richest carpet of turf ever saw, spangled
with thousands of the deep blue gentian, red trefoil, and other

mountain flowers, yet exceedingly level. Farther down

quantities of the Cnicus sjpinosissimus made a magnificent

show. There is a small lake on the top of the Col de Balme,

where we were ; but there is still a higher point, with an iron

cross at the top, near which M. Eloher perished by his rash

ness. To this we did not ascend.                       The
    July 9. ---Left Chamouni on our return to Geneva.

clouds entirely screened the distant mountains, and there

were some partial but very heavy showers, which the cover
ing of our chars-a-bancs but ill defended. About Servoz it
is extraordinary how abundant the wild barberry grows. At

St. Martin we found our carriage again, and dismissed the

chars-a-bancs, and Chamouni guides. The latter are a most

intelligent set, but the people of this valley are in general

 frightfully plain, owing chiefly to the goitres, to which the
. women are more liable than men. At St. Martin there are

 few in comparison with the great number at Sallanche, on

the opposite side of the river. We left Geneva, to commence
as it were anew a tour through Switzerland. Coasting along
the lake, we passed Coppet, and slept at Rolle, a neat little

town on the lake.

    July 12. -- We entered the Pays de Vaud, and arrived at
Lausanne, and walked down to Ouchy, the Pireeus of Lau

sanne, and went out on the lake in a boat. We remarked the

blueness of the water, which cannot be owing to the reflec

Ition from the sky, since it was very cloudy ; nor is it exclu

sively where the water is deep, for observed near the shore
that the weeds, which when pulled up were perfectly green, were

blue when seen through the water. The town of Lausanne

is uninteresting, except to us from having been so long the
residence of Gibbon. From Iverdun to Ncuchatel is a

pleasant drive, but the road at first is execrable along the
shingle of the lake, which is of a very sea-green cerulean

colour, and very different from the blueness of Geneva. In

Neuchatel there were certainly more good gentlemen's

i8i8. BASLE.           77

houses than we had seen in any place of the same size on

the Continent. One of Monsieur Pourtalis, in his time the

greatest merchant in Europe, whose family still lives here.

One of Monsieur Pourri, also a very wealthy merchant. The

latter built the large town-hall here, the former the hospital.
    July 15. --After leaving ISTeuchatel, we soon approached

the end of the lake, and went through St. Blaise, a large

village, and saw next the Lac de Bienne, in the middle

of which is Eousseau's Island, where he resided so long, and
by it the ' Isle des Lapins/ which it was his fancy to people

with rabbits. We were obliged to have six horses to mount

a long and steep hill, from which we enjoyed again a grand
view of the distant Alps. A fine mist between us and the

base of the chain had exactly the appearance of a second

atmosphere, and the gigantic summits of the Alps seemed

cut off and unconnected with the earth. Here we took leave

of the Alps for a time, and entered a veiy romantic valley,
fine forests of fir on all sides, and high limestone cliffs, the

stratification much disturbed, but answering in general one
side with the other in their inclination. We passed under
Pierre Pertuis, a curious excavated rock, but more celebrated-

perhaps than it deserves.
    July 17. --Went to Basle by the side of the river Birs, up

a long valley, in which there was a great variety and abund
ance of wood. After dinner we walked to the cathedral, and

Iclimbed the spire, from which we saw into Prance, Germany,
and Switzerland.  rather liked the effect of the painted

tiles on the roof of the cathedral, which were laid in the

mosaic style.

    July 18. -- Holbein was a native of this place, and there
are in the Bibliotheque Publique many of his drawings, and
nine small, exquisitely finished paintings in the same frame,
representing < The Passion.' They have also here a great
treasure, an edition of the ' Laus Stultitise ' of Erasmus, with
pencil vignettes drawn on almost every page by Holbein and
which show a great deal of genius. The collection of fossil
I Iremains, taken chiefly from the limestone of the Jura, is rich.
   am much struck with some which believe to have been
Tulip Alcionia. They have also a large Monoculus, which
they consider unique.

78  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. III.

      We next went to the gardens of Mr. Fisher, banker,

 which are laid out with taste, and look down upon the

 Rhine. In the rock-work and arbours were some beautiful

 specimens of Tuff. This modern formation, which abounds
 here from the large quantities of limestone in the Jura, is

 found very useful in building under water, since from its

 porous nature it hardens every year by deposition. It is

 also inestimable from its great lightness in the higher storeys
 of their houses, which are chiefly built of wood.

      After a walk round the small botanic garden here, we
 proceeded on our way to Schaffhausen as far as Stein, a small
 village on the Rhine, where we slept. The first red sand

I Istone had seen since had been on the Continent was in
I Ithe cathedral of Basle, which is built of it, but thought

 observed it to-day composing the banks of the Rhine.
     July 19. -- Before the windows of our inn at Stein, on the

 opposite side of the Rhine, was Sackingen, a considerable
 town, which, with the two towers of its cathedral, its long

 bridge finished with a tower, the broad river, and the harvest
 going on in the fields, formed a pleasing picture. From this
 place we went on to Lauffenburg, and again crossed the

Rhine into Germany. A short distance below the bridge,

the Rhine is confined between some rocks, so as to appear

only a third of its size. It rushes with amazing violence, the

 greenness of its colour, the quantities of foam, and the large

waves and whirlpools which it causes below these rocks, give

Iit a more exact resemblance to the sea, during a brisk gale,

than anything ever saw inland.

     July 20. --When we had approached within a mile and a
half of Schaffhausen, we sent on the carriage, and walked
down to Lauffen, to see the Fall of the Rhine. This approach
is very favourable, and we got many picturesque views of
the Fall before we arrived at the Castle of Lauffen. In a
room at the top of this, we had a fine front view of this

magnificent object. Afterwards they darkened the room, and
threw a beautiful landscape of the Fall on a white piece of
canvas suspended from the ceiling, by means of a camera-

obscura. It was a complete picture, with the addition of

motion. The water tumbling over, the clouds of foam, and
the agitation of the water in the large basin below, appeared

1 8 18.  SCHAFFHA USEN.                        79

beautiful on this flat surface. We passed over afterwards

to the top gallery, from which you look down on the Fall,
and see admirably the contrast of the river before and after
it has been hurled down the precipice. We then descended

to the lower gallery, where you are well repaid for the wetting

you get from the spray. Your eye meets the Pall midway,

Iand you can form a just idea of the body of water which is

carried down. The rock is limestone, and found some

fossil shells in it. The masses which break the Pall so

picturesquely, are much worn away on the side which is
opposed to the current : one is perforated. They must in the

Icourse of time gradually waste away. They are happily
clothed with underwood.  observed, as the sun shone on

the foam, it took very much the rose-coloured tint so re
markable on the snow in the Alps. In our walk back to
Schaffhausen, the heat was very oppressive. In consequence

of the fineness of the summer, they look forward to as rich

a vintage as 1811, the memorable year of the comet. The
waiter at the Couronne assured us that at their inn alone

they had, in the course of last year, 745 English, not includ
ing other foreigners. From Schaffhausen we went to

Eglisau, a town on the Rhine, where we slept.

     Between Eglisau and Zurich we passed through a very
rich corn country. They cultivate much the poppy here for

medicine. The flowers are single but large, chiefly white,

but sometimes a good proportion of red and pink intermixed.
When in full blow, and with a field of ripe corn on each side,
it is the gayest crop imaginable. We arrived early at

IZurich, and drove to the Hotel de TEpee, a celebrated inn,

but which found partook more than any of a fault too
common in Switzerland. They have their stables and cow-

houses under the same roof, and the unavoidable conse

quences may be conceived, till they can fall in with a man
as able --as ' Hercules to cleanse a stable.'4

The next morning we paid a visit to the library, in which,

besides many curious fossils, they showed us a literary curio
sity interesting to an Englishman, the Latin letters of Lady
Jane Grey to some learned man of Zurich, in which were
many Greek and Hebrew quotations. From Zurich we pro

                         4 Eudibras.

80  SIR CHARLES LYELL.     CHAP. III.

ceeded to climb Mount Albis, from the summit of which we

enjoyed a most beautiful and picturesque view of both ends

of the Lake of Zurich. On the other side, the Alps were ob
scured by clouds, but we saw the Bighi and the Hackenburg,

a very remarkable broken mountain. After dining at the
irm near the top of Mount Albis, we passed a small lake

which they call the Tiirler See, and then went down to Zug.

The latter part of the descent was almost dangerous for so

heavy a carriage as ours.
    July 23. -- The rest of the party having decided upon going
Istraight from Zug to Lucerne, engaged a guide to conduct
Ime to the Eighi.      landed at Arth, a small place in the

centre of Schwytz, where the costume amused me much, for

the women wear an exact imitation of the crest of the

Ihoopoo on their heads, a high double frill reaching from the

back of the head to the forehead, very ridiculous, and

should think useless.

    At the inn an English traveller, a Mr. Hope, who was

just sending forward his servant to the top of the Righi,

politely offered to engage a room for me at the same time.

I then made my guide conduct me to the Yalley of Goldau,
Ithat might have a new view of the "Rossberg, a mountain
from which a large part fell twelve years ago, and buried a

village. The guide pointed out very evident marks of a

more ancient eboulement, which had extended considerably

farther than the last, but of which they do not know the

date. The recent pile stands exactly over the former one,
yet, wonderful to say, a church and a large inn have been

erected already over it. A large stripe marks the passage

down which the fragments rolled, from the top to the bottom

Iof the mountain. They are chiefly of pudding-stone, and

the best explanation could imagine, after hearing the dif

ferent accounts of the people there, is that a vast quantity of

water, after long rains, had collected at the juncture of the

pudding-stone and a stratum of argillaceous earth, about
half-way down the mountain, which at length gained strength
sufficient to wash out part of the clay, and let down the
pudding-stone above. The great difficulty is, that all the
accounts of the people there seem to agree in stating that

large masses were blown up, as if by volcanic force, perpen

1818.          LUCERNE.                                                             81

dicularly in the air, which, some attempt to explain by the

Iforce of water, others by air, confined.

    It was a scorching day, but proceeded immediately to

mount the Righi. About every hundred yards was a high

crucifix, with a neat little painting at the top. Numbers of

travellers were climbing at the same time.

    At Righi, a place about half-way up. where there is an

Iinn, met with a party of Englishmen, Sir John Wrottesley
Iand his three sons, the oldest of whom is at Oxford, whom

know by sight only, and as intimate with some friends of

mine. Having entered into conversation, we ascended by a

very fatiguing march to the Staffel, where we dined together.

There were a great many fountains of excellent fresh water,

which relieved us much the whole way. The mountain ap

peared composed entirely of pudding-stone, and some very
fine cliffs of this rock presented themselves to us in a very

singular manner during our ascent. It is a very practicable

mule road the whole way, but very laborious.

The view towards the Alps was in part obscured by

clouds, and had opened so gradually to us at every step,

when we cast our eyes back, that we seemed to see nothing

more on this side on arriving at the top, but on looking

down the precipice on the western side, which was free from

Iall clouds and mist, a view opened to us which astonished

me more agreeably than anything of the kind had ever

seen before. It gave me precisely the idea of being raised

to a great height, and looking down upon a whole world at

once. Numberless small lakes, rivers, and towns, could be

distinctly taken in at the same time by the eye. The large
lake of Lucerne, at our feet, happened to have the sun full

aupon          and was in blaze, which at such depth below us
          it,  a
                                                             a
                                                                                 a
had a singular effect. The lake of Zug also made great
feature in this enormous map. Mount Pilatus seemed of

great height, even viewed from this, and the Altorf end of

the lake of Lucerne was very remarkable, however much
               is

                     it

                                       a
                                                      a

                                                       it
                                                                       it
lost by the distance. As the sun descended,   totally left

the lake of Lucerne, and filled with blaze of splendour the

Sempach, which much more distant, but so considerable

sheet of water, that became a very striking feature.
  We staid on this point till sunset, and then determined
  vol. i.

82                SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. III.

upon mounting to the Culm to sleep, which, we found very

full of travellers. Fortunately my room was secured, and
Mr. Hope came to say he would give also his room to our
party, for he should go down the mountain again. In these

two rooms were four beds, which was all the landlord said he

could spare for our party of five. In this little hut, 4,350

feet above the level of the sea, this Bedlam of languages,

this chaos of confusion, were shut up nearly forty travellers,

with many guides, and the servants of the inn. Many

French, Germans, English, and Swiss, were supping together

in the salle-a-manger, which was in a few minutes to be a

barrack bedroom.

    As none of the people of the inn would attend to us, we

took possession of two rooms, which contained ^ve beds, but

our host turned us out immediately, and said if we were

discontented with the accommodation we might turn out of

doors, for he had no scarcity of inmates, and for his part he

should have thought us well off with half the number of

beds, c since what objection could we have to sleep two in
the same bed? 5 On this dilemma, Mr. Johnson, an English

man, came to say there were two beds in his room, one of

which he should be most happy to give us. We went with
him, but found the people taking out this extra bed, and in
the meantime some ladies took possession of our single-
bedded room. Thus were we reduced to one room with three

beds ! The landlord, however, soon gave us back our right,
and we made up another bed for ourselves on the floor, by

Ipillaging a pillow from one room, a sheet from another,

&c. must not forget, however, the assistance which Mr. .
Eeichenbach afforded us, by coming, when we were nearly in

bed, with his bedgown and nightcap on, to beg we would
accept son couverture, of which he had no want ! His large
fat figure, which almost out-Falstaffed Falstaff, appeared to

such advantage in his nocturnal habiliments, that we could
not resist a laugh of admiration, which he very good-
Ihumouredly joined in. The eldest of the Mr. Wrottesleys

having laid down on this shakedown, got into a small bed,
Ione of those which our worthy host thought a handsome
provision for two of us.  was immediately attacked by a

legion of fleas, who seemed to consider me as private pro

i8i8. RIGHL  83

pertj. There was too much, noise for anyone to get much
sleep, and so thin were the partitions, that we heard every
one snore distinctly at the distance of three rooms.

    July 24. --Before three o'clock, and long before the rising

of the sun, nearly forty miserable half-dressed and shivering

wretches were to be seen crowding round the crucifix on the
highest point of the Righi-Culm. Scarcely a word was

spoken, and a stranger might have mistaken them for so
many pilgrims, and admired the fortitude with which they
bore up against their evident distress. Not a single cloud

Ior mist prevented our seeing the outline of the Alps, and

suppose it must have been our inconvenience (for we were
wet through in our feet, as well as chilled by the air) that
made our party all agree that the view was less grand by
sunrise than sunset. After breakfast we descended to

Kiissnacht. This side is much more precipitous than the one

we had before taken to mount from Arth. A short way

 above William Tell's chapel is a most delightful view of the
 lake of Lucerne, Mount Pilatus on the left, and the Stanzer-
 horn on the right. Went from Kiissnacht to Lucerne in

Ia boat with Sir John Wrottesley and his party, and here

 rejoined our family.

g2

84  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                           chap. iv.

    CHAPTER IV.

    JULY-SEPTEMBER, 1818.

MEYRINGEN-- THE GIESBACH-- GLACIER OP THE RHONE --VIEW PROM THE
    G-RIMSEL-- THEORY OF PINK SNOW EXPLAINED-- GRINDELWALD GLACIER
    --LA BELLE BATELIERE-- AVALANCHE PROM THE EIGER-- BERNE-- DR.
     WITTENBACH -- THE VALLAIS-- DESOLATION PROM THE BURSTING OF THE

     DRANSE-- VAL DE BAGNE-- THE BRIDGE OF LOURTIER-- CONVENT OF ST.
    BERNARD-- ANCIENT TEMPLE OP JUPITER-- BRIEG-- THE SIMPLON --LAGO
    MAGGIORE-- MILAN --VERONA-- VENICE-- BOLOGNA-- FLORENCE.

    JOURNAL {continued).

July 25. --Went in a boat from Lucerne to Alpnach;
many magnificent views of Mount Pilatus. The rain

detained us some time at Alpnach, and the ladies were
Iobliged at last to set out in a char-a-bancs before it quite
stopped, in order to reach Sarnen before night.  preferred

walking, and went with my guide by a short cut, which

brought me there half an hour before the carriage arrived.

We crossed a bridge of wood 500 feet long, but only two or

three feet broad, over a torrent which has astonishing power in

the spring, but which then, in spite of the showers that

morning, had not a drop of water in it. Sarnen is a miser

ably poor place, yet nevertheless calls itself the capital of the

canton of Unterwald. Here they are all Catholics, and

Nicholas de Flue is their guardian saint, who for many

hundred years has saved their wooden walls from flame.

His tomb is not far off, at Sachseln, which we were fortunate

in reaching on Sunday, since many pilgrims were offering up

their prayers there, some getting down below the floor of the
chapel, to pray under his body. The chapel was full of
curious offerings, and the variety of the costume of people
come from different parts was entertaining. Both the
lakes of Sarnen and Lungern are picturesque. At Lungern

we dined, and then began to mount the Brunig, a pass

i8i8. MEYRINGEN,  85

Iwhich, the ladies found rather nervous on mules, and which
   preferred walking. The scenery was very romantic the

whole way, till at last we descended into the valley of Hasli

to Meyringen.

    July 27. -- Went from Meyringen to Brientz. We were
rowed, and rather rapidly, by two women and a boy. This
is a common custom with the women in Switzerland, arising
probably from the men all staying for some months in the
mountains with their herds. Having landed on the opposite
side, we weie conducted up to see the different falls of the

Giesbach, one above the other, which present numberless
views, all extremely picturesque. The body of water is con
siderable, and very white, and the acconrpaniments of wood
and water beautiful. We returned immediately to Meyrin

Igen, and were imprisoned by the rain the first time since our

arrival on the Continent. In the morning visited, in spite

of the rain, the Alpbach, a cascade which falls from a con

siderable height only a few hundred yards from the town.

Its colour is a Stygian blackness, and we had heard it all
night pitching over, with a horrible clatter, large stones from
the top to the bottom. This torrent some years ago nearly

washed away the town of Meyringen, after which the
inhabitants with great labour built an immense thick stone

wall, reaching nearly from the Fall to the Aare, to conduct it
in a straight course to the river. Nothing but this saved
them on the Saturday before we arrived. The clergyman of
the parish had exhorted them, in a sermon on Sunday, to
keep a strong guard on the wall night and day, and when

the torrent attacked any particular part, to throw branches

of fir and other things to divert it from the wall. This guard
we found still actively employed, for the river was constantly

changing its direction, from the large mass of matter which
was moving in its bed. This mischief happens after long

droughts, when the sun has had great power on the slate

rocks above, and caused them to crack and decompose.

None but those who have witnessed it can conceive the

strength of water charged with this black slate powder. The
rocks seemed actually to float in and trifling depth of

was pushing heavy bodies along.

    July 29. --Our party went from Meyringen up the valley
it,

            a

                                  it

86      SIR CHARLES LYELL.                        CHAP. IV.

Iof Hasli to Handeck, to see the Fall of the Aare, the distance

of six leagues, a very fair mule road, but which preferred
waiting. The Fall of the Aare is truly grand, the height

great, and the body of water considerable. Down the same

precipice another river of inferior size, but of a better colour,

falls over at right angles, and meeting the Aare in the middle

of its fall, causes a magnificent conflict of water, with clouds
of foam. Two bright rainbows were spanning and connect

ing with a sorb of fairy arch this tremendous rent in the
rocks. The Fall is well shown from below, and from the

precipices which overhang where yon are obliged to lie
    I
                    I

                                      it,
down full length and look over. Here you are placed between
the two rivers, the smallest of which was a large body of

water when we saw it, from the late rains. Finding here

three German- Swiss gentlemen who were going up to the
Grimsel, determined to walk there with them, and see the

glacier of the Ehone, while my father and the ladies

returned to Meyringen.    had two leagues farther to climb

to the Hospice, the scenery becoming at every step more

savage. Several times the path crossed large streams by

bridges of snow, the remains of spring avalanches, which

last all the year, coming down the beds of these torrents,

and in many places bridging over the Aare. We passed

some extraordinary large bare planks of granite rock above our

track, the appearance of which could not account for. A
                        I
                             I
thick mist afterwards came, which prevented us almost from

seeing one another, and was heartily glad to reach the

Hospice, though a dreadfully rongh reception one meets with.

    July 30* -- My feet had suffered so much from my walk of
eight leagues over rocky ground the day before, that left
                                                  I

with regret even the wretched bed they gave me at the

Grimsel, to undertake eleven leagues more to see the glacier

and return to Meyringen.                   got, however, on the march
                          I

                                           it it
with my German friends by five o'clock, though the fog wasit
as thick as had been the evening before. We could only

see three or four feet before us, but when we were on the top

of the Grimsel, the guide gave us notice was going to clear

np. We none of us believed him, but               grew more light

rapidly every minute, and suddenly the mist which was
round us rose above the summit of the Finster Aarhorn, the

i3i8. GLACIER OF THE RHONE.           87

loftiest of all this chain of Alps, and is of a very picturesque

shape as seen from here. The rest of the vapour fell down

upon the little lake which is near the Hospice, and seemed

to cross the valley like a compact white body, as a glacier

Imight. The whole of this ' drawing the curtain ' did not,

Ithink, take above ten minutes, and was one of the most

beautiful phenomena had witnessed in Switzerland. Soon

afterwards we came to a small lake, above which was a steep

slanting precipice of glazed snow, a pass which, without

pikes, would have been difficult. Here we remarked that

bright rose colour on some patches which is so extraordinary.

IAs the guide had taken from the Hospice could talk
Inothing but German, requested my companions to ask each

of our guides their ojoinion on the subject, not with any

expectation of their clearing up a difficulty which Saussure

could not, but in order to judge of their intelligence. Their

man, whom they described as un ban garcon, mais unpen bete,

seriously declared his belief that wine had been spilt over the

snow. My guide, after having joined in our laugh at this

solution, said the cause was evident enough, viz., that when

the sun had melted the snow for five or six years, it invari

Iably turned of this colour. We soon came in sight of the

glacier of the Rhone, and was disappointed to see that it

was inferior to every one of those of Chamouni in beauty,

and the phenomenon comparatively nothing, since instead of

the rich cultivation of that at the foot of the Mer de Glace,
Ithere were only some poor pastures.
                                      was almost sorry
Iafterwards had undertaken the task of descending to the
source of the Ehone, since it was a precipice which costs

Imuch labour to go down and up again. My German friends

having gone on to cross the Furka, returned to the Grimsel

to breakfast, and as my guide was of no use, speaking not a

Iword of French, found my way back to the Fall of the Aare
Ialone* having dismissed him at the Hospice. Here found
I IMr. Johnson, whom had before met on the Eighi, and
returned with him to Meyringen.
    July 31. --At the inn at Meyringen they keep a boy who

is almost an idiot to black the shoes. He can speak but two or

Ithree words, and understands scarcely anything but signs.
Itried to let him know, by pointing to my watch, that wished

88         SIR CHARLES LYELL.                        chap. iv.

to be called at half-past three, and, to my astonishment, he
Icame to a minute.
                    started by five, determined to pass the
Itwo Scheidecks before evening, which is fourteen leagues.
                                                                   .

had performed the preceding day what the Swiss call eleven

good leagues, or nearly twelve, and the day before that eight.

IWhen boasted of this to my guide, he observed coolly, or
Ialmost thought with a sneer, 'Oui, c'est assez pour un
Monsieur.' A just reproof, and which might come home to

many a bragging pedestrian, since, let these gentlemen do

what they will, the peasant will follow them as far, carrying

their bags, and without the same mental stimulus to assist

Ihim. At the foot of the Scheideck went to see the lower
Ifall of the Eeichenbach only. In this saw nothing remark
Iably fine. At the chalet, which is six miles on, stopped to
Ibreakfast. Many small avalanches fell while was here, with
a noise like that of distant thunder, from the Wetterhorn,
which rises here very grandly. A precipice of snow near its

summit presents a curious furrowed appearance, from ava

Ilanches which have rolled down there. We descended into the

valley of Grindelwald, and went a little out of my way to view
Ithe glacier. It is less picturesque, but very unlike those of
Chamouni.  had here, as at the Eossberg, another attesta
tion of ' how little distant dangers seem ' to most men. The

peasant who lives here told me that the glacier advances

Ifrapidly, but has not near reached an ancient boundary, for
that he had built his chalet on an ancient moraine.  the

next three winters are in any way as severe as the last three

I Ihis habitation will unquestionably form a part of a new

moraine. At Grindelwald, where dined, saw La telle
Elizabeth, formerly La belle bateliere on the lake of

IBrientz, now the wife of the landlord of the 6 Chamouni/ who
has the reputation of using her very ill.  bought some

trifles of her, to entitle me to write my name in her album,
Iwhere     found those of hundreds of my countrymen. A
Iremark of Southey's thought curious. ' E. S. recognises
in Elizabeth a striking resemblance to La Fornarina of

Eaffael.' She has not the least affectation, either in her manner

Ior her dress, and deserves, think, her great fame for beauty.

I did not lose much time in the valley of Grindelwald, with
Iwhich was rather disappointed, but climbed the Wengern

1818.  BERNE.                       89

Alp, or lesser Scheideck, under a most burning sun. From

the top of this the two Eigers are seen to great advantage.

The great Eiger rises at once from its base to its summit,

one huge and tremendous precipice, far above the height of

perpetual snow, but so perpendicular that little can rest upon

Iit. From one of the ledges of snow at about its middle height,
  saw a fine avalanche fall over a precipice down to a parallel
ledge below. A loud crash announced to us the detaching
of the mass, and the leisurely way in which it appeared to

our eyes to descend this seemingly short precipice, gave me

a vast idea of the height of the whole Eiger. The mass had

reached its destination, and a great deal of the cataract of

snow which it brought with it had followed, before the report

Ireached us, which was like that of a loud clap of thunder.
  was prevented by the clouds from seeing the Jungfrau, but

got a fine view into the valley of Lauterbrunnen in descend
Iing. There found the inn so full, that they could not give
Ime a bed after my long march.
                                was obliged to lie down,
Iin the salle, with several other travellers, where got no
Isleep, not from the want of a bed, for was tired enough to
have slept anywhere, but from the incessant noises. At

Than we met our carriage, and went to Berne through a well-

wooded corn country, often much resembling England.

IBerne was the most regular built town we had been in.
       called with my father on Dr. Wittenbach,1 with whom

we were much pleased. He walked with us on the ramparts,
where we got a superb view of the Alps, lighted up by the
setting sun. Among other things the Doctor mentioned his
having been much enraged with Cox, the tourist, who in his
Fauna of Switzerland included the white bear as an in

habitant of the Alps ! and as if on Dr. W.5s authority.
    In the exhibition at Berne are some good water-colour

drawings of scenes in Switzerland, most of them for sale,

and dear enough. Here we fell in with Dr. Wittenbach

again, and he gave us a most entertaining lecture on the
geology and mineralogy of Switzerland. He has a pretty
large collection of specimens from many distant parts, as
well as the Alps, which he himself has examined carefully. He
invited us to bring our whole party to drink tea with him in

       1 Eminent Swiss naturalist.

90  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap. iv.

the evening in a public promenade, which is much the
fashion at Berne. We were glad to accept the invitation,
and were fortunate in having a fine evening, with all the
most distant Alps perfectly clear.

     August 7. --We went on to Payerne, through a rich culti

vated country. Before descending to this town we saw in the
distance the lake of Morat and the opening of the vale of
Travers in the Jura. We also passed a small lake before
Vevay, containing only a few acres of water. The descent to

that place along the side of the lake was most beautiful.

     August 8. --From Vevay we went along the shore of the

lake, which is much more picturesque here than at the
Geneva end. We passed the Chateau of Clarens to our left,
immortalised by the Heloise of Rousseau, and then came to
the Chateau de Chi] Ion, which Lord Byron has lately made

equally celebrated. Here we were conducted down into the
dungeon in which the prisoners were confined. Leaving
Villeneuve to our right, we passed on to Bex. From the inn we

engaged a char-a-bancs which carried us up a valley, branching

from Le Vallais, down which we looked full upon the Dent
de Midi, a magnificent mountain. The excavations which
have been made in hopes of discovering more salt-springs
are on a very large scale : galleries of immense length have
been cut through the rock. We were not content with
walking through the lower one of these, but went up to the

higher gallery. The great length, narrowness, and the wet
of this, and the wind which blew out our lamps constantly,
made it a fatiguing expedition, and we gained little enough
by it. Each held a lamp, and the guide one, and all put on

some ragged surtouts, to preserve us from the dropping of
the water, which gave the party a grotesque appearance in
the subterranean chambers which we arrived at in some
parts of the gallery. After returning to see the House of

 Graduation, where the salt is extracted from the weaker

 spring by a very ingenious contrivance, we got into our
char-a-bancs and proceeded towards Bex. From this we went

on to St. Maurice, a narrow gorge through which the
Rhone passes, and where Le Vallais properly begins, though

the valley of the Rhone certainly reaches naturally to the
lake of Geneva. There is a large cliff at the right of St.

iSi8. BURSTING OF THE DRANSE. 91

Maurice, with very horizontal lines of stratification, some of
which form terraces. On one of these is placed a house very
high up, which seems stuck on to the perpendicular preci
pice. We went on the Martignj road to the Pisse-vache, a
justly celebrated waterfall. Its singularity depends on the
distance which it is thrown from the rock where it shoots
over at the top, and an appearance of falling rockets which
the little jets of water make when they are parted from the
main body of the Fall.

     After this a scene of lamentable desolation began,2 --
fields of corn under water still, and further on entirely
covered with sand. The road was in some places under
water, and the carriage was obliged to pass through very
deep places. At last we left the old road altogether, and
went over a tract of sand, under which had once been hedges
and fertile fields. The trees alone remained bursting up
through it, and at the foot of each of them was a heap of
dried trunks and branches of trees and planks of houses
which the current had brought down and lodged there.
There was lying by the side of the road one striking

instance of the great force which the flood had had. A

large pine of full eighteen inches diameter, and proportionable
height, had floated down and been stopped by a pollard
poplar. The water had rushed with such violence against the
two ends of the pine, that it had cracked in the middle
and been twisted round the poplar. The tree was green
when snapped, and therefore still held together. The
diameter was eighteen inches at the part which rested against
the poplar where it was broken.

     Our inn at Martigny, the posfc-house, presented a sad
scene. The first storey had been filled with mud, sand,

Irubbish, planks of houses, and boughs of trees. All this had

been thrown out into the court. Everything saw here
increased my curiosity to ascend farther up the valley which
had suffered by this calamity, and to reach the glacier next

Iday. found it was necessary to get at least to Sembranchier
Ibefore night. It was late, but took a mule and a guide

     2 The Dranse, having been blocked up by the Glacier de Bagne, formed a
lake, which burst on June 16 of this year, sweeping away villages, and devastat
ing the fruitful and beautiful valley,

92        SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap. iv.

with me, and crossed Mont Chemin. When we got to Setn-

Ibranchier it was dark as midnight, and a storm of thunder

and lightning as terrible as had ever witnessed. Neverthe
less my guide advised me to press on, as there was no rain,
to the next place, where there was a better inn, and as we

had too much for the next day. It was three miles farther.

I1 determined to walk, and let the guide drive the mule. A

little beggar-boy, a child of twelve years old, who suppose

had lost his way and was terrified at the storm, seized hold
of the mule's tail, and in spite of tbe guide's threats clung

fast to it, till we got to Bagne, allowing himself to be

Idragged over stones and through two or three large brooks.
     August 10. -- The house which slept at, the residence of
President Gard, the chief magistrate for the commonalty of

Bagnes, had once been a monastery, and if the accounts of

the peasants of this valley can be believed, the French have

done the country much good by abolishing it. The monks

appear to have been a selfish, luxurious, and despotic body.
There are 3,500 souls in the valley of Bagnes; all speak
French. Mons. Gard condescends to wait on his guests in
character of waiter. He seems popular with the common

people, and was chosen, they told me, by the French, as

being the only one who could read and write among their

3,500 inhabitants.

   IAt every step as we advanced my guide pointed out some

devastations of the Dranse, which should not have re

marked. Many chalets, indeed most of them that stood in

the way, have been so completely buried, that a stranger
might pass all up this valley, and see no greater signs of

I Idesolation than the wide channels Alpine rivers so often
present.  had not rode, however, nine miles, before had

feeling assurance of the destructions of the Dranse. The

bridge of Lourtier had been carried away two nights before,

Iand only a single plank of the new bridge as yet thrown over.

The mule was of course obliged to leave, and the crossing

so furious a river by a single plank would have been dan

Igerous to a nervous person. About eighteen people were

employed in erecting this wooden bridge, and was much
amused with the simplicity of their operations. They first

cut down three of the largest firs they can find near the

1 8 18.  VAL DE BAGNE,  93

river, square them, and then send two or three men by some

bridge, whether up or down the torrent, across to the other side.

A rope is thrown over to them, fastened to the end of one of

the trees. By this means the first plank forms a communi

cation, after which two more are soon got to the side of it.

They then merely fasten cross boards on these three trees, and

thus over a river fifty feet wide in the smallest part they

can drive hundreds of cattle every day. Large masses of

micaceous schist rock have been finely laid open to the day

by the late catastrophe. Near the cascade of Lavanche,

where the Dranse falls down from a considerable height, the

soil has been laid open to a great depth, and it is easy to see

that it consists of rounded boulders of an immense number

of different primitive rocks, which do not seem to belong to

this neighbourhood. The scenery of this valley is very
beautiful, like that of Hasli. Owing to the annihilation of

the old road, our path was very intricate and difficult, and

we had to walk five or six leagues before we arrived at the

head of the valley. Here there is a chalet, where six men

live who have in charge eighty-four cows and twelve pigs,

belonging to perhaps nearly as many proprietors in the

valley, who pay them for herding and milking their animals.

They make almost all of it into cheese. It is wonderful that

six men should be equal to this labour. The heat of the sun

Iwas very oppressive, and when saw an immense fire in the
Ichalet for boiling the milk, of course felt no inclination to

enter. Having got some milk from them, and made a

I Idinner on the provisions had brought with me, walked
Ia short way up, which brought us in front of the glacier of
Getroz.  was much gratified here by seeing at the first

glance exactly how everything must have happened. My
guide informed me that this spot was formerly called Mont

Mauvoisin, from the near approach of the two perpendicular

cliffs on each side of the valley. Opposite to us was Mont

Pleureur, a tremendous precipice, over the brow of which

peeps the glacier of Getroz, which increased so much in the
last severe winter, that it thrust over immense masses of
ice. These falling with the snow in the spring, completely
blocked up the narrow chasm into which the valley is here
contracted. An immense lake was soon collected from the

94  SIX CHARLES LYELL.                         CHAP. IV.

stoppage of so considerable a river as the Dranse. Every

exertion appears to have been made, and two-thirds of the

lake successfully drained out. It was the remaining third
which had force to lay waste so much land. The remains
of this immense avalanche are diminishing greatly every day,
but are still a grand object. The perpendicular precipice of
ice must be in the middle (to speak within bounds) 150 feet,
and the slanting line of snow from the top of this to the

side of Mont Pleureur as much again. Between this preci

pice of ice on the side of Mont Pleureur and Mauvoisin, the

cliff on the opposite side of the valley, there is little more
than room for the river to pass, and very considerable danger,

as every one here believes, of the same calamities recurring

next year. There is, however, great hopes, from the heat of

the present summer, that the glacier will retire, and the river

Iforce its passage as of old, under the spring avalanches. In

looking up the valley saw the glacier of Chermontane, which

appears very large. Though there were such numbers of

houses destroyed by the flood of June 1 6, yet only twenty-

five persons lost their lives, and those were mostly at Mar-

tigny. The engineer had given all due warning, but the

people of Martigny thought themselves secure, from a tele

graphic communication which they agreed upon with some

people at the top of the valley. Fires were to have been

lighted as beacons, but those on the two first hills by some
mistake were never lighted, and if a shepherd on Mont

Chemin, on hearing the roar of the torrent, had not set fire

Ito his beacon, hundreds would have perished. In returning

home stopped to eat some whortleberries, which grow on

Ithe side of these mountains of greater height and perfection

than ever saw elsewhere. In this patois they call them

Loutres, and use them for a dye.

    My guide pointed out to me a dead snake like an adder.

Some beetles were feeding on   I it,whichI  was amused to

find were the Silpha vesjpillo which have often observed on

dead snakes in England.    is  The abundance of grasshoppers
and their different notes       really to stranger character
                                    a       a

istic part of Switzerland's rural curiosities. Some green

ones are of an enormous size, and, like Anacreon's, sing

chiefly in trees. There    is  a grey one with scarlet wings

i8i8. BRIDGE OF LOURTIER.                            95

(the colour of the under- wings of Phalcena Caja) which makes

Ia curious cackling noise as it flies.
     Most of these Grylli, observed, make their noise by
pressing the thigh against their side, but some keep their
thighs immovable, and make it with the upper part of their
wings and wing-cases. Neither of these organs would make
a very poetical figure in Anacreon's elegant ode, as instru

ments of sound, however much Aristophanes might have
enjoyed paying this animal, which the Athenian loved so
much, the compliment of having 'a good thigh for sing-

   IThe bridge of Lourtier, which had crossed by one plank
I Iin the morning, found nearly finished. Here mounted
my mule, and rode to near Lourtier. The river we saw had

Iincreased much by the heat of the day, which had melted

much snow. Farther on, we found the road had passed

in the morning was washed away by the swelling torrent.

IMy guide was obliged to ascend the mountains with my

mule, and make a detour to Lourtier. scrambled on, and

joined him there , Here, to our further disappointment, we

found the bridge we had before crossed in the act of beino-

swept away. The Dranse had brought down rocks which

had raised its bed twelve feet or more, just above the bridge.

Over these a cascade was pouring, which fell with fury upon
the bridge, and had already broke much of it up.

   IA herd of goats belonging to the different villagers,

which had seen driven over this in the morning, were thus

prevented from returning, and many poor wretches went

in consequence to bed without their supper, for which they

depend solely on their goats. Some men were dismissed to
the mountains, to milk them, with a few pails only. The

greatest part they said they should be obliged to waste on

the rocks, rather than let the goats go two days without

being milked, which is very injurious to them.       got a

   ISince it was now impossible to advance farther,
lodging in a miserable chalet belonging to the Freres Mi-

chaud, who have lost greatly by the late deluge. They were

Ibefore reckoned wealthy.

    August 11. -- left my hard bed of straw very early, and

proceeded to the President G-ard's, at five miles distance. We

96           SIR CHARLES LYELL.    CHAP. IV.

had to scramble over a difficult mountain path, for the main

road on the opposite side of the river was closed from us by

Ithe top of the bridge at Lourtier. Having breakfasted here,
  went on to Sembranchier. At the hamlet of Matignet, my

guide pointed out the place where a barn had been carried

away. The widow who had built it, finished it that spring

on June 11, and had an inscription carved on one of the

boards : ' The widow Anne M. Fillet built this in spite of

the lake of Malvoisin.5 Five days after came the flood, and

Ithis very board with the inscription was picked up at

Martigny, nine miles off, and is, understand, still shown at

Ione of the inns.                  was able to ride my

    In the valley of Sembranchier

mule much pleasanter. There is nothing a Swiss peasant

points out with such exultation as a field of corn, nothing is
to their eyes so picturesque. The scenery, in fact, of this

valley is much hurt by the extent of cultivation, and is

Iin every way inferior to that of the valley of Bagnes. At

Liddes met my mother and sisters returning from St.
IPierre. They had not been able to accomplish their visit to

St. Bernard, from their fatigue, and at St. Pierre met my

Ifather returning from St. Bernard. "When about half an

hour's walk from the convent was overtaken by a most

Iviolent hail storm, which drenched me completely and
chilled me.  was very glad to accept the offer of some

Iclothes from the monks, who came out most courteously to

invite me in. found three English gentlemen there, and a
party of Piedmontese gentlemen and ladies. A very hand
some supper was served up at seven o'clock, and the monks

made all feel themselves heartily welcome. The worst part

of this magnificent institution appears to be the unwhole-
someness of the situation. From its elevation the snow

rests on it so long, and the walls are made so damp by the
meltings in spring, that they are all subject to rheumatism,
and it is only the youngest who can remain there at all.
They have another convent at Martigny, which receives all
the older monks for the remainder of their lives. Those,
however, at the Great St. Bernard, seem to be a happy

active set, and acquire, of course, a great deal of information,
from conversing with travellers from all parts of Europe.

1818.         CONVENT OF ST. BERNARD.                  97

Id the time of the Eomans there stood a temple of Jupiter

where the convent now is, and a number of antiquities have

been very recently dug up there. It is the opinion of the

monks that Hannibal sent part of his army over here, for

(supposing him to have crossed the Rhone at Lyons) he would

have fallen in with a Roman station at Vevay, and would

from thence of course have been able to learn this communi

cation with Italy. The convent is very far from a handsome
pile, but the scenery round it is wild and savage, and re

minded me much of the Grimsel, for there is a lake here

also. The St. Bernard dogs, so much celebrated for saving

people in the snow, are fine handsome animals.

   IAugust 12. --Having taken leave of the monks early,
Iset off in a thick mist, which prevented our seeing anything,

in company with the three Englishmen, whom found very

gentlemanlike men. A rock of mica schist which overhangs

Sembranchier is decomposing, and peeling in so alarming a

manner, that they fear, when the rain follows this excessive

heat, that the town will be demolished by an eboulement

similar to that of the Rossberg. The guides assured us

there were enormous cracks traversing parts of the mountain,

which had only appeared within a few weeks. We returned

to Martigny.
   IAugust 13. --From Martigny we proceeded up Le Vallais,

in the scenery of which was much disappointed. We passed
Sion ; the castle here on a hill is a striking object; when
Iwe came opposite to Leuk, left the carriage, which pro
Iceeded on to Turtman with the rest of the party.
                                                       had
Iabout nine miles to walk from Leuk to the baths where
slept, with the intention of rising very early next morning,

and climbing the Gemmi. My walk was in dead silence, for
Ithe guide procured at Leuk, to carry my sac de nuit, could
Ispeak nothing but German.
                            found it, however, by no

means tedious, for this small valley is beautifully wooded
Iwith fir, and the moonlight was exceedingly bright. The

Gemmi, from which expected to enjoy a glorious view of
Iall the highest Alps, was covered with clouds, and rain had
been falling on it.  determined, therefore, to give up the

expense and trouble of this arduous  enterprise,  and  content
VOL. i,
                     h

98  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap. iv.

 myself with seeing tlie baths. The company at these was

 Inot particularly numerous at this season, but it is a curious

 sight in the large room. visited some of the smaller hot

 Isprings, and a small waterfall about half an hour's walk

 higher up than the village. On my return found my

  father, who had rode up there from Turtman, to which place

 we returned together, and joined the ladies, and went on in
 the carriage to Brieg. We passed at Visp the opening of a

 valley, down which comes an immense river from Monte
  Eosa and meets the Ehone. The barberry-bush, which grows

 abundantly wild here, is a beautiful shrub.
      August 15. --The first view we had of Brieg was singular,

 and rather picturesque, from the multitude of towers. A
 Jesuits' college is just re-establishing itself here. From

 Brieg we began to mount the Simplon, and were obliged to
 take eight horses throughout the ascent, which is, however,

 quite unnecessary. In mounting one enjoys extensive views

 back into Le Vallais, but nothing very grand for Switzer
 land. The descent, on the contrary, on the Italian side, was

 something new, and very magnificent. It is one of those

 valleys or deep ravines so common on the sides of smaller
 mountains in Scotland, but magnified to a size which makes

 it worthy of Monte Eosa. This road is a wonderful work of
 Napoleon's, and shows the skill of the French engineers.
 The labour of the galleries, which are blown with gunpowder
 through granite, must have been immense. This road now
 belongs to the government of Le Yallais, and must be
valuable to them, since so many of their people are thus

Ikept in employ, and paid by the numerous travellers, chiefly

English. We paid, think, 26 shillings at the barrier. The
road cannot be in better order. We left Le Vallais at Isella,
and entered Piedmont, and went on to Domo d'Ossola. The
difference of the Italian side of the Alps is as remarkable as
that of the southern side of a garden wall. Houses and
fruit-trees reach to an extraordinary height up the moun
tains, and the crops of tall maize and hemp make a great
show in the valley. Domo d'Ossola is prettily situated.
Here you take leave of the mountains, which are by no
means finished by the descent from the Simplon. We never
saw the very summit of Monte Eosa, because of the clouds,

i8i8. LAGO MAGGIORE.                99

Ibut from what we did, should conceive it not to be a grand

mountain for its enormous height.
    August 16. --We were fortunate in entering Italy when

the great heat had ceased, which we learned had been ex

cessive everywhere. We embarked on the Lago Maggiore

at Feriola, and were rowed to Arona, having sent round the

carriage, visited the Borromean Islands, which are so cele

brated, that all are disappointed with them. They would,

however, be pretty enough, if the buildings on them were

not so frightful. The large ugly palace on Isola Bella is so

out of proportion, that the little islet looks as if it would
sink to the bottom with its weight. In the interior, how
ever, it is a handsome nobleman's place. In the gardens
here we saw a fine American aloe in flower, and two bays of

extraordinary size. They both spring from the same root,

are 105 feet in height, being nearly equal each, and 10 feet

in circumference each, measured 5 feet from the ground.
Arona we found a delightful little place. Near this we saw

at a distance the colossal statue of San Carlo Borromeo.

The Italian lakes are much more cheerful than those of

Switzerland, from the quantity of houses, wood, and boats,

which latter are sadly deficient on the Swiss lakes.

    August 17. --Went on to Sesto Calende, which stands at

the end of the Lago Maggiore. Here the carriage crossed
the Ticino, in a ferry boat, and we entered Lombardy.
From thence to Milan is a richly cultivated country. The
Indian corn, of which the quantity is extraordinary, stands

from ten to twelve feet high. The hemp is very tall, and

Ithe vines, which are festooned on low trees (chiefly mulberries
  believe), form elegant partitions to the fields. The flat on
which Milan stands is so dead, that you see scarcely any
thing of the town till you are in it. The avenues round it,

made by the French, are planted chiefly with the Bignonia

cataljpa, a singular and elegant tree. The lines of pavement
in the streets of Milan, for the wheels of carriages to run on,
    a refinement which was new to
is  must save carriages amazingly,  us, and deserves imitation.
                                    for they glide along with
It

delightful ease and swiftness, and make no noise. We went
to the Hotel d'ltalie.
    August 19. -- Went to the Brera, once a convent, now

                        H2

100                    SIR CHARLES LYELL.                       chap. iv.

converted into a picture gallery. A valuable painting of

Raphael in his first style, and of Perugino his master.

Attached to this is a small botanic garden, which has some

good things in it. We then went to the amphitheatre which

Buonaparte built, capable of containing 50,000 spectators, in

which was exhibited chariot races, &c, and water could be

introduced for the Naumachia. The Austrian soldiers now

use it to learn to swim in.
     The famous fresco of Leonardo da Vinci, ' The Last

Supper,' is still fine, much as it has suffered. The French

made a stable of the room of the old convent which contains

it, and the damp would shortly have destroyed had not
                                    I
                                                           it,
                                                                         is
Beauharnais heard of it. The triumphal arch of the Simplon
                                                                have seea. It of
     the finest work of Napoleon's
is

                it it
beautiful white marble, and the sculpture and designs of the

alto-relievos are fine. It stands, unfortunately, unfinished,

though, had            not been so, the Austrians might perhaps

have pulled to the ground, since some fine friezes which

were prepared related to Buonaparte's victories over them.
The Emperor of Austria can feel no inclination to go on with

this trophy, and the expense would be great, since what
                                                                is
                                                                                            is
prepared    is itwould be unnatural and unpolite to erect.
     There       in a street of Milan a fine ancient colonnade of

fluted pillars, said to have belonged to a palace of Nero's.
There another triumphal arch of Buonaparte's to com
     is

memorate the battle of Marengo, which                           not remarkable.

The Austrians have erased his inscription, and in its stead

have inscribed Paci Populorum Sospitse.'<
    August 20. -- We drove about the town of Milan over the

delightful pavement of these streets. There are no very fine

squares in the town, except the opening opposite the
cathedral. The white marble loses much of its effect, from

the darkness of the bottom part, which has been long built,

and beautiful as each of the numberless sculptured pinnacles

are in themselves, the whole building not grand. When you
stand on the roof, the coup d'ceil of the ranks of pinnacles, each
                   a
                           is
                                                            is
bearing a statue, very beautiful. Prom the top of the
tower we had fine view of the town, and the vast plain of

Lombardy bounded by the Alps and the Apennines. The

view of the mountains was not clear.

r8i8.  VERONA,  101

      We then went to the Mint. The merchants have just
 struck off many thousand gold coins with Napoleon's

head, dated 1814. The Ambrosian Library, which we
visited, contains the Virgil of Petrarch, which it is said he

wasted his time in writing himself.
     We went to the Opera in the evening, which is a much

Ilarger theatre than that in London, but much inferior in

beauty. The dancing thought superior to the music.

     August 21. --We paid a visit to the Observatory; the air

was clear, and Monte Rosa looked grand from his enormous

height, though his outline was not good. It is a very near

resemblance to the Blumlis Alp, as seen from Thun.

    I was interested in seeing through a telescope one of the

spots on the sun. In the evening we went on to Brescia,

through a richly cultivated plain, where irrigation was
carried to beautiful perfection. Streams often crossed the

road, which passed at right angles over others by small

aqueducts.

     August 22. --Brescia is an immense place. We visited
several churches, in which are some pictures by the old
masters ; Titian, and others.

     We afterwards went on to Verona. The vines are

beautifully festooned on the trees, and the grapes purple.

IThe amphitheatre here was the grandest Roman antiquity

had ever seen. The marble of which the innumerable tiers
of steps are built is uninjured. Fortunately, one small
portion of the outer fagade still stands to point out its
ancient height and magnificence . This enormous building
serves now for a stage to mountebanks and conjurors, who
when we entered were amusing a crowd, which seemed
actually lost in one of the corners of this immense oval.
Such sports may at first sight appear a degradation to this
glorious relic, but what were those which once drew a Roman

Iaudience there ?

       must not forget that between Brescia and Verona we
passed the beautiful lake of Grarda, Virgil's Benacus, and
the fortress of Peschiera. We only skirted the lake, but
could we have gone up it, the scenery promised to be

beautiful. It is not much inferior in size to any lake in

Italy. There is a large Roman arch of triumph by which

102  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap, iv,

we entered Verona. The antiquities are the principal
magnificence of this large place. The Cathedral has nothing
to recommend it but an Assumption of the Virgin by Titian.
From Verona we went on through a country resembling a
rich garden. The hedges even by the road- side sometimes
festooned with vines, and besides the Indian corn, another

enormous grass of similar growth and height, and even more

handsome, is much grown. It yields a grain which they give

to animals, and make brushes of the heads. They call it
Sciorgo rosso (Holcus Sorghum3 ). We stopped some hours
at Vicenza to admire the beautiful architecture displayed in
the palaces and public buildings built by- Palladio. Vicenza

was his birthplace, and we were shown the house which he
once inhabited. He has raised here to his memory a most
interesting classic treasure : a theatre, taken from plans of
Vitruvius, which may be considered as an exact model of
what the ancients used for their theatrical exhibitions.

Though a small model of an ancient theatre, it would be con

sidered a good-sized modern one, and strikes one immediately
as extremely elegant and chaste in proportion and decorations.

     In some ot the churches here are pictures by masters of
the Venetian School : Paul Veronese, Bassano, and Bellini.

We afterwards went on to Padua. Passed some fields of

Irice, which before had never heard was grown in Italy.
IIt grew dark before we reached Padua, and was delighted

 at seeing several (Fulgorece,) fire-flies, resting on the willows
by the side of our road ; some were on the wing. Their light

Ialmost rivalled that of our glow-worm, but only appears at

intervals as they fly, the wings suppose covering it each

time they strike.

     August 24. -- At Padua we walked to the Hall of Justice,
an enormous but not handsome room. An inscription here
reminded us that the great historian Livy was born here

(Patavinse). Here we met again Sir J. Wrottesley and his

sons, who were going on to Venice. They tcld us that the
day before, a courier on his way from Milan to Venice with
40,000 francs had been robbed near Brescia. A soldier who
accompanied him as a guard was shot dead by the robbers,
and he himself was nearly beaten to death. From Padua

                                                 3 Millet.

r8i8.  VENICE,  103

 we travelled on to the sea-side and embarked at Fucina for

 Venice, in a boat which makes part of the regular post.
 The distant view we got from the lagunes, of Venice, made
 our hopes of its magnificence fall considerably, as did the

 entrance by a narrow street, but they were soon raised again
 to their full, on entering the Grand Canal. We were rowed
 up through crowds of gondolas to the Hotel Grand

 Bretagne.
      We arrived in good time at Venice, and went out the

 same evening in a gondola to St. Mark's Piazza. This beau
 tiful square is not to my mind much ornamented by the
 great square tower. Being of red brick and with a green
 cap, and with a line of small apertures running unequally
 down one side, the effect of it is not in harmony with the
 beautiful regularity of the rest, however well in some pic
 tures this is concealed and softened down by alterations of
 the colours. The form of St. Mark's, which is a copy of

 that of St. Sophia's at Constantinople, is very cheerful and

 gay, consisting of one large dome surrounded by four smaller
 ones. This closes beautifully one side of the piazza, and
opposite to it is a new palace which Buonaparte built, having

destroyed, to make room for it, a church and buildings which

were before a more picturesque finish to that end of the

square. This is a change much to be lamented.
     In the bronze horses of Lysippus which stand in front of

I Ithe great dome of St. Mark's, being raised not too high to

have a fine effect from below, confess was somewhat dis

appointed. The heads are fine certainly. It is the fashion

now to complain that these four steeds are thrown away,

from being placed where they are not to be seen from their
height, but travellers have only to take the small trouble of

ascending by an easy staircase, and they may see them near.
Le Place Petit St. Mark is also exceedingly beautiful, and
gay from the crowds of gondolas, and the fine width of the
Jews' Canal, and the churches and buildings which come in
view there. La Douane, St. Mark, and St. Giorgio were
conspicuous. There was a true Italian glow in the sky,
which gave a colour to the buildings highly favourable. But

if this scene is now so fine, what must it have been when

Venice could boast the empire of the sea, and saw at this

104  SIX CHAfiLES LYELL.  chap. iv.

spot vessels from every country of Europe pour in com

merce.

    August 25. -- Prom our windows we had a delightful
view of the Rialto and the Great Canal. Early in the morn
ing it was very beautiful to see the boat-loads of fruity par
ticularly of the most immense pumpkins, each single one

almost too heavy to be lifted. The gondoliers stand univer
sally as they row, as is the custom on the Italian lakes and
some of the Swiss. This practice gives astonishing life to

the scene, and the motion is remarkably elegant.
     We went out in good time, and visited many of their

splendid churches. In the Ohiesa dei Gesuiti (Santa Maria
del Eosario) the altar is ornamented with small pillars of
lapis lazuli of great value, built by Marsari. The architecture
is very chaste and elegant both within and without. We

next saw the Chiesa del Eedentore ; then to the large church

of Santa Maria della Salute. In this, three very fine speci

mens of Giordano's are to be seen, three large pictures repre

senting the Nativity, Presentation, and Assumption of the
Virgin. We then saw the church of San Giorgio Maggiore,
and from thence to St. Mark's Piazza. Here we entered the

Doge's Palace.
     The room of the Grand Council must fill every one with

vast ideas of the ancient power and magnificence of this

Republic. Of great size, yet elegant proportion, the ceiling
rich with gold and innumerable paintings by Giulio Eomano.
Statues down the middle of the apa-rtment, and at the sides
large and grand works of the two Bassanos. At the end
where you enter is an enormous Paradise of Tintoret, con
taining a truly innumerable quantity of figures, yet so
arranged as to produce a good effect. This is the largest
painting in oils, they told us, in Italy. We entered after
wards St. Mark's Church; the whole ceiling there, of the
five domes, is in mosaic, and executed after the designs of
some of the first masters of the Venetian school. The pave-
ment, which is done something in the same way, has large
hollows in it in some parts, and is very uneven, the piles on

which its whole weight is supported having given way here
and there. We went up, after admiring the riches of the
altar, to the gallery, where we saw close the horses of

1818.                  LORD BYRON.        105

Lysippus, and had a view down into tlie square. In this

church are several trophies brought both from Jerusalem

and Constantinople after the Crusades ; pillars, statues, &c.

In the evening went out to see the most wealthy of all the

churches we had yet seen : Santa Theresa, built by eight
noble Venetian families ; there are in it six most magnifi

cent altars, rich with rare marbles, precious stones, &c. &c.

     On our way to this church, we passed under the Bialto ;
it is an exceedingly fine arch, but the shops upon it cer

tainly injure the effect much. All the fine things of Venice

lie very commodiously  near one another, at least the rapidity
of the gondolas makes  Itthem appear so.
                                          was growing late,

but we determined on visiting the gardens which the French

made ; the only thing of the kind in Venice. They pulled

down a church and several convents and other buildings, the

ruins of which raised the soil higher than almost any other
point in Venice ; on this they planted avenues of trees, and
made handsome walks, which are laid out certainly with

taste, and in a good style, and look already very handsome.

    In our way to this we passed Lord Byron's gondola, who
was returning from the Lido, a small narrow strip of land

which is near to the continent, and faces Venice. It is an

island, and the only place near Venice where a ride can be
obtained. On this Lord Byron has built stables, and keeps
a stud of six horses. After breakfasting at ten o'clock, he
is rowed in his gondola regularly almost every day to this

island, where he rides six miles out and six back again. He
then returns --is generally alone in these excursions. His
residence was in one of the old palaces not far from our

hotel.

    August 26.--We visited a most superb room built by a
fraternity of merchants in Venice, in which all the pictures

were by Tintoret, many exceedingly beautiful. The effect of
this hall is very striking, and impresses one with the riches

which commerce can give the smallest state, and at the same
time with considerable admiration, that the taste of men

employed so much in business should have risen so much
beyond what is usual in such persons.

    After returning to our hotel and dining, we again took a
gondola, and went to see 'The Martyrdom of St. Peter/

106  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. IV.

Titian's chef d'oeuvre4 in the eyes o£ artists, at the church
of St. Jean et Paul. As the evening was delightfully mild,
we made them row us all round the large naval arsenal,

from which once were launched such powerful fleets, and
round the new garden, thus making a complete circuit of
that side of Venice.

     We spent almost the whole morning in the magnificent
gallery of pictures belonging to Count Manfrini, in the
Manfrini Palace. This it seems is the most splendid collec
tion in the possession of any individual at this time in Italy,

made by the late Count, since the French Revolution ; a man
who rose by farming tobacco at an immense extent, from
beggarism to enormous affluence. He purchased a title,
which is easily procured by money at Venice, and had the
taste to select a most choice set of specimens of almost all
the great masters. To study these would have required
weeks of course, but the things which made the chief im

pression upon me during the few hours we were there, were
a Queen of Cyprus by Titian, a very beautiful portrait, and

Ia portrait of a man by Rembrandt, the most astonishing

production ever saw of his.
     After spending the morning here we left Venice, and

after crossing the water, went on to Padua. In this town

we had before left much unseen. Everyone should visit the

church of St. Antoine here. It is most extraordinary that

of the sculptures in relievo in the chapel of the patron
saint, in which the different miracles are represented, no

less than four were raising from the dead ; so that in this, the
farthest stretch of miraculous power in suspending the laws

of nature, they believe St. Anthony to have done more than
is recorded of Christ himself.

     The chapel of this saint is full of votive pictures which
attest miracles performed since his death. While we were

Ilooking at one of the offerings, our cicerone, a man who be

longed to the church, said, ' This, sir, is a miracle saw with
my own eyes ; the child had a deformed leg, and upon the
mother praying earnestly at the shrine of St. Anthony, it
was restored to her whole as the other/

     From the manner in which the man related this, it ap-

                                         4 Since destroyed by fire.

1818.  PADUA.  107

peared to me that he believed what he was saying, to such
an extent does their superstition extend ! The greater part
however of the votive tablets relate not to miracles, but
providential escapes from imminent dangers. As all these

are most religiously attributed to the guardian saint, it is

easy to perceive how perpetually his influence is kept alive.
But everyone who has looked over in a cursory manner the
collections of votive tablets which in almost every church
he meets with, must be struck at the vast proportion which
being run over by carriages bears among .the accidents. The
careless and extremely swift pace which is so much the
fashion here in driving through towns, and the great number
of carriages, easily acount for this.

     The Botanic Garden here is worth visiting, as indeed

must every Botanic Garden be in Italy, where our green

house and hot-house plants flourish as if in their native

climate, though in winter here they are obliged to protect

them most carefully from the severe cold. A fine sugar
cane here was interesting, and an immense fan-palm tree,

which the gardener informed me, to my great surprise, is
wild in Spain ; also fine Banyan trees, Laurus camphora, &c.

     August 28. -- From Padua we proceeded on to Ferrara,
through a vast plain. The castle and fortifications of Mon-
selice make a show in this flat country, standing on a small

rising. Near Rovigo we crossed the Adige in a ferry boat,
by which the carriage also was transported. This river, as
indeed are most of those both small and great in this plain,

is of a most formidable height above the plain. The depo

sition of earth which they bring from the mountains raising
their beds continually, and the inhabitants being obliged to
bank them in strongly for fear of a deluge.

    In the plain of Lombardy there is a remarkable scarcity

of houses between the great towns ; indeed one never sees a

building, and wonders where the farmer's necessary offices

are in so richly cultivated a country. In return for this,

towns of immense size are met with at every step. Ferrara

is one of them, and of 22,000(?) inhabitants, yet covers more

ground even than is necessary for this, from the porticoes
on each side of nearly all the streets. We visited the Cathe

dral here, and afterwards the Library, in which is the tomb

108  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap. iv.

of Ariosto, wlio was a native of this town. The inscription

consists of some common-place complimentary Latin verses.
     From Ferrara to Bologna is a continuation of the same

dead flat which we had been on ever since we entered Italy,

but here we in a great measure lost its amazing fertility.
We were delighted while dining at the inn with some street

music, which was a great treat. The band consisted of
seven blind men, who had all studied in the South of Italy,

though they were originally from Bologna. There were
violins, violoncello, clarionet, &c. &c, and also a respectable
female singer, wife to one of them, who relieved the instru

mental performance now and then. It is their custom to

play always on the arrival of any English at dinner every

day.
     Some of the finest works of the great masters of the school

of Bologna have been lately restored to their native town

from the Louvre. They do not mean to attempt to replace

Ithem in their former stations, but are putting them up in a

large public room, in which think they will stand certainly
a better chance of being seen well than in most churches,
where huge candles, &c. are posted before them. But we

were in luck to arrive there before this new arrangement

was quite finished, since most of these immense works were

Ion the ground, resting against the wall, by which means we
saw them at whatever distance we chose ; whereas  fear

some few of them will by-and-by be lifted up much too
high. In a grand picture of Domenichino's, c The Massacre

of the Christians by the Albigenses/ some of the female

heads delighted me exceedingly, but the painter, to preserve

their beauty, has certainly suppressed all the horror which

they ought to be feeling.

    August 30. -- We hired a caleche and drove about the
town to the different palaces. At Oasa Eatta was the
famous Sybil of Domenichino's, a spirited head. This is to

be sold, as are many of the fine things in private collections.

Some have been already bought at great prices by the Eng
lish, and have left this town. There is great appearance of
poverty in Casa Ratta.

    August 31. --We left Bologna and began to mount
the Apennines. The view back upon the town was not

i8i8. BOLOGNA.  109

so fine as one we had enjoyed the evening before from a

small rising on which stands the prison. It must however

always be a fine object, and the hanging (or leaning) towers
a most singular feature. As soon as we began to ascend,
they harnessed on four oxen before our four horses, which
was to us a perfectly new style. We crossed a river soon
after Bologna, which is very destructive sometimes, but in a
valley which we looked down into on our right hand during

most of the ascent, we saw the Reno, the most desolating

I Istream ever saw, though the waste of land here is have

no doubt owing to the crumbling and decomposing nature

of the sandstone of which the mountains here are composed,
and from which accident they give a very peculiar and
extraordinary character to the scenery on this side of the
Apennines. For the superstratum of the soil has been com

pletely washed away, and no vegetation remains excepting
the trees, which are abundant ; between these is seen the

white bare sand, and here and there a larger space perfectly
white, so that the surface as far as the horizon both ways is
chequered with green and white.

     After mounting some miles, we had a very extensive
view back on the vast plain we had left, which seemed as

level as the ocean, and indeed is very nearly so. They say

Imoreover that from hence on a clear day one can discern

the sea in the distance, but this should think without a
telescope must be always impossible. We saw on all sides

very extensive forests of sweet chestnuts, which from its
foliage, and the contrast in the colour of the fruit, which
was in profusion, was a very picturesque tree.

     As soon as we left the sandstone, and came upon the
limestone hills, the curious character of the scenery ceased.
We entered Tuscany; the officers of the Douane, quieted by
a fee, let us pass unmolested, as they will everywhere in
Italy. We proceeded on to Coviliajo, a small town where
we slept, having passed a volcanic fire which proceeds from
a mountain a few miles from here, intending to visit it at

leisure on our return over these mountains.

    September 1. --The rocks about Coviliajo are principally
basaltic, which agrees well with the volcanic fire in this
neighbourhood; indeed the steep whin cliffs which here and

HO .  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. IV.

there burst up strike the eye immediately as not belonging
to the tame limestone bills which form the chief character

of the chain.

     Throughout the first part of the day the scener}- was
wild and picturesque ; on descending the Florence side, it
became rich and fertile : the hills covered with the sweet
chestnut, vines, and quantities of olives ; the gardens full of

standard peaches, &c. ; the grounds about the numerous
country-seats abounding in the cypress and the Pinus jpinea.

All these, with a clear sky glowing with heat, presented for

the first time to our eyes a characteristic Italian landscape.
     The entrance to Florence is fine, from the public walks

and triumphal arch. We drove to Sneider's Hotel, which is
famed as being the first in Europe. Its situation and magni
ficence, joined to the real comfort in it, entitle it to its repu

tation. It is nearly monopolised by English families all the

year.

     September 2. --The attacks made upon the rich purses of

the English, of which foreigners have certainly formed vast
ideas, are almost more numerous at Florence than at Paris.

The first thing in the morning, at breakfast, arrived a letter
celebrating both in verse and prose, both in English, Italian,
and French, 'the auspicious arrival of Sir Lyell and his
illustrious family.' After celebrating the wealth and naval
power of England, the poet hoped < to share in the fruits of
the unbounded generosity of the English/ All the produc
tion was execrably bad, and we were sorry to find, when the
author called in person, that he was too old to be amusing
as a fool. We made him however recite to us the verses, of

the merit of which he entertained evidently very different
opinions from us.

     After this son of Apollo, came a statuary with alabaster
figures ; then a sort of gentleman-beggar with elegant
bouquets of flowers, with which he begged to present the
ladies; then a print-seller, which finished the morning's
assault, at least as far as we know, for we drove out to the

Pitti Palace, belonging to the Grand Duke of Tuscany. Here

there is a magnificent gallery of pictures. The first that
arrested our attention, were two large landscapes by Eubens,
of great beauty, The first they called < Going to Market/

Ill1818.
            FLORENCE.

the second ' a View in some Part of Spain/ in which the

bright gleams of sunshine and dark shade, so often seen in

nature, when in the daj-time there is a high wind and

many clouds, was expressed very finely. There was a picture
of Michael Angelo, ' The three Fates/ which 1 did not think
anything surprising. The celebrated c Vierge a la Chaise'

of Eaphael has been newly framed, and a glass put over it.

We stopped some time to admire two other grand productions

of Raphael, the portrait of Pope Julius II., and St. Catharine

a:ad Holy Family. The suite of rooms in this Palace, now

the residence of the present Grand Duke, brother to the

Emperor of Austria, is very princely, and in high pre

servation.

After satiating "our eyes with pictures, we went to the

Great Gallery of Medicis, where we might study some of the
Ifirst statues of antiquity. In the Salle de Niobe, to begin

with herself, thought the grief in her countenance, though
not perhaps equal to what it would be in nature, yet greater
Ithan ever saw in any statue or picture.
IAs a group, the effect is much lessened
                                          thought by

Niobe's being colossal and her daughter of the natural size.

The statues of her sons and daughters which were round the

room are some inferior, but one or two of them exquisite.

From this room we went into the Tribune, an apartment

where all the most precious morsels both of painting and

sculpture are collected together. Here stands once more

Ithe celebrated Venus de Medici, and it equalled all my ex
Itpectations, which am well aware it does to few.  appears

to me that in statuary those who know nothing of the art

are much better able to enter fully into the merits of the
first works in it than they can in painting.

     [Here the journal ceases, for the note-book containing the
remainder is supposed to be one which was lost at Florence.]

112  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                 chap. v.

                               CHAPTER V.

                       SEPTEMBER 1820 --JULY 1823.

LETTER PROM ROME-- IMPRESSIONS OP THE FORUM-- POLITICAL DISCONTENT
     AT NAPLES-- GEOLOGICAL ANNIVERSARY DINNER -- GEOLOGISING IN
    SURREY --VISIT TO ROMNEY MARSH -- GEOLOGY OP THE ISLE OP WIGHT
    -- GEOLOGICAL CLUB DINNER -- PARIS -- SOIREE AT CUVIER'S -- ALEXANDER
     VON HUMBOLDT-- LA PLACE-- ARAGO-- POLITICS-- ALIMENTS FOR EVER.

    [In 1819 Mr. Lyell took the degree  of B.A., obtaining a second
class in classical honours. He became
                                        M.A. in 1821. In March

1819 he became a Fellow of the Geological Society of London, and

also of the Linnsean Society.

     After leaving Oxford he was entered at Lincoln's Inn, and resided
in London, and studied law in a special pleader's office (Pattison's). His
eyes, however, became very weak, and he was recommended to desist

from reading for a time, and to join his father in a tour abroad as far

as Rome in the autumn of 1820 ; he had then no time to devote to

geology, as they were busy seeing the towns, pictures, and natural

scenery.

    In 1822 he made an excursion to Winchelsea for the purpose of

inspecting Romney Marsh, an extensive tract of land, from which the
sea has retired within comparatively recent times.]

     CORRESPONDENCE.

     To His Sister.

                                        Rome : September 28, 1820.

     IDear Marianne,-- Ton will expect me to be very fall in
writing to you from this city.          must tell you, however,

that there is only one thing which has gone very far beyond

Imy expectations, and that is the statues of the Vatican.
had no idea that half so many exquisite productions of
-Greece and Rome were still in existence. Mathews, in the

i82o.    ROME.                            113

'Diary of an Invalid/ says that you must not look for beauty
in the remains of antiquity in Italy, for none of the ruins

here are so picturesque as those of our own Gothic abbeys in

England. This is most true ; but he goes on to say, it is

Ifrom the great names they are connected with that they

become more interesting than ours. Here must differ from
I' him, for if they contain so little now to admire in them, how
can they assist our imagination ?  always had a grand idea

Iwhen reading the classics of what the Eoman Forum and

Capitol once were, but now shall always find great diffi

culty after seeing what it now is to raise again half so good
a picture in my mind. The Forum now is about half the

size of Grosvenor Square, the surface uneven from large

mounds of earth thrown up from excavations, and looking

like large dung- middens overgrown with weeds. Down the

centre is a double row of half -starved, shabby elm trees ;
round it the celebrated arches of Septimus, Titus, and Con-

stantine, each standing more than knee-deep in a large pit !
for the soil has risen everywhere at Rome in an almost un

accountable manner, sometimes 40 feet from the ruins of

buildings shaken down by earthquakes, and, before an ancient

Iarch or pillar can be shown, a gulf must be made round it.

At almost every ancient relic have had to say c Amen ' to
Forsyth's exclamation, ' Those lying engravers ! ' The

Colosseum, however, from its immensity defies exaggeration.

IAs for the seven hills of Rome they have been swallowed up

by earthquakes suppose, for Ludgate Hill would match any

of them that remain. The Romans used brick for their

finest buildings, and then covered walls 20 or 30 feet thick

with a facing of stones. These stones have been stolen for
the palaces of modern Rome, and huge shapeless mountains

of brick and mortar remain everywhere with high-soundino-
names, to give the lie to Piranesi's engravings, and to make

the poets and historians of ancient Rome appear almost
ridiculous. Yet, after all, there is still enough among all

this wreck, when it is carefully considered, to prove what
Rome once was, and how she surpassed all tLat now is in

architectural magnificence. The Belvedere Apollo, Michael

Angelo's Moses, Canova's studio, and the Dying Gladiator,
                                          We are to leave
have more than equalled my expectations.
         I
VOL. I.

114        SJX CHARLES LYELL.                              chap. v.

Ithis in a day or two, for the seeing Naples is out of the
question.  should not go there at present if here alone.

For when the late disturbances took place at Palermo, all the

English were informed that they were prisoners. None were

molested, and all are now free,, but God knows how soon a

fracas at Naples might end, and it would be most tantalising

to be shut up in a lodging, and not even allowed to witness

the row. They are making very free with their favourite

weapon the stiletto, and six or seven leading men are got rid

of every night by those of the four different parties. General

Church would be torn to pieces but for a guard of soldiers,

and a threat of our ambassador's, that if a hair of his head

is touched England will avenge it. The English have fled

nearly to a man. Every peasant has become a soldier to
support their 'political opinions in Parliament, which meets
on October 1 . Add to this 400,000 Austrians are expected

there, whom they hate, and who surely can have nothing to

do there, even if invited by one party. These Germans

Imust in their way pass through the Pope's territories, where

they are so much detested that they will not, expect, add
much to their tranquillity. All may blow over, but were we
to wait till we saw the event, the Alps would become
impassable first, and it is my father's intention to recross

them before we shall have any chance of rivalling Hannibal.

Mount Leonessa, the highest Apennine seen from here, was

completely covered with snow on Saturday last, when we

took a grand view of ancient and modern Borne from the
tower of the Capitol. This snow has now melted, but it

proves how early winter may come in the higher regions.
     My love to all. Tour affectionate brother,

                                                 Charles Ltell.

           To Gideon Mantell, Esq.1

                                                  29 Norfolk Street, Strand : February 8, 1822.

   IMy dear Sir, --Though was detained late in the country ?
I Ifound you had not yet arrived with your book, but still
Ithought should see you at our Annual Geological dinner.

     1 Dr. Mantell, F.R.S., author of Medals of Creation,  Wonders of Geo-
logy, &c.

1 822.         GEOLOGICAL DINNER.  115

I now begin to despair, or rather to hope that jour profes

sional practice has increased so much beyond your expecta

tion, that you find it impossible to leave Lewes. Of the

Icollection which came quite safe in ten days, can only say
Ithat trust among so many valuable and interesting speci

mens you have not robbed your own of any which it might

have been more advantageous for science that you had

retained. The Professors of Cambridge and Oxford were

present at our dinner, and Buckland was called upon to

explain the vast quantities of bones which he found in the

summer, in a cave at Kirkdale in Yorkshire, of which he had

a large bagful with him : innumerable jaws of hyaenas, teeth
of elephant, rhinoceros, &c, unmineralised like those in the

limestone caves in Germany full of bears. He produced

some light balls or pellets, which he said he brought to town

at first doubting what they could be. Dr. Wollaston 2 (I think)
first pronounced they were like some calculi sometimes found

in some species of Canis. Upon being taken to Exeter
Change by Dr. Eitton,3 the man there recognised the pro
duction, and exclaimed, c Ah, that is the dung of our hyaena ! '
On analysing it they find it composed of carbonate and

phosphate of lime, the same as hyaena's dung, which beino*

an animal, it seems, of an ossiphagous appetite, has always

its dung proportionately more ossified than any other.
Buckland, in his usual style, enlarged on the marvel with

such a strange mixture of the humorous and the serious,
that we could none of us discern how far he believed himself

what he said.
I IThe researches
               made at Christmas were, am afraid,
Isufficient to prove that must give up my hopes of discover
ing the Isle of Wight fresh-water formations in our part of
Hants, but the shells are not yet come to town which will
enable Webster to decide.

Believe me most truly yours,       Charles Ltell.

    2 Dr. William Hyde Wollaston, natural philosopher, b. 1766, d. 1828.
    3 Dr. W. H. Fitton, b. 1780, d. 1861, an early member of the Geological
Society, contributed many papers, and clearly denned the position and cha
racter of the Green-sands as separated by the Gault.

                           I2

116          SIR CHARLES LYELL.       chap. v.

             To Gideon Mantbll, Esq.

                                                                  29 Norfolk Street: April 11, 1822.

   I Ifear you may think have but little motive for trou

bling you with a letter, since it is no other than to inform

I Iyou that am to-day setting out for Winchelsea, where

shall pass nearly a week with a friend, who will leave me

Iample time for geologising if 1 can find a field for such

operations, and for myself have little doubt of this, since

the country is so entirely terra-incognita to me ; but can you
not also make me useful to you in ascertaining any fact or
Iprocuring any specimens ? In several short expeditions

which have made into Surrey 1 have examined very care
Ifully the junction of the chalk with the beds below, about
Eeigate, Dorking, and Guildford.  have brought specimens

from what Webster would have us call the ferruginous sand,

exactly like some brought from the green-sand of other parts,
which certainly creates a great difficulty, but still there

Iseem to me only partial beds in that which we should

decidedly call iron sand in any other place, and still think

that if we were determined to name beds by analogy to

those of which Webster first drew the line in the Isle of

Wight, we should be obliged to pronounce that the green-
sand is wholly wanting at Guildford, and Greenough seems

I Iclearly to entertain great doubts on this head himself, but

when have worked more eastwards in Kent shall be
better able to form an opinion.

      Since you were here, there came up from Stonesfield to

the Geological Society a most enormous bone of some great

unknown animal, and Clift pronounced it new, but finds it

belongs to the same animal as one which some time since
was sent, from the neighbourhood of CuckfieLd ! Would it
not foirn a strange addition to the wonderful coincidence
already discovered by you, between your beds and those of

Stonesfield, if an immense new animal should at the same

Itime be found in each? This animal, they say, must be as

large as an elephant, but cannot learn of what kind they

conjecture.  Yours very truly,

                      Charles Ltell.

i822,  ROMNEY MARSH,                           117

       To His Father.

                                                             Winchelsea : April 16, 1822.

IMy dear Father, -- had always intended to appropriate

the first rainy day to the transmitting to Bartley a narrative

of my adventures in these distant parts, but the weather has

proved so fortunate that this is the first opportunity which

has occurred. My journey through Kent by Sevenoaks,

ITunbridge, and Rye was so stormy that saw little of the
Iscenery, but should think the view from Madam's Court

Hill near Sevenoaks must surpass all the rest. This is a

most picturesque and delightful spot, and the sea-beach and

Ithe marshes, the cliffs and fine old ruins, have entertained

me so much, that could stay a much longer time here

Ialone, and not feel a moment's ennui. Among other things
  have found the Hastings and Battle limestone rock, with
its peculiar fossils in the cliff of that isolated hill on which

Ithis borough stands, which believe is the most eastern
Imost point in which it has been seen, and hope will settle
IMantell's doubts about its position, as have here found in

the perpendicular cliff the bed of sandstone which is above

and below it. The destructive incursions of the sea at

different periods all along the coast afford very copious and

Icurious matter of observation as well as of speculation.

took advantage yesterday of a light cart, the only convey

ance about here, to go through a great part of that wonderful

place Romney Marsh, now richly studded with ewes and
lambs. It set me down within two and a half miles of Lydd,
I Iwhere called on my fellow-collegian Denne.
                                               did not
Ifind him at home, but on my way back met him. He
Iholds in his own hands 900 acres of the marsh ! on which he

observed might easily conceive how much capital he might

soon sink in these times, and much he has sunk. All the

old families of Kent nearly have had or have some property

here, but have cut the marsh as soon as their wealth would

permit them. Denne is without society, but as they have

elected him every year head magistrate of their jurisdiction,

and as he is justice of the county, he says he has employ

ment enough to render him independent of it. Perhaps you

would think 900 acres might do so alone. Their house is

118  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                      chap. V.

just in the town and is good enough for any gentleman, but

the back-door opening into the farmyard betrays the pre

decessor to have been the farmer turned gentleman, not the

gentleman turned farmer. How short and direct is the

road through Eton and Oxford from the grazier on Rornney

.Marsh to the fine gentleman ? or, to speak plainly, to the real
gentleman in ideas, manners, and information. His uncle,

Mr. Cobb, has just let a good deal of the marsh, a few
months since, at 3L, 41., and not a little at 5L 10s. per acre !

but the latter in small lots, and near the town, and then

thought extravagantly high.

     The sudden suppression of all smuggling at Lydd, Rye,

this town and numerous others, threw more than half the

population -on the poor rates, and has made bankrupts of the

tenants on many a large estate, and quite ruined some of

their ports. Either the having permitted such license for

ages, or the sudden stopping of an ancient source of gain, is

unpardonable ; for there is all the misery felt here which
can possibly follow the total failure of a great manufactory.
The harbour at Rye is filling fast, and will be soon added in

spite of their exertions to the marsh, by the same causes

which formed the latter ; and though these are so evident,

the people here, and old histories, and even my friend Denne,
believe the idle story of its total formation during one storm.

Had the sea retired suddenly it would have left nothing but

shingle as at Winchelsea, and had our ancestors been as

greedy in walling out the sea as this generation before it

Ihas half coated the shingle, there would be no acre worth
11. per annum in all.  like the lodging here, and the old

woman, who has only 3s. 6d. a week of her own, and 6d. wages
to support herself and a daughter of near seventeen, which,
though lodging, coal, and a small garden are found her, isabare

existence, and does not keep off the ague which is brought
by the sea-breeze from Romney Marsh, and though it does
not injure Lydd or Romney, does great havoc here and at
Rye. This old woman, and she tells me others here, cannot
afford to drink a drop of beer, while those who are not too
proud to go to the poor rates live in comparative luxury.
                             Ever yours,
                                    Chaelbs  Lyell.

1 822.              W1NCHELSEA.                                                                             119

        To Gideon Mantell, Esq.

                                                    29 Norfolk Street: April 19, 1822.

IMy dear Sir, --Although did not leave Winchelsea until

the 16th yet your letter did not reach me there but has

I Ifollowed me to town. Had received it in time might

better have deserved the crown which you held up to my

Iambition, for had no sooner begun my examination of the.
Icliff there than found myself in the midst of the limestone
beds, with every character of strict identity with those of
Battle and Hastings, particularly that gloss of rather the

felspar appearance which you know marks                            and in which
        it

             is
                                 is

                                                           it it,
Webster was one day pointing out to me closely resem

bles the crystallised part of the JTontainebleau rock --and no

doubt   owing to incipient crystallisation. The present

town of Winchelsea  situated on a rock which projects

like an island from the alluvial marsh-land which surrounds

it, and which was once at no ancient date flooded by the

sea presents cliff more or less high towards every point
;

 it

                       a
                                           is
                                                                                  is

                                                                                                                                                         ;
of the compass. Close to the roadside, near the ancient

gate which leads to Rye, a quarry which affords a most
satisfactory section of part of the rock. At the top sand

and sandstone, not much indurated nor highly ferruginous

then comes immediately under, and distinct from it, with

not the least passage from the one to the other, a bed of the

limestone, very hard and silicious, foot thick beneath this
        ;

                                                                     5

                                           I
                                                                                                         ;
comes the sand again, of what thickness could not ascer

tain. So much for the quarry which ends at the level of the

road but lower down the cliff appears another bed of the

limestone, which must be far below the former, and proves

therefore the alternation. The flat slabs of the limestone

when weather-worn afford generally casts of innumerable

small bivalves, of  this size (perhaps cardiums), and so
        I
does the sandstone exactly the same. In a walk of four orII I

                Ij
five miles along the high cliffs between Winchelsea and

Pairlight cliff, could see none of the limestone in the fer

ruginous sand, bat  would have made more particular

search had known you had not been there.

What little could see of the Weald clay makes me

120           SIR CHARLES LYELL.    chap. v.

think it quite subordinate to the ferruginous sand, and to

doubt more than ever its answering in position to the Pet-

worth clay of Bucldand's syllabus.

   IBuckland has received from the Yorkshire Cave the

bones of the weazel, the rabbit, the pigeon, and believe

one other bird in a beautiful state of preservation, and

which are being drawn for the R.S.

   IDo not fear any poachers on your Sussex preserve.
Iwish could see so much activity as to give cause of fear.

IAt our meeting this evening will not fail to introduce
your prospectus, and nothing will give me greater pleasure

than to take the first opportunity of paying you a visit.

Yours truly,                        Charles Ltell.

    [In 1823 Mr. Lyell was elected Secretary of the Geological Society,
and made excursions to Sussex and to the Isle of "Wight, the results
of which were not published till Dr. Mantell, in his ' Geology of
the Isle of Wight,' 1847, gave extracts from Mr. Lyell's letters,
dated June 1823, which showed that he had cleared up some of
the obscurity in which the relations of the Lower Green-sand and
Wealden strata were then involved. His first geological paper

on the geology of some rivers near his native place in Forfar
shire was read this year to the Society. About this time he
made more than one visit to Paris, and became acquainted with

Cuvier, Alexander Brongniart, Alexander Humboldt, Constant

Prevost, &c]

                     To Gideon Mantell, Esq.

                                                             29 Norfolk Street : June 11, 1823.

   IMy expedition to the Isle of Wight has very nmch con

firmed the views which before entertained of the geology
of Sussex. Professor Buckland, who was of the party,
though he did not altogether give in to a theory which he

Iadmitted was new to him, was still clearly surprised, when

pointed out to him the fact that there was everywhere in the
Isle of Wight beds of sand below Webster's blue marl
greener than those above. You are aware that Webster

Inever found in his blue marl any fossils except two Ammo

nites. At Compton Chine, however, found several small

1823.             ISLE OF WIGHT.           121

I IInocerami (J. sulcatus,                 was only
                  believe), and, although
Ithere five minutes, saw so many fragments of shells in
Ithis same blue marl that am inclined to believe the iden
tity of this bed with the blue marl of Folkestone and the

Gault might be made out by a further search for the
organic remains which it contains.

The section from Compton Chine to Brook is superb,

and we see there at one view the whole geology of your

part of the world, from the chalk with flints down to the

IBattle beds, all within an hour's walk, and yet neither are

any of the beds absent, nor do believe they are of less

Ithickness than with you. This is so beautiful a key, that
    should have been at a loss to conceive how so much

blundering could have arisen if I had not witnessed the

hurried manner in which Buckland galloped over the ground.

IHe would have entirely overlooked the Weald clay if
had not taken him back to see it.

     This clay, however, is only partly exposed, the softness
of it having caused a ruin of the cliff, just at the point
where the Petworth marble ought to be looked for. Soon

after this sandstone containing layers of limestone with

Ibivalves appears, then some mottled beds purple and white,

then Pyritous coal like that at Bex Hill suppose. The
Iwhite sands of Winchelsea and Fairlight are magnificently
exposed, &c. &c.  staid a day longer than the rest of the

party, for the purpose of searching in the Weald clay of the

Culver cliffs section for Petworth marble, but the cliff is

there also in ruin ; T found, however, a rounded block of it

Itwo feet or more in diameter on the sea-shore, nearly oppo

site the Weald clay, specimens from which have brought
to town, some of which are at your service, with many

Ispecimens from the Fresh-water formations which collected
Ifor you, and will send you when have more leisure to pack
Ithem up. Almost the whole of the back of the Isle of

Wight is in such a dreadful state of ruin, that believe it
has been the cause of much of that confusion which has

found its way into the heads of some of our geologists with

Iregard to your Sussex beds, and some of those very same

geologists whom have heard ridicule De Luc for suppos

ing he had there discovered chalk beneath the green-sand.

122      SIR CHARLES LYELL.                       chap. v.

You will be very glad to hear that Mr. Warburton,4 on

whose accuracy above all men we may rely, says that above
the Gault in Cambridgeshire green-sand occurs , as well as
below it ; this upper green-sand, as well as the firestone of

Reigate, he chooses to consider as part of the lower chalk.
Yet both he and Dr. Fitton choose to call the beds at

Beechy Head green-sand, supposing it to belong to that
which is below the Gault. In this they are completely mis
Itaken.
            am going to Paris towards the end of  this month ;
if you wish to send any presents of books or      anything to
Ianyone
         shall be very happy to be the bearer of them ;
indeed it will be of advantage to me, as affording me some

introduction to the donees, and, as this visit of mine is prin
Icipally to perfect myself in the language,
                                                  court every
Ithing which brings me in contact with Frenchmen.
                                                   like

De Beaumont much. Yours very truly,

                                            Charles Ltell.

                              To His Father.

                                                                          London : June 21, 1823.

   IMy dear Father, -- am fortified with most excellent

letters of introduction from Buckland, Greenough, Grey
Bennett, Professor Brochart, Dr. Fitton, Webbe and Lambert,
&c. --to Humboldt,5 Cuvier,6 Brongniart, Cordier, Duvan,
Prevost, Lefroy, Eoyer, &e. Buckland has also made me

Ithe bearer of presents of his new work to many of the above,

and have sets of specimens of my Scotch and Isle of Wight

rocks to give away.
     We had a very full meeting of the Geological last night ;

many foreigners at our club dinner, who were very entertain
ing. Professor Oersted, of Copenhagen, pronounced the
following eulogium of our scientific dinners of which, as it

Iwas spoken in English, you may imagine the ludicrous effect.

6 Your public dinners, gentlemen, do love, they are a sort of

     4 Henry Warburton, one of the founders of the Geological Society of
London in 1807.

     5 Alexander von Humboldt, eminent naturalist and philosopher, b. 1769,
d. 1859.

     6 George Cuvier, comparative anatomist, b. 1769, d. 1832,

1823.                          PARIS.                          123

sacrament, in which yon do beautifully blend the spiritual

and    the  corporeal  !    9
                          !

A Mr. Underwood dined with us, who was so long a
detenu in France that he now resides there, preferring it to

England. He said, 'The Bourbons are becoming much

more arbitrary than before the Revolution; the prisons are

full of political offenders. A looker-on sometimes sees more
than those who are actually engaged, and my opinion of

the French people is, that they are much too corrupt for a

free Government, and much too enlightened for a despotic

Ione.5
       send you a specimen of Petworth or Sussex marble,
better polished than that which you have. With my love to

all, believe me, your affectionate Son,        Charles Ltell.

                               To His Father.

                                                Hotel Meurice, Paris : June 28, 1823.

IMy dear Father,-- left London Sunday, June 22, at nine
o'clock, in the ' Earl of Liverpool 5 steam-packet ; crossed

Ito Calais in 11 hours I 120 miles! engines 80-horse power,

for 240 tons. Lord Lonsdale on board. As was not sick
at all, he conversed with me much.

    Sir Ralpb Anstruther, a great friend of Sir J. Ranisay's,

Iwas also a pa.ssenger, a young Scotch laird, has property in
Fifeshire and Caithness.       introduced myself as a friend of
Sir J., and he asked me to go with him to Abbeville in the

cabriolet of the diligence. The next day he took me in a

Icarriage which he hired to take him to Lisieux, near Caen,
some miles on the ISTeuchatel road.            then returned geolo

gising to Abbeville, and spent the day in seeing the
manufactures of cloth, carpets, glass, &c. At the former

they have erected lately an English steam-engine of 18-horse

power, which enables them to dispense with 1,000 workmen.

The heads of these factories are very rich, and all liberals.

They seemed quite delighted to find an Englishman to whom

they might pour forth their abuse both of their own and our

ministers, which they did without sounding me as to my
politics. To the intrigues of our Cabinet they impute the

124                  SIX CHARLES LYELL.                                        chap. v.

counter-revolution in Portugal. Since the peace they have

established two monasteries for friars, and two for nuns at

Abbeville, and they are now building another nunnery.

IThe next day went on per diligence to Paris.
   I IRamsay was gone to Baden when arrived, and shall

certainly not go yet to the Esmenards, as there are two

Englishmen there who talk nothing but English. Judge

Richardson introduced me in town to his marshal, Bosanquet,
a barrister of Lincoln's Inn, who gave me a letter to Hunter,

a gentlemanlike young Englishman who has a place in our

foreign office here. He takes me to-day to a Erench family,
Iwhere shall hear their language alone spoken, and where,
Iif fancy            may place myself; if not, dine there for
           ; I iIt,                                             I
francs when like. Grey Bennett's friend, Duvan, called              I

this morning he                very pleasant man, has been in office,             7
                     is
                        a                                                               ;3

                         I
now lives on his own fortune his hobby botany. He takes     is
                                                      ;

me to Cuvier's soiree to-night, when shall deliver my letters, &c.
                                                         I

     To-morrow morning am to attend Brongniart's levee,

to whom have four letters, and who among the English
     I

geologists has the highest reputation both for knowledge and

agreeable manners of all the French savans.                                    have left

my letters and Buekland's book at Humboldt's (or, as his

porter calls him, Hoombowl), but did not see him.                              called

on the Airlies yesterday, saw Lady A. and Mrs. Drummond

the former looking very well, and in high spirits. She says

there are not so many English here as there were, and the

price of lodgings and houses sensibly diminished.

    All the French gentry attached to the Court whom they

see accuse all the English, both Whig and Tories, of being

Radicals and Revolutionists, and they are much piqued that

the Due d'Orleans' levees are so much more splendidly

attended by English noblesse and gentry than the Court.

                                                      Your affectionate Son,

                                                               Charles Ltell.

        Alexander Brongniart,                         distinguished chemist and mineralogist, b. 1770,
d. 1847,
     7
                                                   a

1823.  HUMBOLDT.                125

       To His Father.

                                        Hotel Meurice, Paris : Friday, July 3, 1823.

   IMy dear Father, -- have passed my time here as yet
I Ivery much to my satisfaction, but fancy have not been

advancing so much in my acquaintance with the language

as with the savans, to whom my numerous letters gave me a

most favourable introduction. My reception at Cuvier's last

Saturday will make me feel myself at liberty to attend his
soirees every week, and they are a great treat. He was very
polite, and invited me to attend the Institute on Monday.

There he introduced me to several geologists, and put me in

an excellent place for hearing.
     Miss Duvansel, daughter of Cuvier's present wife by a

former marriage, is a young woman of most engaging

manners, and very clever, talks English (as does Miss Guvier)
excellently ; she is pretty, and very lively. She is not a slight
acquisition to the attraction of Cuvier's levees, and the more so

as he is by nature reserved and uncommunicative in his conver

sation. We had a collation of fruit, &c; the chief discussion

was on Sir Walter Scott's last novel,8 the scene of which is in

Franceitseeois. Cuvier is delighted with it, as were the ladies.

   IHumboldt addressed me, as Duvan had done, with, '
have the honour of being familiar with your name, as your

father has laboured with no small success in botany,
Iparticularly the Cryptogamae.
                                suppose when he was in
I IParis was absent, or of course should have met him some
Iwhere. But hope if he comes again to be more fortunate.'
He was not a little interested in hearing me detail the

critiques which our geologists have made on his last

geological work, a work which would give him a rank, in

science if he had never published aught besides. He made

Ime a present of his work, and was surprised to find how
Imuch he has investigated the details of our English strata.
am going to him this morning with some specimens, to make

him master of the last point which was cleared up in my Isle of
Wight tour with Buckland, and afterwards he takes me and

Sir J. Croft to the Observatory to show it to us. He appears
to work hard at astronomy, and lives in a garret for the

       8 Quentin Durward.

126    SIR CHARLES LYELL.                     chap. v.

sake of that study. The King of Prussia invited him to

adorn his Court at the last Congress ; thence he went to

Vesuvius just after the grand eruption, and brought away

much geological information on that head, which he was

Igood enough to communicate to me. He speaks English
well.  attend lectures at the Jardin du E-oi, on mining,

geology, chemistry, and zoology, all gratis ! by the first men.

IThe lectures both summer and winter are very numerous.
I Iam sorry am obliged to conclude, as have much more to
Isay. dine every day at Madame Guien's, where we talk

mostly French. They are friends of Hunter's.

     My love to all, and believe me, your aCffehcatriolenasteLSyoenl,l.

                              To His Father.

                                                    Hotel Meurice, Paris : July 8, 1823.

   IMy dear Father,-- Although T do not believe have any

thing to say which would much endanger mj being treated

Ilike Bowring with the Bastille, yet write with more
Ipleasure, as know my letter will not be opened by the
Ichannel through which send it.

     The seals of many letters going to England, and still
more of those into the interior of France, are broken, which
Eoyer tells me ' is very proper, for it has been the means of
detecting many enemies ! '

     Humboldt took me on Saturday, as he had promised, to
the Observatory with Sir John Croft, who has a property in
Yorkshire, was once in a diplomatic situation with Canning
at Lisbon, from whom he brought letters to Humboldt. On
our way Humboldt talked with great vivacity and force, of

Iwhich may perhaps give you some idea. 'No, Cuvier
Igives no lectures, and the reason regret to say is, that he

is still a Politician-- no, you were mistaken, if you imagined

Ithat the ministry have reached a pitch of ultraism beyond

him, sent him back to his books. That time is yet to come.
You observe that his soirees are mostly attended by English ;
the truth is, the French savans have in general cut him ; his
continual changing over to each new party that came into
power at length disgusted almost all, and you know that it has

i823»  CUVIER.                                     127

been long a charge against men of science, that they were

pliant tools in the hands of princes and ministers, and might

be turned which way they pleased. That such a man as Cuvier

should have given a sanction to such an accusation was felt by

all as a deep wound to the whole body. And what on earth was
IfCuvier to gain by intermeddling wTith politics?
                                                   his

ambition could have reasonably nattered itself with the hope

that his talents might one day open to him the heights of

power, the attainment of such an object would have been an
excuse for his having the weakness to desire it, But this

he full well knew was impossible in France. First, because

he was a Protestant, and, secondly, because he was a man of

low family. Yon well know with what contempt the old

aristocracy of all countries are apt to regard all new men of

whatever abilities. We feel that but too much in Germany,

but here it is a principle of party now to carry such

prejudices to the utmost length. Cuvier's situation was a

proud one while he stood in the very foremost rank of men

of science in France, but when he betrayed the weakness of

coveting ribbons, crosses, titles, and Court favour, he fell
down to the lowest among his new competitors/ ' The Duke

d'Orleans has 320,000L sterling per annum. He is liberal,

though he does not spend his income, for he puts by for his

numerous family. He is domestic, though he lives in

princely style. He likes the English, and deserves to be the
favourite, which he is, with them.' ' You cannot conceive,

gentlemen, how striking and ludicrous a feature it is in

Parisian society at present, that every other man one meets

is either minister or ex-minisfcer. So frequent have been
the changes. They are scattered as thick as the leaves in

autumn, stratum above stratum, and before one set have

time to rot away, they are covered by another and another,
and on the last are sure soon to fall those which are now
blooming in full verdure above them. The instant a new
ministry is formed a body of sappers and miners is organised.

They work industriously night and day. They are more

religious, more constant at mass, more loyal, and, above all,

they know better how to ape exactly not only the ideas and

manners, but the very air and the expression, of their ancestors
of some centuries back. At last the minister, as Chateau

128  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                                     chap. v.

briand and Yilelle for instance at this moment, find they are
become heretics, Jacobins, infidels, revolutionists --in a word

that they are supplanted by the very arts by which a few

months ago they raised themselves to power.5

     At the entrance of the Observatory we met Le Marquis

de La Place,9 a very fine-looking old gentleman. The famous
mathematician Arago l did the honours of the Observatory,

where we staid somehours. On Arago's pointing out from the
top some newlj--built monasteries, Humboldt observed, ' We

have made a calculation, and find that there exist already

more religious houses in Paris than before the Revolution.'

This extraordinary statement did not seem to startle Arago,
but Duvan, who, though a placeman, is far from violent in
Ipolitics, assures me it cannot be true ; he said, however,

<The assertion is so curious that will inquire.5 Humboldt
I Isaid, ' These houses do not yet contain so many inmates.9

After what have given you concerning Cuvier, ought in
Ijustice to add my own opinion, which is that he is more

liberal and independent than believe most Frenchmen are.

He dares to speak and often with praise of Napoleon, and
before Frenchmen, who might, and no doubt do, turn it

against him. We must not forget that Baron Humboldt and
he are the two great rivals in science, for La Place and the

mathematicians do not come in contact with them. Hum

boldt's birth places him on the vantage ground, and Cuvier

perhaps tries to compensate this by a little political power.
As for his ratting so often, defendit numerus. What French
politician could throw the first stone at him ? Humboldt's
family is noble and ancient in Germany. His elder brother
Ia man now in great power there. His talents entitle him to

regard with the contempt which he expresses, and have no
doubts feels, for mere rank, but we may say of him as

Chateaubriand said of our English Peers, that he is well

aware that while he gets too liberal, he is in no danger of

losing the station and the advantages which his birth
Iensures for him.  dined with the Airlies to-day.
     I Ihope shall soon hear from Bartley.

     My love to all, and believe me your affectionate Son,

                                                 Charles Ltell.

     9 The author of Mechanique Celeste, b. 1749, d. 1827.
     1 Francis Arago, astronomer, b. 1786, d. 1853.

1823.           POLITICS.                129

                To His Father.

                Hotel Meurice, Paris : July 13, 1823.

My dear Father, --Tour letter of the 4th arrived on

Friday. The rain, which has injured your hay, has fallen

almost every day since my arrival here, and the Parisians

talk of the weather as if it was the most serious misfortune.
It has a great effect on their spirits, and no wonder Montes

quieu, as a Frenchman, dwells so much on climate as the cause

of national character. A lady said to me at dinner the other

day, 6 There is a revolution in the heavens, and the Due
d'Angouleme should be sent to quell it, for in truth he is too

Igood for us here.5
       have learnt, however, from a quarter that leaves me in
no doubt, that the Duke and all the Eoyal Family, except

the Duchesse de Berri, were against the war, as well as

the ministers. The Duke is decidedly hostile to that ' ex

treme right' whose fanaticism carried everything before it.

Almost all the less violent royalists are still in doubt whether

it would not have been better to let alone the campaign, but
as that is now impossible, they reason thus : ' We shall derive

from the war in Spain two great advantages ; first, the cannon

has been fired under the white flag, the army is now decidedly

with us : this gives a consistency and weight to the Bourbons

which they before wanted. Secondly, the Due d'Angouleme,

who is a man of more vovs than the English give him credit

for, has acquitted himself with honour. He entered upon a
dangerous expedition, and in which he least of all expected

there would prove no severe fighting. The consideration and

weight which he has acquired with all will be employed at

home against that growing evil, the extreme right, which, if

unchecked, must ere long occasion serious mischief in France.'

My fear is that when eighty-five new deputies are added
Inext year, the ne plus ultra Ultras will acquire as much
additional force as they did this year.  am told the new

French loan of Thursday last was equal to the greatest sum

ever raised in England in one day during the last war. It

has added to their debt 1 8,000,000 1, sterling, and something
more, which, with the 5,000,000L with which they started, is no
       vol. 1.
                K

130              SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap, v\

small expense even were the business over. In spite of the

revolutionary sponge, their debt will shortly be no trifle.

INext year the interest will be well on to 13,000,000Z. sterling
Isuspect; and if ours was reduced to three per cent, (and hear

Robinson will make a great step towards this next year), ours

would only be 26,000,000L, ordouble the interest of the French.

Mons. Corriglione, brother-in-law of the famous Carnot,2

dined with us the other day. He has some landed property

near Paris. He says the stagnation of commerce has depressed

agriculture here in an unprecedented manner. Wool, which

was at fifty sous when the army entered Spain, has fallen to

twelve sous.

     My fellow-collegian Rickards arrived in Paris yesterday,

Iand persuaded me to give two guineas to the Greeks, which
  do with great pleasure, and not the less so, though Dalby
stands up for the Turks. He was a staunch Liberal when

starting for the bar. Since he has decided on the Church,

Rickards says he has grown too hot, even for Oxford, in

Toryism. He abuses Canning and Co. for opposing the most

Isacred of wars against Spain, &c. &c. Tyndall, one of the
young Englishmen in the house where  dine, has just

received from the Greek Committee the appointment of

Isurgeon, and a letter to Lord Byron, whom he sets out to
join to-morrow.  was glad to hear the Cantabs have had a
subscription for the Greeks. The Airlies I am sure will feel
it no effort to settle in Angus, for they seem to talk and

think of nothing else : they had intended to go to Switzer

Iland and Italy, but all is given up. Maule's son,3 it seems,

has gained his action. Lord Airlie remarked, ' am sorry
for it as a general rule, for in entailed estates sons were but
Itoo independent of parents before/
                                     quite agree with him,
Iand as no doubt Maule will appeal, shall be glad to see the
judgment reversed in the House of Lords. A Mr. Buchanan,

     2 Minister of War under the consulate of ISTapoleon, b. 1753, d, 1823,

author of mathematical works.
     3 The Hon. Fox Maule (heir apparent to the Hon. William Maule of

Panmure, who was in possession of an estate of 10,0002, a year), having 901.
of pay as an ensign in the army, and 100Z. a year from his father, was found
entitled by the Court of Sessions, to whom he applied, to an aliment of 800Z.

per annum. This decision was afterwards reversed by appeal before the
House of Lords.

1823. 'ALIMENTS FOR EVER.'.                   131

nephew of Mr. Ogilvy of Tannadice, who has met you, dined
there, and said Gray of Carse is in ecstasies. He says,
I' Aliments for ever !
                        shall get my son to sue me, and we
Ishall extract something from the creditors/
                                              remove to

morrow to 9 Rue Montabor.

Tour affectionate son,         Chaeles Ltell.

                           %2

132  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                     chap. vi.

                            CHAPTEK VI.

                           JULY 1823 -- OCTOBER 1824.

ALEXANDER BRONGNIART -- MANUFACTORY OP SEVRES -- M. PICHON --
     TERTIARY FORMATIONS AT MEUDON -- M. CONSTANT PREVOST --MARSHAL
     SOLLT'S GALLERY-- POLITICAL DISCUSSION AT CUTTER'S-- EXCURSION TO
     FONTAINEBLEAU WITH M. CONSTANT PREVOST --DIVISION OF PROPERTY --
     BARON DE FERUSSAC--HIS COSMOGONY --POLITICAL CHANGES IN FRANCE
     -- VERSAILLES-- GEOLOGICAL EXCURSION TO THE MARNE-- CENTRALISA
     TION OF PARIS-- RETURN TO ENGLAND-- REV. W. D. CONYBEARE --
     PLESIOSAURUS FROM LYME REGIS-- CONSTANT PREVOST'S VISIT TO
    ENGLAND-- KINNORDY --ACCOMPANIES DR. BUCKLAND TO ROSS-SHIRE.

     CORRESPONDENCE.

     To His Father.

                                                   9 Rue Montabor, Paris : July 20, 1823.

     IMy dear Father, -- Friday morning entered, by a ticket

from Duvan, the Garde Meuble. The new crown, which is

made entirely of diamonds and amethysts, is the most

Ielegant and tasteful, as well as costly piece of jewellery
Ihave ever seen. Afterwards went by invitation to Sevres,

Iwhere Brongniart showed me the whole process of the manu
facture, and explained it mineralogically.  then dined with

his family, and a delightful party. His sister, Madame

Pichon, has been a celebrated beauty, and sat for Gerard's

Psyche. Her husband was Charge d' Affaires of France in
the United States for five years. She speaks English, an I

adores America to a degree that surprises me. Her husband

wrote a work on politics, the object of which was to prove

the possibility of introducing the English Constitution into

France, and from his attacks upon Napoleon's tyranny was

obliged to fly to England during the Hundred Days. Never
theless, he was cast out lately from the Council of State, for

1823.  BARON C. DE MONTRET.                 133

giving it as liis opinion that the King could not authorise

the taking the veil in convents, without the Chamber re

pealing the existing laws against it. Cuvier, a Protestant,

was President of the Council, and gave his vote the other

way. Since this time the Protestants of Paris, who before
looked up to him as a leader, have held him in abomination.

He also sanctioned the Missionaries. Le Baron Coquebert

Ide Montret, Brongniart's father-in-law, was also there.

had read an essay which he wrote lately, to accompany a

geological map of d'AHoi's, showing the connection between

the geology and  statistics of France. He   was for many
years from 1806  Consul- General of France
                                             at London--

thoroughly acquainted with England and many of our leading

men, and has spent much time in Ireland, the whole of
which except three counties he has been over. His country

seat is near Sevres on the banks of the Seine, at Bas Meudon,

and as there is exposed there a fine section of all the Ter

tiary formations of the Paris basin, from the chalk upwards,

Ihe very politely asked me to come and breakfast with him

yesterday, which gladly consented to. He took me over

Ithe whole ground himself, and gave me a delightful statistico-
geological lecture on the formations.  was much gratified

at the analogy between this section and the same beds in the
IIsle of Wight.
                 made a collection of specimens, and after
Ideclining an invitation to dinner returned to Paris. found

him occupied in making tables of the comparative popula

tion, increase of finances, &c, of Great Britain and France ;

Iand he was not aware, though he reads English works so
much, that Lowe had anticipated him.   begged for Lowe

a copy of a memoir which he has just written for the Geo

graphical Society here, on the comparative population of

Les lies Britanniques and France, the object of which is to

check the fears of many Frenchmen, who oppose themselves

to every improvement here, on the ground of its occasioning

an increase of population, which idea they have chiefly de

rived from mistaking Malthus.

With my love to all, believe me your aCffheactriloensateLysoenl,l.

I II.134
              SIR CHARIES YE                                 chap. vi.

              To His Father.

                                              51 Rue Richelieu, Paris : July 28, 1823.

   IMy dear Father, -- have now finally settled in Sue
IRichelieu, No. 51 -- two very nice rooms for fifty francs a

month ! ! went over to breakfast and dine last Wednesday
with Mons. Prevost,1 a friend of Dr. Fitton's, at his country

seat at Montmorency, about a league the other side of St.

Denis, and met another young French geologist there. A
long walk which we took gave me a great knowledge of tha

geology of the environs, which is very interesting. Prevost

has travelled much in Europe, is a man of good fortune, and

Ian excellent Geologue. He has come to Paris since, and
dined with him yesterday at his house here, a pleasant party,
Iconsisting chiefly of his wife's relations, who have a good
deal of land in the neighbourhood of Paris.  have promised

to spend the whole of next week in different geological ex

cursions with him, chiefly in the neighbourhood of Fontaine-

bleau, at his own mother's. We are to visit the millstone

quarries which supply nearly all Europe and North America.
    At Cuvier's, on Saturday, the conversation was more

than usually interesting, chiefly on Napoleon. Cuvier

vouches for the truth of a great part of Las Casas' narrative
of events, &c, at many of which he was present here. He

has been all along very obliging to me, and the other day

Ihe asked me to dine with him next Saturday, and said, c
Ishall assemble some of our geologists to meet you.' Sir J.

Croft and meet often, and are very good friends. He says
the labour of those attached to embassies is often prodigious,

eighteen hours a day, and he has known many knocked up,

and himself nearly. It is pure drudgery, as, for instance,

If Iadding up and copying the Ambassador's washerwoman's
bill !  my eyes were equal to half this, would take to

Ithe law in earnest, which would introduce me to society of

which have an infinitely higher opinion, and to a descrip
tion of labour which is even, when most dry, an exercise of
the reasoning powers. Sir John is a well-informed gentle

manlike man.

        1 M. Constant Prevost, an eminent French geologist.

.1823.                 M. PICHON,  135

I Ibelieve am improving in the language, as much, as

can be expected from one who is obliged to abstain from

writing exercises, and almost entirely from the theatres and

reading French works.

        Mv love to all, and believe me your affectionate son,

                                                       Charles Lyell.

                             To His Father.

                                                                                    Paris : August 3, 1823.

   IMy dear Father, -- had intended to have written yester
Iday, when had time for a long letter, but my eyes were so
Ifatigued was obliged to lay down my pen. By way of
Iresting them, escorted Lady Airlie to Marshal Soult's

magnificent gallery of Murillos, of which master he has a
collection of immense value and beauty. Afterwards we
went to the Due d'Orleans', where there are many by
modern French artists, which are said to have merit, but

for which we were perfectly spoilt by having feasted on the
splendour of the Bolognese school. Madame Pichon invited

I Ime to a soiree on Frida}r, and introduced me to her husband.
  believe gave you a part of their history. When Charge
d' Affaires in America he opposed Jerome Buonaparte's mar
riage with Miss Patteson, for which Jerome got the Emperor
to disgrace him. Two years afterwards Jerome was made
King of Westphalia. He then wrote to Pichon that he had

used him unjustly, and as compensation had appointed him
Minister of his Treasury. The Pichons accordingly went to
his court, and lived there in great style. He held lately
some high place in the administration relating to Law
Appointments, which he lost by opposing the Missionaries,
a system which Madame says is driving as fast as possible
all the French into two sects, Bigots and Deists, for they
are making their religion too superstitious and absurd for
persons of education in the nineteenth century.

      Mons. P. seems clever, is very well informed, and com

I Imunicative, and the house will be a great resource for me,

as have a general invitation, which have no scruple in
 availing myself of in Paris, as they do not ever give tea at
 their evening conversations. He mentioned that the

186  SIX CHARLES LYELL.                               chap. vi.

Government have tlie nomination, on the average, of 1,200

law places of considerable emolument annually ! The number
of Judges (not counting Justices of Peace, who are also paid)
is 2,500. These are for life, but there is a regular chain of

promotion, for which thej are all panting, which makes the

whole machine a most formidable political weapon. The

number of decorations of ex-ministers in the part}' reminded
Ime of Humboldt's remarks. When gave Madame Guien
I(the Protestant lady, with whom
                                    have been dining en

pension) an account   of this, she   said, c  Faith,  what between
things spiritual and  temporal, "   c'est le          des croix." y
                                              regne

     At Cuvier's dinner-party yesterday there was a discussion

as to what were the motives which induced Lord Castlereagh
to kill himself, in which all the French assumed that it was

a deliberate act. Upon some one observing that Lord C.

had a surprising power, when he liked, of talking for hours

Iwithout imparting information on subjects on which he did

not choose to be clear, Cuvier said, · suppose then he was

of Talleyrand's opinion, who declares "that speech was

given to man, the better to enable him to conceal his
thoughts." ' The Abbe Florini, an emigrant, who has been

thirty years in England, and now here only on a visit, was

amusingly violent, said our Press was an insupportable
nuisance to ourselves, and to France, &c. After dinner he

was arguing with me on the Spanish War, when Cuvier

Icame up and said, 6 Mr. Lyell, you must come with me into

my study, for want to show you a collection of English
law books, which, as an English barrister, you will be
Iamused at -finding in my library.
                                    interrupt your argu
Iment without ceremony, because know better than you do
Ithe serious scrape from which extricate you. Let me tell

you, sir, that my good friend the Abbe (tapping the Abbe on
the shoulder) is a man of old and noble family in France,
besides this he is an Abbe, and moreover an emigre, and all

these grafted on an English Tory. Is not this enough to

form a compound which may support even all that we can

here produce of Ultraism ? ' At this he laughed freely, and

Ithe Abbe joined with a good grace. What made the scene

more amusing and extraordinary to me, and what believe

enabled the Abbe to bear with the joke, was that Cuvier is

1823. CONSTANT PREVOST                                137

Ihimself notoriously considered an Ultra, and fear with, too
much reason, one of the most mischievous Ultras in the

present Conseil d'Etat. There was a full levee in the

evening, and he held forth on his new work which is just
coming out, on Fossils of Cetacea. His reflections on the

former state of this planet and the creation w^re so grand,

Iand delivered so elegantly and so unaffectedly, that when

he finished could not help regretting that he had dabbled

so much with what Sir J. Croft styles ' the dirty pool of
politics.5 -- Tour affectionate son,
                                      Charles Ltell.

                              To His Father.

                                                      51 Rue Richelieu, Paris : August 10, 1823.

     My dear Father, -- My excursion into the country last week
with Mens. Prevost proved a very pleasant and instructive
one. Our route was by Melun, Fontainebleau, Moret, Mon-

Itereau. We had the satisfaction of discovering some new

geological facts, and gained a pretty correct knowledge of
most of the formations of the environs and of the position of
the gres, or sandstone of Fontainebleau. The forest is very

varied, contains some fine timber, and a few views which are

Isingularly wild and picturesque. We start next week on a

second campaign. slept two nights at Mons. Beviere's, near
Melun. Prevost's father-in-law is a very gentlemanlike old
man. His father was rich, and Napoleon made him a
Senator, which added 35,000 francs per annum to his fortune
of 40,000 a year. Prevost has married a daughter of Turgot,
the famous French advocate, who regained before his death
part of the land which he lost at the Revolution, and left

900 acres, very rich, in the neighbourhood of Paris. His
widow enjoys half for her life, which will be at her death

equally shared by the son and three daughters, who possess

Ialready equal parts of the other moiety. Young Turgot,

whom have met at dinner, has married a young lady of
Normandy, who will inherit a great fortune, and he hopes
to become deputy of that province. He is an advocate, but
does not practise except when he volunteers a defence in

138                    SIR CHARIES LYELL.         chap. vi.

some political case, which lie has done several times. He

seems a clever but rather violent Liberal. La hi commune

Iis, should say, a favourite with the best informed and most
Icandid men whom have yet met with here. Even Baron

Montret, who is fully aware of all that can be objected

against it, confesses that he should hesitate much before he

could give his vote against it. Prevost says the immense

size of properties before the Revolution was a great evil,

and that the division has increased the wealth and popula

tion of the nation, and the general ease and happiness.
Mons. Pichon says that there are 12,000,000 proprietaires in
Prance out of 30,000,000 ! This law was the subject of an

animated discussion between several Frenchmen at Cuvier's

last night. They mentioned, as a favourable result of the     of it,

facility with which young ladies married, and alluded to

the difficulty which those of a certain rank in England found
in settling, and the numbers that never did, as no small evil.

But without reference to the merits or demerits of the

system, there no institution of which the effects are moreit          ;
remarkable, or better worth studying in Prance at present
                   is
and if lasts fifty years more, the contrast between England
and Prance will be most curious, whichever nation may be
                                                  it
in favour of. Prevost has travelled much over France, and
                                                     is
he says he has never known a single chateau of a certain

size (about the size of Bartley) erected in modern times.
In the provinces the demolition of the old ones                     most

rapid. Even near Paris he cited seven great chateaux

which have been sold and pulled down since the return the

King. Perhaps the most remarkable of these (of all which
  have made a list) Montmorency. General Arrighi laid out

50,000 sterling just before his death in having the walls

and ceilings preserved. It was sold, and the stones of the

house and the park walls burned into lime. The same law
I

                        1,

                                  is

which brings large estates into the market makes  it  impos

sible to find a purchaser for them. Large companies of
speculators are organised, who buy up these mansions for
the materials, and the French are uncharitable enough to
call them les bandes noires, from the analogy of their occupa
tion to those adventurers of that name who bought up the

churches and chateaux at the Revolution, and generally paid

1823.       BARON DE FERUSSAC.   139

the purchase money by the lead alone with which they were
Ifcovered.
            a merchant gives a dowry to his daughter at

her marriage, and dies bankrupt, or, as constantly happens,

with his affairs in a less flourishing state than at the time of

Ifthe wedding, she must bring her fortune back to be divided
among the brothers and sisters.  she is dead, still her

children must refund, and this is the cause of no little con

fusion and insecurity, and is no bad harvest for the lawyers.

By the way, Cuvier mentioned last night that the number of

Etudiants en droit at the college has exactly doubled since

the peace. He also said, with regret, that the study of

mathematics was going fast to decay, and explained why the

Ismaller scale of their war department necessarily occasioned
this.  have made acquaintance with Le Baron de Ferussac,

a colonel on the staff of the French army, who went through

[Napoleon's Spanish campaigns. He is a lively young man

of very pleasant manners, of an old family, and in the first

society. He is engaged in publishing a work on the Mol-

luscse, and has studied much those branches which relate to

IGeology. He has the finest collection by far of land and
freshwater shells in the world.  spent two mornings with

I Ihim, and he is certainly the most brilliant builder of theories
have ever met with.  fought hard with him for Buck-

land's notions of the Diluvian formation, in which Ferussac

is not orthodox. A cabinet geologist can account for every

thing much more easily than one who takes the field, and

looks all the difficulties in the face ; but he is very ingenious,

and his knowledge of shells gives him a powerful clue. As

Iyou have almost said enough to provoke a geological letter

from me, will endeavour to state in a few words an out

line of Ferussae's cosmogony. He says geology yields ample

proofs, both that the ocean was at a much higher level than

at present, and that the general temperature of the earth
has decreased. That from chemical reasons the diminution

of heat would naturally be attended by a subsidence of the
waters. That from the organisation of the molluscse, some

can only live at great, others at slight depths. On the

shores and shallows of the Mediterranean different species
now exist from those in the deep parts, and that we may

conclude totally different ones again dwell in the fathomless

140      SIR CHARLES LYELL.      chap. vi.

sea. In this manner he accounts for the oldest and lowest beds

presenting us such totally different fossils from the superior

ones, and the reason that as we ascend in the series the

productions resemble more and more those which now live,

is merely because the ocean, as it became shallower, con

tained animals more and more analogous to those which
alone we have now access to. At length the chalk was

deposited, and covered with its analogous formations almost
all the continents we know anything about. Much land was

then left bare, and freshwater formations began. The present

system of valleys did not then exist, of which there is proof,

and instead of the waters being carried off, as they are so

beautifully at present, the whole was nearly covered with

great lakes, of which we know thirteen, those of the

London and Hants and Paris basins being three. All these

thirteen present similar phenomena of alternating fresh and

salt water formations, and mixtures of both. As the ocean

was then still nearly on a level with the chalk, it often broke
down a dyke, as in Holland, and deposited oysters, &c, once

more. Analogous phenomena may now be seen in progress
I Iin the Caspian and other inland lakes, &c.
                                 wish had
I Iroom to go on, but find shall be unable to tell you my
Iplans.
         am going with Prevost this week to see those
Iparts of the Paris basin which have not yet seen. In a
I Imonth
         think of leaving this.  went to a delightful

Isoiree at Madame Pichon's on Friday. Humboldt was there.

He told me that as soon as have finished my tour with

Prevost he shall get me to give him two mornings, and shall

read over to me all he has written on the tertiary formations

Ifor his second edition, as have now compared the Isle of
IWight with Paris. Besides obliging him, shall get a good

cram by this. --Tour affectionate son, Charles Lyell.

                               To His Father.

                                                       51 Rue Richelieu, Paris : August 23, 1823.

   IMy dear Father, --My plan at present is to leave Paris in

'a fortnight, or at farthest three weeks. Whenever return

1823.  REVIEWS ON HUMBOLDT.                         141

I Ihere shall have the full advantage of the acquaintances
have made. Paris is as come-at-able as Holland, and more

Ifso, because any season will do for it : indeed the winter would
be preferable to this.  a future opportunity should occur

of going to Holland, there will always be many other tours

I Iwhich could exchange for it-- but only consider it as a
I Iroute home, and have already taken most of the others.
am dining now with Bamsay's friends, the Esmenards, a

pleasant family. There is only there at present a rich, young,

handsome, fashionable, and gentlemanlike American, of

Philadelphia, who speaks French admirably. He has a box

at the opera, which would be a lounge for me, but my weak

eyes almost preclude my profiting by it. He has travelled

all over the United States and Canada, and part of Europe ;
speaks Italian and Grerman, has read some poets, &c, has

studied law, but does not intend to practise. He amuses

me much. He is an aristocratic republican, well informed,
thinks his own the first country in the world, and England
the second, and that the latter would rival, if not surpass his
own, if not blemished by the anomaly of a King and a Peer
I Iage. have seen Humboldt often since last wrote. He said
Ithe last time, ' have just read the  last " Edinburgh " and
                                      see in the latter two such
" Quarterly Keviews," and am glad to

liberal articles as those on Greece and Spain. To be sure,
some may say that the last pages of the latter article are at
variance with the first part, but still it convinces me that
Ithe majority of your Tories are against the war.'
                                                    asked
Ihim how he thought the two Reviews had treated him ? '
have no reason to complain, my political opinions are well
I Iknown, like all others,
                        have fared accordingly.     was
roughly handled by the Quarterly, but perhap? still more

injured by the extravagant praises of the Edinburo-h. For

Iwhen they paid me such insidious compliments as to say

was the first of savans, &c, they could not fail to make me
enemies.' He told me what he thought of many of our
great public men on both sides, with whom he has had per

sonal acquaintance.

    You will wonder that such simple questions as some in
your last letter are not easily answered here, for it is com
mon for a well-informed Frenchman to reply : < You will

142  SIR CHARLES LYELL.              char vi.

Iwonder do not know, but there is no rise in learning, for

our fundamental laws are changed every few years, and if

Inot, they are violated with impunity.5 That the royal pre

rogative is very undefined here, is, think, proved by their
Iestablishing ' monasteries ' and ' taking the veil/ which is
in general believed to be unlawful.  have asked, ' Can the

Ifking grant a majorat to an unlimited amount ? ' The answer

has been more than once, ' he did, the tribunals, depend

Iupon it, would not overrule it/ The more learn of the
Iinstitutions of this country, the more am convinced that
Itheir tendency to absolute monarchy is irresistible. Had we

gone to war for the Cortes, we should have, suspect, thrown

the power into the hands of the opposite party, but that
power would have remained absolute. But as to the majo

Irats, a duke's is 40,000 francs, the other titles less, but

cannot say what as yet. A man's property is divided into

as many shares as he has children, and one more, which last

(varying of course according to the number of his family)

is at his own disposal. For example, if a duke has 340,000

francs per annum, and only two children, he can leave the

eldest 240,000 francs a year, viz., 100,000 francs for his

share, 40,000 francs for the majorats, and 100,000 francs

which is at the father's disposal.

     You know that Buonaparte introduced a military uniform

into the Polytechnic schools, and the scholars were sum
moned to meals, lessons, &c, by beat of drum. When the

 Bourbons were restored they abolished this, as inconsistent

with establishments intended chiefly for educating youths
for civil employments. Within this last three months the
drum has been reinstated for the clock, and the military

costume for the toga. A cousin of the Esmenards' dined

with them on Sunday in uniform. He is intended for a civil
department. Schools of Enseignc-ment Mutuel were flour
ishing and multiplying in France. They are now discoun
tenanced, and it is expected will soon be extinct. For these

the missionaries have founded 6 Schools for Good Christians.'
On the high road in the Forest of Fontainebleau has lately
been erected an open chapel, with a figure of the Virgin, and
candles always burning. When we passed, many women and
children were kneeling and praying in it. The churches are

1823. POLITICAL CHANGES.                               143

recovering their splendour in Paris, and the priests are most

gorgeously apparelled. The congregations are amazingly
increased, chiefly because the ministers and persons in power,

forming the bulk of their aristocracy, have made church-
going so fashionable, that it is becoming contrary to bon ton
for your carriage not to be seen there. But unfortunately it

Iis still a mark of party, and from my own knowledge can

answer for this fact, that some conscientiously religious

Liberals abstain with their families altogether from church,

because they have not courage enough to brave the imputa

tion of being place-hunters. But besides their indirect in

fluence, the Government have resorted to open compulsion.

For instance, every student of medicine is compelled to pro

duce a certificate of confession before he can take his degree.

Fortune does not favour the growth of constitutional free

dom in France. Religious feeling is in the opposite scale
from that in which it weighed with our ancestors. And this

feeling is not extinct as some suppose in France, nor can we
ever expect it to be, as it is certainly natural to the constitu
tion of the human mind. At our revolutionary period, the

Court and the fashionable civilians were the sceptics, and

often the open scoffers. The Puritans were then the church

goers, and Liberals. The Republican leaders in England

were able to acquire power to check the Crown by precisely

the same hypocrisy by which the modern French Ultras

Iacquire unlimited force for the prerogative.
       have not time to say anything of my last excursion

with Prevost to St. Germains, Poissy, Versailles, &c.

With my love to all at Bartley, believe me, your affec

tionate son,  Charles Ltell.

                             To His Father.

                                                     51 Rue Richelieu, Paris : August 28, 1823.

   IMy dear Father, -- have called twice on Eedoute,2 with

out finding him.

  IAs an opportunity now offers, am desirous of seeing the
ILow Countries, though in autumn, for think the chances

                       2 Botanist, author of Zes Moses and Les Idliaces.

144           SIR CHARLES LYELL.                      CHAP. VI.

of my seeing Paris again pleasantly are two to one greater

Ithan my being able to make a tour in tbe former in Spring.

    Next Spring, for instance, must bold myself if possible

Idisengaged in order to conduct Prevost to one of our great

geological bead-quarters in the neighbourhood of Bristol.
Ihope that Dr. Pitton will escort him to the Isle of Wight,

which know pretty well, and which Fitton ought to visit
I Ibefore he publishes his memoir on part of France.
     As know nothing of the west of England, shall do
myself as great a favour as Prevost. My last excursion with
him down the Seine to Triel, by land and by water, was very

pleasant, and marvellously economical, for we were three

long days, and travelled between twenty and thirty leagues
for fourteen shillings each, the whole expense. The aque

duct near Versailles, which crosses a very pretty valley, and

conducts part of the water which supplies the palace, is

really like the work of a Eoman emperor, and well worth
Ivisiting. The frescoes of Le Brun, in the palace of Ver
sa illes, are very fine, and the chapel magnificent.  cer

tainly never entered elsewhere so kingly a mansion, or any
Itheatre so well adapted for displaying the splendour of a
great court.  have little doubt that in the next reign

France will (to her cost) see its ancient glory restored, for
as a Bourbon is the hero of every painting, it must naturally
be a favourite of the family. The revolutionary violence of

which it was the scene is considered by the Royalists as
having consecrated it, rather than rendered it an object of
aversion. As further inquiries have confirmed all the few
I Ifacts which have given you in former letters,
                                                      am en
Icouraged to send you a few more, which have from as
good authority. When a minister has been dismissed here,
he has a pension of about 1,200£. per annum sterling, a
handsome fortune in France, not only from its purchasing
more here, but because it raises a man above the general
level than perhaps six times the sum would in England.
IfAs the ministers are so often changed, these pensions bid
fair to form a large item in the expenditure.  a man votes

against the party in power, he is stripped of his pension.
This has been done, and if the moderate Koyalisfcs had given
a patriotic and conscientious vote against the Spanish war,

1823.     PENSIONS.  145

they would have lost their pensions. As ex-ministers must

always form the most able, efficient, and enlightened and

useful opposition in a free country, this stretch of power is

clearly unconstitutional, and, what is worse, is intended to

be such. When Napoleon set up his Senate, he gave every

senator 36,000 francs for life. As councillors they were as

independent (or ought to have been) as the judges. These
senators the Bourbons made peers, with the exception of

such as betrayed them during the Hundred Days. A large

portion of them were of course as little able to support their

dignity as were most of the noble SmigrSs who returned

with the present family. To both these classes pensions

were assigned, but not, as Buonaparte gave them, for life,

 but durante bene jplacito ! Such a gift certainly neither
 ' blesses him who gives nor him who takes,5 for it so de-
' graded the House of Peers in the eyes of the nation, that
 since that time it has lost all weight and consideration.

The moderate and rational Royalists, who saw the error,

proposed as a remedy, either that these noble paupers should

be put on the footing of Napoleon's senators, or that a sum

he raised by loan, which should be given with a majorat

attached, and that it should be given to the emigres as a
compensation for their losses in the Revolution. The mean

ing of this latter proposition was to annihilate the hopes of

those fanatics who are for laying hands on all the property
which they lost at the Revolution. The scheme was re

garded favourably by a large part of the Liberals and de

feated by the Ultras. The following facts will explain this
          Tou may see every day among the affiches in
paradox.

Paris, Vente des Mens Patrimoniels. This term is used in
contradistinction to all those estates which depend on a
Revolutionary Title. The latter, even in the height of
Napoleon's power, bore an inferior price to the former, and
what is curious, the difference between the two varied then,
and does still, in different provinces according to the attach
ment or aversion to the new order of things. Any remu
neration to those who lost at the Revolution would cure the
Revolutionary titles, and, by raising their value, favour a
large and powerful party among the Liberals who hold those
estates. This is one reason why the Ultras would not relish
vol. I.
          L

146  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                         chap. vi.

it, but still more because their hopes would then vanish of
recovering their lost lands. Their cry is c All or Nothing! '

and for this, as in the war with Spain, they would not

scruple to hazard the crown3 and risk another revolution.
     August 30.--M. Pichon, Conseiller d'Mat, called on me yes
Iterday, and left aninvitation to dinner, but returned so late
I Ifrom Humboldt's, with whom spent the afternoon, that could
I Inot go, but attended a gay soiree there.
                                                had some con

versation with him, in which he gave me some entertaining

accounts of the state of Parties here. Among other things
he said -- c Do not suppose that the law of Equal Division is

the work of Revolution, it was the almost universal Law of.

France (the nobles only excepted), and is therefore now con
secrated by the prejudices of those who love the old as well

as the new order of things. The Eoman Law, you know,

Ifavoured division, and that spread over half France. And
the customary law in general favoured it also.  and many

others do not feel sure that the Law of Primogeniture is not

preferable.5

  IThe following speech, which heard a lady make the

Iother day, is think characteristic of the ideas which the
French entertain, and the manner in which they speak of

religion when they are unreserved.    c La Duchesse de

Broglie is an amiable woman, very unlike her mother,
Madame de Stael, in many points, particularly religion.

IShe is in danger of becoming a complete Methodist, and

more so think since her late tour in England. She will
have some influence, too, on that score, on the mind of my
Iold friend the Duke, her husband. When saw much of
Ihim formerly, he had not that turn.
                                      do not mean that he

was irreligious, but certainly at that time he took a philo

Isophical view of things.'
        have promised Humboldt to pass the afternoon to-day
in his study. His new edition serves as a famous lesson to
me, in the comparison of England and the Continent.
There are few heroes who lose so little by being approached

as Humboldt. Of Cuvier this cannot be said. --My dear

father, your affectionate son,        Charles Lyell.

1823, MADAME ESMENARD.                            147

          To His Fatheb.

                                                                            Paris : September 7, 1823.

  IMy dear Father, --To-morrow morning, by ten o'clock,

shall be off for Coinpiegne in a ' Clerifere,' with an order

from Duvan, who is Inspector of Public Works, to see the
I IChateau. Duvan and have parted great friends.
                                                  have

paid at T. and Wurtz's for Hooker's c Flora Scotica,' which is on

its way, and he has given me by way of souvenir La Roche

IJacqueline's 'War of La Yendee.' Your roses, &c. from

Redonte, have had packed up with my two boxes of geo

logical treasures by a regular 'emballeur, and they will go

from Calais by sfceain to the Geological Society, where they
will be in safety. Your debt to Redonte, which is of three

Iyears' standing, paid-- twenty-four Napoleons. Although he
Ihas made a great deal of money, yet learn that he has

contrived to be poor, and he seemed not a little desirous of

touching the coin.

   If I had taken up mj quarters with the Esmenards on
Imy first arrival, should have got on very far in French,

and it will be a most desirable point to make for on any
future occasion. Her husband, in Buonaparte's time, had

the administration of the theatres here, a profitable employ

ment, and one which gave them access to the first society,
          Esmenard still keeps up.
Madame    and well informed,-- in bad
genteel,
Iwhich                                 She is very sen
                                        circumstances,
sible,                  think for her daughters' sake
and rather melancholy,

rather than her own. The eldest daughter paints portraits.
Some miniatures also of hers are exquisitely finished. Se

veral of Napoleon and Josephine she has sent to England,
and they sold well. As her labours assist the family, she
works hard and constantly. She is very amiable. The second

is pretty, has reached great perfection in flower-painting
under Redonte, sings moderately, and plays the piano well,
in the French style. She is unaffected and exceedingly plea
sant. The youngest has none of these female accomplish

Iments, and Nature has not favoured her either in form or

face, nor suspect with a contented disposition. She has
read, however, the Lord knows how many works, in French
English, and Italian ; not to mention that she has dipped

                        L2

148           SIR CHARLES LYELL.        chap. vi.

into Titus Livy, with a French translation, and (by way of
supplement) began the Latin grammar last month, with an
Irish teacher, resident in Paris. Whether the young lady

Ihas in truth c drunk deep of the Pierian spring/ have had no

Iopportunities of ascertaining, but can see that the liquor

Iis getting fast into her head, and will, fear, soon render

her d--h disagreeable.

      On Saturday week Cuvier introduced me to Professor
Van Breda of Ghent, who not only drew out for me a plan of
a tour in Holland, but gave me letters to all the Dutch

universities, Ghent, Amsterdam, Haarlem, Leyden. He is a

friend of Greenough's, who showed him attention in London.
I IAs finish by Ostend, shall be glad to receive a letter
Ifrom you there, as well as Rotterdam.  have had full

leisure since my stay in Paris to sow all the letters of intro
Iduction which brought from England to French people.
I have not heard of Prevost since he went into the
Icountry, so suppose his wife would not give him leave of
Iabsence.     therefore went on Wednesday alone, for a plea

sant excursion of three days, to La Ferte-sous-Jonarre, a town

situated on the Marne, in a beautiful country sixteen leagues

N. of Paris, five beyond Meaux. There are the quarries which

supply half Europe and 1ST. America with millstones. They

are drawn from the most recent of the Antediluvian Form

ation, yet in some parts almost resemble the quartz of the
oldest granite. They have a simple machine of a lever and

Ia bucket, to draw water out of the pits, by which a boy of

twelve years does as much work, believe, as four men in

the marl pits at Kinnordy. It costs but five francs erect
ing ! I have taken a plan and measurement, and cannot

but think it could be used with advantage in your loch.

The Cathedral at Meaux is a beautiful specimen of the light

style of Gothic. My love to all, and believe me your affec

tionate son,  Charles Lyell.

1823. PARIS CENTRALISATION.            149

                  To His Father.

IMy dear Father,-- Although   Cambrai : September 11, 1823.

                             have not yet advanced far

on my route, yet as an opportunity offers, and it may be some

I Itime before have another, will send you a few lines.
   IMadame Esmenard asked me one evening < if did not

Ithink the French had less national prejudices, particularly
towards strangers, than the English.'  answered: ' Allow

me first to ask whether by English you do not mean those
Scotch, Irish, and English, who come from all parts and
I Icountries, whereas by French you merely mean Parisians ? 9

After a moment she said, ' confess do,5 and she defended

this by assuring me that their c provinces were so behind, so

prejudiced,' &c.

   IFrenchmen, judging from the best-informed and most

liberal whom have seen, when they speak of the spirit,
state of feeling, opinion, manners, faults, and virtues of

France, merely mean by France, Paris. Mons. Pichon ob

I Ifserved to me, ' there is one thing more than another for

which abhor the memory of Napoleon, it is that he levelled

the provinces, and the population of this country, by stripping

them of all the municipal rights which they had left : such

was his system. There did not remain any occasion on
which they could practise " self-government." Throughout

France they do not now choose a single alderman or mayor.

It has become almost unsafe to trust them with any power,

and much restriction which strikes an Englishman as des

potic is most necessary.'

     The effects of Paris being the centre of the system from

Iwhich all light and heat emanate, are some of them singular

enough. Their numerous judges, before mentioned, are
made subservient by a chain of promotion. Sometimes the
President of a Tribunal where the salary is small is raised

to another where it is greater, but if it be of the same emolu

ment, and a certain number of leagues nearer Paris, this is

regarded as a great step. "Duvan assures me that there is

not a provincial town, not even Bordeaux, which in publish
ing, and adding to the stock of knowledge, is to be com
pared to many a small place in Germany of 3,000 inhabitants,

!50  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                              CHAP. VI.

   If a man is .thought to display talent, lie is hurried to

Paris, as the only soil where it can be nourished or admired.

There are no seats of education of as much consequence as
our second-rate public schools out of Paris-- no scientific
establishments, with two or three paltry exceptions, as at
Lyons, &c, which seem not to be so much respected as our
New Philosophical Society of York, or the Geological of
Cornwall. Although the population of this empire is one-
third greater than that of the British Isles, there is no Ox

ford, no Cambridge, no Edinburgh, no Dublin, Glasgow,
Aberdeen, St. Andrews, Hertford, Eton, &c. &c. --none of

those numerous and often distant points which serve with us

Ito circulate knowledge and the spirit of improvement

through the system. Nor can learn that there is any
Gallery of Pictures or Statues, such as Wilton, Hamilton

Palace, and a hundred others far and near, which with us

enable many a provincial, who has not the time and means

to travel to the great central monopoly, to gratify and im

prove his taste. Paris devours all. A Frenchman may well

feel proud of his splendid capital, as worthy of an enlightened
nation, and as one of ' the eyes of Europe/ But when we
find that in knowledge, science, and in the splendour of

wealth, all is a desert beyond, we cannot but regard her pre

eminence as invidious, and suspect that the spot where the

court and chief political power has generally resided has

acquired greatness at the expense of the other parts. It

reminds me of that very original image to which Montes

quieu, in his 6 Esprit des Lois/ likens a despotic government,
which he says resembles that custom of the savages of
Louisiana, who, in order to get at the cocoa-nuts, first cut
Idown the tree.
                 have met, however, with so many liberal
Ithinking and moderate men of both parties in Paris, that
expect France will work out for herself a better order of

Ithings. There is always hope while the representative

system remains, and liberty to publish their debates ; and

hear that Labourdonay and many Ultras, who would tear the

Charter in pieces if they could, set off as soon as the session

ended, to labour to acquire influence in their provinces.

This is well, and must raise up the provinces soon.

     My love to all, and believe me your affectionate son,

                                                Charles Ltell.

1824.               PLESIOSAURUS.                               151

     [M. Constant Prevost visited England in 1824, and Mr. Lyell
made a tour with him from London to Bristol and the Land's End,

returning by the southern coast to Hampshire, in the course of
which they were entirely engaged in geological investigations.

    In the summer, Mr. Lyell made another geological tour with

Dr. Buckland in Scotland, who accompanied him from Kinnordy to
Aberdeen and Inverness, and they paid a visit to Sir George Mac
kenzie in Ross-shire, and after crossing the Grampians, visited Sir
James Hall at Dunglass.]

       To Gideon Mantell, Esq.

                                      29 Norfolk Street, London : February 17, 1824.

My dear Sir, --Your very obliging present of the ' Outlines

of the Geology of Lewes5 carae to me almost as a reproach

Ifor having so long delayed sending yon my letter on the Isle

of Wight, which ongkt to have returned to you long before.

Your little volume is a very elegant illustration of your
native town, and your contribution to it is an excellent proof

how much the sphere of local interest is enlarged by geology.

A few years since, a history of Lewes would scarcely have

yielded any glimpse of information so far back as the seventh,

century. The Geological Antiquarian can safely rank his

treasures of the youngest date as of an age of which the

builders of your old castle had no traditionary knowledge.
     W. D. Conybeare 3 is in town, and has been with us for

some time. He is waiting for the arrival of the new Lyme

Regis Plesiosaurus, of which he has an excellent drawing.

The Duke of Buckingham has bought but will be exhi

bited for some time at our rooms, 20 Bedford Street. It
       a

                         it

                                                    is
                                                           it,

                                                           it
affords great anatomical triumph to Conybeare, as most of
his hypothetical restorations in his former memoirs turn out

true to nature. The new animal a very perfect skeleton,

and a prodigy, for  has forty cervical vertebrae, whereas

existing quadrupeds range from seven to nine, reptiles from

three to nine. Aves reach no higher than twenty, the swan

being the maximum. What a leap have we here, and how
many links in the chain will geology have to supply,

                    Believe me, verCyhtarrulleysyoLuyrse, ll.

3      Kev. William Conybeare, Dean of LlandafJ, geologist, b. 1787, d. 1857

152   SIR CHARLES L YELL.                               CHAP. VI.

                  To His Father.

                                                                                     Bristol : June 6, 1824.

    My dear "Father, --T arrived here on Saturday with. Mons.
Prevost, after a very pleasant tour. We went to Gloucester

Iand to Ealfield, sixteen miles on the road to Bristol, where
  called on Dr. Cooke at Tortworth Rectory. The Rector was
not at home. By good fortune, however, his friend Mr.

Weaver, a member of the Geological Society, who has made
himself very eminent by his writings, was staying there, and
keeping house. He received us with the greatest cordiality,

Imade us breakfast and dine there for two days, and gave us

more information than had ever received in the same time.

The Rectory is the most beautiful and picturesque spot in

the world. It stands, like Airlie Castle (to descend from the

sublime to the geological), on the Old Red-Sandstone Conglo

merate, and on proceeding northwards all the beds which the
Isla present are formed in succession, in particular the

Cortachie slate, which contains organic remains here, proving

it to belong to the transition-limestone series. The identity

of these beds, so carefully studied here, throws such a light
on Forfarshire, that my tour has been inestimable to me,
were it merely for that, more particularly as Maculloch, not
having compared this portion of English geology with Scot
land, has no suspicion of it. The calcareous part, which un

fortunately for us is wanting in Scotland, happens to be

feeble at Tortworth, and this helped to make the analogy
more striking to me. We came from Tortworth to Bristol,

Iwhere Mr. Conybeare had been expecting us for three days.
   do not expect to get farther west than Plymouth. Pre-
vost's Norman paper attaches him to the Oolites chiefly,

and makes him unwilling to approach the more ancient

Iformations.                           shall learn much from
     He is so good a naturalist, that

him. He is wonderfully struck with the beauty of our

Iroads and stage coaches in England. This town looks dull,

though believe the commerce is thriving moderately.

With  my love to  all,  believe  me your  affectionate  soLny, ell,
                                               Chables

18-24.      ICHTHYOSAURUS.                                                          153

            To Gideon Mantell, Esq.

                                        Bartley Lodge, Southampton : July 9, 1824.

    My dear Sir, --The three letters which you have sent roe,

Iand which are still unanswered, arrived in town when was
absent on a tour with Mons. Constant Prevost, a French

Igeologist whom you know from his works.
       am glad you are persevering in enriching your collec
tion, which is becoming generally celebrated, and will soon

be more known since the visit of our Oxford Professor, who

was much struck with it.

My friend Prevost studied anatomy for three years, under

Cuvier, and as he is intending to visit England again this
Isummer, he will if possible call on you at Lewes.
                                                                                    gave

him your address, and assured him that he would meet with

Ia welcome from you. It would be of use to his geological

work in Normandy to see your fossils, and doubt not you
will derive much light from his remarks on your osteological

treasures.

Three weeks since a magnificent specimen of an Ichthyo

csealuerbursated(teMnuairroystArinsn?in) g.wasIt  discovered at Lyme by the
                                                  is about the size of the Plesio-

saurus which you saw in town. M. Prevost took a drawing
of which have traced, and send you, that you may
it,                       a
  it,
                             I
      it I
                                          it it

                                                  is
see as will be long probably ere                      published. The

sketch was taken by measurement, and, although rapidly,
yet may be depended upon. While we were at Lyme we
witnessed the discovery of superb skeleton of Ichthyosaurus
        a
vulgaris, by Miss Anning. It was perfect, save the tail,
which cart-wheel had passed over. It was two feet long.

            Believe me, yours very truly,         Charles Ltell.

            To His Father.

                                                  Airlie Castle August 10, 1824.
            4

              I

                          is
                                               a

                                                                                 :
My dear Father,-- rode with Chambers4 round the

plantations. They have all received check by the severe

winter of 1822-23, which                          evident. As the top of the

            The gardener at Kinnordy.

154          SIR CHARLES LYELL.           chap. vi.

Castle Hill is so prominent, it would be worth while to take

out the few Scotch firs, and substitute healthy young larches,
Iwhich, if they do not grow so high, will still be lifted above
the rest of the wood.  went through the peat moss, the

draining of which proceeds rapidly. The number of wasps
in the garden is unprecedented. Chambers has accordingly
introduced ' commissioned bottles,' i.e. bottles made expressly

by his direction, eight dozen of which are emptied every two
days, full of dead wasps, but ' the plague/ he says, c is

Iunabated/
         am obliged to finish this letter before breakfast, and
have scarcely time to tell you of my ten days' tour with

Captain Ogilvy, which was most successful, and puts the

geology of the county in a new light, as little suspected by

Blackadder or Maculloch. The Siedlaws are what Werner

termed 'a saddle,' the stratification being this, the older

beds in the centre, flanked by younger ones ; but what is still

more interesting, the centre beds are the same as appear on

the Isla between Airlie Castle and the Mill of Craig, or

between Kinnordy and Catlaw.

     The discovery of the New Red Sandstone explains many

anomalies which Dr. Fleming made by confounding it with

Ithe Old. We went by Dundee, Arbroath, and Lunan Bay.

   drew the whole coast from boats, and we examined it
thoroughly, not stopped by rain a single day. Paid a visit

at Tannadice on our way back. Lord Airlie arrived here

last night, and is going to shooting quarters forthwith. Left

Iall well in Paris except Mrs. Drummond.  He has given Glen
                                          shall begin with
Moy 5 to Sir J. Ogilvy and me, but

Balentore.5

     Believe me, your affectionate son, Charles Lyell.

                              To His Father.

                                                                        Kinnordy : September 6, 1824.

   IMy dear Father, -- am much obliged to you for having
Ishown my friend Prevost an English race- course. On Tues

day morning set out with Drummond, to the North Esk.6

5 Shooting quarters.
0 Thomas Drummond, botanist. Went to North America as assistant

1824* DR. BUCKLAND.                       155

IWent by Hill of Careston, from which, there is a glorious view
of the Strath.  lodged at the shooting quarter, an inn of

Maule's at Gannachy Bridge, close to the burn. Made

myself master in four days of the grand succession of strata

seen between Gannachy and the granite of Mount Battock,

from the summit of which the view is very fine. We saw

IAberdeen well, Loch na Garr, Ben Macdui, Cairngorum, &c.
  improved myself much in geology, and Drummond also, who
Iknew nothing, but was very anxious for a cram. The
weather was delightful.  was to have gone to Aiiiie

ICastle yesterday, but begged off a day in order to arrange
my concerns.    drive there to-day, and we are then to

examine the Ericht from Blairgowrie upwards (perfectly un

explored ground), and then on Friday to dine together (the

Icaptain and I) at Pearsie, and stay a day or two there.

have received a most friendly letter from Buckland, in which

he tells me that he has just finished his expedition to the

Hebrides, and wishes me to accompany him on a visit to Sir

George Mackenzie's at Cowl (in Ross-shire ?), and on a short
tour, by Aberdeen, Inverness, down Loch Ness, Fort

IAugustus, &c, all to take less than ten days. He offers to
make his time in some measure suit mine.  have chosen

within two days of what he proposes, and have told him he

Imust spend one day here, that may show him the place,
Iand also some specimens on which have doubts, besides my
Imap, &c. It will be expect about the 15th of this month.
I look forward to no small amusement in being ten days with

him, when he is so full of new matter, as he must be after a

visit to the Western Isles, so interesting and disputed a

field for geological inquiry. On Saturday a pair of antlers

were taken out of the marl two feet deep in the loch here

quite perfect and of uncommon beauty. The frontal bone

is entire, and srpports them well. They have nine points or

branches, and measure more than ten inches round in the

thickest part. It will be a great ornament to the house.

Some of the jaw and teeth were found also. The loch also

produced me a fine dish of fish for dinner yesterday. There
is a great sale of marl this year. Among the speculators

naturalist to Dr. Richardson, under Sir John Franklin, and afterwards col
lected plants in the southern United States, and died at Havannah in 1834.

156         SIR CHARLES LYELL.  cha?. vi.

who are investing their capital in buildings in the New
Town of Kerry, on the South Muir, is Mr. John Chambers,

forester at Kinnordy.
                            Tour affectionate son,

                                             Charles Ltell.

            To His Sister.

            Cowl, Ross-shire : September 26, 1824.

     My dear Eleanor, --A fall of snow, which has surprised

the good people here in the midst of their harvest, gives me

Ian hour's leisure to write to you, in answer to your account

of the Salisbury gaieties, for which have to thank you.

We arrived here yesterday morning from Inverness, and
shall probably quit it to-morrow for Brora in Sutherland-

shire, where my companion has an interesting point to

examine, otherwise we might both find no small entertain

Iment here for a longer stay, as it is one of the most delight
ful houses  ever visited. Sir George Mackenzie took a

long walk with the Professor and me, both yesterday

and to-day. He is very gentlemanlike and intelligent, and

full of information. He was very desirous to show Mr.
Buckland a set of parallel roads on the small scale in a

valley here, and was evidently astonished with the rapidity

with which the Professor seized all the facts, and gave a most

excellent theory to account for them. They will make a
pretty figure in the second volume of the ' Beliquise Diluvise,'

which Mr. Buckland is just going to publish. The country
here is very beautiful, the hill scenery picturesque, particu

larly at the present moment, when Ben Wyvis and the
Ihigher hills are covered with snow. There are some of the

largest oaks near the house that have yet seen in Scotland,
and the hills are clothed with birch to some height. The
house is new, and does credit to Sir George's taste. We

have of course been looking over our host's magnificent

collection of mineralogical treasures from Iceland. But his

present hobby is vitrified forts, on which he has advertised a
work, in which he is to attack Dr. Maculloch. Lady

M, is a very ladylike woman, and her two daughters
pleasant girls. They have four or five sons of all ages. We

1 824.  VISIT TO COWL.                           157

Iare to have Lord Pitmilly, one of the Scotch judges, to dinner

to-day, who is on the circuit. But must now beg leave to
treat you with a little retrospective history of my adventures.
Mr. Buckland was so desirous of clearing up some puzzles
which presented themselves on the banks of the Carrity near
Kinnordy, that he agreed to see the Isla, and as this was

found more than a day's work, we accepted Captain Ogilvy's

pressing invitation, and dined and slept at Airlie Castle,
and finished the Isla and Melgum next day, and after dining

again with Captain 0. returned to Kinnordy, and started

next morning for Stonehaven. Saw Dunnotter Castle the same

evening, and next day boated it to Aberdeen, and saw the
termination of the Grampians in the sea cliffs. At Aberdeen

we were in high luck, for Dr. Knight, Professor of Natural
Philosophy, was an acquaintance of Mr. Buckland's, and
invited us to go with him to an annual dinner, at which we
saw the Principals of the two Universities, Dr. Jack and Dr.

Brown, and all the Professors. The next morning we

breakfasted at Dr. Knight's, then dined with Dr. Forbes,

Professor of Natural History. The Duke of Gordon,

Chancellor of the University, was there, an old man of

eighty, not at all superannuated, and well worth seeing. We

attended the same day the assizes, and heard the Chief

Justice Clerk condemn a thief for burglary. The next

morning we breakfasted with Dr. Glennie, Professor of

Moral Philosophy, a clever man, married to the niece and

representative of Dr. Beattie the poet. There is in their
room a most beautiful portrait of Dr. Beattie by Sir Joshua

Eeynolds, which has kept its colour. After seeing every
thing worth examining in geology at Aberdeen, we left it in

company with a young advocate, son of Sir J. Hall, an

acquaintance of Buckland who left us the day after. He
        it

                           's,
was an agreeable addition to our party, as far as he went,

viz. to Peterhead, from whence to Cowl have little to speak
                                I
                                         I
of, as we passed rapidly, but Portsoy, Elgin, and Inverness

presented us with some things worthy of notice.

I       have no more time save to hope that, when return to

Kinnordy week hence, shall find papa and Tom arrived.
        a

                   I

In the meantime, believe me, with my love to all at Bartley,
                                Charles Ltell.
your affectionate brother,

158  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap. vi.

                To His Mother, at Bartley Lodge.

                                                                           Edinburgh : October 18, 1824.

   IMy dear Mother, --In my way through Perth learnt
Ithat my father was expected at Kinnordy on the eleventh.

     conclude, therefore, that he is now there, and take an

Iopportunity of giving you some account of my proceedings

 since left Cowl. Mr. Buckland went from Ross-shire to
 Brora in Sutherland, and in examining that district we got
 within a moderate day's journey of John 0' Groat's House.
 We then returned to Inverness, and travelled thence, in a gig,
 along the Caledonian Canal, by the Fall of Foyers and Fort
 Augustus, then visited the parallel roads of Glen Roy beyond
Letter Finlay, one of the grandest natural phenomena in
 Great Britain. We next went by Glen Spean, Dalwhinnie,
and Dalnacardoch to Blair Athole, with which and Glen
Tilt we were much pleased. We then came by Killiecrankie
and Perth to Edinburgh. Here we have worked very hard
for a week in the geology of the neighbourhoc-d, and in cabi
nets, museums, &c, and have had an excellent opportunity
of seeing all the leading characters in the University. We
have been at breakfasts and dinners without end, at Professor
Jamieson's twice, at Professor Wallace's, Dr. Hibbert's, Mr.
Allen's, four times, Dr. Greville's, &c. &c.

      From Edinburgh we made a geological excursion with
Dr. Hibbert to Linlithgow, Falkirk, and Stirling, which
proved very successful. We then went to Dunglass, Sir
James Hall's,7 a very elegant and stylish place, about eight
miles from Dunbar. The old gentleman is far past his prime,
but luckily Captain Basil Hall, the author of the ' Voyage to

ISouth America,' was there, whom had often met in town.
IHe is one of the most gentlemanlike and clever men have

ever met with. We made some great expeditions to St.
Abb's Head and other parts of the coast with Sir James and
his son, and a Mr. Allison, advocate, on a visit there. Lady
Helen Hall is daughter of the late Lord Selkirk; the two
unmarried daughters are very pleasant, one of them very
pretty. We came home yesterday morning in order to spend

                          ' Natural Philosopher, b. 1760, d. 1832.

1824. FRANCIS JEFFREY. 159

the forenoon and dine at Craig Crook Castle, the country

house of the far-famed Francis Jeffrey.8 This was a great

treat. He is a little man, of very gentlemanlike appearance

and manner. Shines in conversation, whether on trifling or

important topics. After his showing us round the grounds
and neighbourhood, we met at dinner, Sir H. Parnell, M.P.,

and Mr. Murray, and others. The dinner and wine in great

style. Among others at the dinner was Mr. Maculloch, who

gave the celebrated lectures on Political Economy in town
Ilast summer, which attended. He was an acquaintance of
Imine, and pressed me to dine with him to-day, which am to
Ido. expect much amusement from the party. Mr. Buck-
Iland left this to-day for Alnwick Castle.  return to Kin-

nordy to-morrow.
With my love to all, believe me, my dear mother,

                  Your affectionate son,

                               Charles Ltell.

   8 The eminent critic, editor of the ' Edinburgh Review,1 and, later, one of
he judges in the Court of Session, Scotland.

160  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap. vii.

                           CHAPTER VII.

                           JULY 1825 -- DECEMBER 1827.

  CLATHRARIUM LYELLI-- ENTOMOLOG-Y-- LOCKHART BECOMES EDITOR OF THE
        ' QUARTERLY REVIEW '--BREAKFAST AT LOCKHART'S WITH SIR WALTER
        SCOTT-- VISIT TO CAMBRIDGE-- PLEASURE IN READING LAMARCK-- PLAN
        NING HIS FUTURE WORK-- ON INTOLERANCE IN SCIENCE.

       [Mr. Lyell's eyes having become stronger, he resumed the study
  of the law at his father's request, and was called to the bar in 1825,
 and went the Western Circuit for two years. He published a geo
 logical paper in Brewster's ' Edinburgh Journal of Science ' on a dike
 of Serpentine cutting through Old Red Sandstone in the county of
 Forfar, which is perhaps one of the best examples of Serpentine in
 this country, with all its characteristic mineral peculiarities intruding

 itself in the manner of trap in the sedimentary strata. A paper on

 shell marl, and fossil fruit of Charse, was printed in the Transactions
 of the Geological Society this same year.

     In 1826 he became a Fellow of the Royal Society, and he wrote

 papers on the Plastic Clay near Christen urch in Hampshire, and on
 the freshwater strata of Hordwell Cliff, Hants.

      His family left Bartley Lodge in the New Forest, Hants, to reside
 at the family seat, Kinnordy, Forfarshire.

     In 1827 Mr. Lyell wrote in the ' Quarterly Review ' an article

 on Scrope's ' Geology of Central France/ in which he showed how
 entirely he had imbibed the opinions of Playfair and Hutton, and
 considered that all geological monuments were to be interpreted by
reference to aqueous and igneous causes in action in the ordinary
 course of nature.]

                          CORRESPONDENCE.

                     To Gideon Mantell, Esq.

                 I Bartley Lodge, Southampton : July 20, 1825.

    My dear Sir, -- went to Fitton's when he came to town
for a few days in the beginning of this week, and was not a

1825.                  CLATHRARIUM.                             161

little gratified at being there when the Clathrariura, ray-

namesake, was found.1

You might have felt secure that so beautiful a specimen

as it really is would never have been thrown away even by

Imistake at the house of a geologist. Though did not see
IChantrey 2 about the Iguanodon's teeth, yet have no fear

of their safety, and that they will at length in his hands, like
the teeth of Cadmus's dragon, be productive of a fruitful

crop. Fitton has promised to inquire about them. He has

Ijust returned from examining the c Valley of Elevation/ as

Buckland calls it, at Highclere, which consider as caused by
a continuation of that elevating force which acted in a line

along the central axis of your great saddle of Surrey, Kent,

and Sussex, and which, if prolonged, would have elevated

the firestone beds (for such they prove to be) at Highclere.

    All this took place after the deposition of the London
Clay, and before it happened, the Plastic and London Clays

of the Hants and London basin were horizontally connected.

The chalk which now separates them was pushed up through

them, for, as Buckland observes, the highest chalk summit at
IInkpen Hill is still covered by decided Plastic Clay. Your
great valley is not a valley of denudation.       do not agree

with Buckland that much chalk has been carried away

between the north and south downs, for as two sides of a

triangle must be longer than the base, so when the horizontal

chalk was inclined from below London to the north downs,

and again from Lewes to Heaven knows how many miles

under the sea, how could there be other than an opening of

Isome miles ?
        remain here for a month or more, and perhaps may go

Ito Dresden to learn German this summer, or rather autumn,

but am not sure. Buckland, you know, is made by Lord
Liverpool a canon of Christ's Church, a good house, 1,000£.

per annum, and no residence or duty required. Surely such

places ought to be made also for lay geologists.

         Believe me, yours very truly,

                                                Charles Lyell.

1 ClathrariaLyelli, a fossil plant from the Wealden in Susses.  See Mantell's

Medals of Creation,
2 Sir Francis Chaatrey, sculptor.

VOL. I.                            M

162           SIR CHARLES LYELL.                  chap. vii.

              To His Sister.
                                                                                       November 20, 1825.

     My dear Marianne, --As chief keeper of the Bartleyan or

Lyellian Entomological Museum (for when we talk of small
things we should help them up with high-sounding names)
you may fairly expect me to report progress. The treasure

I brought to town remained peaceably in my cupboard till
Ithe first evening meeting of the Linnean Society, when
took in my pocket the small mahogany box, and you would

have been amused to see the greediness with which the

collectors examined two or three good things, and Curtis 3

I Iwas congratulated on having met with one so easily pigeoned,
for told him to help his collection if he could.                 after

wards took him the other moths, and you will be glad to

hear that one small buff Noctua filled a- chasm in his collec

tion {N. Flavilinia) not in Donovan. He told me once
that nothing was wanting in his that was not worth a

guinea. But the grand treasure is a new moth. Which

think you ? That ugly black Noctua of the size of Gamma
with white petticoats {alias under- wings) , which ' you and
Ithe other slaves of the lamp ' caught one night.                left at
Ileast one more of them at Bartley. This conceive was a
Iguinea one.  have given it to Curtis, and in return he

presents us with Sphinx Tilea and many moths, and pro

mises much more in payment besides naming them all.

But he says there are so few collectors in Scotland, that if
you choose to collect, without ever going out of the garden

at Kinnordy, you may purchase with Forfarshire Plialcence

an English collection worth many hundred pounds. Curtis

found so many things in Scotland last year, that he talks of

publishing an account of his cruise. The number of collec
tors of British Lepidoptera in town is very great, and makes

an extensive barter of Scotch insects the easiest thing pos

sible. Of the latter, 30 new Lepidoptera were found by
Curtis last summer, but in England, though they have 1,500

species, they seldom get a new one, even a minikin.

   With my love, believe me your affecCtiohnaartleesbroLtyheer,ll.

     8 John Curtis, Esq., F.R.S., author of British Entomology.

1825. 'QUARTERLY REVIEW:                                                         163

            To His Sister.

                London : December 4, 1825.

IMy dear Eleanor, -- really wisli that some of }'ou, or all

Iof you, would write to rue now and then. To confess to you

the truth, have been a little homesick since in town, and

after spending six very agreeable weeks without a grievance

at Bartley, 2 have missed the sight of a friend's cheerful

countenance till last week, when the Fittons, Buckland,

Iand Dr. Daubeny and Scrope,4 came to town. However,
have given in my resignation as Secretary for the end of

the year, and will revenge myself on Greenough & Co. by

an additional week if possible at Bartley at Christmas.

Coleridge informed me yesterday that he has given up the
Quarterly, and that Lockhart comes from Edinburgh in a week

to take it. He could not get my paper into his last number,

but would have put it into the next, with certain parts
abridged. He showed me how Gifford formerly cut to

pieces his papers, and this encouraged me much. Indeed,
Ihad been aware how difficult a task even for such a man
Ias Coleridge it had been to fit an article for the Review,
Ishould never have presumed to write.
                                       have at all events
Imade Coleridge's acquaintance, and though expect to be
Iwrecked in the attempt to pilot myself into the graces of a

new editor, shall not be ashamed with such encourao-e-
Iment to run the gauntlet. Scrope wants me to pay a visit

to Waverley Abbey, but shall not go, at least at present.
He is a clever, gentlemanlike man of fortune, of my own
age, and    --hasEvejurstyouprubalfisfehcetdionaatevebrryothcerre,ditable
Volcanoes.                                                                 work  on

                            Charles Ltell.

     4 George Poulett Scrope, son of G-. P. Thomson of Waverley Abbey, b.
1797, d. 1875. He showed an early taste for geology, and adopted Button's
doctrines. Author of Tlic Geology and Extinct Volcanoes of Central France,
and other works.

            M2

164            SIR CHARLES LYELL.                       chap. vii.

               To G. Mantell, Esq.

                                                                                Temple : January 3, 1826.

   IMy dear Sir, -- have received jour book and paid for it,
I-which hope your subscribers will do more punctually than

Macculloch. swears his do.

     Your eulogium on my c profound legal knowledge/ though
a severe quiz upon me, has not been quite so much a subject

Iof amusement to my friends as anticipated. Buckland,
Ihowever, was not a little merry yesterday at my expense.
Itold Murchison not to laugh too freely, for should get you by

way of a set-off to omit it in the second edition, and to substi
tute for it ' but more particularly to Mr. Murchison, Sec.

G. S., whose scientific acquirements, no less than his splendid
military achievements in the Peninsula under the Duke of

Wellington during the late war, are so well known and

appreciated.5

Buckland has got a letter from India about modern

hysenas, whose manners, habitations, diet, &c, are every

thing he could wish, and as much as could be expected had

they attended regularly three courses of his lectures.

     Yours very truly,  Charles Ltell.

               To G. Mantell, Esq.

               9 Crown Office Kow, Temple : June 22, 1826.
IMy dear Sir, -- much, regret missing you, particularly
I Ias had just got a copy of my paper ready for you.
                                                        live

near my old rooms. Do not talk of the G. S. As long as

Warburton allows the whole to rest on his sole shoulders,

and has a large mercantile business, and a hundred other

hobbies besides the principal one, the London University

(to which is now added M.P. for Bridport), so long publica
tion or real utility is out of the question ; and a secretary
might as well try to bring about reform, as Warburton in

I Ihis new capacity to throw open all the rotten boroughs.

But enough of this. must not sport radical, as am become
a Quarterly Reviewer. You will see my article just out on

1826.  BREAKFAST AT LOCKHARTS.                      165

c Scientific Institutions/ by which, some of my friends here
Ithink have carried the strong works of the enemy by storm.
I am now far on with a second, and hope to get it out in
Iless than three months.
                          mean to help myself out of
ICuvier largely, for must write what will be read. The
IPlesiosaurus is delightful, so is Stonefield and Cuckfield. If

you can send me comments on Buckland, will use them

delicately : also say how much of the great skeleton you have
Inow got together.
                    would give eight or ten lines to your
IMuseum --more hardly can --if you would put down on
this osteological topic any fact that is marvellous, also any

thing about the vegetation that you have gathered from

IAd. Brongniart. This would come in in another place.
       am over full of work, so believe me yours faithfully,
                                               Chaeles Ltell.

                    To His Father.

                          Temple, London : November 16, 1826.

     My dear Father, -- My breakfast with Lockhart this
morning was exceedingly pleasant. Sir Walter Scott is in

Ithe first place a far more genteel-looking man than Phillips

has represented him in his portrait, which, as had supposed
that to be flattering, surprised me considerably. His

hobbling was much greater than 1 had fancied. There was

only his daughter, Miss Scott, Mrs. Lockhart, a Dr. Gooch,
King's Librarian, and a Dr. Macculloch, a medical man. Sir

Walter was very cheerful, told a number of good stories on

subjects always started by others. They were more remark
able for the rich fund he had of them, than for anything
else. None of them were brilliant, but all pleasant. For

Iinstance, a Mr. Simpson was talked of. * Ah, how is Jemmy ?
  shall not forget his coming into the theatre just as Mrs.

Siddons had entered her box, and been received by a round
of applause from the audience.
the stage, inquired the cause.  "  Jemmy, seeing    no one on
                                                    esteem and
                                   It is a mark of

consideration the public have for you, Mr. S.," said a friend.

Jemmy went to the front of his box and made three low
bows, to the infinite amusement of all who knew him. --Now

!66             SIR CHARLES LYELL.           chap. vii.

that was a cruel joke.' His language is remarkably far
from being refined, there is positively a blunt simplicity in
it. ' The French/ he said, ' are certainly in better humour
with the English than formerly --we are up there.' When

Ithe increasing Catholicism was talked of, he said, c think
Iit will not go beyond a party, but wish the royal family
Imay not run their heads against that thing.' He said, ' Yes

terday was at Chantrey's, and recommend you all to go
and see his statue of Washington.' Lockhart said, 'As
Iportrait-painting is so profitable, wonder there is not one
Igood painter now but Sir Thomas Lawrence.'
                                             observed

'Phillips has surely painted some excellent portraits.' Sir
Walter replied, ' Yes -- but Phillips is quite a hit and miss

man.' Sir Walter declared himself no judge of the art, but

went on making some curious remarks on the peculiar diffi

culties painters now labour under, compared to the great

Imasters of old, and added, c have seen a great advance in

Ithe English school since remember.' Mrs. Lockhart is a

Yery agreeable person. Lockhart sent me a paper in slips
Ithe other day on our < Public Schools,' to ask me my opinion.
   rewrote some passages relating to the introduction of
elementary information in Natural History, &c , which he

has adopted, as well as other suggestions. My plan is now
to write an article next number but one, on ' Scotch Univer

sities,' or our whole system in Great Britain and Ireland,

I Iwhich begin to hope shall master. In the number after
Ia Geological article, already on the stocks ; and then, if can
manage it, a shorter paper on our Scotch and English
scientific journals, and Scotch and Irish scientific institu
tions. -- Believe me your affectionate son,

                                                    Charles Lyell.

                To His Sister.

                                                                            London : January 5, 1827.

     IMy dear Marianne, -- am glad to hear that, notwith

Istanding a tiger broke loose,5 so little damage was done in
the menagerie.  hope that the first week the house is free

                fi In the insect box.

1827. VISIT TO CAMBRIDGE.                            167

from company you will proceed not only to arrange, but to

Ireset everything that stands at all in need of it, for can
promise you that unless you get on you will have more on

your hands than you can manage when Curtis's next box,
Iwith a certain arrival from another quarter, which have
Ijust heard is on the road, reaches you.
                                              staid with Sped-

ding6 a week at Cambridge, at Trinity Hall, learnt much

from Professor Henslow 7 and his friends, to whom he intro

duced me, about the Cambridge system, for my paper ; made

an agreeable acquaintance in Marin aduke Ramsay, brother

of Sir Alexander Earn say, a gentlemanlike Fellow of Jesus.
Grand festivities at Trinity Hall and St. John's, great
Idinners, suppers, and male routs.
                                    paid my expenses by
I Iwhat won at whist, though revoked one night ! Copley,8
Master of the Rolls, was at Trinity Hall, most excellent

company. He conversed easily with every one, and upon

my mere general introduction there, he talked with me when

we met at other colleges. Lord Palmerston made me a stiff

bow, the contrast of his maimer to Copley was entertaining,

for his was a perpetual canvas and acting a part. He said

that Dr. Spiirtzheim (who has lately lectured at Cambridge)
was ' an ingenious humbug,5 which is just what most men,

even his supporters, think of him at the University. One

I Inight, when went to hear the Hymn at Trinity Chapel,
fell in with William Ramsay of Bamff, in his surplice. The

I Inew buildings are beautiful, and will immortalise Wilkinson

the architect. begin to think must divide my article into

two, and write the first chiefly on the English universities.
I IIf Lockhart cannot stand it, will try Jeffrey.
                                                   am going
Ito Devizes Sessions on Monday next, three days' work.
think you will get more chilblains than colymbetes in the
Iloch in winter. When you fish there take shells also, as
Ishould publish a list in some future marl paper. When
Icalled yesterday on Mrs. Smythe,9
                                              caught her making an
abstract from La Place's e Astronomy ' of those facts and

speculations which could be made intelligible to persons not

mathematicians.  Her selection is so beautiful  and  striking
                                                                      &5

6 T. S. Spedding, of Mise House, Cumberland.

7 Professor of Botany.     a Afterwards Lord Lyndhurst.

9 Wife of Admiral Smythe.

168          SIR CHARLES LYELL.           chap. vii.

Ithat wlien it is finished shall get a copy. Professor Hens-

low says that the Cambridge and Huntingdonshire marshes
swarm in some seasons with Machaons and Lyccena dispar,

and he will get me some. He showed me a good beginning
of a collection of British insects at their Philosophical

Societ}r.                                 Charles Ltell.

              Tour affectionate brother,

             To G. Mantell, Esq.

                                          London : March 2, 1827.

I My dear Sir, -- On my return from the circuit yesterday
  found your second letter, having received the first with
Lamarck at Dorchester. You know that half my time is
now spent at Sessions, Circuits, &c, and must not therefore

be surprised when you receive no immediate answers to your

Icorrespondence, which always receive with great pleasure.
I devoured Lamarck en voyage, as you did Sismondi, and
Iwith equal pleasure. His theories delighted me more than

any novel ever read, and much in the same way, for they
address themselves to the imagination, at least of geologists

Iwho know the mighty inferences which would be deducible

were they established by observations. But though admire
even his flights, and feel none of the odium theologicum

I I Iwhich some modern writers in this country have visited him

with, confess read him rather as hear an advocate on
Ithe wrong side, to know what can be made of the case in
good hands.  am glad he has been courageous enough and
logical enough to admit that his argument, if pushed as far
as it must go, if worth anything, would prove that men may

have come from the Ourang-Outang. But after all, what

changes species may really undergo ! How impossible will it

be to distinguish and lay down a line, beyond which some of

the so-called extinct species have never passed into recent

Iones. That the earth is quite as old as he supposes, has long

been my creed, and will try before six months are over to
convert the readers of the Quarterly to that heterodox
Iopinion.
             should like to discuss these matters with you at
ILewes, but between law excursions and town studies, have

1827. PLANNING FUTURE WORK.                      169

I IIfnever a moment to spare.
                              ever can will, and give you
I Inotice, and can assure you, tliat know shall receive a wel

Icome, and you need not, therefore, repeat your kind invitation.
        wish among your new Groombridge fossils there had
been a good cetacean, for theoretically it would be of more
Iimportance than the iguanodon. Not that doubt some of
Ithe oolitic cetacea.  am going to write in confirmation of

ancient causes having been the same as modern, and to show

that those plants and animals which we know are becoming

preserved now, are the same as were formerly. E.g., scarcely

any insects now, no lichens, no mosses, &c, ever get to places

where they can become imbedded in strata. But quadrupeds

do in lakes, reptiles in estuaries, corals in reefs, fish in sea,

plants wherever there is water, salt or fresh, &c. &c. Now

have you ever in Lewes levels found a bird's skeleton or any

cetacea ? if not, why in Tilgate and the Weald beds ? In our

Scotch marl, though water birds abound in those lakes, we

meet with no birds in the marl ; and they must be at least as
rare as in old freshwater formations, for they are much
worked and examined. You see the drift of my argument --

ergo, mammalia existed when the oolite and coal, &c, were
formed. Broderip l says, that in spite of all the dogs and
cats which float down the Thames, none of their remains

have been found in recent excavations in the Thames depo
If Isits. Send me your thoughts on the subject.
                                                 am asked
Iwhy in coal there are no quadrupeds 9 answer, why are there

none, nor any cetacea, nor any birds, nor any reptiles in the

plastic clay, or lignite formation, a very analogous deposit,
and as universal in Europe ? Think of these matters, and

believe me yours most truly,  Charles Lyell.

                               To His Father.

                                                                                      April 10, 1S27.

   IMy dear Father, -- was glad to hear this morning from
IKinnordy, as had had no news since you were snowed up.

Leonard Horner is in town from Edinburgh, very a propos to

    1 William John Broderip, zoologist, especially devoted to molluscous
animals, died 1859.

170  SIR CHARLES LYELL.    CHAP. VII.

keeping me right in my article, as he is a great education
man, as well as geologist. His gratitude to me for having
got into the ' Quarterly Eeview ' an article on the liberal side

of geology is very agreeable. He is eager to serve me, and

Iwanted me to let him go carefully over the article, with his

friend Brougham, which begged him not to do, as Mr.
Brougham might make. a good joke out of revisals of ' Quar
terly Review ' articles. Horner himself is a safe man.

Brougham had second business, next to Scarlett, this last

Icircuit, a fine thing. He has published two pamphlets which
  have not read, one ' On the Pleasures of Education to the

Poor/ and the other on Hydrostatics, which are having
a prodigious sale : they talk of ten thousand copies going
off in a short time. Scrope has just published a volume on

IAuvergne, with beautiful panoramic and geological views of

the country. As am, with many others, indignant at an

Iatrocious article which Macculloch2 wrote on his late work

on volcanoes, in the Westminster, am determined to give

Ihim a moderately long article in the ' Quarterly Review/ a

sort of abstract which conceive will take one-fourth the
Itime of an original article, and the latter, as far as science is

concerned, should not be, am clear, given to a periodical.

All that Fitton means, can be done easily in an elementary

book, like Mrs. Marcet's ' Conversations on Chemistry/ for

which one might get well paid, without much credit, and

I I Iwithout putting one's name, and which is greatly wanted.

But if wrote anything, would wait longer (unless was
in want of cash), and certainly a work even elementary, which

would gain one reputation, would neither be done in a few
Imonths nor easily.
                     have my doubts as to leaving sessions
Ion the score of economy.
                           found the additional time of
Iwhich am master, in consequence of ostensibly following a

profession, is very great, and perhaps the 30 L that sessions

Icost me, might be annually returned by an additional article,

which might be thereby enabled to write. It is wonderful
how little mercy one's friends have on one's time, if one has

no excuse deemed valid for declining unprofitable parties,
or refereeships of papers, or secretaryships, &c. The circuit

     2 Author of Description of tlie Western Islands of Scotland* and other
works.

1827.       ENTOMOLOGY.                              171

costs under 50L, everything included. My purse would not
Ihave required replenishing for some time, but am much
Iobliged to you for anticipating my wants as usual.
                                                     find
Ithem diminish monthly, in proportion as am more agree
ably employed, and if with the willingness to work and

I Iindustry which now have, had any chance of earning what
I Irequire by my own exertions, should be without a care,
Ias far as am myself concerned. But to be willing without

avail to work hard, and almost for nothing, is now the fate
of many hundreds of barristers, and many millions of our

labouring classes, and we must congratulate ourselves at not
I Ibeing among the latter.
            am quite clear, from all that

have yet seen of the world, that there is most real indepen

dence in that class of society who, possessing moderate means,

are engaged in literary and scientific hobbies ; and that in

ascending from them upwards, the feeling of independence

Idecreases pretty nearly in the same ratio as the fortunes

increase. My eyes go on tolerably, and feel my facility of

composition increases, and hope to make friends among
those that a literary reputation will procure me who may

assist me.

            Believe me, your affectionate son,

                                             Charles Ltell.

                               To His Sister.

                                                                                                                                 1827.

    Dear Marianne, -- Curtis sends me a note to say that there
are good things among the Spring insects, and says the Miss
Lyells will do wonders in Scotland. He hopes you will get
some general knowledge of botany, as a little knowledge
even of the wild Scotch plants would, he says, double the

value of }rcur entomological information. It is a singular

proof of how much more is to be done in entomology in
North Britain than in botany, that Curtis found in his ex
cursion last summer in Lepidoptera alone thirty insects new
to Britain, and some quite unknown and new ; while Dr.

I IHooker has never found more than, how many plants ? not

ten, think recollect. Tou will be glad to hear that Mr.
Vigors has sent five specimens of the clear-winged Sphinx

172        SIR CHARLES LYELL.                                                                        CHAP. VII.

Ic tulipif ormis ' and a great many Noctiirna and Coleoptera, &c,
all named, as a present to our collection.                                                           told him that

Curtis was to have the first picking of whatever you got in
'IForfarshire, to which he said, was once in Edinburgh, and
Icollected only for two days in June, and would give all my
I Iduplicates for half the things
                                       got in those two days/

met with the Rev. D. Cooke, nephew of the geologist. He

says when he next sends to Curtis he will send for us that

beautiful insect Cardbus nitens, and wants from us Chryso-

mela Banhsii in return, of which you should send up four

the first opportunity,

           Your affectionate brother,                                                                Charles Ltell.

                        To His Sister.

                                                                                                     Temple : December 9, 1827.

    My dear Caroline, --Captain Smythe3 called here, in town
for a few days. Mrs. S. and family quite well, and like

Bedford much. He is building a very fine observatory, the

Astronomical Society having done him the honour of voting

Ihim the use of some valuable instruments bequeathed to

them. On Thursday breakfasted with Dr. Richardson,

Iand gathered much useful information in geology from a

tete-a-tete with him. On Wednesday dined at Briscoe5 s :
he had been in the tunnel that morning, which is now pro

ceeding vigorously. Gurney the engineer seems determined

to run a steam coach from this to Southampton -- the other
day it went round the Regent's Park without a horse, and

ran against a gate. But he says he shall put one horse in
is
front, who will guide   and have no weight to pull, but
      *

       II
             Ia
                 I

                                   it,

                                              a

                                                                                                  *
merely to canter ten or twelve miles an hour. The machine

built. have sent off heavy box of fossils for the tower

[at Kinnordy], white hare stuffed would be a desirable
           miss several dogs' jaws and the cat's skull in
addition.

the bones which brought from the marl.4 When you have

time, inquire about them. Clift pronounces the bones to
be the same animals had supposed, including the wolf, but

     Admiral Symthe, F.R.A.S., F.G.S.                                                                From the Loch of Kinnordy.

18 27. INTOLERANCE IN SCIENCE.                       173

a few are still to be made out. Of the insects in the marl,

Curtis says that except two or three he cannot pronounce
Ifeven on the family, they are such mere fragments.
                                                     one

leg or antenna had been found, he says he would have hit off

the family. Two seemed to be Bembidium, and another,

Helops Lim. His curiosity, however, is much excited by some

of the elytra, and if there are many fragments of the marl

still in the garden, send them, for every morsel has been

Ijjulled to pieces ; and as for the rock marl with gyragonites, it

is all gone, and could dispose of another great box. Curtis
showed me with much pleasure a noctna sent in your spring

box. It is new to him, he thinks to all. It comes nearest

to Hadena plebeia and Leucostegina, but is of a more lively

grey colour than Acronicta rumicis. As to the small phalcena

you are quite right. It is the one which he hopes may be

new ; but he thinks a new noctua of marvellously more im

portance than a phalcena. The Miss Walkers caught on

Ben Nevis and Ben Voirlich, at about 3,000 feet high, some

new and many rare Lepidoptera, which they have sent Curtis.

We must positively mount next year.

        Your affectionate brother,   Charles Ltell.

        To Gideon M^ntell, Esq.

                                                         Southampton : December 29, 1827.

IMy dear Sir, -- am on a visit here to an uncle, where

some of my sisters are staying, and for a short season am to

be in a continued round of dinners and balls, but shall at

Ileast secure a half-hour, in writing to you, from these amuse
ments.  hope Dr. Fitton and Mr. Murchison have said

something to you about filling up the map of Sussex, and
certain corrections of green sand, &c, near Portsdown

Hill.
-II marvel less at Dr.  's anticipations (as I supposed
Ithem) in geological speculation, now that
Ifollowed Hutton, and cites him.            observe he

                                     think he ran unneces

sarily counter to the feelings and prejudices of the age.
This is not courage or manliness in the cause of Truth, nor

does it promote its progress. It is an unfeeling disregard

174  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                        CHAP. VII.

for the weakness of human nature, for as it is our nature

(for what reason Heaven knows), but as it is constitutional in

Iour minds, to feel a morbid sensibility on matters of reli

gious faith, conceive that the same right feeling which

guards us from outraging too violently the sentiments of our

neighbours in the ordinary concerns of the world and its
If Icustoms should direct us still more so in this.
                                                     had
Ibeen Sir A. Campbell, would have punished those Chris

tian soldiers who dug up the idols of the Burmese temples

in the late campaign, and sent them home as trophies. To

insult their idols was an act of Christian intolerance, and,
Ifuntil we can convert them, should be penal.
                                               a philoso

pher commits a similar act of intolerance by insulting the

idols of an European mob (the popular prejudices of the
day), the vengeance of the more intolerant herd of the igno
rant will overtake him, and he may have less reason to com
plain of his punishment than of its undue severity. I ~

     Believe me, most truly yours, Charles Lyell.

1828.  AVA FOSSILS.                              175

                      CHAPTEE VIII.

                           JANUARY-SEPTEMBER 1828.

ARRIVAL OF AVA FOSSILS-- BOTANICAL CHAIR, LONDON UNIVERSITY --DR.
     FLEMING'S HISTORY OF BRITISH ANIMALS --PART Y AT SIR GEORGE
     PHILLIPS'S-- TOUR ABROAD WITH MURCHISON-- PARIS-- JOURNEY TO
    A UVERGNE-- SECONDARY AND FRESHWATER FORMATIONS OF FRANCE-
    VOLCANIC PHENOMENA NEAR CLERMONT -- COUNT DE MONTLOSIER --
    BEAUTIFUL SCENERY ABOUT MONT DOR --CANTAL FOSSILS -- ENTOMOLOGY
    --NICE-- MURCHISON OVERTAKING HIS STRENGTH --PAPER ON EXCAVA
     TION OF VALLEYS -- DETERMINES TO GO TO NAPLES AND SICILY -- LETTER
     TO HERSCHEL --PARTS FROM THE MURCHISONS AT PADUA -- GIOTTO'S
    .PAINTINGS.

    [In 1828, when he had already planned and made notes for the
' Principles of Geology,' Mr. Lyell set out on a tour to Auvergne and
Northern Italy with Mr. Murchison, and after parting from him in

Lombardy, he continued his journey alone to Home, Naples, and
Sicily. The results of this tour appear partly in scientific memoirs
jointly by his fellow-traveller and himself, and partly in the ' Prin

ciples of Geology.' Among the former, is a paper on the Excavation

of Valleys, as illustrated by the volcanic rocks of Central France,
read before the Geological Society in 1828, and published the year
after in the Edinburgh ' New Philosophical Journal ; ' also a paper on
the Tertiary Strata of the Cantal, published in France, in the ' Annales
des Sciences,' 1829; and another on the Tertiary Freshwater Strata of
Aix, in Provence, in the Edinburgh ' New Philosophical Journal/

 1829.]

       CORRESPONDENCE.

       To Gideon Mantell, Esq.

       IMy dear Sir, -- The best news       Temple : January 17, 1828.

                                       can send yon is the safe
arrival in Bedford Street l of the Ava fossils, of which you

       1 Where the Geological Society then was.

176  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                                  chap. viii.

saw a brief account in Jamieson's last Journal from the
' Calcutta Gazette/ To say that they surpass in value any
collection ever brought to Europe, from any other quarter of

the globe, is to say little. In a few days the Embassy have

done us a service which a man's lifetime might have been

deemed well bestowed in rendering.
      Crawford,2 late Governor of Singapore, F.G.S., and author

in our Transactions, was sent ambassador to the Burrnan

King. On his return from Ava, down the Irawaddi, which
they descended in a steamboat, they were detained many
days in Lat. 21 N., the river having been half dried up, and
the boat stranded. There was a line of hills on each side,

between the river and the hills, an irregular sandy lowish

region (about 300 feet above the sea). All over the surface,

which was nearly bare, silicified fossils were sticking up,
whose weight perhaps had resisted, when loose sand and
gravel were washed away. Crawford employed his servants,
and bribed the natives, to collect, and they filled twelve
chests ! Almost entire jaws of a new species of mastodon
as big as an elephant -- different from the five species de
scribed by Cuvier -- smaller teeth of mastodon (Clift says may

be young ones of same) ; silicified ivory tuslr, teeth of
rhinoceros, fragment of a bone of hippopotamus ; jaws and
skull of an enormous Gavial ; jaws and teeth of an alligator;

large scales, &c, of tortoises. Shells apparently freshwater
-- only one species -- Sowerby says a Cyrene. Wood trunks
of trees --monocotyledons, and perhaps dicotyledons --no

botanist has seen them, structure beautifully preserved, as

are all the teeth, &c.
     They appear to me to have been all converted into a

ferruginous chert while most of them were quite perfect,
both bones and plants. Jamieson is wrong in saying they
are not at all rolled. They are in some instances slightly
rounded by attrition, done of course when in a soft state.
Inside the hollow trunks, and adhering to the bones, is a
ferruginous gravel exactly like Tilgate aggregate bed. The

whole room and yard in Bedford Street looks as if it

were filled with magnificent Tilgate fossils. They are of a

     2 Mr. John Crawford, author of The Embassy to Ava.

1 828.                FUTURE WORK.                                177

yellow ferruginous colour. Saurians lying in all directions --

here an immense femur, there a long stem-like Clathraria

Lyelli ; here the scale of a large tortoise, there a shell and
teeth of alligator, &c. &c. They will be exhibited to-morrow,
and Buckland is expected to lecture on them in the evening,

after the anniversary dinner.

                      Very          truly yours,          Ltell.
                                                 Charles

        To Gideon Mantell, Esq.

                                                                     Temple : February 5, 1828.

IMy dear Sir, -- have been out of town for ten days in

Hants, with some of my family who are there on a visit from

Scotland. We also went to stay at Dr. and Mrs. Buckland's,

at Oxford. The Canon has a glorious house, and is admir

Iably set down for himself and geology.
        at first intended to write  ' Conversations  on  Geology   '  it
                                                                  :

is what no doubt the booksellers, and therefore the greatest

number of readers, are desirous of. My reason for aban

I Idoning this form was simply this; that found should

Inot do it at all, without taking more pains than such a form

would do justice to. Besides, felt that in a subject where

so much is to be reformed and struck out anew, and where
one obtains new ideas and theories in the progress of one's

task, where you have to controvert, and to invent an argu
mentation -- work is required, and one like the c Conversations

on Chemistry ' and others would not do. It should hardly

be between the teacher and scholar perhaps, but a dialogue

Ilike Berkeley's Alciphron, between equals. But finally,
Ithought, that when had made up my own mind and opinions
Iin producing another kind of book, might then construct

Iconversations from it. In the meantime there is a cry among

the publishers for an elementary work, and much wish you

would supply it. Anything from you would be useful, for what

they have now is positively bad, for such is Jamieson's Cuvier.

Buckland has been very quiet as yet as to the manifest

difficulties of the Ava fossils, but will no doubt hold forth at

the general meeting.  Yours most truly,

     vol. I                            Charles Lyell.

                               n

178  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                     CHAP. VIII.

     To Dr. Fleming^3

                                     Temple : February 6, 1828.

    My dear Sir, --Lockhart is exceedingly pleased with the
salmon fishery article, and tells me it had, among other

merits, that which, unfortunately for him, few papers have,

and which is no small charm to an editor, the requiring no

Isentence mending, a drudgery which he abhors, and which

he says cuts up his whole time. Murray also, when last

saw him, thanked me for having been the channel of pro

curing your article. He has a good publisher's tact for
knowing beforehand what people will read. Dr. Hooker4

has at last made up his mind, and rejected the botanical

chair5 here in form. Young Lindley, the Horticultural Gar

den Secretary, told me yesterday that even he is now no

longer a candidate ; thinking, that as there will be no com
pulsory attendance for medical students, such a class will be

precarious and a failure, and that the University do not

Iguarantee such a minimum as can warrant a man, who has
anything certain to give up, in venturing.  fear they have

made this mistake, that they have not determined to bribe

able men for the chairs that can scarcely be profitable from

the classes ; for Babbage viewed it in this light when offered

Ithe mathematical chair. c What they will secure to me/ he

said, ( is no more than could make in the same number of

hours by authorship, and get more fame. They have no

Idignity to confer as yet, they have their reputation to make.

  have not. If, as they admit, they wish to get some from
Ime, why they ought to buy it, and pay for it.5 Curtis has

found many new and rare insects among our last batch.
look forward to our having a grand bout of entomology and

geology in the hills next summer, and bringing back a great

stock of health and knowledge.
     Ever most truly yours,
                               Charles      Lyell.

8 The Rev. Dr. Fleming, naturalist.  4 Afterwards Sir William Hooker.

     5 At the London University.

1828. FLEMING'S 'BRITISH ANIMALS,'                                179

                         To His Sister.

                                  Temple : February 11, 1828.

My dear Caroline, -- Curtis has positively made out the

very species of two insects preserved in the marl,6 and what

is curious, though now known as northern insects, they are
Ineither of them very common, nor believe ever caught by
Ius, nor are they water beetles.
                                  cannot give you the names,

but one is of the Elateridce. That dark clay seam between

the marls was by a summer's flood, as these insects prove.

You really must have worked hard to name so many. On

Ithe 20th you shall have the last batch named by Curtis.

Ihave long looked out for a P. cratcegi in vain, but will get
one for our Artaxerxes.  remember one season at Bartley

when it swarmed, and they are so stupid, you may take

them up with your hand.
                              Your affectionate brother,

                                                  Charles Lyell.

To Dr. Fleming.

                                                       Temple, London : April 9, 1828.

IMy dear Sir, -- have delayed an unreasonable time in
thanking you for a copy of your ' British Animals,5 7 for which

I Iam truly obliged to yon,, and the Preface of which read
Iimmediately with much interest, and hope to make myself

gradually master of the rest. think that by putting forth

your Geological Epochs you have done yourself but justice,

Iand whatever modifications may be made hereafter on such
a system as you proposed, it is one which  firmly expect
will ultimately prevail in geology ; and your priority in deve
Iloping the idea, even so far in this country, will be referred

back to with honour. had fully intended to commence forth
Iwith an article for the ' Quarterly Review/ but was prevented

by many circumstances. One was, that agreed to go with

Mr. Murchison at the end of the present month to France,

to be in Auvergne by the first week in May, to study the

6 At Kinnordy.
' A ' History of British Animals,' by Dr. John Fleming.

                                           n2

180  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                       chap. viii.

volcanic district for some months, and connect Scrope's
country with that round Marseilles, and perhaps the

IVicentin. My chief defence is, that did hardly dare review
Iyour work until had obtained more knowledge of zoology,

and of systematic arrangements, for your system has been
the subject of so much criticism and cavil here, that a man

need know what he is about, if he really intends to do you

any good by a review.

     They say that in putting mollusca before insects, you

have committed the great blunder in which Lamarck had
Ithe honour of setting Cuvier right.
                                       do not pretend to
Ihave an opinion on these subjects yet, but certainly have
more respect for a hornet than a snail, even now that they

have found out in New South Wales how the former

Icannot help making true hexagons. As for omission of ani

mals, recent and fossil, have no doubt you are aware of the

bats and other deficiencies, which will come out in second

edition as Vespertilio pygmceus.

                              Believe me, very truly yours,

                                              Charles Ltell.

                       To His Father.

                                                                                     London : April, 1828.

     IMy dear Father, -- chaperoned Mrs. Somerville to Sir

George Phillips's on Sunday evening, after a dinner at Dr.

Somerville?s. Sir G., who is one of the new Baronets, is an

M.P., as is his son. A room full of Sir J. Reynolds's and

other good pictures, and a famous living gallery of portraits.
The party was -- Sir Walter
novelist), Mrs. Marcet and     Scott, Cooper  J.(thMe aAckminetroicsahn,
                              daughter, Sir

Rogers the poet, Dumont the Genevese jurisconsult, c Con
versation ' Sharp, Lady Davy, Spring Rice, M.P.,8 Dr. Wol-

laston,9 Newton the American artist, Mr. and Mrs. Lockhart,

Scott's son and unmarried daughter, &c. Lady Davy, to

whom Mrs. Somerville introduced me, was talking well of

I IManzoni's new celebrated novel, c promessi sposi/ so got
'Iher afterwards upon Dante; and she said, bought Rossetti,1

8 Afterwards Lord Monteagle.           9 Natural philosopher.

     1 A commentator on Dante.

1828.                   LADY DAVY.    181

Iand read some, but left off for fear should feel obliged to
Igive way to his theories.
                            am a devoted admirer of Dante,

and should never forgive the man who lessened him in my

Iestimation. There was too much politics perhaps before, but
an allegory in every word is horrid.  admire Johnson for

saying after all his labours the honest truth, that a person

had best read Shakespeare after all, quite through, before he

I Ilooked at a single note, and advise all to read Dante as
Ihave done, three times, and as mean to do a fourth, before
Ithey read Eossetti. There is much that cannot under

stand, it is true, but there is much that delights me.5 Lock-

hart asked me to breakfast with him next morning, where

Sir Walter was, who wa.s good-humoured enough to re

member me. He is much aged since last year, but pleasant

company. Mrs. Lockhart says she cannot take so many

bairns north of the Tweed this year, but she was much

pleased with the invitation to Kinnordy, and says she had

such a fancy to see Strathmore, that nothing but positive

illness prevented her.

                        Ever yours affectionately,

                                           Chaeles Lyell.

                           To Mr. Murchison.

                                                                       Temple : April 29, 1828.

   IMy dear Murchison, -- hope you have not been expecting

Ia letter sooner, bub was desirons of seeing my way as much
Ias possible before wrote.2 Herschel called the other day

with the camera lucida, and told me some experiments which
they have had in melting granite into a slag, like lava, in

Iglass furnaces (he and Faraday), that are apropos to us ;

but more of that anon, as also an evening spent with
Scrope, ' Auvergnising.'

   IHerschel rather alarmed me by prophesying the plague

should have with my barometers, but 1 shall take them at

Iall events. Dr. Hooker begs me to attend to the plants, as

to the soils they live on, so called on Bicheno,3 who is now
the authority in these matters. He says all we can do is to

               2 Projected tour with Mr. Murchison.
               3 An English botanist, secretary to the Linnsean Society.

182  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. VIII.

attend to the plants which abound, as, for instance, he has
done to heath in England, which is restricted in large
quantities to two or three formations. When we come to a

recent crater, or half-covered stream of lava, it will be really

a very curious point to ascertain what is growing on it. If

there was a large tree growing on the most recent stream,

it would be almost worth having it cut down, for if it had,

as some are said to have in IN or way, 1,500 rings, we should

carry the eruption back to Noah, allowing many centuries
before any tree grew. But, joking apart, the trees and pre

Ivailing plants on the recent cones, &c, will be important.
    have set up the proper boards for drying. My father
writes to persuade me to take my clerk. His chief object is

that he fears my eyes, which got weak some years ago under

the sun of Italy, will require the assistance of my well-
trained amanuensis, and that in this way some plants will

Ireally be obtained for Dr. Hooker and himself, and some

insects for my sisters. If take him, he will of course find his

way per coach to Auvergne, and find his way when there on

Ihis legs principally, and I should not give him the barometers,

as this disables the bearer from work, and should possibly

I I Isend him back when I quitted the mountains of France. He

is clever, and doubt not should do more with him, but

am not quite decided if it will answer the additional expense,

Iand am sorry cannot talk over with you any possible objec
Ition that you might have to another servant. However,
Iwill take care, if bring him, that he keeps clear of incom

moding the party.
                       Believe me, ever most truly yours,

                                              Charles Ltell.

                              To His Father.

                                 Hotel Mont Blanc, Rue de la Paix, Paris : May 9, 1828.

   IMy dear Father, -- left London May 4, slept at Dover,

and on Monday evening got into the mail at Calais with
Hall.4 Next day stopped only three hours at Amiens, and
arrived at Paris four o'clock on Wednesday morning. After

                                                       4 His clerk.

1828.                      PARIS.  183

four hours' sleep, breakfasted with Murchison, and had a

grand day seeing people, and in the evening cut in for a
famous lecture of Prevost's on Geology --cozed till midnight

with him here, and next morning again with him at break

fast. He is very well, has two children, Madame in the

country, at Montmorency. He is as keen as ever about

Geology. Murchison has planned everything capitally, and

unless my confounded passport, not sent in time from Calais,

does not detain us. we start for Clermont to-morrow, geolo

gising a little en route.

Murchison has ordered his letters to Clermont Ferrand.

Mrs. M. very well and in good spirits. Has been dining with

Lady Granville, Pozzo di Borgo, Cuvier, and other great

personages, fashionable and scientific, and no end to offers

of boxes to opera, &c. ; but science and real work is made in

spite of this the main object, and other advantages all made

Ito turn to account in this way. They are both very indus
trious.  have seen Ferussac, Duvan, Dufresnoy, Elie de

Beaumont, and am to meet the three former again to-day.
     With my love to all, believe me, your affectionate son,

                                               Charles Ltell.

                              To His Fathee.

                                                Clermont Ferrand, Auvergne : May 16, 1828.

   IMy dear Father, --We left Paris on Sunday, May 10,

Murchison and on the box of his light open carriage, and
Mrs. M. and a Swiss maid in the inside. Started at half-
past six o'clock, and carriage broke down in boulevard, op
posite the coachinaker's, who had made a precious job of
remedying some slight damage.

     Most of the road from Fontainebleau to Moulins was
dreadfully out of repair, but the vehicle was got safe over,
and in proportion as we approached the mountains, and re
ceded from Paris, the roads and rate of posting improved,
and at last averaged nine miles an hour, and the chancre
of horses almost as quick as in England. The politeness ako
of the people has much delighted us, and they are so intel
ligent, that we get much geology from them.

     The processions of ' Rogation/ and yesterday of the fete

184  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                       chap. viii.

of Ascension Day, have shown a strange contrast between

the religions faith of the Auvergnois, and the provinces

around, and to the north of the Loire. In the latter, there

was literally none but priests singing, monks and choristers,

hundreds of fine young men, and in most cases only four or

five women and children following, sometimes not a single

man. We heard that in some processions to distant crosses

the priest had found himself at the cross alone. Here the

church and procession is as numerously attended as any in

Germany, yet the Jesuits have no influence, as they univer

sally return Liberal deputies. Murchison has letters from
Ithe Deputy La Fayette's son, which ensured us attention
from a useful medical savant on our arrival.  never did in

my life so much real geology in as many days. A good paper
might be written if we stopped here. We have learned many

new things in regard to secondary formations in France,,

north of the Loire, and since that we have positively found

that nothing was correctly known of the freshwater form

ation, either as to organic contents, inclination and disturb

ance of strata, mineral structure, &c. &c. So we think

of writing Q On the Freshwater Formation of Central France,

and its relations to the Primary, Secondary, and Volcanic

Rocks,5 &c. This may be considered quite a new and un
explored field, and when investigated, it must throw quite

a new light on the age of the volcanic rocks, and of the

elevation of the country, &c. We have generally begun

work at six o'clock, and neither heat nor fatigue have stopped

us an hour. Mrs. Murchison is very diligent, sketching,

labelling specimens, and making out shells, in which last

she is an invaluable assistant. She is so much interested in

the affair, as to be always desirous of keeping out of the

way when she would interfere with the work, and as far as

I Iyet see, it would be impossible to form a better party.

sent Hall by diligence here. He had a day before our

Iarrival, and collected insects, among which a specimen of
Papilio Antiojpe is the most showy.  will see what can be

done in plants, but the French say everything is well done

in the botany of Auvergne, no part of Europe better. So say

Ithe savans of Paris ; but so some say of the geology, of which

we find that nothing is done. Murchison, am happy to

1828.                  AUVERGNE.                      185

find, is quite of my mind to direct all our force to where
there is real work, to concentrate, and not to run, as Buck-

land has done, so that now he cannot literally publish on a

single spot on  the Continent.       wooded  plains,  picturesque
     Auvergne
                is beautiful --rich

Itowns, and the outline of the volcanic chain unlike any

other ever saw. The range of Mont Dore, seen over the

volcanic range from fifty miles to north of this, was covered

with snow, and looked like the Alps, but they say it will

soon melt.

We have been much surprised that ever siuce we left

the chalk and oolite, and entered the freshwater formations

along the Allier, we have never seen, till we came close to

Clermont, any volcanic pebbles in the gravel, which was

chiefly granitic. If most of the volcanoes were antediluvian,

Iand Buckland's deluge caused the diluvium, how could this
have happened?         verily believe that we have collected

already a larger number of organic remains, from quadrupeds

down to fossil seeds and shells, than have yet been published

as belonging to Auvergne.   IMurchison is a famous hand at
a bargain, and as he takes
through very economically.  that on himself, hope to get
                              He always makes a bargain

before going into an inn, by which much time and expense
are saved in the end. We get off within a third of what the
natives pay, and for half what John Bull does en route ; but,

thanks to his campaigning of old, he loses no time in trans

acting this business.

Believe me, your affectionate son,           Charles Ltell.

                             To His Father.

                                                Clermont Ferrand, Auvergne: Maj^ 26, 1828.

IH My dear Father, -- have just returned again to Clermont,

from an expedition of five days, and we have discovered that
there is no end to the work to be done in this country, and
that it is of the most interesting description. The first day
was spent in ascending some of the lofty volcanic Puys near
here. Mrs. Murchison accompanied us, and then returned
to Clermont, where she employed herself during our absence

186  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap. viii.

in making panoramic sketches, receiving several of the

gentry and professors, to whom we had letters, in the neigh
bourhood, and collecting plants and shells, &c, while Mur-

chison and I, with my man, went on in a patache, a one-horse

machine on springs. We first visited Pontgihand and the
Sioule, to see the excavations made by that river, in the

grand lava-current of Come, which descended from the
central range, and dispossessed the river of its bed. The
scenery was beautiful. Just as we were leaving the place,

the peasants offered to take us to a volcano farther down
the river. As no Puy was mentioned in Desmarest's accurate
map, nor by Scrope, we thought their account a mere fable ;
but their description of the cinders, &c, was so curious, that

we had the courage to relinquish our day's scheme, and proceed

again down the river.

     You may imagine our surprise when we found, within .a

ride of Clermont, a set of volcanic phenomena entirely un

known to Buckland, Scrope, or the natives here. A volcanic

cone, with a stream of basaltic lava issuing out on both
sides, and flowing down to the gorge of the Sioule. This

defile was flanked on both sides by precipitous cliffs of gneiss,

and the river's passage must have been entirely choked up

for a long time. A lake was formed, and the river wore a

passage between the lava and the granitic schist, but the
former was so excessively compact, that the schist evidently

suffered most. In the progress of ages, the igneous rock,

 150 feet deep, was cut through, and the river went on and ate
its way, 35, 45, and in one place 85 feet into the subjacent
 granitic beds, leaving on one bank a perpendicular wall of

 basaltic lava towering over the gneiss. In the Vivarrais,

 where similar phenomena had been observed, Herschel had
 remarked a bed of pebbles between the lava and the gneiss,
 marking the ancient river-bed, but Buckland endeavoured to
 get over this difficulty by saying that these pebbles might
 have covered a sloping bank when the river filled the valley,
 and that this bank may have always been high above the

river bed ; for if the sloping sides of a valley, said the Pro

 fessor, be covered with pebbles, as they often are, and the
 valley is filled with lava, and then the lava cut through and
 partially removed, there will of course be a line of pebbles at

1828.               VOLCANIC DISTRICT.                          187

the junction of the lava and the rock beneath, but these

pebbles will not mark an ancient river bed. Now, unluckily
for the Doctor in this case, he has no loophole. An old

lead mine, said to have been worked by the Romans, happens

to have exactly laid open the line of contact, and the pebble
bed of the old river is seen going in under the lava, horizon

tally, for nearly 50 feet. This is an astonishing proof of

what a river can do in some thousand or hundred thousand

years by its continual wearing. ISTo deluge could have de

scended the valley without carrying away the crater and

ashes above. 600 or 700 feet higher is an old plateau of

basalt, and if this flowed at the bottom of the then valley,

the last work of the Sioule is but a unit in proportion to the

other. There are several of the Clermont savans who,

since they discovered how much we were interested with

this, have given us to understand they intended to publish
on but no doubt they will take a year before they launch
it,

                it
out in the expense of a patache to Pontgibaud. Murchison

certainly keeps     up with more energy than anyone ever
                                                            II
travelled with, for Buckland, though he worked as hard,

always flew about too fast to make sure of anything. Mons.
Le Coq, the botanist, a clever young man, assures me that

the geology of the soils does not affect the botany of Auvergne.
  shall get some specimens from him for Dr. Hooker, expect.

None to be bought, at least this year, for seems there may

be hereafter. It a wonderful fact that Glaux maritima
I                                        a

             is                                it it
                                     is
grows round some saline springs here. Busset, an engineer,
who mapping Auvergne, has forced us to dine with him        a
to-morrow. As we know his object to be to get geology out of                  a
us, of which he knows nothing, M. fears will be bore, but
the man evidently clever. We shall get barometric heights

from him, and map of our little vokanic district, and if he

pumps unreasonably, shall find difficulty in expressing
myself in French. We are to meet Count Le Serres there,

    gentlemanlike and well-informed naturalist, who has
property on Mont Dore, and knows more geology than any
one we have met here, professors not excepted. He organised
a

              is
                          a

                  I

a.geological society here, and they chose Count Montlosier5

       Naturalist, author of an essav on the Extinct Volcanoes of Auvergne,5

b. 1755, d. 1838.

188            SIR CHARLES LYELL.                    chap. viii.

as president; but the Jesuits took alarm, and, declaring
that Montlosier had written a book against Genesis, got the
Prefect and Mayor and Government to oppose, and at last
put the thing down ; at least it merged in the regular scientific
Etablissement de la Ville, and Montlosier is just coming out
with a book against the Jesuits, a more popular subject in
France at present than geology. We are to visit him at his
chateau near Mont Dore. We like the people and the
country. --

               Believe me, your affectionate son,

                                             Chaeles Ltell.

                     To His Father.

                                        Bains de Mont Dore, Auvergne : June 6, 1828.

     IMy dear Father, -- am this moment arrived here, after

passing three delightful days at Count de Montlosier' s, an

old man of seventy-four, in full possession of faculties of no

mean order, and of an imagination as lively as a poet's of
Itwenty-five.
               stayed a day longer than the Murchisons, as
I was determined to have one more trial to find a junction

Ibetween the granite of the Puy chain and the freshwater

formations of the Limagne, and actually found it ; and my

Iday's work alone will throw a new light on the history of this
remarkable country.  believe most of the granite to have

made its appearance at the surface at a later period than

even the freshwater tertiary beds have, though they contain

the remains of quadrupeds.

     The scenery of Mont Dore is that of an Alpine valley,

deep, with tall fir woods, high aiguilles above, half covered
with snow, and cataracts and waterfalls. A watering-place
Iwith good inns at the bottom of the valley.
                                                     shall send
IHall back from here, as, although he has been useful, do
not think the advantage will overbalance the additional ex

pense. Le Coq has promised some plants for certain, and
Hall has done pretty well in insects.

     Believe   me,   your   affectionate  son,       Lyell.

                                            Charles

1828.  MR. MURCHISON.                             189

                              To His Motheb,.

                                       Bains de Mont Dore, Auvergne : June 11, 1828.

   IMy dear Mother, -- We have been so actively employed,
I Imay really say so laboriously, that assure you can with

great difficulty find a moment to write a letter. This morn
ing we got off, after breakfast at five o'clock, on horseback,

Ito return from St. Amand to this : arrived at seven o'clock.

But one day we rode fifty-five miles, which shall take care
shall be the last experiment of that kind, as even the old
Leicestershire fox-hunter was nearly done up with it. But

I I Ihave really gained strength so much, that believe that
Iand my eyes were never in such condition before ; and am

sure that six hours in bed, which is all we allow, and exer

cise all day long for the body, and geology for the mind,
with plenty of the vin du pays, which is good here, is the
best thing that can be invented in this world for my health
and happiness. Murchison must have been intended for a

very strong man, if the sellers of drugs had not enlisted him

into their service, so that he depends on them for his exist
ence to a frightful extent, yet withal he can get through
what would knock up most men who never need the doctor.
He has only given in one day and a half yet. On one occa

Ision we were on an expedition together, and as a stronger

dose was necessary than he had with him, was not a little
alarmed at finding there was no pharmacy in the place, but
at last went to a nunnery, where Mdlle. La Superieure sold
all medicines without profit --positively a young, clever, and
rather good-looking lady, who hoped my friend would think
better of it, as the quantity would kill six Frenchmen. M.
was cured, and off the next morning, as usual. The mischief

is, that he has naturally a weak though a sound stomach, and

if he possessed a more than ordinary share of self-denial, and

was very prudent, and after much exercise did not eat a good
dinner when set before him -- in short, he would take the

advice which many find easy to give him, he would be well.
     He has much talent for original observation in geology,

and indefatigable, so that we make much way, and are
thrown so much in the way of the people, high and low, by
       is
                                   it
                                             if,

190      SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap. viii.

Imeans of our letters of introduction and our pursuits, that
I Iam getting large materials, which hope shall find means
I Iof applying. Indeed, really think am most profitably
Iemployed on this tour, and as long as things go on as well

as they do now, should be very sorry to leave off ; par

ticularly as, from our plan of operation, which is that of
comparison of the structure of different parts of the country,
we work on with a continually increasing power, and in

the last week have with the same exertion done at least

twice as much in the way of discovery, and in enlarging

Iour knowledge of what others had done, as in any pre
ceding.  expect it will be at least three weeks before we

can have done with Central France, and then we hope to work

south towards Nice, down the Rhone, keeping always in

analogous formations, and then to the Vicentin if possible,

though this is very uncertain, as we can never see far before

us, either as to time or place, directing our course according

to the new lighbs we are gaining.

    We shall leave this place in a day or two. T like it well

enough, but it is certainly too early in the season to enjoy

it, and Mrs. Murchison suffers from the cold and damp,
though she has not often complained in this tone.

     Mont Dore is partially covered with snow, and almost
always with clouds, and the transition in coming up here
from the low country is violent. Yesterday we rode up from

the climate of Italy to that of Scotland. It is the most

varied and picturesque country imaginable. There are in
numerable old ruins for sketches, with lakes, cascades, and

different kinds of wood, so that we wonder more and more
that the English have not found it out. The peasantry
Iare very obliging, industrious, well-fed, and clothed, and

to all appearance are the happiest ever saw. We have

crossed the chain of Puys, the Limagne, and the valleys
leading from Mont Dore, in all directions. The people
in the higher regions begin to talk French-- at least, there
are generally some who have served in the armies, and their
children catch some from them. Their own language has
a good deal of the old Provencal in it, and a great many of
the terminations are Italian. In short, we often find a demand
in Italian succeed when French misses fire ; but all our am

1 828.      THE CANTAL.                            191

munition often fails to produce any impression. The popu

Ilation is dense, and bears no resemblance to other parts

of France that ever saw. In the mountains a large portion

do not believe that Napoleon is dead, especially the old

soldiers. There is an almost entire want of gentry here, but

as it does not arise from absenteeism, but from the great
subdivision of property, it evidently produces no ill effects on

the character and well-being of the people.

Grive my love to all at Kinnordy, and believe me,

            Your affectionate son,           Lyell.
                                 Charles

            To His Sister.

                                                     Puy en Velay : July 3, 1828.

IMy dear Caroline, -- was glad to find your letter awaiting

me here yesterday, though now of a somewhat ancient date,

and hope that another will arrive before we quit this, in

about a week, from some one. We have now seen the Cantal

Idistrict, of which Aurillac is the principal town, and was
there particularly interested with the freshwater or rather

lacustrine deposits ; as although of an older date than all

the volcanoes of that country, and constituting chains of

hills, their correspondence, when considered foot by foot with

the beds which are at our door in the marl loch, is as com

plete as you can imagine. The same genera of shells and

compressed vegetables, and seeds of chara, &c, of which we

Ihope to add many new species to the fossils hitherto known.
  hope, by the way, you will not forget, when the marl is dug,
to keep up inquiries for jaws and teeth of animals, and if you
can get some good specimens of the shells, it will help me ;
Ifor now that see the perfect analogy of these older forma
Itions, am resolved to give a notice on the minor details of
Iour loch.
            am in great expectation that some of my Cantal
fossils will prove the elytra of beetles. They were in marl
near Murat in Cantal, upon which rested an enormous load

of different volcanic materials, such as currents of columnar

basalts and other lavas and breccia, no les«5 than 800 feet in
a very precipitous height. Yet the limnei and planorbis and
other lake remains in the foundation beds were not injured,

192       s/R CHARLES LYELL.                   CHAP. VIII.

and looked just as marls might do in Angus. The most

characteristic people we have seen are perhaps those of Mont

Dore, but they are an oddish race throughout these regions of

Central France. The language varies as we move about,
and is always equally unintelligible ; it is more Spanish here

than farther north. The communication between the capital

and the interior is wonderfully small, but to our surprise the

roads have been far better than near Paris, and the carriage

has never been broken since we crossed the Loire. They

macadamise their roads in good style. This is a most extra

ordinary and picturesque valley, whereas the Cantal, though

interesting to a geologist, has not much to boast in that way.

Mont Dore is fine and Alpine, but then it is not equal to the

Swiss Alps and in the same style. But the chain of Puys of

Clermont is so perfectly unlike any other European chain,

and its Prince, the Puy de Dome, is so handsome, that this

is worth a visit by all who travel in France.

We flatter ourselves we have got more ample materials

for the geology of these parts of France, at least on the

modern rocks, than have as yet been published on any dis

tricts of equal extent and equal distance from Paris ; and as
this has all been done in seven weeks, we should have some

Ithing to show at the end of six or eight weeks more, if all

could go on at the same pace. But do not think the Mur-
chisons will stand fire. Symptoms of flinching from the

heat, which makes scarcely any impression on me, begin to

betray themselves. Thoughts of a retreat to the Alps, con

Isultations with me whether think it practicable to proceed
Ifarther south in the dog-days, have been mooted, and sup
Ipose the whole scheme will hardly be persevered in just as

if Sedgwick and were here together, determined to hunt
Idown thoroughly one subject at a time. But as far as we

have gone, was never with a better man for doing work well
Ithan Murchison, and as we have two weeks before us here,

that will be a good deal to have secured. The French, since

was last on this side the water, have come round marvellously

to our costume, and they are on the high road to become
Ifjust as oreat politicians, and in many respects to be more
like us.  our people would have the same good sense to
take from them what they surpass us in, it would be a good

1828. PUY EN VELAY.      193

compromise. Their system of early rising, and spending a
moderate time at dinner, agrees famously with those who

Ifwish to make use of their evenings and still see society.

Prevost had known these parts of his own country, he would

not have regarded the scene at Penzance on Guy Fawkes's
day as particularly John Bullish. For on St. Peter's day we
saw at St. Germain in A-uvergne, and other towns, bonfires

and fireworks, and the peasants pushing each other into the

fire and jumping through it. We are to visit the country
house here of Bertrand Roux, author of a geological work on

Ithese parts. He is a merchant, and an intelligent man.
        sent back Hall from Mont Dore. The last two days
were the first in which he signalised himself by doing any
thing whatever in entomology, for he then took about two
dozen of Blandina. We saw numbers afterwards.

     With love to all, believe me, your affectionate brother,

                                            Charles Ltell.

         To His Sister.

            Aubenas, Ardeche : July 15, 1828.

My dear Marianne, --We found Puy en Velay a very
extraordinary and beautiful town, with some remarkable
rocks standing up in it like Edinburgh Castle, and as well
covered. Our introduction to M. Bertrand helped us not

only to the best geological cicerone we have yet met with in

France, but also an agreeable opportunity of seeing two
large French establishments, his own and his mother-in-
law's, Madame de Laintenot, who, in being able annually to
visit Paris, is a great personage among the provincials. We
spent a day at her place, and two at Bertrand's, who inhabits
a fine old monastery called Doue, which his father, a rich
merchant, purchased in 1791 out of the Revolutionary
plunder. He is himself a merchant. The ladies, young and
old, displayed a curiosity about Mrs. Murchison's dress and
English wardrobe that would have diverted you. Consider
ing the natural gaiety of the various persons we met there
we were somewhat amused at one favourite theme of regret
expressed by many of the old people, that the French were
becoming too serious. They attribute this to the English
vol. i.
         o

194  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap. vnr.

 style of education, which they say is now being introduced,

 which, although right in many respects, is carried to an

 extreme. C'est plus solide, they say, than theirs was, and there
 was once some reason to accuse them of legeretS, but there is

 a medium. Even our friend Bertrand seems decidedly to

 take the same view of the matter, though he accounts for it

 in another way, for he says every young man now looks
 early to a profession. None go out of good society, as formerly,

 into the Church and monasteries, and there being no elder
 sons, none can afford to be gay and thoughtless. But even

Ihe appears to see too much puritanical severity in the rising

 generation, which have certainly not seen, and as far as
 a traveller can judge, they are still an infinitely more lively

 people, high and low, than we are, and look at least happier,
 especially the peasantry of Central France. From Le Puy,
where we stayed eight days, we went to the Haut Vivarrais.
 The descent from the granite mountain of Velay to Vivarrais
 (now Ardeche) is exceedingly fine, the outline of the hills
very Alpine, and the deep valley clothed with rich chestnut
trees, and vines dressed in the Italian style. We stayed
 three days at Thueyts, a small town in the Ardeche, whence
 we were able to examine carefully what Scrope in a letter
 calls ' the pet volcanoes of the Vivarrais ; ' and such they
really are, very far surpassing all the two or three hundred

we had seen in Auvergne, Cantal, and Puy. All lovers of

 the picturesque, and who have got no farther than ' a taste
for geology,5 should come to these, for they will find it all so
 clear, as well as beautiful. The craters are so perfect, yet the
cones covered with such fine zones half-way down of chest
nuts, and the lava currents eaten into by the rivers, present

such splendid colonnades of basaltic pillars, that it is a

country to make everyone desire to know something ; and as
the granitic schists in which the valleys lie are all of one
kind, there is no danger of the volcanic matter being con

founded by anyone with the older rock through which it
has burst or over which it has flowed. The proofs of their

Iimmense antiquity are quite enough to bear out Scrope.

But Murchison and must take care how we recommend
any English to come here, as there is no post over much of
the road and the voituriers have no harness, and cannot

1 828.         ENTOMOLOGY.                                   195

drive two horses abreast, and scarcely in a single instance in

Central France can they be trusted. For ten miles there is

a broad road worthy of the magnificence of the Grande
Nation -- bridges quite splendid, rock blown through, &c.

Then all at once stones and ruts and a narrow lane, with a

frightful precipice at the side, and no parapet. As far as
Isteady geological work goes, have not had a single day to
Iregret since
               entered Auvergne, two calendar months

yesterday. Amidst solemn declarations on the part of Mur-

Ichison that he cannot go south in the dog-days, he has

ordered letters to be addressed to Nice, where hope to
hear from you. You will not suppose that any attention

has been paid to entomology, except what has been un

avoidably done in the Altera and Diptera, the former of
which have been sacrificed in large numbers by the Mur-

chisons, having robbed them of many a night's rest. They
have spared me, but in the day-time the Diptera Lave

attacked all indiscriminately, both man and beast, ever since

we passed the first Spanish chestnuts, on our descent from

the high central plateau towards the Rhone. This country
breeds many silkworms. They tell me that two caterpillars,

and frequently three, spin the same cocoon, which then

contains three pupae. The greater part of the Lepidoptera

are English acquaintances, and were remarkably so till we

descended from Central France, as were the -plants.

Believe me, your affectionate brother,

                                             Charles Lyell.

                              To His Sister.

                                                                           Marseilles : August 3, 1828.

    My dear Caroline, --At Aix there has been discovered,
within a year, a thin band of fissile, compact, calcareous marl

full of insects. It divides into thin laminae, as does our

Kinnordy insect bed, but is a solid stone. The insects, even
the gnats, are beautifully perfect, wings, antennas, and all.
Until we came all had gone to M. de Serres of Montpellier.
He has made out fifty genera. The beetles are chiefly
Curculionidm; most of the rest are Diptera, Musca, and
Culex, &c. A perfect Gh*yllus and a Forficula are amongst them.

                                                  o2

196                  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                   CHAP. VIII.

IThere are so many, that am in hopes they will some

what aid the question as to the climate of these parts when

the tertiary strata were formed. The series of strata in

which they occur is 400 feet thick, and the fish and shells

show them to be freshwater, probably found in a lakeH The

country has been much thrown about since, and the insects

must be of great antiquity, though not old, geologically

speaking, for hills and valleys have since been formed.

IMurchison kept saying, when we were hunting about the

quarries and getting them from the man, ' How wish your

Isisters were here, they would enjoy the chase, and then we
might be at work at the geology/               think we have got at
least fifteen genera, and more will be sent us;( We find

provincial geologists almost everywhere who know enough

to be useful. Nismes is a glorious remnant of Eoman gran

deur, with an amphitheatre and temple nearly entire. The

old aqueduct at the Pont du Gard, north of Msmes, is as

fine as almost anything in Italy. There is a triumphal arch

and tower, like the lantern of Demosthenes at St. Remy,

between Nismes and Aix, of great beauty, and of which, if at

Rome, antiquaries would talk through folios. Montpellier

is the most luxurious place we have seen, and this the

cleanest seaport. The troops are passing in daily, return

ing from Spain, much quizzed by their countrymen and

women, for being burnt as black as Spaniards. The genera

lity here are fair, spite of the sun. Other troops are going

out to the Morea, such a stunted race ! By accurate calcula
tion of the height of men of the levy since the peace, it is

found that the mean height of Frenchmen has been

diminished several inches by the Be volution and Napoleon's

wars. These are now the sons of those who were not

thought by Napoleon strong and tall enough to fight and

Ilook well. But they will rout- the Egyptians for all that,

and suppose be a match for the Russians.
     With
           love  to  all,  your  affectionate  brother,   Lyell.

                                                 Charles

NICE.                          197

To His Sister.

                               Nice : August 20, 1828.

     My dear Eleanor, -- There has not literally been one drop
of rain here for eight months ! So all the rivers are quite

dry, and the stagnant waters are not a little odoriferous,
and were it not for some protecting saint, the malaria

would have its head-quarters here, according to the modem

doctrines on that subject : and why it never visits Nice, is

certainly a puzzling problem. The only French journals

admitted here are the ultras, who are defending the cause
of the persecuted Jesuits, and are just now very angry with
the liberal papers for some profane quizzing of the Arch

bishop of Paris, who has been praying for rain. "While he is
about the matter, he may as well have it sent here, for they

hardly hope for a drop for a month to come, and do not

think it at all unprecedented. Murchison has not regained

his strength from a severe attack at Frejus, so as to be able
to take the field again. But we have been hard at work in
writing, from our materials, a paper on the excavation of

valleys, which is at last finished, and after two evenings'

infliction, is intended to reform the Geological Society, and
afterwards the world, on this hitherto-not-in-the-least-

degree-understood subject. H Besides this mighty operation,
we have performed two jaunts with Mrs. Murchison, each at
half-past four o'clock in the morning, to see certain deposits
of fossil shells, and collecting these, with which she has been

much pleased ; and this and the cessation of eternal bustle,

while the campaign was at its height, while we were as yet

only crossing the Balkan, and before our descent upon these

hot latitudes, has restored her health and spirits, which

had failed sadly. Her lord has a little too much of what

IMathews used to ridicule in his slang as ' the keep-moving,

go-it-if-it-kills-you ' system, and had to fight sometimes

for the sake of geology, as his wife had for her strength, to

make him proceed with somewhat less precipitation. You
may suppose it was not over prudent to attempt hard work,

I Iand only to sleep, or rather to be in bed, five hours at most.
expected a break-down before.  trust still to start in a

198  SIX CHARLES LYELL.                    chap, viil

few days to tlie Vicentin, either by Genoa or the Col de

Tenda, for that country must afford some curious analogies

and lights to what we have seen in Auvergne. The people

are polite and agreeable here, the Government unpopular,

though most absolute. Numbers of soldiers and priests

everywhere. The principal librarian has no books but

what he sells to 500 English who reside here in winter.

He says the inhabitants of the great city never read scarcely
even novels. What, then, do they do ? ' Can you not see P

They sit in cafes, play billiards, hear the bands play, go to

mass, and give and attend fetes/ All this makes the place

very gay. Everything is quite gone back to the old regime

in good earnest. And when the Jesuits are exiled from
Erance, if they dare execute that order, they will find the

receptacle prepared by the King for them here, a congenial

home. They are positively hiring apartments now for

Erench pensioners, youths who are to follow them into

exile for education. Our kind old host Montlosier's works
Iare so attacked by the ultra journals here, that it is clear
they produced no small effect.  caught a curious Mantis
this morning, the peasants call it 6 prega-dio/ and when it
Ierects its neck, and holds up its chelae and clasps them, it
certainly seems to be saying its prayers.  shall try and

catch some gnats for him in my room, for, in spite of a

mosquito net, they have bitten me all over. One day of
winter in Italy would do more for geology than a week of
this everlasting blue sky : even the Italians are sick of seeing it.
No wonder we are so much in the dark in geology as to

IIndia and the tropics ! If ever attempt to understand the
I Isouth of Italy as well as hope now do Central France, it

shall be in winter, or before May. All our best men made

the blunder we have. We went out in the bay on Sunday

Iwith a famous diver, who brought up sponges and other

creatures that had never seen alive before. He took down
a hammer, and, when out of sight, knocked off the stone-

perforating shells.

    With love to all, believe me, your affectionate brother,

                                           Charles Ltell.

1828.               GEOLOGY.                                       199

                    To His Father.

                                                 Nice : August 24, 1828.

--        My  dear  Father, --Before  we  cross  tlie  Alps,  and  enter  as
       |
Iit were upon a new expedition, will send a few words on
Ithe fruits and adventures of our past tour, and the plans
Iwish still to realise before return. The paper which we have

written here, and which for the first moment almost has

had time given it to think over any of our data, has encouraged

Ius to be sanguine as to what has been obtained. The whole

tour has been rich, as had anticipated (and in a manner
which Murchison had not), in those analogies between
existing Nature and the effects of causes in remote eras

Iwhich it will be the great object of my work to point out.

scarcely despair now, so much do these evidences of modern

action increase upon us as we go south (towards the more
recent volcanic seat of action), of proving the positive

identity of the causes now operating with those of former

times.

    At this very place, which Brongniart and Buckland have

been at, without seeing, or choosing to see, so unwelcome a

fact, we have discovered a formation which would furnish an

answer to the very difficulty which Sedgwick when at
Einnordy put to me. He said, c You who wish to make out

that all is now going on as formerly, help me to conceive a

sea deep enough and disturbed enough to receive, in any

length of time, such a series of strata of conglomerate and

sandstone as you have shown me in Angus.' Now here we
have just such a series as that in Forfarshire, only very
much thicker, and in the intervening laminated sands are

numerous perfect shells, more than 200 species in Risso's
cabinet, eighteen in a hundred of which are living Mediter

ranean species, whose habits are known. By this grouping
of these shells and their state, the sea is proved to have been
in a perfect state of tranquillity, except at those periods

when the pebbles were washed down. This conglomerate is
intersected by a valley and a gorge, displaying it for fifteen
miles ! The hills of conglomerate are some 800 feet high,
and at this height are fossil species, which may be the

200                 SIR CHARLES LYELL.          chap. viii.

identical ancestors of others that now live opposite here,

where the sea within gun-shot of the shore is 3,000 feet

deep, measured by Saussure, and since verified. Into this

the Magnacon, after not flowing a drop for eight months,

I"brings yearly multitudes of pebbles. But feel, as Murchison
Isays, that if wish to get out, by November year, such a
Ibook as will decidedly do me credit, and probably be a source

of profit, it is to the south of the Po should hasten, and be
fore Christmas everything might be done. He said yesterday,
6 At Milan or Verona, in three or four weeks or thereabouts,

the operations connected with our paper will be over, but

Sicily is for your views the great end : there are the most

Imodern analogies, volcanic, marine, elevatory, subsiding, &c.

  know the island as a soldier, and if you make straight for
... IEtna, will just time it right for work, for the season will be
exactly suitable.5        feel so decidedly that three months'

more steady work will carry me through all, and tell greatly

Iboth to the despatch of finishing my work, as well as to the power
   shall have in writing  it,

                               I

                                                  it

                                                                                                  /--

                                                                   if
                          that should greatly repent

Idid not do all in my power to accomplish now.

   With my love to all, believe me, your affectionate son,

                                                 Charles Ltell.

                    To Sir John Herschel.

                                    Milan September
                    I                                                                                              1828.
                                                                                  :
                                                                                                               9,
   Dear Herschel, -- arrived here with the Murchisons

yesterday, and to-morrow we start for the Vicentin, where

we hope to finish successfully the remainder of the plan

which was talked over with you, and which has been thus

far executed much to our satisfaction. We profited much

by your hints and memoranda, and Murchison begs me to

say that he intends still further to benefit by your advice in

the Val de Eassa, though his time will be shorter than he

had intended. We part at Yerona, and then hope to make
I

         I

                             II
                                    II

                                                      I
out a tour in S. Italy and Sicily.  now regret much that

had not formed this scheme before left England, for although

believe remember pretty accurately the principal geolo

gical facts in regard to Sicily which yon and others gave

me, yet for want of noting the localities shall be little able

1828. LETTER TO HERSCHEL.              201

to avail myself of them. You would render me a great

service if you would send me, in a letter to Florence, any

hints and advice on points of geology which you think

should be investigated, and which you either saw, or think

you omitted. As we have not been idle as far as our time
permitted in Auvergne, Velay, and Vivarrais, in working at

the relations of the volcanic to the tertiary and other

Iassociated rocks> am prepared with a moderate stock of
Iqueries, and of difficulties, to be answered hope by study
ing a more modern volcanic district. The effects of earth

quakes on the regular strata, and the light thrown on the
Iexcavation of valleys by lavas, are subjects to which have
Idirected a large share of attention.
                                       should therefore be

anxious to examine such parts of the coast of Sicily or

Calabria as afforded evidence of elevation or subsidence,

either by the aid of buildings, &c, raised or sunk, as at Baise,

Temple of Serapis (if the latter be not otherwise explicable),
or by help of modern species of shells lifted up, or sea

Ibeaches. Wherever you observed signs of such effects of

earthquakes in Sicily, should be glad to have the localities,

and where you saw the greatest fissures, if any, still open.

The disturbance in the freshwater strata of Auvergne and

ICantal, due to volcanic action, is so much greater than had

been led to expect, and that of the sub-Apennine beds from

IMontpellier to Savona, containing as they do nearly twenty

per cent, of decided living species of shells, that cannot but
think that Calabria and Sicily must afford proofs of strata

containing still more modern organic remains, raised above

Ithe level of the sea. If you will inform me how you moved

about in Sicily, shall be much obliged to you, and any

desirable head-quarters, from which much may be learnt,

besides Catania and Palermo and Messina.

   IAs know how well and how fully your time is occupied,
I am aware that this request is somewhat unconscionable,
Ibut however few the memoranda you can favour me with,
shall prize them much. The names of any localities, or

persons or things to be seen, or to be avoided, in a tour of a

Ifew months, is what am most in need of, or any books
Iwhich should buy or read. We asked here for the Council

of Mines. ' It is done away with.5 For Brocchi's successor.

202  SIR CHARLES LYELL.    chap, viil

' The chair exists no longer.5 For his collection. ' It has been

pillaged by the Germans, and they have left nothing worth

seeing.' Is there no scientific establishment left? 6 There
is only the library/ So much for the paternal government
of Austria. -- Believe me, ever most truly yours,

                                            Charles Ltell.

     To His Father.

                           Padua : September 26, 1828.

     My dear Father,-- The Murchisons left this for the Tyrol
I Ithis morning, and start for Verona this evening.
                                                     came
Ihere that might examine the Euganean Hills, the geology
of which is interesting:.

     The new road by the Maritime Alps is quite a fine addi
tion to the English tourists who wish to vary their way over
the Alps. The scenery is remarkably identical in character
with that which we saw along by the Gulf of Spezzia, sup
posing greater height of the mountains ; and it is throughout
the same. The road is always in sight of the sea, often
overhanging it on a precipitous steep of some thousand feet.
Hills covered with old olive trees, and now and then large

orchards of lemon trees. These here and there exchanged for
vines. The palms in many gardens of considerable height,

and great prickly pears hanging over walls. Sea, deep up
to the rocks, which rise boldly out of it : scarcely ever a sail.

      Between Savona and Modena we did an agreeable piece

of geology, the Cadibona coal basin, evidently a lacustrine
deposit. As it was unoccupied ground, and of interest from

producing a curious fossil quadruped, called by Cuvier

I6 Anthracotherium/ we expect it will make a good subject

of a notice for Jamieson's Journal as soon as return. The
neighbourhood of Turin may perhaps lead us to another
notice, for our passage over the Apennines from Savona to
Alexandria certainly gave us a key to the environs of Turin,

on which such blunders are current, that we may be excused

if we set some right, even though we cannot pretend to have

Idone the district. But this will not be for the Geological

Society, to which we give the paper mentioned, and one on

1828..  GIOTTO'S FRESCO.        203

the freshwater formations of Auvergne, if our specimens

all reach London in safety.
     From Borelli, the conchologist at Turin, and others at

Vicenza and this place, we learnt much. But the chief
advantage from a few days' hard work at Monte Bolca and
other parts of the Vicentin will be, that it renders us quite

competent to judge the merits of and to understand the
various works both of the ancients and moderns on this

country. The volcanic phenomena are just Auvergne over

again, and we read them off, as things written in a familiar

language, though they would have been Hebrew to us both
six months before. The trachyte of the Euganean Hills is

the porphyry of Lintrathen and the Clune,G so is that of
Mont Dore -- all identical --and the felspathic lavas of the

volcanoes of S. America come quite close to them. It is

here pinkish, as in Forfarshire, and sometimes regular as

Ithere : so it is in the lava streams from Mont Dore.
         asked Giapelli, an eminent engineer to whom Count
Marzari Pencati of Vicenza gave us letters, to take me to

Isee Giotto's pictures, on which Phillips gave a good lecture
in Somerset House last spring.  suppose we saw them in

1818, and that you remember them. To me they were quite
new. The Chiesetta dei Cavalieri Godenti has all the walls

painted by Giotto. It is in the amphitheatre (Soman), or

rather joins and looks into it. These knights were a power
ful and religious order, contemporary with the Templars.

IThey called themselves ' Rejoicers in the mysterious joy of

the blessed Virgin.' Fresco believe was then unknown,

and the plaster was coloured in a manner which you know,
yet the colours remain. On one side over the door is a

view of Hell. The devil is a faithful portrait, full length, of
the Burmese idol lately set up in the British Museum. (As
there are many Eastern figures in other parts, Giotto may
through Venice have got some imagery from Eastern super
stition.) He is eating a naked figure, and griping another in
his claws. On his right is a Pope, with the white tiara, holding
a purse full of money with a fast grasp in one hand, and

stretching out the other to bless a starving woman, who is
begging of him. Not far off is a naked cardinal, with a

        6 Forfarshire rocks.

204  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap, viii.

red cap. Two demons near the entrance gate are pulling in
head-foremost a priest in his black gown. On the devil's
left hand are numerous demons pushing various figures into
a gulf of mud. Giapelli tells me that Dante and Giotto
were friends, and that it is not known whether the painter
borrowed from the poet, or the poet from him. But that a

religious order of knights should have had this satire

blazoned on their walls, is a trait of the times worth know
ing ! Of course the vulgar were not admitted. The form
of the room is that of many meeting halls of Freemasons,
When it became a church, they could not destroy it, without
its making the satire more public, as a chancery injunction,
or K. B. prosecution for blasphemy, circulates the evil ten
fold. But it is singular that they chose to make it a church,
and shows that it must have been received doctrine that

Ithe wicked among the popes and cardinals might expect

equal justice. All this is of course in print somewhere.

am going to Parma with a letter from Buckland to Professor

Guidotti, from whom he says he learnt most of any north

I Iof Apennines, in Italy. hope may hear from Kinnordy at
I IFlorence. All tell me that if would do Etna well, must

lose no time, because of snow.
    With my love to all, believe me, your affectionate son,

                                                  Charles Ltell.

1 828.          PROFESSOR GUIDOTTI.                        205

                      CHAPTER IX.

                JOCTOBER 1828- ACTUARY 1829.

PARMA--PROFESSOR GUIDOTTI -- FINE COLLECTION OF FOSSIL SHELLS--
ADVENTURE AT THE DOUANE AT PARMA -- GEOLOGY OF THE VALLEY OF
THE ELSA RIVER NEAR SIENA --ANCIENT VOLCANOES NEAR VITERBO --
GEOLOGY OF ROME --NAPLES --EMBARKS FOR ISCHIA -- PJESTUM -- TEMPLE
OF NEPTUNE -- CATANIA --ASCENT OF ETNA --THE CASA INGLESE -- THE
GEMELLAROS -- HARDSHIPS AND ADVENTURES -- SYRACUSE -- AGRI-
GENTUM -- A FESTA -- PALERMO -- BANDITTI --DIFFICULTY
SICILY --RETURN TO NAPLES.                             OF LEAVING

                CORRESPONDENCE.

                To His Sister.

IMy dear Caroline,--                       Florence : October 10, 1828.

                      went from Padua to Verona, and

made a good geological expedition to the celebrated Ponte
di Veja, a natural

I Istriking object. As
                bridge over      a valley, which       is   a very
                   found no     letters at Verona,         went to

Parma with a letter to Professor Guidotti, a gentlemanlike
and agreeable man, who welcomed me in a most delightful
manner. He has the finest collection of fossil shells in Italy
and as they chiefly belong to the most modern formation, it
Iwas of first-rate interest tome to   get from him a multitude
                                 was  not a little happy to find
of facts. You may suppose

that he was anxious to have as much geological instruction
from me which my tour had enabled me to give him. So
Iwe spent three days, from six o'clock in the morning till nio*ht
exchanging our  respective commodities, and     believe those
which he gave   me were at all events the most    substantial,

for he   liberally presented me with a set of   most of    those
shells   which occur in the sub- Apennines,     identical    with
species                                        to me a
           now living in the Mediterranean,                useful

206  SIX C&AXLES LYELL.                        chap. ix.

Igift. He was so excited by our geological researches and

conclusions, that the very day left Parma he started on an

Iexpedition planned by me. Imagine what fossil conchology

has become in this country, when tell you that he has 1,100

extinct species as perfect as when they lived, which is

infinitely beyond the number now living in the Mediter

ranean and Adriatic, and he finds at the rate of 50 new species

Ia year, which fishing in those seas would not do. At Bologna
   introduced myself to Professor Ranzani, who showed me

the Museum, &c, and gave me a recommendation to Professor
Targioni here. In the two days which it required for a

vetturino to crawl over the Apennines, starting at 5.30 and

Iarriving after dark, made out the series and succession of
Irocks very well, for always walked when the horses did,

being unable to sit upright in the cabriolet. But after all,

one gains in information, as well as in pocket, by travel

ling thus : you hear Italian talked, a great point, and see

many curious characters. Our party consisted of a clever

and pleasant French lawyer, a young Greek gentleman

educated in Italy, a Sardinian priest, and a French mer

chant, all men of my own age. Targioni introduced me

Ihere to Professor Nesti and Baron Bardi, who showed me

the Museum. With their instruction, rode to the upper
Yal d'Arno, a famous day for me -- an old lacustrine deposit

corresponding delightfully with our Angus lakes in all but

age and species of animals; same genera of shells. They

have just extracted the fortieth skeleton of hippopotamus !

Ihave got above twenty elephants, one or two mastodons, a
rhinoceros and stags, and oxen out of number.  forgot

an adventure at the Douane at Parma. Dr. Lorenzone of

IYicenza had given me some Monte Bolca fish as a present.
   told the officer they were not minerals, and after a debate
Ihe said, as there was no metal in them, perhaps they were

not, but must declare what they were. ' Pesci petrificate/
6 Dunque sono cose vegetanti/ and showing me that the law

enumerated all vegetating things, he insisted on taxing me.

I IAs knew the joke would be relished at Parma, told him
Ito make out a bill, for meant to appeal. But when it was

drawn up, the soldiers and clerks laughed and quizzed the
Douanier, so that he threw the bill into the ditch, and made

1828.             VAL D'ARNO.                     207

out another, calling them minerals^ to my great disappoint
Iment. He only made me pay threepence English !
                                                  am
Irather stiff to-day, for had to ride to Yal d'Arno and back,
I37 miles, and walk ten to fourteen hours, --hard work.
got a letter from Murchison here ; he has worked hard in
ITyrol.  got a famous letter also from Scrope, full of geo
Ilogical and practical hints on Sicily.
                                         must make up my
mind to rough it in earnest, it seems. He recommends

boating a good deal off the coast, because the sailors are

more honest than the landsmen there, and beca.use my boat,

Idrawn up on the sand, will be a far better bed than any
can get there. How comfortable ! He also declared that as

they gave him dogs to eat, and stones, miscalled bread, that

portable soup would be as indispensable as to Captain Parry.
He speaks of course not of the Grande Route, but of a geo
I Ilogist's.
         feel more and more every day, that unless see

some district with my own eyes which has suffered from

Irecent earthquakes and recent volcanoes, the first start of

anything write would be at a halting pace, and built on

the facts of others, which might perhaps, as applied by me,

afterwards give way, and down would come the theory, true

I Ior false.                     shall be very glad to hear
     To-morrow start for Siena.

from Kinnordy at Naples.

                  Your affectionate brother,
                                  Charles Ltell.

                  To His Sister.

                                                                       Rome : October 20, 1828.

I IMy dear Marianne, -- believe gave Caroline a history
Iof my progress to Florence, in the two days' journey from
thence to Siena.  contrived, by dint of a small gig and boy,

to do a great deal of geology, going round by Colle and the
valley of the Elsa River, which was a favourable tour for me,

Ias bringing down the chain of geological events to a later

period than any of equal extent which had seen, except,
perhaps, in the Upper Val d'Arno. But the lacustrine forma
tion of Elsa was new to me, not only as containing in it

208      SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap. ix.

Imuch travertin, just like the Bakie limestone,1 but because

there are hot springs still producing the same rock.
believe the shells (freshwater) of Elsa will prove all recent
ones; the Neritina have their colour well preserved. Yet

there are valleys 100 feet deep, and towns in them in this series

of strata, which overlie others, analogous to our most modern

in England, excepting of course our Angus Lake deposits.

IThat part of Tuscany is very picturesque. At Siena had
Inot the same good fortune had had at Florence to find the
Igeologists in town. One to whom had a letter, Mazza, was

just getting on his horse for an absence of several days, but

I Istopped an hour, and showed me a collection of fossil

shells, which, if had not seen Guidotti's at Parma, should

have thought much of. After one day's exploration of the

Igeology of Siena, took a gig for four days to Viterbo, in no
Ismall fear that should repent having defied the rain ; but
Ias Murchison and were never stopped once in three months
Iby rain, so had three splendid days for my work, and,
Iindeed, half the fourth, when got inside a voiturier's
machine for the rest of the way to Eome, and then it rained

plentifully. Almost the whole way from Siena to Viterbo is
a theatre of extinct volcanic action. Such repeated layers

of ashes, pumice, tufa, and dust, cemented with stones in

very thin seams, that the eruptions must have been numerous
beyond measure, as high hills are formed entirely in this
manner. These and the lavas were just like Auvergne, but
there are more fine lakes in ancient craters than one can see

in France. Bolsena is the largest. All these spent
volcanoes threw their ashes and lavas over that formation

Iwhich contains the 1,100 species of marine shells which men
Itioned had seen in Guidotti's collection. Some geologists
pretend that there are proofs that the volcanoes began before
I Ithese strata had done forming, which may be true of some; but
   have seen none yet, although have been from morning
till eve immersed in matters relating to times beyond the
Iflood.  must of course have had many adventures of post
Idiluvian date, and among those may enumerate the vile
IDouane where all my shells and specimens were opened and

disturbed. In the coach at Viterbo found a Roman priest,

         1 In Forfarshire.

1828.          GEOLOGY OF ROME.             209

head of a college, who had been thrown by accident with two

Scotch clerical students (going to the Irish Catholic College
for their education), who could not talk Italian or French, and

were getting on in moderate Latin with the old gentleman,

I Iin which language for a whole day, for the first time in my

life, had to talk all the way to Eome. At Eome found the

geology of the city itself exceedingly interesting. The cele

brated seven hills of which you have read, and which in fact

are nine, are caused by the Tiber and some tributaries, which

have cut open valleys almost entirely through volcanic

ejected matter, covered by travertin containing lacustrine

shells. The volcanic strata repose in the Monte Mario on

the sub-Apennine formation, or strata containing shells

analogous to our most recent formation in England.
The shells in the travertin are all real species living in Italy,

so you perceive that the volcanoes had thrown out their

ashes and pumice, &c, and these had become covered with

lakes, and then the valleys had been hollowed out all before
Eome was built 2,500 years and more ago. Thus giving us
a grand succession of events later than the formation of the
Monte Mario beds, in which few living species of shells are

found.
I INaples, October 29, 1828. --After two rather fagging days,
arrived here safe.  persuaded the whole party (four

Frenchmen who were with me posting to Naples) to stop
and see Lake Albano, the crater of an old volcano, with

which they were fortunately delighted, as very picturesque.
The Pontine Marshes are nothing but the swampy deltas of

Ithree rivers, like the lower part of the plains of the Po.

Arrived here, went straight to Colonel Yisconti, the geo
grapher, Capt. Smythe's friend, who immediately put me in
the way of everything. As all the geologists were gone to
I Ithe island of Ischia, where
                       always intended to go,
embarked immediately, and just arrived in time to miss
them ; fortunately perhaps, for in three days' active exami
I Ination of that beautiful isle, flatter myself made some
I Idiscoveries, which if had been lionised
Ihave missed.  found shells, among          should certainly

2,000 feet high on the old volcano,  other things (marine) ,
                                      which had not been
dreamt of here. But the people !--nothing you ever heard of
vol. 1.
                    p

210              SIR CHARLES LYELL.               CHAP. IX.

I Ithem is believe exaggerated. do not mean as to the graver

charges, for of course those only who live much among them
can judge of that, but as to what one sees characteristic in

passing through them. It seems as if one half of an

immense population, noisy and cheerful, had nothing to do,
and the habits of course of those to whom time is of no

value are most inconvenient to anyone who wishes to make

good use of his. On an expedition, the hours spent in

bargaining is a nuisance to which even the north of Italy
is a joke. In the shops there are no fixed prices. Whatever

contract you make, your driver or boatman finds he has

done something more than was specified, into which he has

designedly led you. The Ischians are just the same, and

famous gasconades. The following was my rencontre yester
day with a chasseur, on the hills, about my age. ' Where
does this aqueduct go to ? ' 6 To Ischia, sir ; five miles long,
and cost 25,000 piastres/ ' How old ? ' ' Eighty years ;
built by the town.' ' Was it injured by the earthquake of
February ? ' ' Not a stone ; had it been thrown down, Ischia
would be dead; they must drink salt water/ 'Were

Iany houses in Ischia hurt ? ' c Not one, by St. Nicholas !
Iwonder at it.' ' So do I, it was very close to Casamia.' ' No,

no, no ; don't mean that ; but in Casamia they are honest
Ifolk, but in Ischia all rascals, robbers, assassins, 5,000 of

them, and all thieves, by St. Nicholas, wonder they were

Ispared.' The Government have sent off the steamer to
Marseilles, and  must work here for a. week. No other

way of going, for the pirates of Tripoli have taken so many

Neapolitan vessels, that no one who has not a fancy to see
Africa, will venture. The rain has begun to-day.

                 Your affectionate brother,

                                      Charles Ltell.

                      To Eoderice: Murchison, Esq.

                                                                              Naples : November 6, 1828.

   IMy dear Murchison,-- am just returned from a safe
Iexpedition to Paestum, and as far as shells in the travertin

are concerned, hope to do a little, but in general the geo
logy between this and the plain south of Salerno is very flat,

1828 ISCHIA. 211

the Apennines, as usual, presenting that dearth of fossils

which renders them everywhere so monotonous. They are

very siliceous in these parts, cut into deep valleys, and near
Vietri is a fine example of an old lacustrine formation, which

was gradually deposited when the valleys between that and

ISalerno were two or three hundred feet less deep than now.

It was in the style of Cadibona, and though found nothing

but small pieces of carbonised wood in some of the red clays

I(red just like the cement of Mediterranean breccia), have

no doubt that remains which might rival the Anthracotherium

would reward a good search, of which in this country there

I Iis no chance.                             shall reserve
     As passed rapidly from Rome to Naples,
my observations in that country till my homeward journey
Ienables me to fill up certain hiatuses. Here found the
Isteamboat, by which
                      was to have sailed forthwith to

Palermo, detained by the Government on special service,

Iand as was condemned to the Phlegrean Fields for twelve
Idays, sailed immediately to Ischia, after passing the Solfa-
tara, Monte Nuovo, Lake Averno, &c, on my way to Puz-
I Izuoii, and seeing them all.
                      found Ischia just what had

hoped, a most admirable illustration of Mont Dore, with the

difference which we sometimes wished for, as the substitution

of marine for freshwater, and the consequent abundance of

organic remains. The older trachytes are positively many

of them undistinguishable from Auvergne, as are the
white tufas, sometimes pumiceous. But the analogy which

struck me most forcibly was a quantity of streaked and

ribboned altered marks, like those which we found so
numerous on Rigolet, and of which we took some specimens
as curious instances of ferruginous yellow and brown stains.

I was not so lucky as to get a shell in any fragment of this,
Ibut found, on ascending Epomeo, the same occurrence of

clays just like the conchiferous beds which form the funda

mental strata of the island, as we found high up in Mont
Dore marks like the queer Cypriferous marls of the Limacrne.

IAt last, at an enormous height, corresponding in Ischia to

what the great cascade is in Mont Dore, found, in a mass of

Ithis clay, marine shells unaltered, and belonging to the same

class as those in the lower regions of Ischia. feel no doubt

                      p2

212         SIR CHARLES LYELL,                        CHAP. IX.

Inow that we were right in our speculations on the preten-

due breccia, &c. ; besides which, have now the satisfaction

of having an example of marine remains at a greater height

than any of Brocchi's sub-Apennines, and belonging to a

formation decidedly more recent. It is annoying to find

that Monticelli and Corelli have been poking about, and bu}'-

Iing shells in Ischia for years, and that they have not got

half as many shells as got during my visit, which amount
to thirty species, without counting microscopies. The pro

portion of recent species is exceedingly remarkable. They
alternate with the volcanic products of the old tr achy tic
volcano Epomeo, which is surrounded by many minor vol
canoes of a date comparatively as inferior as is that of Tartaret

or Chaluzet to Mont Dore. At least Epomeo is to me as un
intelligible as Mont Dore, and the others are as perfect as the
craters of Vivarrais. Unluckily their lavas go straight to the

sea in ridges, and then form promontories, and are nowhere
cut by torrents ; otherwise, as the date of some can be nearly
determined, they would have been invaluable documents of

I Icomparison.
     When have seen the parasitic volcanoes of Etna, will
Iresume the conclusion as to Auvergne which Ischia sug
gested.     was much gratified by finding that the dikes of

basalt and compact lava, which are so numerous in the great
escarpment presented by Somma towards the Atreo del
Cavallo, agree with the dikes of the Hebrides and the lavas
of Vivarrais in presenting us with coal -black pitchstone at
their contact with the intersected beds of scoriae.

   INecker 2 must of course have observed this, though
                                 take
had forgotten it, but we must    have   care to  insert his obser
vation in our paper, or he will
                                       a right   to complain. It

occurs in four or five dikes ; an inch or two of pitchstone
                             vertical dike from       horizontal
(obsidian)   separates the   which it passes.    the
tufas and   scoriae through

     Vesuvius after the eruption of 1822 exposed seven dikes
Iin the interior of the crater, quite analogous to those of

Somma, but am very sorry to say that the small sputtering
cone which is now constantly filling up the interior of the

    2 A Swiss geologist, grandson of Saussure, who passed the last years of his
life in the Isle of Skye.

1828. SHELLS OF ISCHIA.                                     213

great crater of 1822 prevents my descending to examine this
splendid modern analogy.

     Corelli has been writing on the present state of Vesuvius
for two years, and never went down to see the dikes in the
crater. Nay, he has not been up Vesuvius at all in that time,
and Salvedra swears he was never up Somma in his life !

Remember me kindly to Mrs. Murchison.
                             Believe me, ever truly yours,

                                            Charles Ltell.

To His Sister.

                          Naples : November 9, 182S.

   IMy dear Eleanor, -- My expedition to Ischia was of use to

me here, for as procured three times as many fossils in
three days as they had ever got from the Isle, they regard
me as a good workman. Costa, an ex- professor of Otranto,

Ihas named them all, so let the box go to the bottom, or

the shells be annihilated by Douaniers, will let the world
know that the whole Isle of Isk, as the natives call has
I
               is
                    is

                         it a
                          it
                                               is

                                                        a

                             I
                                   I it,

                                       I is
risen from the sea 2,600 feet since the Mediterranean was

peopled with the very species of shell-fish which have now
the honour of living with, or being eaten by us -- our common

oyster and cockle amongst the rest. Costa to get my boxes
of shells from Messina, &c, and examine many before get
back to Naples, which getting work done rapidly, and will
encourage me much. The grand difficulty in England

that our conchologists know nothing of fossils, but in a

country where part or all of formation contains recent

species, this impediment  removed. My wish was to find

this peninsula get younger and younger as                   travelled

towards the active volcanoes, and has hitherto been all
could wish, and have little fear of bringing great part of
Trinacria into our own times as were, in regard to origin.
Poor Costa, with several other naturalists of decidedly
superior knowledge to any of the present professors in the

university here, have been deprived of their chairs and
persecuted to beggary for their constitutional opinions.
                          '
                                                         '

The police discovered lately that they were earning some
bread by teaching languages, natural history, &c, and the

214  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap. ix.

public were prohibited from employing them even as private

teachers, so that now their ruin is complete. In all the

great states of Italy except Tuscany, the inquisitorial sup

pression of all cultivation of science, moral or physical, is

enforced with unrelenting rigour, and considerable success.

Among eighteen persons shot for political offences, Carbon-

Iarism, &c, the day before passed through Salerno, several
Iwere priests. On the road to Pesto met three detachments

of similar prisoners with guards. They were strung together

by ropes, like those met by Don Quixote. The driver of my

gig to Psestum, an arrant coward, kept comforting himself

on the number of troops sent to quell political disorders,

and then came to me in the middle of the night at Eboli, to

try to make me go in the dark, to take advantage of the

French Ambassador's escort, who was going to visit the

Itemples. As wanted to geologise the recent travertins of
Ithe intervening plain by daylight, did not stir till 6 a.m.
IThe Temple of Neptune is the finest relic of antiquity ever

saw. The travertin of which it is built was in such enor

mous blocks that they cannot be used for other buildings,

unless carved and cut, and this is far more expensive, as they

Iare very hard, than quarrying fresh travertin. This believe

has saved them partly. The same size of blocks would enable

them to resist earthquakes, which have troubled this coast ;

Ifor when Messina was shaken down, the jail alone stood,
built of large stones.  have not seen the spectacle inside

of Vesuvius yet, for in high winds, which have prevailed, so

Imany loose stones are detached, that the cone cannot be

scaled, but have done the geology pretty well, and boa.ted

it along the section of the cliffs of lava facing the Bay of

Naples. Pompeii afforded me some good geological hints,

besides, of course, much amusement and instruction. The

paintings frescoed on the walls of some newly disinterred
houses are in such Chinese perspective, and so many ages

behind the bronzes and statues and alto-relievos in the same
houses, that my faith in the excellence of ancient painting is

somewhat shaken. The head man who was my cicerone

there was ignorant to a diverting degree, not often the fault
of Italian lionisers. ' This, sir, is the wife of Pompey the

Great, named after Pompeii ; she is weeping her husband's

1 828.           NAPLES.                              215

Ideath, who was killed at the siege of Troy ! '       have, of

course, seen the museum here of things found in Herculaneum
and Pompeii. It is of great interest, but of less than it ought
to be made, if the Government was spirited. Scarce a fourth

of Pompeii, or a hundredth part of Herculaneum, is explored.
There has not been enough done in excavating small private

houses, and preserving the furniture. The innumerable

bronzes and busts, &c, one sees equal and superior else

where.

     Dr. Daubeny's 3 letter came yesterday, with many good
hints on Sicily, and a joint letter from Dr. and Mrs. Buck-

land this morning is full of good practical hints, as well as
scientific. It is a most kind service to have done me, for as
Ithey are persons who make no difficulties,
                                                      am sure that
Iwhatever they recommend is indispensable. So have bought
tea, sugar, cheese, and four bottles of brandy, which Mrs.

B. says will keep off malaria, and their weak wine will not.

It seems that even in winter this evil attacks those who

live 'poor, and where inns are few and bad, you cannot live

well unless you provision your mule. Between Messina and

ISyracuse lies all that is of the greatest importance to me,

and have still a fair chance of doing it before the December
rains set in seriously. Naples is not so dear a place as

If IFlorence or Rome, for those who are a match for the natives.

   you are inclined to be absent, as am, it is a good place

Ito cure you, for you must have your wits about you every
moment.  asked yesterday if it was too late to frank a
Iletter. ' No, sir; mind if it is to England, you only pay fifteen
grains (sous).5  thought the hint a trait of character, as

they are all suspicious of one another. The clerk demanded
Itwenty-five.
                 remonstrated, but he insisted, and as he was
Idressed and had the manners of a gentleman, paid. When
I I Ifound on my return that had been cozened, asked the
head waiter, with some indignation, ' Is it possible that the
government officers are all knaves £ ' ' Sono Napolitani,

Signor; la sua eccellenza mi scusera, ma io sono Romano.'
When the Austrian troops retired, the king gave the officers
a choice of any new uniform they pleased, and they actually
chose the Austrian ! After their dastardly stand, which

                 3 Professor of Chemistry at Oxford.

216  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                               chap. ix.

Ifollowed all their vapouring about a constitution,   think
this is as memorable a proof of want of national pride as

was ever known. They are a Yery fine-looking people, and
become the lion's skin far better than the troops from whom

they borrowed it. There is a Virgin, with candles always
burning, in almost every cafe and wine-house. The noise in

the streets is dreadful. As in ordinary squabbles, men and

boys bawl louder than our criers, all those who cry various

goods for sale, quite deafen you, and as many are hoarse

habitually, it is painful to hear them. They roar as if they

would bully you into buying, and numerous idle boys spend
Ihours in mimicking them.
        shall perhaps get to Eome still in December.  With

my love, believe me,

                      Your affectionate brother,

                                          Charles Ltell.

                            To His Sister.

                            Catania : November 29, 1828.

   IMy dear Marianne, -- After my successful expedition to

Val del Bue and return here, went this morning to see the

Islands of Cyclops, eight miles from hence, and made a good

cruise. The chief of these small isles opposite Trezza is to

an ancient lava of ancient Etna what the Needles in the
Isle of Wight are to the chalk of that Isle-- detached portions

in the sea. This, Virgil said, the giant Polyphemus threw
at the Trojan fleet. It still remains, but is wasting so
rapidly, that in some 10,000 years it will be annihilated. It

Iconsists of basaltic columns, like the Giant's Causeway,
covered by strata of clay.  saw that same clay was on the

Imainland at the foot of Etna, and some peasants assured me,

that it contained ' roba di diluvio,' so hastened thither, and

Ifound 700 feet and more up Etna, in beds alternately with

old lavas, sea-shells, fossils, but many know of modern
Mediterranean species. This is just what everyone in

IEngland, and at Naples and Catania, told me should not
Ifind, but which came to Sicily to look for--the same which
I discovered in Ischia, and what, if my geological views be

just, will be found near all recent volcanoes, and wherever

1828.                  ASCENT OF ETNA.              217

Iearthquakes have prevailed for some thousand years past.
I Ihave set a man and boy to work, at so much per day, and if

they do their duty, shall find, when return from Etna,

Isomething that will fix the zoological date of the oldest part
of Etna.   go up again to old Geniellaro's to-morrow at
mid-day, if weather fine, to ascend Etna next day.
Catania, Nov. 30. -- Dr. Gemellaro 4 called this morning,

who has published on Etna. Confesses that he never hunted

up the ' roba di diluvio,' because the shells they brought him

were Mediterranean ones, and he supposed they were taken

Ifrom the sea to strengthen walls ! ! A good joke, as found

them for miles, and in strata 100 feet thick ! He is not a

Ilittle annoyed at seeing of how much importance think it.
I shall start for his brother's this afternoon.
I-- Nicolosi, Dec. 2. -- was most fortunate in my expedition
to the highest cone. Old G. started me in the middle of a

coolish night, by moonlight, so that we reached by daybreak

the highest part of the woody region. There a fire was

made of boughs from the old chestnuts and oaks, which,

Ithough one or two thousand years old, stand on modem
lavas of the volcano.  had taken my tea-kettle, and, as a

preservative against cold, made a breakfast of hot tea,
following Captain Parry's advice. We did not cross much

Isnow before Casa Inglese (9,000 feet high) : then we ascended
the cone.  had determined to think with Eerrara, who has

published the best guide-book of Sicily, that the sickness

felt from the rarity of air on the summit of Etna was all

Inonsense, but had no sooner ascended 200 feet from the
Ihut called ' Casa Inglese,' than my head ached, and felt
Isqueamish. My guide said, ' We must go slower ; have
known many vomit violently during this part of the ascent.'

The fact is, you go up gradually to the foot of the cone, your

lungs get pretty well weaned of breathing more condensed

air ; but when you rise almost perpendicularly from 9,000 to
10,000 feet, the air within you is so condensed, compared to
the atmosphere you enter, that you are ready to burst. Such

     4 Dr. Giuseppe Gemellaro, who lived on Etna, and published a map of the
early eruptions. His two brothers also devoted themselves to the study of the

mountain, and Professor Carlo Gemellaro contributed important treatises^
one of which, published in 1858, was dedicated to Sir Charles Lyell,

218         SIR CHARLES LYELL.          CHAP. IX.

Ivapours were issuing from the crater, that saw nothing
Idistinct in it ; but from it saw into the Val del Bue, a view

I Iwhich Buckland had begged me to make an outline sketch

of, and which in about half an hour effected, believe

decently. Inside the crater, near the lip, were huge masses

of ice, between which and the scoriae and lava of the crater

Iissued hot sulphurous vapours, which breathed in copiously,
Iand for six hours after could not, even after eating and
drinking, get the horrid taste out of my mouth, for my lungs
had got full of it. The wind was so high, that the guide
Iheld my hat while drew ; but though the head was cold, my
Ifeet got so hot in the cinders, that was often alarmed that
Imy boots would be burnt.
                           descended to examine the

' Cisterna,' a curious case of recent subsidence at the foot of

Ithe crater ; then to ' Torre del Philosophia,' which overhangs

the head of Val del Bue ; then back. Old G. said, ' con

gratulate you on having done this on December 1, for the

wind has changed, and you are probably the last who will

mount this year/ Accordingly this morning Rosario, my

muleteer, called me, and said, ' Signore, Mongibello e bianco

Icome una colomba ' (they call Etna ' Gibello ' in Sicily), and

sure enough found that down to the bottom of the woody
region, for 4,000 feet, the mountain was one mass of snow,

Isuch a metamorphosis in eight hours ! and sleet falling
fast here.  am a willing prisoner, needing a recruit after

such a fag, with a good library of books on Etna, and a

companion who has made the volcano the study of his life,

and who has published the only scientific accounts of the

late eruption. --                       Old Gemellaro and

    Nicolosi, Dee. 3. --Bain and snow.

Ihis youngest brother (not Dr. G.) delighted to hear old stale

news, which read a month ago in French papers, of the

Russian campaign, French politics, &c, for the Government

lets them know nothing in Sicily. The young G. who has

Icome here, finding had only a brazier of charcoal in my
Iroom, has ordered a fire, God bless him, and am at last

warm. The elder G. is a kind of laird and chief magistrate.

Cannot talk French or English, so we talk half Latin, half

Italian, and so always get on with one or other. He is

really a good Latin classical scholar.

iSiS.                  CATANIA.            219

Catania, Dec. 7. -- Left Nicolosi December 5. Visited only

a fine instance of a lava of Etna, cut through by a river

which it had crossed. Took a peasant for a guide from
IAderno, a stupid officious bumpkin, whom
                                           could not
Ipersuade to stay with my horse, while went down to the
Iwaterfall. The lad, believe, wanted to see what the devil T

wanted to look for, so having, as he assured me, secured the
Ibeast, and tied him to a great stone, he came with me.

After exploring, became anxious, and told him to look if
the steed was safe. We climbed a rock, and saw he was

just as we left him, but the nag, who was weary of standing

still on a lava current, no sooner caught sight of us, than he
plunged and pulled till he broke loose. He fancied we

were on the opposite bank, as we appeared to be, from the

winding of the river, so he plunged into the stream to join

us. It was the Simeto --the old Simethus --the only one in

all Sicily which deserves to be called a river, in a narrow

Igorge, a violent current, and just above a cataract. thought
it was all over with him. The saddle-girth gave way, and

down went the saddle over the waterfall ; but the horse was

a powerful creature, and landed safe, neighing all the time

Iwith his head turned to me, but he could not climb up the

steep rocks on the other side. When. got down opposite
I Ihim, he wanted to cross again to me, but as it was too
dangerous, prevented him with stones.    found the lad

frightened out of his wits, and got at last in such a rage

Iwith him, that threatened to throw him into the river,
Iupon which he went off for assistance.
                                         waited for an hour,
Iwhen saw two woodmen coming on the opposite cliff, who

descended by my directions to the horse (the gorge was
somewhat like the Isla at Airlie Castle, but less high) . They

actually had to construct a path, and got him up with great

difficulty. In a word, he was not wounded, and we found

the saddle, stirrups and all, floated three-quarters of a mile

down in the middle of the river on a rock. The steed was
Ibrought over a ford, and only lost three hours and a half,
Iand 3s. for the men.
                       did some geology the same day, but

could not reach Catania. Night comes on here like an

eclipse of the sun, all in an instant, without twilight. The

roads are getting horribly muddy. Eosario advised sleep

220       SIR CHARLES LYELL.                  chap. ix.

ing in a low inn, or rather stable, with the horses, twenty-
Ifive mules in the same, half of them loose.
                                              dreaded a kick.
I' No fear,5 said he ; c you shall have clean straw, and will
Isleep between                y
     you  and  the  horses  !        insisted on proceed
Iing to a village two miles on, which we reached at last.
went (a la Murchison) to the Pharmacia -- the apothecary
always sets up for a savant, and is much flattered at being

applied to for scientific information. After some talk, lie

sent all over the village, and at last procured me a bed,
better than Aderno, for the inn there was vile enough. In a

Icountry where they have nine months5 heat, there are no

protections against cold. When ordered a fire at Aderno,
they brought a sort of garden flower-pot, broken, with some

charcoal, for there are no chimneys. ' Have you not another ?
This will not warm the room ? 5 ' Yes, sir ; but you had better
not, for you will be stifled.5 ' Impossible ! One might as well

talk of being stifled in the open air as here, with four doors,
not one of which shuts close.' ' Four doors, sir ! Bless me !

Maria Santissima ! Why this is only one opening into another

room, and this into a passage ; and this, sir, is the door, and

this a window.' Now the last you must know wgs an open

ing with two shutters, for except in the capital towns of

provinces the inns have no glass; so if you want light you

must open the shutter, and let in rain and wind too.

Kosario understands the commissariat department, and
Ithough the room is bad,  am never without prog. He
Ibelieves in all the saints and miracles.
                                           forgot to say that

when he. heard of the horse5s escape, he crossed himself and

Isaid a prayer. When he learnt how he was got up the rocks

on the opposite bank, and when long afterwards related

how the saddle was recovered, he drew his bridle, crossed

Ihimself, and said another prayer. On my return here,
Ifound was elected honorary member of the Geronia.n Society

of Catania, the only body which publishes any memoirs on

natural history and philosophy, and theirs are very respect-'
If Iable.
     detained by rain, shall make use of their library,
Iours should say, and reading-room.
     Ever your affectionate brother,

                              Charles Ltell.

t828.                A FESTA.                     221

                     To His Sister.

                                                                        Syracuse: December 11, 1828.

IMy dear Caroline, -- passed over the plain of Catania,

a delta of the Simeto, early, following the sea-beach, near

which were hedgerows of Indian figs and aloes. Before

Ithe sun rose from the sea, all the snow of Etna was glow
ing with red, like another dawn in the west.  have seen

this sight three times, a proof of fine weather and early
rising. Slept at Lentini ; inn good, for Sicily ; glass window,

and really not many panes broken. Next morning the

churches began as usual to fire their batteries. They can

Inot pray in this isle without gunpowder. In Catania was
opposite the Duomo, and the smoke and din were most war

like. About fifty ' maschi ' are set in a row -- small short
iron tubes, with touch-holes -- and a man or two stand with

long canes lighted at one end, to fire them one after the

other, like a feu de joie, the instant the priest has said

the benediction. A greater gun is often put in the middle

Ior end, according to the fancy of different churches. One

night at Catania heard a drum and two clarionets, fol

lowed by a rabble, shouting and throwing up squibs and
fireworks. ' What    is this ? * ' Per la gloria della Yeroine/
                     c Signor, si, della immaeulata.' When
I' Della          '
       Yergine
                9

reached Syracuse, it was the first of thirteen days' festa in
honour of Santa Lucia. 600 ' maschi ' were let off in the
piazza. As the Sicilian gentry are great sportsmen, they
send their steeds to face the battery, for if they stand this
they will not easily flinch from a gun. So the groom rides
up, and the town boys stand behind with whips and switches
to prevent a retreat. As they stand a good chance of a
kick, and hope to see the grooms thrown, they are never
Itired of this sport. The horse rears and plunges his nose in

the smoke, with the noisy mob behind, and could not help
thinking what religious associations the lads must acquire
Iin regard to <maschi.5 From Lentini to Melilli.
                                                  had a
letter to the vicar, a frro^er-member of the Geronian

ISociety. His invitation to sleep there was such as did not
Ichoose to accept. The room got (for inn there was none)

222  SIX CHARLES LYELL.                          chap. ix.

Iwas a queer place, and everything to be begged and borrowed

but the bed. Next day found that a crater discovered by

Ithe priest was a circular valley cut out of limestone strata,
with three veins of volcanic rock through them.  must
write to Dr. Gemellaro, for if he publishes this in the trans
actions of a Society at the foot of Etna, it will be a joke
against them they will never get over. Went to Sortino, to

see grottoes of Pentalica., where a vast population once lived

Iunderground. Made a man dig, by Buckland's direction,

into stalactite, but the instrument was so bad, was obliged

to go away after four feet were dug into, and no signs of a

Ibottom, or bones. Got too late to enter the gates at Syracuse ;

such bogs as have had to get through ! No funeral ever

went slower than we for two days, and some fords not quite

Iso shallow as could be wished. After seeing the paths

called roads, near the great towns in Sicily, shall respect

the worst in the Grampians, and honour the muddiest road

in Angus. It requires force to extract the hoof, and a leap

to jump down the stones. In summer they go by other
tracts, now bogs which would swallow us up. At Moridia, a

small town near this, they showed me a room to which the

Icaves had seen at Pentalica would have been luxurious, so
Icold and stinking ; so off went, determined to beg at the
best house. There was only one with two storeys, a Phar

macy, and the owner, the Mayor or Syndico, a Maltese, who

Igave me an excellent apartment, was glad in return to hear

stale news which had read a fortnight before at Naples,
the taking of Varna, &c, and he told me of some new anti
Iquarian discoveries at this city, and then politely left me

alone. Eosario brought everything for dinner, and gave
the servant what a bed would have cost-- a shilling -- and got

here to breakfast in light rain, yet have geologised and

Iantiquarianised all day with much success. An old monk,

who collected shells and fossils, died lately, and purchased
the latter for a trifle ; not many, but good, and more than
any other geologist has got to throw light on the old vol
canoes of Val di Noto.
     Licata, December 16.-- Prom Syracuse by Noto to Cape
Passaro and then, to avoid some fords which the rains had
swollen, by Spaccafomo to Scicli, S. Croce, Terranuova to

1 828.  HARDSHIPS.                                223

ILicata ; to-morrow to Girgenti. Beautiful weather for seven

days, and have made such progress in the geology of the

isle, and have such a near prospect of completely mastering

Ithe difficult points, which no one ever did before, that

Imean after the late fine weather to penetrate to Castrogio-

vanni, which had entirely given up. The inns are exe

Icrable beyond description, and bread often requiring all the

digestive powers which have gained by being on horse

back for ten successive days for eleven hours each.
     Girgenti, December 18. -- An uncomfortable inn at Noto,

Ibut next day threatened with so much worse at Pachino,

that in spite of Rosario's remonstrances pushed on to

Capo Passaro, but the old priest who had received the Buck-

lands was dead. His young successor however, a simple

frank young man, welcomed me in a dwelling like a humble

Scotch Highland manse, and cold enough. Saw the fine

rocks of the Cape that evening, and again before breakfast,

and then on to Spaccaforno. My man had built on my

staying, because the wind was very high, and turned out

sulky. No inn at Spaccaforno, a great place bigger than
Salisbury. Went to the Jesuits' convent. ' Would have

been happy, &c, but the Bishop was arrived on a triennial

visitation, and they and the Carmelitans crowded with his

suite.5 Went to beg of the Mendicant Capuchins. <They
had a room vacant, but the beds were all ordered off to the
other convents for the Bishop.' At last Rosario made them

understand we should pay as at an inn, and a monk gave me
his cell. Such a villanous place, hardly room for a small bed

and tp.ble ; un swept, &c. The bread here and next day black,
and half baked, and scarce digestible, and no meat, not even

a fowl to be bought. Population 9500 ! Most of the brethren

rude and uncouth. My host quite otherwise. On my com
Iplaining of the wine we had procured, he went out and came
back with a bottle under his cowl, and a cheese.  thought

of the friar in ' Ivanhoe,' but unluckily for my dinner, and

the joke, both kinds of prog were very bad. He made a

Idecent show next day of not having expected payment, but

  said it was to sing masses for my soul. Next night on to
S. Croce. Road horrid ; no inn, but a camera attached to a

* fundaco ' or mule stall ; and as you may be obliged to sleep

224               SIX CHARLES LYELL.    CHAP. ix.

in the latter, this chamber ranks here in a muleteer's esti

mation as respectable. Each of the dirty family sleeps in it

by turns, and turns out for the stranger. The cobwebs were
thick and pendent, and the hostess said, ' Cercate, Signor,

Ima aon c'e altra,' with such an air of presuming on her

monopoly, that applied to the Syndico, who ordered me an

Iapartment belonging to the commune. It was decent but

gloomy. Next night, at Terranuova, petitioned for more
bedclothes at the inn. ' Non c'e altra coperta, Signor.'

c Can't you borrow one ? ' ' No.9 In such weather in Scotland

you might do without fires, but here the houses are planned

for being cold. The sun is very warm from 11 to 2 o'clock,

even a few lizards out, and Papilio cardui, edusa./phlceas, bras-

sica, and rapes, and the moth popularis (all British), without
any foreigners mixed. Many flowers in full bloom, a blue

Iiris, daisies, marigold, rosemary, and numerous splendid

shrubs by the sea-side, some of which remembered in the

garden at Bartley. The olives are old and picturesque, and
their light green, and the rich green of the Carubiere,5 with
very rarely a deciduous tree, make it quite unlike winter

in appearance. As the inn at Licata yesterday was the best

I Isince Syracuse, did not sleep, as might have done, at a
Irich merchant's, Mastroeni, to whom had a letter, but went
to a soiree there, very gay. Saw the fine old Doric temples
I Iof Agrigentum on my way to this, -- fine geological sec
tions near them.  found the people here, as indeed had

found them everywhere in Sicily, celebrating a festa, but

the cause was novel. Eleven years ago the citizens and

populace threw down the King's statue, and broke every
limb to atoms. His Majesty, of his royal clemency, bethought

him, eleven years after, of punishing them by transferring

the tribunals to Caltanisetta, a smaller city, where a power

ful garrison kept all loyal, as they did in two other places
only, in all Sicily. Hearing of this threat, the magistrates

Iordered a new marble statue from Palermo, which was

being set up when entered. But the fatal decree arrived
first, so the senate, fco propitiate the King, ordered a three

days' festa, and all the usual ceremonies are to be per
formed before the statue, while they are to obtain inter

                  5 Ceratonia Siliqua.

1828. RIDE ACROSS SICILY. 225

cession of a patron saint when they carry out or go in

procession to the image of the Virgin, or their protector

St. John. The Bishop and clergy attended, and sung solemn

mass ; maschi were fired off, and in the evening above a

Ithousand were to be exploded. Service also in the cathedral.
  looked in, and while the people were on their knees, the
organ playing and the bell sounding, in came a military

band playing a march, while a file of soldiers fired off a

volley just within the porch, and made a terrific noise in the

Gothic aisles. There was to be two more days of this, and

they still hoped that when the King heard of snch devotion

he would relent and reverse his decree. The Sicilians have

Ithe character of being very sincere among Italians, and com

pared to Romans or Neapolitans believe they are so. The
King and Government are unpopular, and the former known

to be a mere gourmand and sportsman, yet what did the
Roman senate of old ever do more servile when they decreed

Idivine honours to Augustus and other living emperors.

forgot one droll sight. Fifteen orphan boys were paraded

before the statue stark naked on a windy day, and then

clothed by the Bishop in the name of the King.         rode

  IRagusa, near Modica, December 25. -- From Girgenti
through the heart of the island by Cannigatti, Caltanicetta,
Piazza, and Caltagirone, to Yizzini, within a day of Catania
again, to get new sections of the old limestone and volcanic
district of the Yal di ISToto, and decide the difficult problem
whether the rocks of the east or west of this isle were first
Iformed, for certainly they were not contemporaneous.
                                                            do

not wonder so many have doubted, for the convulsions have

been tremendous, though the strata, geologically, is very
Imodern.
          have made up my mind on the subject, and am
I I Iglad returned, though half repented when found in so
Imany large fine cities such wretched accommodation, especially

on two of the days when did less geology than on the coast,
but the Yal di Noto redeemed all. The centre of the isle is
without wood, downs, with
latter a few inches high.  grass and  wheat  on clay soil,  the
                                      to be  1^ feet, and   the
                           It ought

farmers are alarmed at the extraordinary want of rain, which

has been so favourable to me, as the clay districts have
become hard again. Short as are the days, ten hours or less,
VOL. i.
                           o

226     SIR CHARLES LYELL.                                   chap. ix.

Eosario says that few English, travellers can ever work more

hours daylight, for they are obliged to be indoors in the

heat of mid-day, as in other seasons.    Near Piazza, where
                                         Hijpparchia, the first
Ithere was no geology, went after an
I Ihad seen. It was pamphilus, and         also saw Magcera.

Eosario must needs imitate me, and has really acquired so

good an eye for a fossil shell as to be of great use. He
dismounted, caught a pamjphilus, and holding it battered

'twixt finger and thumb, pronounced after a stare this notable
opinion : ' Questo e un grillo alato, ma ce ne sono in Sicilia
che volano senza ale/ Shortly after this he was pitched

headlong over the mule's head : his hand swelled with the
Ifall.
        conclude he was snoozing, though he gives another
Iexplanation. He tells me am taken for a merchant travel

ling- for trovatura, or treasure-trove, and the peasants offer

themselves for guides to the grottoes where the Saracens are

said to have left enormous treasures, but where no one has
yet had the art to extract anything. At Palagonia the
best room was occupied by a Sicilian baron. Innkeeping

Imust be a bad trade, as had never found the best room
Itaken before, so was given the barn. Had it been a windy
Inight should have suffered much. Here the loft of the inn
I Iwas so small, and had been uncleaned for so many years, that

  went out and applied to the first peasant met. He showed
me his cottage," very clean and comfortable, gave me the key,
and left me and Eosario in full possession. Most of the inns
Iin Sicily must have been designed for travellers below the
rank of ordinary peasants, judging by the comparison.        got

a good many shells at Caltagirone, most of any place since
                         of  rain now    for fifteen days !
Syracuse. Not a drop         -- Arrived  to-day, somewhat    fagged,
     Palermo, December  31.

but the beautiful appearance of this city and the fair promise

Iof the inn have quite set me up ; and as shall be busy every
I Imoment till sail for Naples, will employ a few minutes, if
Ibut to tell you that in the honest peasant's bed above men

tioned slept not, though tired, ten minutes in the whole
night. They had added, at my asking for covering, an old
blanket, in which were more fleas than all the insects in our

Icollection, and suppose they had starved since last winter,
Ifor next morning was marked all over from head to foot

1829.     PALERMO.                227

I Iwith red spots like one of the Ancient Britons with his body
painted.  never passed such a night since had the measles

at Sarum, yet the host and Rosario thought it a capital joke,
and T heard them laughing about the ' pulci' having found
a piece of ' came fresca,' and they gave me pretty clearly to

understand that they thought one who could not stand a

fleabite was unfit to travel. Rosario must needs pull out

the blanket, to show where they were sleeping next day, and

they were in thousands, yet the owner and his wife use this
blanket without inconvenience when it is cold.

   I shall send Fanny a letter from Naples or Rome, in
Iwhich shall write some adventures of the last part of my

tour, that you may have a complete idea of the luxury in
Sicily ; which, however, as far as my objects are concerned,

Ihas answered remarkably well, and for the time has yielded

more than could have expected.

    January 1. --A happy New Tear to you all at Kinnordy.

    With love to all, believe me, your aCffehcateiolensateLybreotllh-er,

          To His Sisteb.

                                                                       Palermo :. Jannary 1, 1829.

I IMy dear Fanny, -- find that ante-dated by two days my
Ilast letter to Caroline, and wished her a happy New Year
before the old one was over.      was glad to find, when the

Icannon of this port fired a grand round at daybreak, that T

had two days more to get back to town, which hope to do
before February is over. As for the two seas and the Alps
which lie between England and me, and the vetturinos, and

Ithe winter, they all seem trifling inconveniences to me now

after five weeks' roughing it in Sicily, for am sure it will
all be luxurious comparatively. As they say that those parts
Iof a tour read best which were least agreeable to the

traveller, shall go back to Ragusa, though you must not
flatter yourself that you will hear of banditti, for every part
Iof the island went through, and that was about two-thirds
Iof the whole, was, am sure, as safe as the best parts of
I IEngland. However,
          believe                 may absolve Scrope and

others who wrote me discouraging instructions on this head

                              q2

228                 S/K CHARLES LYELE          chap. rx.

about the prudence of taking pistols, a fierce dog, &c. ; for

when they were here, the late revolution, by suspending all

law for a time, had rendered highwaymen numerous.

Kosario saw twenty-six shot in one day, and being courier

then, was allowed additional time for the letter-carrying, as

he often went round, to avoid dangerous places. There is a,

strong military police now, for the poverty and misery of the

population are at their height, and without a strong force to

suppress them, they would be more honest than any in Europe

Iif they did not turn robbers. found that a chief of banditti
Ifrom the side of Marsala (where was not) has just been
Itaken here, and shot, they tell me, without trial, a Turkish

proceeding, but hope this is not correct. These men were

convicts in the islands off here, who escaped. Guidotti of

Parma, a somewhat timid gentleman, never expects me to

Ireturn, as a Prussian naturalist of his acquaintance was

murdered three years ago. learn that it was his own guide

who was the assassin, and he the only traveller who for many

many years has suffered. The population of Sicily is not

one-fourth of what it was once. Syracuse alone had a

number equal to the present total, yet the Greeks were always

fighting each other, town against town. But they were

active, industrious in commerce, and every acre was culti

vated. Now one-third of all the land belonging to the

convents is ill-cultivated, for the friai-s never reside long

enough in one convent to acquire a local interest. The
bishop changes them from one to another, as often as they

quarrel with him, or one another. Another third of land

belonging to the nobles is said to have been also much

neglected. But a strange revolution is going on. The old

law of primogeniture is abolished, and the French system
established of equal division, males and females. As this is

only eleven years   old, it has only begun to   take effect,  but
the rich Prince of   Paterno died lately, and                 inn
                                               I found the

full of land surveyors, estimating his lands, which had been

divided into eight portions, and many were selling their

shares to Catania n merchants. The nobles were against the

Icing in the revolution, and it is now the policy of the court
(a short-sighted one, no doubt) to degrade them. The taxes
are complained of as very exorbitant, raised to pay the debt

iSig.                  HEAVY RAIN.                     229

Iincurred by the Austrian occupation. After my sleepless

night at Ragum, mentioned in my last, went to Castro-

giovanni, and on my way was revived by finding in some

marls some fine impressions of fish, the first fossils hitherto

Ifound in the formation which produces fc.ul.phur and salt in

Sicily. This will, am sure, be of no small interest to Buck-

land and Daubeny. I. found the same again in four other

localities on my first two days' journey from Castrogiovanui
to Palermo, when at length I rejoined the carriage road, and
continued on it for three days, making, in my whole tour,

exactly five days, that I was on a road on which any machine

with wheels, however rude, could move. Not that Sicily is

at all unfitted to have beautiful roads at the same cost as

Iany other country. As had good reason to suspect that
IEosario was planning being a day longer than intended, 1

rode on before one day, starting early, and the night and the

rain came on, and he could not quite come up with me. So

besides the ordinary luxury of a Sicilian inn at llocca

Palumba, I had the benefit of a night without my baggage

and portable provisions. But next day reached this, and no

sooner had we arrived, than heavy rain, snow, hail, and

thunder came on incessantly. Fords that we crossed daily

during the last fortnight are now impassable, and journeys
which we performed in a day, with as much ease as it is done

in summer, are now two days' hard work through the (day
and bogs. Yet this rain ought to have come three weeks

earlier. The American Consul, Gardner, has given me some

beautiful fossil shells. I drank tea, there, and wasgUul to see

again a. regular English fireside and tea,- table.
     January -- Ma.de acquaintance with Professor Ferra.ra,
       ;                      I;

                ! \\.                 by

                                                    I
                                                                                                            ;
learnt much about earthquakes bought his books; dined at
Lord Northampton's. The Marchioness finds good marks
for her wit in the numerous and illiterate princes and dukes

who pay groat court to them.          learnt much of the state

and feeling of the Sicilian noblesse  her criticisms.  have

been to see the convent of the Capucins, where there are
great vaults full of dried bodies. What an Egyptian piece oi!

superstition           Dukes and bishops, &c., dried, and in coffins;

monks and paupers innumerable, dried and set up in their

clothes some 150 years old, ghastly spectacles long files of
                                      ;

230              SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap. ix.

these mummies, tea times more frightful than skeletons.

These Capucins give soup to a hundred or more beggars

daily. The mendicity here is distressing, not a noisy set of
idlers making a trade of it, as at Naples, but the misery of a

starving population; children exposed in frightful nakedness

positively howling at night in my street, and now and then

well-dressed persons begging piteously. This faithless packet
will never sail, they always promise solemnly to-morrow.
A bad cold and slight sore throat, and my impatience at

being detained, makes me low-spirited.

    January 5. --Bought some good fossil shells, saw the

museum, cathedral, &c. Cold worse, captain will not sail,

and threaten him to wait for steamboat. No keeping warm
without stifling oneself with charcoal. The merchants here

are gloomy about the end of the war, for they say the Black
Sea will be open by demand of all the Powers, and their corn

will sell no longer. The retreat of the Eussians from Silistria

is the theme of politicians.

    January 6. --The wind fair, and the scoundrel will not

budge, for he is afraid as long as there is a cloud. Steam

boat expected. Dined with the Northamptons. Met some

Sicilians. The old lady made me go to the play with her and

her unmarried daughter : it was one of Goldoni's, by good
luck, and we got back to tea, and 1 had a talk till 12 o'clock

Iwith Lord N., who reads up to the day, and is a most agree
able companion.  had not exhorted him in vain to collect

fossils, his old hobby, and he has already got some, and taken

full instructions. Among other things, he means in February

to go to all my localities of fish, and will probably send for

Rosario as a guide from Messina. Lady N. gave me a hint,

Ias from experience in Sicily, that should often have slept
Isounder if had had some straw taken from the rick, and
Islept on it in my cloak, which shall remember another

time in southern regions.
    January 7. --Is it not strange that the best houses belong

ing to Sicilians have no fireplaces or chimneys ? yet the snow
now covers the hills which overhang the rich plain in which

this beautiful town stands. The Northamptons have built,

since their arrival, chimneys in all the rooms, and famous

fires they make, to the great satisfaction of the natives. They

1829. DEPARTS FOR NAPLES. 231

have got a beautiful mansion. Almost all those of the

nobility are now let out in floors to merchants and others !
Wind fair, and cannot get away. The excuse is infamous,

Iafter so many promises. ' Prince Butera has not yet sent his

horses to embark ! ' The diploma which found for Scrope

and myself, from the Geronian Society of Natural History in
Catania, must have been devised by a ' Lepidopterist,' as

Stephens would say, for among the emblems, a great butter

fly at the top cuts a greater figure than a range of basaltic

columns at the bottom.

    January 10. -- Gulf of Naples, on board ' Costanza ' brig.

Although the steamer arrived on Thursday, my impatience

to be moving brought me on board, but instead of sailing at

midday, we were kept five hours, a fair wind blowing,
waiting for a passenger who never came. This lost us just a
day, for we kept the wind till the middle of last night, and

were then opposite the Isle of Capri. Three hours more of it

would have taken us to Naples. After eight of dead calm,

we moved on one mile per hour, the whole of to-day, then
six miles the last hour, which brought us in at 24 o'clock, i.e.,
6 o'clock, or sunset, and the blessed police will not allow our
landing till 8.30 o'clock to-morrow. < Basta che siamo nel

Iporto, Signor,' says the captain, coolly. Vesuvius, since
was here, put on a covering of snow down to the middle,

which seems great presumption for a monticule not much

Ihigher, fancy, than those of Glen Isla, and in this climate.
I am the only passenger in the best cabin, and my knowing

how crowded the cabin in the steamer is, was one of the
principal causes of preference. But this is as rough as the
interior of Sicily, and no bedclothes but a blanket, which
is a bore, now a third night is added so unnecessarily.

ITalking of rough work, there were two things of which
deemed it advisable to break my valet Eosario. First, not to
bring in the salt in his hands, often none of the cleanest ;
and secondly, not to stuff the meat remaining after dinner,
and intended cold for next morning, into my slippers, with
out at least some paper round it. From these he desisted,
but a  few   hints on  minor subjects  were met with, ' A la guerra
come   a la  guerra !  ' in which he
                                       was right as a traveller in
his isle. We had quite a gale for the first twenty hours, nine

?32  s/R CHARLES LYELL.                                  CHAP. IX.

Iknots an hour, without a sail but two very small ones.
was very ill, but recovered so as to read and write ever since.
                        Your affectionate brother,
                                                Charles  Lyell.

     To Roderick Murchison, Esq.

                                                                          Naples : January 12, 1829.

   IMy dear Murchison,-- Thrice did entreat the lazy rascal

who is intendant of the post at Palermo to look back over

I Ithe letters of a month before, as knew had some waiting.

I now find to a certainty, from the post office here, as well

as the landlord of the hotel, that no less than three letters

Iwere there for me. As have never once heard from home
Isince we parted, cannot tell you how great my disappoint

ment was, after being kept nine days in Palermo. They must
now travel after me to Paris. One of them no doubt was

yours.

   I Ihave so much to tell you, that where shall begin ?
IMy last letter was from Licata. Thence went to Girgenti,

and found that, notwithstanding what the Catanese said to

the contrary, Daubeny was most indisputably right in

Iidentifying the calcareous breccia, as he terms it, of that

place, with Syracuse, and as afterwards found of Castrogio-
vanni. Then this formation (indubitably far, very far more
I Irecent, than the sub-Apennine beds) attains the prodigious
height of 3,800 feet !  got so astounded by the results

Iwas coming to, in my tour from Etna, round by C. Passaro,

that began to doubt them ; and not without some struggle
with my desire to get out of the inns and horse-paths and
Iother evils, struck back again to Val di JSToto right through
I I Ithe centre of the isle.
                        found, as believe told you before,

that the so-termed Blue Clay formation must be divided

into two very distinct and in some cases unconformable

deposits. The upper resembles the blue sub-Apennine marl,
covered near Caltagirone with its true Sabbia giallonula. The

lower is without shells, white marls, beds of gypsum just like

those we saw at Gagliari from Asti, beds of sand and sulphur,

Irock salt, &c. Now in the foliated marls (white) of this

last formation, after searching in vain on the sea^coast,

1829.                      GEOLOGY.                 233

found at last organic remains. First near Radusa, a small

hamlet in the interior, where fishes' scales, and some enti: e

Ifish like M. Bolca, turned up, and some impressions of

leaves. Whether fish be marine or freshwater, cannot say.

IThirty miles off, near Castrogiovanni, and in three other locali

ties between that and Palermo, found the same fish in the

same beds. But the first marked locality, only four days' ride

from Palermo, is the richest, and would probably prove a

IM. Bolca with some labour, i.e., if the formation be not

lacustrine or fluviatile, against which know no argument
yet. As a whole, it is uncommonly like our Superga marl*,

Inot a grain of green sand however, but positively identical

with the beds saw in my solitary expedition on the cheval de

Iposte to the gypsum beds of [name omitted] , where also found

laminated marls with leaves between two gypseous strata.

IBut these are mineralogical identities, and go for nothing.

What will you say if tell you that even the blue marl with

Iits capping of yellow sand cannot be Brocchi's sub-Appenine

beds ? am come most unwillingly to this conclusion. But

the numerous extinct species which characterised the snb-

Appenines are wanting here, and living shells are present too
plentifully to admit a doubt that it is more related to our

own epoch than that remote one when the Parmegiano and

I IPlacentino beds were deposited.
 - think from what saw at Paestum and elsewhere that

0. d'Halloy strained a point to make out some travertin

I Iolder, but if can find a day for Tivoli without hard rain,
Iwill get more data. In the meantime, Sicily will throw all
such proofs in the shade.  am much disturbed in mind

about Siena, and must go there from Rome, to try and

satisfy myself. My notion is that the tout ensemble of
Ishells there will not be that of the Parmezan.
                                                 am begin
Ining now to be able, when see large collections, to distinguish
between any marked difference in the proportion of lost

species and genera. Sicily is as unlike Asti as possible,
Ithough there are some lost species in the former,
                                                    should
build no system on such glances, but it might check me from

reasoning too fast on the data obtained from zoologists as
to Ischia and Etna.

We must preach up travelling, as Demosthenes did

234                  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                                                                chap. ix.

'delivery/ as tlie first, second, and third requisites for a
modern geologist, in the present adolescent state of the

science. De la Beche is going just when he should.
                                                                                                       f~~
                               Tours  ever  most truly,                                                Lyell.
                                               Chakles                                                       is

              To EODERICK MUECHISON, ESQ.

                                             Naples January 15, 1829.:

-- My dear Murchison, --       leave for Eome to-morrow
^

           it

                  is

                  I
                      I

                          I
morning, and shall be there the day after. The rain in

cessant and tropical.          have got all my shells named,

except some which unfortunately sent direct from Palermo.

The results of my Sicilian expedition exceed my warmest
expectations in the way of modern analogies. will tell you
fairly that                                    I; I
                 at present of no small consequence to me to
get a respectable sum for my volume, -- not only to cover

extra expenses for present and future projected campaigns,

but because my making my hobby pay its additional costs,
       entails, will alone justify my pursuing
which                                                                                                  with a
I                                                                                                      I it
            it
            I
                           it
mind sufficiently satisfied with itself, and so as to feel in

dependent, and free to indulge in the enthusiasm necessary

for success.     shall never hope to make money by geology,

but not to lose, and tax others for my amusement and unless

can secure this, would in my circumstances be selfish in

me to devote myself as much as hope to do to it.                                                             have
                               is I
little fear of accomplishing so much, and with that view, the
                                   is
instant our Auvergne paper off our hands, shall set

steadily to the task. My work in part written, and all

planned. It will not pretend to give even an abstract of all

that known in geology, but will endeavour to establish
     is                        it
                 of
the principle reasoning in the science; and all my geology

will come in as illustration of my views of those principles,

and as evidence strengthening the system necessarily

arising out of the admission of such principles, which, as you

know, are neither more nor less than that no causes whatever

have from the earliest time to which we can look back, to

the present, ever acted, but those now acting and that they
never acted with different degrees of energy from that which
                     I
                                                                                                    ;
they now exert.      must go to Germany, and learn German

18:9.  RESOLVE TO LEARN GERMAN.                       235

geology and the language, after this work is published, and
I I Ibefore launch out in my tables of equivalents.
                                            shall,

Iexpect, get out my book before the tardy G. S. gets out our

Auvergne paper ; but no matter, as shall always refer con

tinually to the MS. as read, and c ordered to be printed/
This year we have by our joint tour fathomed the depth and

ascertained the shallowness of the geologists of France and
Italy as to their original observations. We can without

fear measure our strength against most of those in our own

land, and the question is, whether Germany is stronger. They
are a people who generally ' drink deep or taste not/ &c.
Their language must be learnt; the places to which their

Imemoirs relate, visited ; and then you may see, as may, to
If Iwhat extent we may indulge dreams of eminence, at least as
original observers.  can biit earn the wherewith to cany

on the war, or rather its extraordinary costs, depend upon it
I will waste no time in bookmaking for lucre's sake. At least
I will answer for myself for many a day. Try to get me off
Ibeing V. P. G. S., if intended again.
                                        have, as you have,
Isacrificed something to official duties, and am prepared to
Ido so again at some future time, but will not for the time
coming, except as referee and councillor. As Sedgwick is to

Ibe President, there ought to be working V. Ps, and Pitton
ought to be free now, he has done so much.  have a deal

to tell you of news in geology, which the relation of what con

cerned me more nearly has left no room for, but you shall

hear from Kome.

                     Ever yours, most truly,

                                      Charles Ltell.

236                  SIR CHARLES LYELL.           chap. x.

              CHAPTEE X.

     JANUARY TO DECEMBEB, 1829.

ROME-- NEWS FROM HOME ON GEOLOGICAL SPECULATIONS-- DR. WOLLASTON'S
    DEATH -- TIVOLI -- GRAND SECTION OF TRAVERTIN -- GEOLOGISTS AT GENOA
    --JOURNEY TO GENEVA-- DE CANDOLLE-- NECKER -- PARIS --LECTURE OF
    PREVOST'S -- CUVIER --ARRANGEMENT OF HIS LIBRARY -- RETURN TO LON
    DON --LIVELY MEETING AT THE GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY-- FOSSILS IN PAVE
     MENT-STONE IN FORFARSHIRE-- SEDGWICK AND MURCHISON GEOLOGISING
     ABROAD -- LETTER FROM CONSTANT PREVOST -- PROJECT OF GOING TO
     ICELAND.

                     CORBESPONDENCE.

     To EODEEICK HlJRCHISON, ESQ.

                     Eome : January 17, 1829.
     IMy dear Murehison, -- In the diligence had time, as we
Itravelled from Naples, to re-read your letters.
                                                  believe all

you mean by modifying the caveat is to avoid our appearing

to announce as neiv an old well-known fact of lava currents.

This is well, but the caveat part remains necessary. Tour
term ' stone walls ' is forcible, and not too strong, and should
be inserted with ' as if between two,' or something in that
I Iway.
     am anxious, as told you, to throw off our principal
Ipaper, to clear the ground for other work ; and, besides,
should like them to see that we do not require a year or two to

hatch our materials. We will write it for reading, just as

if we expected it to be put into the printer's hands the day

after. That miserable old style of making a difference

between a paper 'to be read' and one ' to be published' has,

we know, been the secret of retarded volumes, overworked
editions, and dull thin meetings, and it is very bad economy

of time in authors.

Getting eighty species (only part of my Palermo collec

...1829.              ROME.                                  237

tion) named at Naples, enabled me, by working in the
museum of their Academy, to identify a great part of the

tertiaries of Calabria with certain parts of Sicily, chiefly

Iwith the tertiaries of Messina, which are in that island of
very limited extent.  shall write a letter from hence to

ILord Northampton, telling him that when he arrives at a

hundred species, it is only his starting point, as was there.

IHe will be glad to hear the news of the scientific world, in

yours and Fitton's letters. do not despair of stirring him

up to such a point, that he will send to town 300 species
before spring, which will ensure me against the chance of

having to renounce my present opinion on the proportions of

Sicilian tertiaries extinct and identiques.

   IRome, January 19, 1829. --There is a deluge of rain here,

after the drought. All tell me that might have gone ten

years to Sicily, and not experienced the same absence of rain
in the same season. What with the fine season in Auvergne,

and all summer and autumn, was there ever a greater proof

that Providence watches over geologists ? The chief danger,
perhaps, in philosophical subjects is, that the majority may

feel them cold, and without sufficient excitement. Mix up
with this abstract quality a little human passion, a slight

dose of personal interest, and you draw in ten times as many

who look into the thing, and some of them come over to you,
and transfer the stimulus at first supplied by extraneous

Iconsiderations to the real subject itself. Truth once per
ceived, never  am persuaded wanted supporters in this

world, even if men were sure to be losers by their support.

The only difficulty you have to struggle with is the enormous

indolence of mankind, who will never look into evidence till
Igoaded on to it by some stronger motive than the mere love
of abstract truth.    speak of the ol iroXkol. Do not build

too much on the Col de Tenda section, for next to the green
Isand believe the pretended universality of the ' New red '
Ito be among the emptiest bubbles in geology.
                                               have just
learnt from Scarpellini, the astronomer, that Brocchi's com-

Ipagnon de voyage, Ricasoli, is in Rome, and has some collec

tions made in that tour, and am to beat up his quarters

forthwith.            Ever most truly yours,

                                             Charles Lyell.

238               SIR CHARLES LYELL.     chap. x.

                  To His Sister.

                                                                                 Rome : January 21, 1829.

   IMy dear Marianne, --Although cannot write you a long
I Iletter, will not leave this for Siena, for which start to
Imorrow, without acknowledging yours, which was very

glad to find here. My letters from geological friends are

very satisfactory, as to the unusual interest excited in the

Geological Society by our paper on the excavation of valleys in

Auvergne. Seventy persons present the second evening,

and a warm debate. Buckland and G-reenough furious,

contra Scrope, Sedgwick, and Warburton, supporting us.

These were the first two nights in our new magnificent

apartments in Somerset House. Their letters are all full of

Dr. Wollaston's last moments, whose place they justly

observe there is no one to supply in town. He has left

2,0001. to the Royal Society, and 1,000Z. to the Geological

Society, a bequest, as Fitton says, which although of great
consequence in itself, will do us more good as showing the
Ideliberate approbation of such a mind.  will send you,
Iwhen return, Murchison's two letters, with the account of
the discussion on our memoir, which will amuse you. It is
Ia very small part of our work.
                                 am pledged to set steadily
Iat the rest the moment return, and expect that one month

will do it, for M. has got all the organic remains named,

and the mechanical work over. Longman has paid down

500 guineas to Mr. Ure of Dublin for a popular work on

Geology, just coming out. It is to prove the Hebrew cosmo
Igony, and that we ought all to be burnt in Smithfield. So
much the better.  have got a rod for the fanatics, from a

^ quarter where they expect it not. The last Pope did posi
tively dare to convoke a congregation, and reverse all that

his predecessors had done against Galileo, and there was

only a minority of one against ; and he instituted lectures

on the Mosaic cosmogony to set free astronomy and geology.
IHow these things are so little known in Paris and London,

heaven knows. They are golden facts, and find the state
Iof the question here to shame the Granville-Penn school of
England.  have had great light thrown on Sicily and

1829.       SECTION OF TRAVERTIN.                              239

Auvergne by the travertins of Lakes Tartari and Tivoli. On
I Ia fine day saw the cascade, then full of water.
                                                    find the

Imarine formation here just the same as Sicily, a new light

to the geological world, and have now got full proof that

half Sicily was formed since the Mediterranean was inhabited

by present species of testacea. The present Pope is a bigot,
but has quite failed in sundry attempts to undo what the
last great man effected. He issued an order, which was

positively published, to shut up the English chapel, but our

Consul waited immediately on the Cardinal Secretary, and

said he must, if the news was true, in pursuance of his duty,
send off a messenger to St. James's ; but he hesitated till

assured again, for he wished to remind his Holiness that
there were numerous Catholic chapels and churches in

London, and although he would not take upon himself to say
that his Britannic Majesty would instantly shut them all up,

Iyet he would not auswer for him. The order was repealed.

You may imagine how glad shall be to get home after such

Ia continual accumulation of materials, without time to digest
and apply.  have, besides four books sent home by Mur-
chison, nine others and a half entirely full of geological

sections, notes, &c. It is very encouraging to perceive by

my letters how much more every year the subject is taking
hold of the public mind. My own opinion of its future

capabilities has been very much raised by my tour in

Sicily.

         Believe me, your affectionate brother,

                                               Charles Lyell.

              To BODERICK J. MURCHISON, EsQ.

                                                                               Rome : January 22, 1829.

   IMy dear Murchison, --Monte Mario turned out, as ex

pected, my Sicilian formation, and not sub-Appenine. Tivoli

Iand its cascades gained in beauty by the late heavy rains, but

had my usual good fortune in a bright sunny day to view them,
and study the grand section of travertin, 500 feet perpendi
cular, there displayed. That this was formed in an ancient

Ismall lake, and not, as some have dreamt, in the course of

the Anio, have full proof. Some of the pisolitic and oolitic

240  ; SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap, x,

travertin -there throws much light on some of my Sicilian beds,
as does still more Omalius d'Halloy's older travertin of the

plain near Tartaret. That variety of travertin which they
call c tartaroso ' is precisely our great tubular travertin near

La Serre, so like, that if they changed places, the migration

would never be detected. This contains, with the plants

(but very rarely indeed), helices. The older travertin, of
which a great part of Rome is built, contains no organic

remains. It affords me some debghtful Sicilian analogies,

I Ibut hardly think it does any to Central France, at least
Imust see our specimens again before answer for it. It is

If Ientirely different from the other travertin, or that which
resembles the indusial.  were to return to Auvergne,

the indusial travertin and the other, and probably some of

the rest of the compact calcareous limestones, would now

appear as volcanic to my eyes as the augitic sands. It

seems to me an immense oversight in all who have passed

through Tuscany, the Campagna Romana, and Sicily, to have
brought hot springs so little into play in their systems.
There is in the Campagna di Roma a beautiful chain of

alluvial phenomena, which, but for Moses and his penal
deluge, would have thrown more light than any part of
Europe on the modern ages of the earths history, and they

Itend to confirm think the Boulade ! case as viewed by us.
I have got news again of the Yiterbo bones, and envy the
first Sedgwick who gets at them. They are elephant and
co., and are in an alluvium overlaid by prismatic lava of one

of the extinct Tuscan volcanoes ! The elephant and rhino

ceros in alluvium about Rome, which is geologically thou
sands of years younger than 'crag.' This alluvium is
younger than most, if not all of the extinct volcanoes of that
district, as appears beyond a doubt both by its contents and

its relation to the present valleys, and to the alluvial volcanic
tufas. Ricasoli, who travelled much with Brocchi, is a

capital worker, and if the poor devil was in a more favour

able situation would do much. Babbage or Herschel would
be diverted to hear that Scarpellini could not lionise the

     1 Boulade bone-bed. See paper by Lyell and Murchison on Excavation
of Valleys, illustrated by the volcanic rocks of Central France.-- Edinburgh
Philosophical Journal, 1829.

1829. S/EJVESE FOSSILS.                             241

museum to me this morning, as a Cardinal had requested

him to assist at the solemn benediction and christening of
a great new bell, to be put up to-morrow in St. Mary's. But
Eicasoli went with me to the museum, and the varieties of

travertin there are most instructive. Lord Northampton

had formerly presented Padre Eicca with a handsome set of

Scotch minerals, and his letter of introduction procured me

Iduplicates (very fine) of Sienese fossil shells from Eicca.

Then hunted up the widow of the late porter of the

museum, and for a dollar and a half got forty species more.
Then last, not least, Eicca introduced me to an active

intelligent young Belgian, who has been sent by the King
Iof the Netherlands to collect in natural history, by name
Canraine.  found him very anxious to learn somethino- of

Igeology. He knew where the sections were, and went with

me. taught him the geology, and he gave me a list of the
shells found in said localities. By degrees he became so
I Iinterested with the new views, that he begged me to stay a
day more, which   will do, for  shall get more fossils,

and he has already undertaken that the University of Leyden
shall send to our Geological Society a complete set of Sienese
duplicates, and in return receive English fossils. We may
hope for this next summer, and expect at least 500 or 600

species. The result is that here the Sabbia giallonale is not
one formation with the blue marl (which from here to south
of Sicily is called by  all, chalk, creta, and when they talk
French, la craie). The  sand has an immensely nearer rela

tion to the Mediterranean than the inferior formation, and
Icomes very close, if not quite, to any Sicilian fossil beds.

Now told Guidotti that he ought to find somethino- of
this at Parma, where the whole thickness exceeds 3,000 feet,
Iwhich could not be the work of a day, even in a geological
calendar, but he protested it was not so. However,  have
now stirred him up with a letter, and as he told me he
Ishould collect this winter quite with new eyes after my

cramming, shall look with much curiosity for his answer.
Between the yellow sand here, which is 300 to 400 feet, and
the inferior blue marl, which is thousands of feet deep', is a
Ifbeautiful formation, consisting of alternations of fluviatile
and marine beds.        the tertiaries from the north of Ita]y
                                      n
    vol. 1.

242        SIR CHARLES LYELL.                  chap. x.

to Cape Passaro shall ultimately correspond to my present

Iview of them, they will think establish for ever the eleva
Ition theory ; but am the more afraid of their certainty, in
Iproportion as they suit, so beautifully, the system antici

pated. But when all my specimens are examined, when the
rest are collected by my agents and Lord Northampton at

IPalermo, when Costa sends me the results promised of his
Calabrian expedition next summer ; when        get from

Picasoli the Roman, and from Canraine the Tuscan list, and

Ifrom Guidotti a fresh examination of sub-Alpine, &c, then
Iwill make all necessary modifications ; for in the main am
Isure cannot now be shaken, and Ischia and Etna form one
extreme of the series, and perhaps Parma, &c, the other ; but

more when we meet. In the meantime do not take off the

freshness of my revolutionary prospects by too early dis

closures.

           Ever yours,

                     Charles Lyell.

           To Roderick J. Mtjrohisojst, Esq.

                                  IGeneva : February 5, 1829.

    My dear Murchison, --In my last mentioned my Siena

operations, which ended in my bringing away a respectable

Ibox of fossils, hut -unluckily we cannot at present get any

collector there to work for money. At Genoa found Viviani,

gentlemanlike and intelligent, pretends not to geology, but
would soon moke any one like natural history, and we owe

to him Paretto and Sasso. The former was , unluckily for me,

still in France ; the latter, a young physician, has written a

very fair memoir on the basin of Albenga, west of Savona
and Genoa, and of which our Savona blue marl was an out-
Iskirt, and he has gi^en a list of 200 shells. Some Brongniart
saw, and the rest Bronn, a German, corrected.  found that

IParetto has lately published an article on the Cadibona coal

field, which, as well as Sasso's, purchased after a tcilsome

Ihunt in the stalls. Paretto leaves little for us to do, but as

you will soon read it, say no more ; but the way he has hit
off the Siena basin in a note, convinces me he will make
head soon of all the Italians. He is only twenty-eight,
independent, and full of zeal and talent.

1829.        GEOLOGISTS AT GENOA.  243

   I found at a Pharmacien's a decayed jaw of Cadibona,
Iwhich strongly suspect was a stag's. It was not worth ac
Icepting, nor would it have travelled, but found a noble

piece in the Museum, which they seem to have been hardly
conscious of themselves, for Paretto positively overlooked it !

One molar and two ccnine teeth of an animal about the cut

Iof a tiger, all fixed in the jaw, decidedly a large carnivorous
beast.   got Yiviani to order it from under the glass to his

Iown house, and there to let me draw it ; and when he saw

how badly got on, he took his camera lucida, and with
enviable rapidity and faithfulness finished a drawing of it

of natural size, distinguishing also between the coal and

bony parts.

Yiviani has some splendid views, founded on a multitude

Iof facts, as to the distribution of plants in the Mediterranean,

islands, for botany is his forte. struck up a geological theory

to account for them, which, although it shook his nerves,

Ipleased him so much, that he gave me two of his works on
botany.      pushed on, per courier, through deep snow and

hard frost to Turin, and was there only part of the day,
closeted with Borelli nearly all the time. He showed me
his list of the shells which La Marmora got this year in
ISicily. Some species which had not, but the whole not
Inumerous.
             was delighted to find that the conclusions from
Ithe list as named by Borelli were the same came to from

Costa's catalogue. Over the latter, B. looked with amazing
interest, and after cutting up his names, &c, said, c But still

Iyou need not be afraid to reason on them as a geologist! '

He was astounded at the result, and said, c begin to think

the day may come when the retiring of the ocean will be
doubted and disputed by many.5 He has at last been curious

to know what difference there would be in the inferences from

the sub-Apennine north of Tuscany, and at last proposed that
I Iwhen published my Sicilian lists should add one from
I Ihim.
         told him should have craved this before, but did

not, because T knew his intention to publish such a list.
He looked over Sasso's Albenga list, and after swearino- it
was a string of blunders, surprised me by saying, c Yet, after

I Iall, have no doubt, from some Albenga shells which have
that your conclusions from Sasso's list were quite just, and

             B2

244  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                         chap. x.

though lie has mistaken genera, &c. &c, yet there are not
more than ten blunders in 200 which could mislead a geolo
gist, which would not be to him serious in the main/

   IThere was nothing but snow and biting frost between

Turin and Oharnbery in diligence. Thence to-day came in
a char, and did some interesting geology. A beautiful ter

tiary basin of green sand, facsimile in mineralogical appear

ance to Superga, and also with some blue marl surrounded

by those marble-like, amorphous, dolomitic, or calcareous

rocks like Nice. The pebbles are not Serpentine in this

Iinstance, but chloritic schist and green hornblende schist. A
conglomeration just like Superga tops all.  shall get up

this concern here. This green sand and sandstone, as well

as the superincumbent conglomerate, is provincially termed

I' molasse.'

    February 6. -- have just had this morning a famous
geologico-botanical discussion with Professor De Candolle,

and am almost certain that my spick-and-span new theory
on this subject will hold water.

     Always affectionately yours,

                        Chaeles Lyell.

     To His Father.

                                                                           Geneva : February 7, 1829.

     IMy dear Father, -- arrived here on the evening of the

I6th. The hills between Genoa and Alexandria were covered
with deep snow and ice, and the frost intense.  got a
Iplace with the courier, so that it was soon over, but though
  wrote a week before to Turin, all the places per courier for

Mont Cenis were forestalled for five weeks. The diligence

performed twenty-four miles on sledges, and ought to ha,ve

done much more. Two days before, an avalanche stopped

the diligence for twenty-four hours, just at the very coldest

part : they had just cut through it when we arrived. Fifty

stout workmen were employed. The manner in which the road

is kept up is admirable, and when one sees the Alps in winter,
I Iit is wonderful to think that one can pass in sixteen hours.
  was not a little relieved when got to Chambery, without
a frozen toe or finger, for the cold is unusual this year. On

1829.                  DE CANDOLLE.                   245

descending to Alexandria, the chariot fell into some deep

frozen ruts, and shook me and the courier out of our sleep.

The poor old gentleman believed it was another earthquake,

for he had been bruised by the shock when en voiture on the

same mountains. The gloom still sensible in the minds of

the Genoese in consequence of the earthquake is very re

Imarkable --it is now six months since. Almost every house

was rent, the inn where was had sixteen fissures in the

walls. For eight days every vessel and boat in the port,

every square, and all the suburbs, were filled day and night

by the inhabitants. All the troops were insufficient to act

as a police, as almost every door was left open, as each slight

shock made them rush out. One more like the first would
Ihave brought half the town down.
                                   have profited far more
Iin my homeward tour, rapid as it has been, than had the
I Ileast idea should ha.ve done. At Siena got a handsome

present of fossil shells from the excellent Padre Eicca, to
Iwhom Lord Northampton had given me a letter.
                                                      also

struck up an alliance with M. Canraine, a naturalist now in

Tuscany, charged with a mission by the King of the Nether

Ilands on scientific subjects, collecting, &c. His letters will

give me much information which yet want on the tertiary

basin there. My facts on these recent beds in different

Iparts are beginning to point to curious results. At Genoa,
besides several geologists,  found Viviani, the botanical

professor, a very superior man. His generalisations on the
Idistribution of plants in the isles of the Mediterranean lead
to splendid theories.  fitted them to my new system of

geology for Sicily and Southern Italy, by which he was

Ipleased, and gave me two of his botanical works.
       was anxious to come here, instead of by Lyons, to get

some ideas from De Candolle on my new geologico-botanical
Itheory. He did not of course remember me, but when he

heard my name, he asked after you, and said should take

une petite hrochure, as a souvenir from him. He is in full

force, and has been most useful to me, having given me what

cannot be bought, his splendid essay on Geographical Botany,
the most beautiful generalisation of a multitude of facts
I Iwhich think was ever produced in natural history.
                                                      am
now convinced that geology is destined to throw upon this

246                 SIR CHARLES LYELL.                      chap. x.

curious branch of inquiry, and to receive from it in return,
much, light, and by their mutual aid we shall very soon
solve the grand problem, whether the various living organic

species came into being gradually and singly in insulated

Ispots, or centres of creation, or in various places at once, and

all at the same time. The latter cannot, am already per
suaded, be maintained. Yiviani was puzzled to account for

ISicily having so much less than its share of 'peculiar indi

genous species, but this should be, for can show that three-

fourths of this isle were covered by the sea down to a period

when nine-tenths of the present species of shells and corals

(and by inference of plants) were already in existence. Such
an isle like Monte Nuovo has been obliged to borrow clothes

from its neighbour, having scarcely had time to furnish any

yet for its own nakedness. It has not yet seen out a tenth,

perhaps not a twentieth part of a revolution in organic life.
Give it the antiquity of the high granitic mountains of

Corsica, and it will also boast its indigenous unique plants,

unknown elsewhere either in the Mediterranean or other part

of the globe.

     JNTecker, grandson of Saussure, is a good geologist here,

Iyoung and independent, just returned from a tour in Dal-

matia. With him have already mastered much of the

Igeology of these parts. We have defied the snow in our
excursions.     start to-morrow, and shall be in Paris in

four days.

     With love  to  all,  believe  me,  your  affectionate  son,

                                                  Charles    Lyell.

                    To Gideon Mantell, Esq,

                                              Paris : February 19, 1829.

     My dear Sir, --Deshayes, now the strongest fossil concko-

logist in Europe, has lost so seriously by his fine work on
the shells of the Paris basin, that he is not only obliged to
stop, so miserably is it encouraged, but bis circumstances
Iare injured for a time by it.
                                        have bought a copy (seventy
Ifrancs), to help him, and as find he has amassed in his re
Isearches for new things a multitude of fine duplicates,

trust through Prevost to negotiate a purchase for you. The

1829. LECTURE BY PREVOST.    247

grand tiling will be to get the names of perhaps 100 genera
from, such a man, who is acknowledged to be the Cuvier of

tertiary shells, no mean acquirement now that they amount

in his museum, including those living in the Mediterranean

and the Channel, to above 3,000 species. His drawings of

microscopic shells of the Paris basin are most curious. Such

incredible forms of multilocular shells, and some so elegant.

God knows whether the work will ever come to these. It

is one-third finished.

    February 20. --Just heard a good lecture of Prevost's to

a numerous class. It was on diluvium and caves, a good

logical refutation of the diluvian humbug. The news of the

day is that a Dr.  has just read a memoir at the Institute
on a new small tapir, and produced the head and jaws. It

inhabits the mountains of Upper India, and they swear that

Ithe species is not distinguishable hardly from one of the

Montmartre Paleotheriums. hi return announced Mary

Anning's2 new Pterodactyle of Lyme. How grand your
museum will look when, under every bone of which the

ornithologists could make nothing, you write Pterodactylus

Dorsetianus and Tilgetanus ! Prevost has a beautiful larsre

machoire of an Anoplotherium, which he showed me im
bedded in gypsum, intended as a present for you, and if we

succeed in getting the shells, it is to go with them. He
observed, ' This will be better, for it will cut a mighty figure
among the cockles ; but if it is thrown into Cuvier's large
Icaisse it will be drowned/
                             have no fear of getting the
Ishells, and if it answer expectations shall be able to en
large the commission in future, should you incline to be
sumptuous. In the meantime prepare to disburse 100 francs,

I I Iwhich shall pay Deshayes before leave Paris, which
suppose will be in two days, for town. Young Brongniart

protested at breakfast on Sunday at his father's, before a
Ilarge party of savans, that you knew more of fossil plants
than any man in England.     could have told him that a

certain Mr. Stokes 3 had recently accumulated a quantity of

     2 Miss Mary Aiming, of Lyme Regis, who was zealous in excavating the
fossils of that region.

    3 Charles Stokes, b. 1783, d. 1853, a respected member of the Stock Ex
change, full of vast research in the Natural History Sciences, and remarkable
for literary and antiquarian, musical and artistic, knowledge.

248  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap. x.

fossil and recent woods, plants, &c, which with no small
study, and that too aided by Brown,4 had placed him in a

I Isituation to become the critic of Adolph B. himself, which

moreover he will be, as learn --but kept this to myself,
as it will be time enough when he learns it.

                                                Ever truly yours,

                                                    Charles Lyell.

                               To His Sister.

                                                                                Paris : February 23, 1829.

   IMy dear Marianne,-- was glad to find your letter here

on my arrival seven days ago, after a fagging journey of four
days and four nights from Geneva, having only had six hours'
rest at Dijon. Sledges for forty miles over deep snow on the
Jura, and ice the rest of the way, so we were continually
summoned by the conductor to turn out of the warm inside,
while the horses tried to pull the diligence up. Notwith
standing this, the company of a clever and lively French
officer in the interior, and some good memoirs given me at
Geneva, rendered the journey not without some amusement.

IThe difficulty of keeping warm was great enough. Here
Ifound a better climate. The very evening of my arrival

caught Prevost just going to give a lecture, and met there

I.other geologists, who took me next morning to a lecture at

the Ecole des Mines, and thus got thrown in a few hours
into the heat of the battle, which is carried on with vigour,
 notwithstanding the complaints of the savans that the public
 will think of nothing but politics and romances, and their
 evident fear that we shall soon distance them in England in

Ithis branch.
           have learnt very much from various old and new

I Iacquaintances, and although they have pumped me some

 what unmercifully, am sure have reaped most from the
 exchange. Some of them have come by most opposite routes
 to exactly the same conclusions as myself, and we have

       4 Robert Brown, b. 1773, d. 1858, President of the Linnsean Society, ac
  companied Captain Flinders as naturalist in the ' Investigator ' round the shores
  of Australia in 1802, &c. An indefatigable and profound botanist. Named by
  Humboldt Botaruicorwm Princeps. He inherited Sir Joseph Banks's herbarium,
  which is now in the British Museum.

1829.  CUVIER'S STUDY.                      249

mutually felt confirmed in our views, although the new

opinions must bring about an amazing overthrow in the

Isystems which we were carefully taught ten years ago.
have established a regular correspondence with Deshayes,

now by far the principal conchologist in fossils, and he is to

Iname all my fossil shells from Sicily. have also been getting
Ithe necessary works, and many are German. How glad
am to hear you are determined to persevere in it : do not be
Ifrightened by the barbarous aspect of it.
                                            would give a
Ihundred pounds if knew it decently, indeed it would soon
Ibe worth that to any author who writes on natural histor}^

  shall work at it hard before a year passes away. Cuvier is

in great force, and gave a famous soiree the other day. He

has been chosen by the ministers to defend their municipal law
in the tribune : two months of his time will thus be lost to

Iscience. He talked to me of the Catholic question, our cor

poration rights, &c, and not a word could get on natural
history. Yet this year he has come out with four volumes

on fish, and eight more will appear in two years. He has

received between 2,000L and 2,200L for it, whereas no other

person in Paris could persuade a librarian to publish one

volume for nothing. He is also publishing another edition

of his ' Regne Animal,' and other things. He has been very

obliging to me, for on my applying for casts of animals for

Mantell, who has been begging in vain for a long time, he

I Igave me an order for whatever liked, so have sent off from
Ithe museum a huge box with casts of every thing. got into

Cuvier's sanctum sanctorum yesterday, and it is truly cha
racteristic of the man. In every part it displays that extra

ordinary power of methodising which is the grand secret of

the prodigious feats which he performs annually without

Iappearing to give himself the least trouble. But before
Iintroduce you to this study, should tell you that there is
first the museum of natural history opposite his house, and

admirably arranged by himself, then the anatomy museum

connected with his dwelling. In the latter is a library dis
posed in a suite of rooms, each containing works on one

subject. There is one where there are all the works on or

nithology, in another room all on ichthyology, in another

osteology, in another law books ! &c. &c. When he is

250      SIX CHARLES LYELL,  chap. x.

engaged in such works as require continual reference to a
variety of authors, he has a stove shifted into one of these
rooms, in which everything on that subject is systematically
arranged, so that in the same work he often takes the round
of many apartments. But the ordinary studio contains no

book-shelves. It is a longish room, comfortably furnished,

lighted from above, and furnished with eleven desks to stand

to, and two low tables, like a public office for so many clerks.
But all is for the one man, who multiplies himself as author,

and admitting no one into this room, moves as he finds

necessary, or as fancy inclines him, from one occupation to

another. Each desk is furnished with a complete establish
ment of inkstand, pens, &c, pins to pin MSS. together, the

works immediately in reading and the MS. in hand, and on
shelves behind all the MSS. of the same work. There is a

separate bell to several desks. The low tables are to sit to

when he is tired. The collaborateurs are not numerous,

but always chosen well. They save him every mechanical

labour, find references, &c, are rarely admitted to the study,
receive orders, and speak not.

     Brongniart, who in imitation of Cuvier has many clerks
and collaborateurs, is known, fco lose more time in organising

this auxiliary force than he gains by their work, but this is
Inever the case with Cuvier. When went to get Mantell's
Icasts,
         found that the man who made moulds, and the

fainter of them, had distinct apartments, so that there was
no confusion, and the despatch with which all was executed

was admirable. It cost Cuvier a word only.

     Murchison writes me word that Mary Anning has immortal

ised herself anew by finding at Lyme a skeleton of one of those

flying lizards (pterodactyles), of which two only were known

of distinct species, and none before in England. Buckland has

written a paper, and there has been much merriment at the

Society about the Dragon of Wantley having devoured all

the birds, for they now declare that the Stonesfield soi-disant

birds' bones all belonged to this winged reptile. Murchison

and his wife have been with Mrs. Somerville, spending a
week at Christ Church, and he laments that Buckland voted

for the anti-Catholic petition, which conduct, he says, Mrs.

Buckland assured him was to be attributed to his Sicilian expe

1829.            RETURN TO LONDON.  251

dition, and he trusts my journey has not made me intolerant.

Certainly, if any country could make me abhor Catholicism

I Iin its worst form, it is that island, and you may have gathered

this from my letters ; but confess think it no small want

of logic to confound the emancipation question with the
                             Besides, if fanaticism were to be
Istate of Spain and Sicily.  fancy that no small part of our

the measure of disability,

Isectarians and even more orthodox saints would be entitled
to their share.  wish you were in the way of getting on in

conchology : the extent and beauty of these objects is truly

wonderful, and the results are becoming most important

every day. It is the ordinary, or, as Ohampollion says, the

demotic character in which Nature has been pleased to write

all her most curious documents. We will try to get a more

active exchange with Mrs. Buckland of insects for shells.

Murchison tells me that seventy more fossil insects have

been sent off for us from Aix.

With love to all, your affectionate brother,

                                         Chakles Ltell.

                               To His Sister.

                                                                            London : February 26, 1829.

   IMy dear Caroline,-- have not announced my arrival
Iexcept to Murchison, and shall appear at the Eoyal Society

this evening for the first time. find the Geological Society
and Sedgwick, the new President, have persuaded Murchison

Ito become Home Secretary for a year, as they dubbed me

Foreign Secretary, which trust will give me very little
trouble. Sedgwick quite astonished them, it seems, in the
chair at the general meeting, which was very full. Among
innumerable good hits, when proposing the toast of the
Astronomical Society, and Hersehel, their president, he said,
alluding to H.'s intended marriage (for he is just about to
many the daughter of a Scotch clergyman), 'May the house
of Hersehel be perpetuated, and, like the Cassinis, be illus
trious astronomers for three generations. May all the con
stellations wait upon him ; may Virgo go before, and Gemini
follow after.' Poor H., notwithstanding his confusion, got
up after the roar of laughter had continued for three minutes,

252                SIR CHARLES LYELL.                              chap. x.

and made a famous speech. You say you should like to have

chased the Edusas in Sicily, as you have only two tattered

Iones. Pray explain, Mrs. Conservatrice del Museo, what has

become of the splendid specimens sent last year, and let ine

have your Artaxerxes.

     Lieutenant Graves has sent a letter, saying that two

boxes are in town for me from him, one all skins of birds
from Straits of Magellan, and one geological. All the Au-

vergne and French boxes necessary for the joint paper of Mur-
Ichison and me are arrived safe.
                                        have already made pro
Igress in working up materials here, and in Paris did much.

IDeshayes is positively to give me tables of more than 2,000

species of tertiary shells, from which will build up a system

on data never before obtained, by comparing the contents of

the present with more ancient seas, and thb latter with each

other. He is to name all my Sicilian shells.

     With love to all, believe me, your affectionate brother,

                                                 Charles Ltell.

              To Gideon Mantell, Esq.

                                                                   April, 1829.

'"*"' Dear Mantell, -- A splendid meeting last night. Sedg

wick in the chair. Conybeare's paper on Valley of Thames,

directed against Messrs. Lyell and Murchison's former paper,
was read in part. Buckland present to defend the ' Dilu-
vialists,' as Conybeare styles his sect, and us he terms
' Fluvialists.' Greenough assisted us by making an ultra

speech on the importance of modern causes. No river, he

said, within times of history, has deepened its channel one
Itf"ooGtiv!e                            said, ' Our opponents say --
                 was great fun, for he  wonders." So said the wolf
in the      us time, and wre will work  do you disturb the water ? "

            fable to tl e lamb : " Why
"I do not;                                                         I."   "But
              you are  fu" rHtheerneuvperthwe asstrehaemre."than"
your father    did."                                               Then   your
I Igrandfather did, so will murder you. Give me time, and
                                               '
will murder you."  So  say  the  Pluvialists      Roars            of laughter,
                                              !

Iin which Greenough joined against himself. What a choice

simile ! Murchison and fought stoutly, and Buckland was

very piano. Conybeare's memoir is not strong by any means.

1829. LIVELY MEETING.                           253

He admits three deluges before the Noachian ! and Buckland

adds God knows how many catastrophes besides, so we have
driven them out of the Mosaic record fairly. ^

               Yours very truly,                Lyell.
                          Charles

               To Gideon Mantell, Esq.

                                  London : June 7, 1829.

My dear Mantell, -- The last discharge of Conybeare's

artillery, served by the great Oxford engineer against the

Fluvialists, as they are pleased to term us, drew upon them
on Friday a sharp volley of musketry from all sides, and such

a broadside at the finale from Sedgwick, as was enough to
sink the ' Reliquiae Dihivianse ' for ever, and make the second
volume shy of venturing out to sea. After the memoir on
the impotence of all the rivers which feed the ' main river of
an isle,' and the sluggishness of Father Thames himself,

6 scarce able to move a pin's head,5 a notice by Cully, land-
surveyor, was read on the prodigious force of a Cheviot
stream, ' the College/ which has swept away a bridge, and
annually buries large tracts under gravel. Buckland then
jumped up, like a counsel, said Fitton to me, who had come

down special.

IAfter his reiteration of Conybeare's arguments, Fitton
made a somewhat laboured speech.  followed, and then

Sedgwick, who decided on four or more deluges, and said

the simultaneousness was disproved for ever, &c, and de

clared that on the nature of such floods we should at present

Ic doubt, and not dogmatise.' A good meeting.
       am to start for Scotland June 20, and shall be there two

months.
                                               Ever truly yours,

                                                    Charles Lyell.

                              To Dr. Fleming.

                                                                         Temple : June 10, 1829.

   IMy dear Sir, -- was glad to hear from you, and can assure
I Iyou that have been so busy since my return that had

no correspondence with any one except on business, though

254  SIB CHARLES LYELL.                          chap. x.

I Iwould gladly have written to you at any tirue, if had not

been always hoping to have sent yoa a paper, v)e think a
floorer, of Buckland's diluvial question. You will get a sepa

Irate copy, and wish it may be an antidote to a sharp attack
Iwhich hear Conybeare and Buckland have levelled at you,

in the same number, about c climate,3 &c. Buckland was so

amazingly annoyed at my having had such an anti-diluvialist

paper read, that he got Conybeare to write a controversial

essay on the Valley of the Thames, in which he drew a com
parison between the theory of the Fluvialists, as he terms us,

and the Diluvialists, as (God be praised) they call themselves.
     Of course, in defining the Fluvialists, they (for Buckland

wrote half the memoir) took care to build up their man of
straw, and triumphantly knocked him down again. But in

the animated discussion which followed the reading of the first

half of the essay, at the Geological Society, we made no

small impression on them. And when, last Friday, the

remainder came on, we had a hot rencounter. Buckland came

up on purpose again, and made a leading speech. But after

we had exposed him, and even Greenongh, his only staunch

supporter, had given in in many points, Sedgwick, now pre
sident, closed the debate with a terribly anti-diluvialist

declaration. For he has at last come round, and is as de

cided as you are. But you must know that Buckland now,

and Conybeare, distinctly admit three universal deluges, and

many catastrophes, as they call them, besides ! But more of

Ithis when we meet.
        hope to be at Kinnordy the first week in June, and to
see you then soon after. Your discovery of the fish may

probably confirm the opinions given by Sedgwick and Mur-
chison on our district, as they compared the older sandstone

of the Sidlaw to the Caithness sandstone containing fish.
IOne reason why did not write was, to tell the honest truth,
Ithat have seen so much, and so greatly altered my views,
Ithat know not where to begin, and nothing but a good
Ithree days' confab, tete-a-tete, will suffice.  shall see, in my

way up, much of the geology of tbe east of England, and
perhaps, in my way down, of the westB

   I am preparing a general work on the younger epochs of
Ithe earth's history, which hope to be out with next spring.

1829. FOSSIL PAVEMENT STONE.                  255

I begin with Sicily, which has almost entirely risen from the

sea, to the height of nearly 4,000 feet, since all the present

animals existed in the Mediterranean !

                             Ever most sincerely yours,

                                            Charles Ltell.

To Db. Fleming.

                                                                  Kirmordy : October 11, 1829.

IDear Dr. Fleming, --When showed your vegetable im

pressions to the quarrymen of Kirriemuir, many declared

that a great number exactly similar were got this year from

a quarry called Bron-head or Bren-head at Locheye, between

I IDundee and Auchterhouse, which is now working on the
property, believe, of Mr. Clay hills.   have written to

Lindsay Carnegie of Kinblethmont, who of all our lairds

promises fairest to be a keen geologist, to go to his neigh-
boar Mr. Muir, and take instructions. In the meantime,

ICarnegie has written to me to say that he has offered pre

miums for fossils in his own pavement quarries. shall leave
Iwith Blackadder, for a time, the specimens of scales and
plants, to show about to the men.       am glad to find lately

that pavement stone is worked successfully at Feme, on the

Grampian side of the trough of Strathmore, between which

and Arbroath the pavement and a powerful conglomerate

Iare each thrice repeated ; each twice with a southerly, and
once with a northerly, dip.  have just received a famous

letter from Murchison. He and Sedgwick have worked very

Ihard in the basin of the Danube, Hungary, Styria, &c.

Sedgwick was astonished at finding what had satisfied
myself of everywhere, that in the more recent tertiary groups,
great masses of rocks, like the different members of our se

condaries, are to be found.

IThey call the grand formation in which they have been
working, sub-Apennine. Vienna falls into it.  suspect it

is a shade older, as the sub-Apennines are several shades
older than the Sicilian tertiaries. They have discovered an
immensely thick conglomerate, 500 feet compact marble
like limestone, a great thickness of oolite, not distinguish
able from Bath oolite, an upper red sand and conglomerate,

256  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                          chap. x.

&c. &c, all members of that group zoologically sub- Ape n-

nine. This is glorious news for me. They tell me to hold

my tongue till our next session. It chimes in well with

making old red transition mountain limestone and coal, and

as much more as we can, one epoch, for when Nature sets

about building in one place, she makes a great batch there,

and old Werner's universal envelope was, as my correspond

ent says of some of Brongniart's extension of the Parisian

type, a humbug. All the freshwater, marine, and other

groups of the Paris basin are one epoch, at the farthest not

more separated than upper and lower chalk. They have

also found a great gypsum and salt formation in the Alps,

over lias fossils, which charms me.

     Mrs. Murchison's letter contains the painful news that

poor Conybeare has been thrown out of his gig, and received

a dreadful concussion of the brain. When the accounts

came away, he was delirious ; no hopes entertained of his
life. A ride to-morrow with Blackadder, and an examination

of the whole section of the Noran river, will be a finale to

my outdoor geology for 1829.

     Very                     truly yours,       Lyell.
                                        Charles

                               To Dr. Fleming.

                                              9 Crown Office Row, Temple : October 31, 1829.

     Dear Dr. Fleming, -- Conybeare, after being fourteen days

insensible, not even recognising his wife, is recovering ; and

there are hopes that he will get quite over it, but will be
stopped from working for a time, of course. ' The father of
stercoraceous chemistry/ as Buckland called himself in a

letter, has strengthened his theory, but had to retract also
on one or two points.

     Sedgwick and Murchison are just returned, the former
full of magnificent views. Throws overboard all the diluvian
hypothesis ; is vexed he ever lost time about such a complete
humbug ; says he lost two years by having also started a
Wernerian. He says primary rocks are not primary, but, as
Hutton supposed, some igneous, some altered secondary.
Mica schist in Alps lies over organic remains. No rock in

1829. PROJECT OF ICELANDIC TOUR.                                     257

the Alps older than lias! Much of Buckland's dashing
paper on Alps wrong. A formation (marine) found at foot
of Alps, between Danube and Rhine, thicker than all the

English secondaries united. Munich is in it. Its age
Iprobably between chalk and our oldest tertiaries.
                                                    have

this moment received a note from C. Prevost by Murchison.

He has heard with delight and surprise of their Alpine

novelties, and alluding to them and other recent discoveries,
he says, ' Comme nous allons rire de nos vieilles idees !

IfComme nous allons nous moquer de nous-memes ! 5 At the

same time he says, ' in your book you are too hard on us

on this side  th"emeCthriacnnaenl,d  we will throw at you some of    old
Brongniart's                          peponary blocks," which float   in

that general and universal diluvium, and have been there

depuis le grand jour qui a separe, d'une maniere si tranchee,

Iles temps ante-des-temps Post-Diluviens.5  find some white

    In some sandstone sent from Glammis

stains with a bluish tinge, having clearly some analogy to

your fish scales, but much decomposed.

Remember me to Dr. Fleming, and believe me very truly

yours,                                  Charles Ltell.

              To Leonard Horner, Esq.

                                          November 24, 1829.

My dear Sir, -- My friend G. Eyre, a barrister who is

attending law lectures at the London University, happened

to say this morning, that when Lardner spoke of the vacant
Chair of Mineralogy and Geology in his introductory lecture,

a brother student had mentioned to him that there had been
Ia report of my being thought of for it.
                                          ought therefore to
Itell you that have always felt it, and do now, to be out of
the question ; and if the council wish to fill it up, you must

consider me quite out of the way, both in justice to the

Institution and other candidates.
I have received this morning a letter from young Allen,
Ifull of mineralogical zeal for an Icelaodic tour.
                                                    find that
Iwe must go the latter end of April, in which case should

vol. 1.                              s

258       SIR CHARLES LYELL.                    chap. x.

I Ionly be able to get out Vol. I., which believe shall do,
Ifor should like to make sure of Hecla.
     I Ihave not waited till we meet, because did not feel
Icomfortable under the idea that had let you go away the
Iother day with a notion that only wanted to be pressed a
Ilittle.  should like for your sake, and for the science, to
Isee a good man in, but it ought, believe, to be a man of

Ifortune, who did not hope to pay his travelling expenses by

what he made. In the meantime am quite sure, whoever

may be the candidates, that you do good by deferring an
election, because every lecturer who has not a good class
rather does harm to the Institution, and one cannot expect

it in geology yet.
     Believe me, ever most truly yours,

                                           Charles Ltell.

          To Gideon Maettell, Esq.

          Temple : Saturday, December 6, 1829.

     Dear Mantell, --We were all disappointed at your not

being here yesterday, for Murchison told us you were to

have been here. Sedgwick and his wind-up on the Alps

went off splendidly in a full meeting. You and the igua-

nodon treated by Buckland with due honours, when exhibit

ing some great bones of a little toe from Purbeck. He greatly

amazed my friend Sir T. Phillips by his humour about the

size of the said giant, compared to the small genteel lizards

Iof our days.
       am bound hand and foot. In the press on Monday next
with my work, which Murray is going to publish -- 2 vols.
The title -- 6 Principles of Geology ; being an Attempt to Ex

plain the Eormer Changes of the Earth's Surface by Reference

to Causes now in Operation/ The first volume will be quite

Ifinished by the end of the month. The second is in a man
ner written, but will require great recasting.  start for

Iceland by the end of April, so time is precious. You must
let us see you here. What particular scheme have you at
present in geology ? Your list of shells will be grand things.
          Very truly yours,
                              Charles           Lyell.

1830. FLEMING ON CONYBEARE.  . 259

                          CHAPTEE XL

                               FEBRUARY-AUGUST, 1830.

 DR. FLEMING'S REMARKS ON CONYBEARE-- DETERMINATION NOT TO ENTER
      INTO CONTROVERSY-- OPENING OF THE ATHENAEUM CLUB--MILITAN'S
      ' HISTORY OF THE JEWS '--PROPOSED TRIP TO THE CRIMEA-- LETTERS TO
      POTJLETT SCROPE ON THE ' PRINCIPLES '--LEAVES ENGLAND WITH CAP
      TAIN COOKE FOR THE PYRENEES-- EXCURSION INTO CATALONIA.

      [The first volume of l The Principles of Geology ' was published in
 1830, and after having relinquished sundry plans of going to Iceland,
 the Crimea, and Black Sea, &c, he finally settled on accompanying
Captain Cooke, P.N., in the summer of this year, to explore the geo
 logy of the south of France and the Pyrenees, and from thence he
 went alone to Catalonia, to examine the volcanic region round
 Olot.]

                         COEEESPONDENCE.

                              To Dr. Fleming.

                                                                              Temple : February 3, 1830.

     Dear Dr. Fleming, --My eyes have been at times some
what weakened by the small print of my notes, and this

Iprevents my being so good a correspondent as would other
Iwise most willingly be ; but am in great spirits to find that

by help of a good amanuensis my eyes hold out so well, as

Ithey have certainly gained strength for many years, and

were never so equal to the work since first went to school,
as now.

     The answer to Conybeare is severe enough, and both in
structive and amusing ; and to those who, like true English
men, love to see a good fight, it has afforded more sport

Ithan any round fought for many a year. Mantell, whom

visited at Christmas, was mightily delighted with it, but
thought you might have spared Cuvier, who, by-the-bye, had

                                                                               s2

260               SIR CHARLES LYELL.                  chap. xi.

lately sent liim a magnificent present of fossil casts. Dau-

beny, who has just come up from Oxford, told me that the

Oxonians made just the same remark, congratulating Buck-

land that Monsieur le Baron had been put on the pillory
with him, and had come off with perhaps the greatest ex
Ipressions of contempt.
                         will fairly own that this struck
I Ime on first reading, and was the more surprised when
found that you meant to call him as your principal witness

in your cause. As he and Lamarck have their worshippers,
as well as Conybeare, it would be good policy to be more

Icourteous towards them, until they provoke you as he did.
        sincerely hope you will keep in well with some party,

Ibut if you go on much longer, with an anti-Bucklandite,

anti-Mackayite, anti-Lamarckian warfare, begin to fear the

odds ; and as Sedgwick prophesies that the Professor's book

Iwill never lose the title of ' idola specus,' so dread your re
Itaining a name which heard applied to you yesterday by a

zoologist, c the Zoological Ishmael.5 The ' idola specus ' is

allowed to be as clever a hit as ever was given, and the

Cambridge Professor stood up manfully for you, when others

were saying you were too savage, by saying that a man had

Ia right to say hard things in a controversy. But your

indiscriminate attacks are what allude to as alone inju

Irious. To show that you can strike home may save you from

many an adversary, but am sure many new ones will now

be called forth.

--I As a staunch advocate for absolute uniformity in the

Iorder of Nature, have tried in all my travels to persuade
Imyself that the evidence was inconclusive, but in vain.
Iam more confirmed than ever, and shall labour to account
for vicissitudes of climate, not to dispute them.     have only

corrected the press to page 80, and get on slowly, but with
satisfaction to myself. How much more difficult it is to

write for general readers than for the scientific world, yet
half our savans think that to write popularly would be a
I I Icondescension to which they might bend if they would.
         daresay  shall not keep my resolution, but    will try
                  that when my book is attacked-- as  it will be
to do it firmly,
a greater hornets' nest than a small sally of yours in Jamie-

Ison can be, however pointedly against popular doctrines--

1830.      AGAINST CONTROVERSY.                                 261

Iwill not go to the expense of time in pamphleteering.

shall work steadily on at Vol. II., and afterwards, if the work

I Isucceeds, at edition 2, and have sworn to myself that will
not go to the expense of giving time to combat in contro

versy. It is interminable work. However, in your case,

Conybeare, although now recovered, is not preparing, and

I IfBuckland, who likes to fight under the shield of Ajax, will
not, suspect, step forth himself.  any smaller people

make a noise, you can leave them to do their worst. Buck-
land is working so hard at organic remains-- iguanodons,
pterodactyles, and fifty other things -- that he may build up a

second report in the time he might have spent in fighting

Iyou about the old question. To our amusement, at our club

last week, when a stranger whom took there, asked Buck-

land who Dr. Fleming was (some one had mentioned you),
Buckland said, ' Oh ! he's a man who ought to have been in

Jamieson's chair, or some other in Scotland, &c. &c. ; and

among other things, you will see in Jamieson's last that he
Ihas thrown me into the gutter, as he says ! ?
                                                cannot help
Iboring you with all this, because dread half next year
being spent in answering the wasps who are preparing

their stings, and you can well afford to let them all alone.

Sedgwick has his paper on magnesian limestone ready for
If I Iyou.
       not sent, will get it from him.  will look oat
Isome organic remains of freshwater, when have a minute
Ifto spare. You talk of not being prolific, but here they
think you quite the contrary.  you would not divert your

forces from the main point, you will carry it with profit and
reputation with one half the labour which these infernal
squabbles will involve you in. So ends my epistle. Quails

db9 &c. ^

       Believe me, ever most truly yours,

                                                Charles Lyell.

                     To Gideon Mantbll, Esq.

                                                                         Temple : February 15, 1830.

   IDear MantelL -- have scarcely used a sheet of my pre

Ipared materials since saw you, and am now engaged in
Ifinishing my grand new theory of climate, for which had

262            SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap. xi.

to consult northern travellers, Bichardson, Sabine, and others,

Ito read up Humboldt's and Daniel's last theories of meteoro
logy, &c. &c.  will not tell you how, till the book is out--

but without help from a comet, or any astronomical change,

or any cooling down of the original red-hot nucleus, or any

change of inclination of axis or central heat, or volcanic hot

Ivapours and waters and other nostrums, but all easily and
naturally.     will give you a receipt for growing tree ferns
at the pole, or if it suits me, pines at the equator ; walruses

I Iunder the line, and crocodiles in the arctic circle. And now,

as shall say no more. am sure you will keep the secret.
All these changes are to happen in future again, and iguano-

dons and their congeners must as assuredly live again in the

latitude of Cuckfield as they have done so.                      I
     You have always some new discovery to announce.
believe with you it would be difficult to exterminate penta-
crinites, yet don't make too sure ; for if my new heating and

Irefrigerating theory holds water, may perhaps give you a
Icold at the line which may freeze up the pentacrinite.

have been reading at the Admiralty the last despatches of

Captain Forster from S, Shetland. They mention fathom

ing the sea at the borders of the antarctic circle to the depth

of 900 fathoms, with a self-registering thermometer. What
a glorious depth. Ben Nevis would not make an islet if

sunk there, and they found the warmth increase from the

surface downwards, as you know in the Spitzbergen seas.

Our new hydrographer, Beaufort, is very liberal to all geolo

gists, and you may get what unpublished information you

like from the Admiralty, and there is an immense deal

there.         Tours very truly,

                                 Charles Ltell.

               To His Sister.

                                                                         Temple : February 26, 1 830.

     IMy dear Eleanor, -- expect p. 128 home from the printer
to-night. Every word of advance since you were here has been
Iwritten, and the matter in great measure collected ; so hope
Inext month, when fall upon old stores written at Kinnordy,
I I&c, that shall make great way.
                                   enjoy the work much,
Ias the excitement is great, and can get such assistance as

1830.           ATHENAEUM CLUB,                                      263

Iperhaps no place but London could afford.  wish you had

been in town at the opening of our new club, the Athenaeum,

which is reckoned the most elegant turn-out of all, and for

a fortnight gay soirees were given to the ladies between
nine and twelve o'clock, and it still continues to do so every

IWednesday, which hear is to go on for months. It is really
Iworth seeing, and fitted up in a style which must say would

be ridiculous, except for receiving ladies. There has been a

it
                 it

                         is
                                   it,
great deal of fun about verses innumerable. Some of our

members grumble at the invasion, and retreated into the

library, which was respected at first, but now the women fill

every Wednesday evening, as well as the newspaper room,

and seem to me to examine every corner with something of

the curiosity with which we should like to pry into a harem.

They all say    too good for bachelors, and makes married

men keep away from home, and talk of a ladies' club, &c.

As the house was much admired, the number of candidates

increased prodigiously. The ballot, which in a smaller house

was nuisance, now an agreeable muster.
       a        is

                                 a
     Milman has got into worse scrape than suspected by
the German latitudinarianism (by way of a laconic term)
which he has indulged in in his History of the Jews.'
                                        '

                                               it I
                                                      I
Murchison says  it               diversion in my favour, but trust

                     is

                            a

mine will be thought quite orthodox. At all events the

bishops cannot stop my promotion, as they certainly will
Milman's. His own parishioners have taken up, and the
once popular preacher in danger of having his gown torn
off. He has challenged the bishops to find one opinion in
his work not in the notes to Mant's Bible, and Lockhart
              is
                        is ;

                             is
tells me this true but the bishops, never having read their
own edition of the Bible, are still more annoyed at this dis

          The crime to have put forth in popular book.
                    Tours ever affectionately,

                                                Charles Lyell.
covery.                                 it

                                                                  &

                             To Dr. Fleming.I
                                                       :
                                                                       London April 18, 1830.

    Dear Dr. Fleming, -- Sedgwick, when asked him if he

should send his lashing of Ure in his anniversary speech, to

2^4         SIR CHARLES LYELL.           chap. xr.

you--said of course there is one for him, for Dr. P. is one of

those men who feel not only a love for truth, but an honest

Iindignation against all those who conceal it or tamper with
it, or are guilty of any dissimulation.  will add to these,

I Ithat Mantell is a great admirer on the whole of your last

paper, and give you this to let you see both sides, for did
not in the least exaggerate the storm on the other side.
You are one of six or seven writers in this country who com
bine profound scientific knowledge with a power of present
ing it in a popular, powerful, and eloquent style to the

public; and if by any circumstances your facility of doing

Igood to the cause is injured by a series of personal alterca

tions, with which certainly think you have been in a great

Imeasure drawn, it is a national loss. Cony bear e is giving

divinity lectures at Bristol. Buck] and, trust, is going to
repose for years under your last fire, as he did under a former

one.

     The ' dirt bed ' which separates Portland from Purbeck

rock is now proved to be a peat moss and forest, which grew

on an exposed surface of Portland marine oolite. The cy-
cades are all upright, with their roots in situ, the tall stems

broken and horizontal. The case is more clearly demon
strated than in any submarine forest. What a subsidence

afterwards  to let the green sand and chalk accumulate above !
                  Believe me, ever most truly yours,

                                              Chaeles Ltell.

                      To Gideon Mantell, Esq.

                                                                      London : April 23, 1830.

    Dear Mantell, -- It is nearly the same to pursue a hobby

Ias am doing, and to be professionally engaged, and so you
I Imust excuse bad correspondence ; but assure you am a

mile or two further on by aid of the encouragement held out
in your letters, that the production will excite a sensation,
which Murray says is the great virtue of a superior author.
So much for the market value of commodities. By the way,
Sir Philip Egerton said at E. S. last night, that you were
the author of the grand catalogue of fossils in the ' Trans
actions/ which, knowing your other works, he selected as an

1830. PROPOSED TRIP TO CRIMEA.  265

extraordinary proof of your being bien fort. He brought
parts of thirty-one individuals of Ursus speleus from German

caves, and a great jaw of Felis spelea, pronounced by Clift &

Co. to be equal in size to a horse ! Buckland first pronounced

your bone to be that of a deer, and stood out for a long time

against its being that of Goliah. He declared the bone to be

post-diluvian and not mineralised, and made light of it, but

did not scratch it. He is gone down to Lyme, so there is
something in the wind -- a paper on the new beast perhaps,

Ithat fish-like concern which Mary Anning wants to make a

grand wonder of, and the Dr. a memoir, as suppose. His

Iand De la Beche's on Weymouth read last time -- good, but

some diluvial heresy tacked on, at which fired a shot. The
iguanodon's bones brought by them from Isle of Wight are

rolled, ugly, unmeaning pebbles, save one c sub- quadrangular
vertebra/ as Dr. Buckland says, which he declares proves
it to be an iguanodon. Even that is imperfect.

Most truly yours,               Lyell.
              Chaeles

         To Sir Philip de Malpas Grey Egerton.

                              9 Crown Office Bow, Temple, London : April 26, 1830.

   I IDear Sir Philip Egerton, --In conversations with Dr. Lee,

whom introduced to you at the Royal Society, have learnt

Ithe extreme practicability of a geological expedition which
   feel extremely tempted to undertake this summer ; and

Ialthough my short acquaintance with you would not authorise

me to propose that you should take part in it, yet am sure
you will excuse my doing so on the score of being equally
attached to geological pursuits.

     The tour which Lee made when physician to Count Wor-
onzoff, was from the Sea of Azof, through the Crimea, aloug
the great steppe to the mouths of the Danube, a district full
of grand physical features never yet made out, nor visited by
a geologist since Pallas. The country is perfectly safe, and
with such introductions as we could immediately get, no
impediment would be encountered.

     The time required not long, and the summer the proper
season. The route would be by steam to Hamburg, and then

266         SIR CHARLES LYELL.                  chap. xi.

from Lubeck by steamboat which communicates to Peters

burg, where we arrive on the eighth day from London. A

day or two would be ample at P., and the diligence is only

four days from Petersburg to Moscow, where a splendid city,
and the examination of the tertiary strata there, would refresh

the traveller, and prepare him in a carriage, bought at

Moscow, to make direct to Azof, or some place at the north

of the Don, where we should be without difficulty on the field
of action in a month from our starting from London. Give

seven or eight weeks to the Crimea, and the great steppe,
which latter might be done quick, boxes of shells being

shipped easily at Odessa. From Odessa to Vienna, where

the carriage is sold at no loss, and from Vienna in eleven

Idays to .London, having been absent about four months if

you were pressed for time. will not enter into the numerous

geological reasons for selecting that country before any
other -- the light which the steppe when understood would

throw on all the steppes of the Caspian, &c. ; the study of
the effects of recent earthquakes in Bessarabia, the alluvions

Iof the Don, Dnieper, and Danube, and the Crimea, which is

full of various interest. Murchison, who (as know by ex
perience) is a good campaigner, declares the scheme excel

lent, but fears your engagements will prevent you from
Istirring.  should probably start about June 10, but if you
Iare disposed to join, would wait, if by exertion you could
Iget over your business and go somewhat later.
                                                need not

say that to participate in the first making out of an unknown

district is the only way to learn to unravel countries for

oneself, and that the new facilities now opened have rendered

a district accessible in a few weeks which seemed but lately
Ias far removed as the interior of Asia.A courier who can

be trusted is easily got at Petersburg.   should make the

expedition as strictly geological as our friend Murchison
does his, and it is from my confidence that your enthusiasm

would equally dispose you to do so, and would carry you

through the slight inconveniences, which would after all be

of short duration on the tour, which induces me to make
Ithis proposition.  shall probably go alone, if you should
I Idecline, and
            do not wish it to be known, for when
Iintended to go to Iceland this spring (before
                                                engaged to

1830.  GEOLOGICAL CLUB.                     267

Isupply Murray with a volume on geology) , had two offers

of companions, excellent men, but one a mere mineralogist,

and the other a sportsman, who would have greatly interfered,

Iand whom should still, as old friends, have offended by
Ideclining. would enter into many more particulars about this
Ischeme, if did not feel that it would be going too far before
I am aware whether there was any insuperable obstacle to

stimulating you to such an enterprise. In regard to health,

I have made due inquiries, and you may trust me, an old
Icampaigner, that should not think of it rashly. It is one

of those things that is not open to me every day, and would

probably lead to some new and grand views.

       Believe me, most truly yours,

                              Charles Ltell.

                              To His Sistee.

                    I Temple : May 11, 1830.

     My dear Eleanor, -- have been intending for a month to
write and say you were a good-for-nothing gipsy for not

Isending me a letter till wrote one myself, as it takes no time
Ito read a letter, though am really almost too busy to write

one. Have you heard from Tom ? His things arrived here

to-day, by sea from Devonport.
     Murray of Simprim asked me to take him to the Geolo

gical Club. As luck would have it, he sat next Buckland,
with whom he was much delighted, as with a most entertain
ing lecture delivered by him afterwards, at a full meeting of
the Geological Society, on Bones of the Mastodon brought by
Basil Hall from 1ST. America, and by Beechey & Co. of Extinct
Elephants from Behring's Straits. Also on my Angus Kel

Ipie's feet, which were so much admired, that when offered

the Professor one, he would not accept, saying he should rob
the Geological Society, for each differed from the other in

something.
     Sir George Bose is in great force, and longs to see my

book. Pray heaven he may not think me, as he tells me nine-

Itenths of the German .clergy are, ' sold to the deviL5 But

Iassure you have been so cautious, that two friends tell me
I shall only offend the ultras. After divers schemes, Iceland,
IPyrenees,, West Indies, the Crimea, Black Sea, &c.9 have

268           SIR CHARLES LYELL.                            chap. xi.

I Idefinitely settled, positively for the last time, for the Pyrenees.
  find shall be just relieved at the nick of time for them,

can get there in eight days, and Captain Cooke, R.N"., who is

just returned, volunteers to go with me, and be a Spanish

guide. Country cheap, no danger, bad fare, bad beds, &c, but

that I can stand ; but don't like West Indian fevers, Crimean

agues, nor Portuguese robbers, and worse adventures.

     Murchison gave me a seat in Lord Darlington's box to
see Miss Kemble's Isabella. Did not think it half equal to
Iher Juliet.
              hope to have done with my volume by middle
Iof June, and whether it is out then or in October, begin to

feel somewhat indifferent now.

   I hope to get my tour over so as to be with you for a time
Iat Kinnorcly, but cannot answer quite for so much.

     Believe me, your affectionate brother,

                                     Charles Ltell.

              To POULETT SCROPE, ESQ.1

              9 Crown Office Row, Temple : June 14, 1830.

 H My dear Scrope, -- You ought to have received more

Isheets long ere this : we hope to be out in ten days. As had
Inothing to do with your being my reviewer, am certainly

right glad of it; and not the less so, that having withdrawn

from the fight some time, you may be a more disinterested

Iumpire than many others who, like you, have committed
themselves in print to many opinions.  am sure you may
get into Q. P. what will free the science from Moses, for if
treated seriously, the party are quite prepared for it. A

bishop, Buckland ascertained (we suppose Sumner), gave Ure
a dressing in the ' British Critic and Theological Keview.'

They see at last the mischief and scandal brought on them by

Mosaic systems. Ferussac has done nothing but believe in the

universal ocean up to the chalk period till lately. Prevost

Ihas done a little, but is a diluvialist, a rare thing in France.

If any one has done much in that way, have not been able

to procure their books. Von Hoff has assisted me most, and

you should compliment him for the German plodding per
severance with which he filled two volumes with facts like

     1 Who was about to review the Princijjles of Geology.

1830. PRINCIPLES OF GEOLOGY.  269

tables of statistics ; but he helped me not to iny scientific

views of causes, nor to my arrangement. The division into

aqueous and igneous cause is mine, no great matter, and

obvious enough. YonHoff goes on always geographically. For
example, he will take as a chapter ' changes in the boundaries

of sea and land,5 and under this may come alterations by

earthquakes as well as by currents, &c. Yon Hoff took his
I' waste of sea-cliffs/ as far as Britain is concerned, from
Stevenson -- very meagre.  have done mine from actual

observation, principally in coast surveys. My division into

Idestroying and reproductive effects of rivers, tides, currents,

&c, is, as far as know, new-- my theory of estuaries being
formed is contrary to Bakewell and many others, who think

England is growing bigger. In regard to Deltas, many facts
are from Yon Hoff, but the greater part, not. All the theory

Iof the arrangement of strata in Deltas and stratification, &c,

is new, as far as know, and the importance of spring

deposits. Yon Hoff thinks all that is now going on, a mere

trifle comparatively, though he has done more than any

other to disprove it. My views regarding gneiss, mica
schist, &c, could not come in Yol. I. Sedgwick found in

the centre of Eastern Alps an encrinital limestone alternat

ing with genuine mica schist and the white stone of Werner.

This made a sensation here at G. S. this session. It was
before known to E. de Beaumont. Think of this fact. Whether

so made originally or not, it is clear that mica slate owes its

stratification to deposition, because the limestone did. Ergo

after a cool sea existed, with zoophytes enjoying the light of

heaven, and feeding on some animalcules which lived as
now--these rocks were formed no matter how. Gray wacke in

its most ancient mineralogical form is proved to be posterior
to vertebrated animals at Glaris, and to fuci and some coal

plants lately in Ireland. In controverting, just allude to
' having heard something of the Alpine discovery,' because

Sedgwick was most unwilling last year to admit such a

Ithing ; also hint that my reasons are yet to come, as say

in several passages.

    Probably there was a beginning-- it is a metaphysical
question, worthy a theologian -- probably there will be an end.
Species, as you say, have begun and ended -- but the

270                 SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap. xi.

Ianalogy is faint and distant. Perhaps it is an analogy, but

all say is, there are, as Hntton said, ' no signs of a begin

ning, no prospect of an end.' Herschel thought the nebulse

became worlds. Davy said in his last book, ' It is always

more probable that the new stars become visible and then

I Iinvisible, and pre-existed, than that they are created and

extinguished. So think. All ask is, that at any given

X period of the past, don't stop inquiry when puzzled by
       refuge to a c beginning,' which is all one with ' another state
of nature,' as it appears to me. But there is no harm in

Iyour attacking me, provided you point out that it is the

proof deny, not the probability of a beginning. Mark, too,
my argument, that we are called upon to say in each case,
' Which is now most probable, my ignorance of all possible
effects of existing causes,' or that ' the beginning ' is the

Icause of this puzzling phenomenon ?

    It is not the beginning look for, but proofs of a pro
gressive state of existence in the globe, the probability of
which is proved by the analogy of changes in organic life.
'Tis an easy come-off to refer gneiss to ' the beginning, chaos,'
I&c, and put back the finding an encrinite for half a century.

That all my theory of temperature will hold, am not so

sanguine as to dream. It is nevj, bran new. Give Humboldt

due credit for his beautiful essay on isothermal lines : the

geological application of it is mine, and the coincidence of

time 'twixt geographical and zoological changes is mine,

right or wrong. Sedgwick and Murchison have found an
intermedial formation in Eastern Alps 'twixt chalk and

oldest tertiary, helping to break' down that barrier, to fill
Ithat lacune. Until Eennel's posthumous work on currents is

out, could not have a good copper-plate of their course.

Thanks for the hint, which shall not be lost, if your review

helps me in spite of the saints to a second edition, and in spite

Iof 1,500 copies, a number regret but could not avoid. My
Ilabour has been greater than you would suppose, as have
really had so little guidance. Your little valley paper was one
I0f my oest helps.  mean as guide in classification of facts.
I was afraid to point the moral, as much as you can do in
IQ. E., about Moses. Perhaps   should have been tenderer

about the Koran. Don't meddle  much with that, if at all.

1830.  LETTER TO SCROPE.                                271

IIf we don't irritate, which fear that we may (though
Ifmere history), we shall carry all with us.
                                              you don't

triumph over them, but compliment the liberality and

candour of the present age, the bishops and enlightened

saints will join us in despising both the ancient and modern
physico-theologians. It is just the time to strike, so rejoice
If Ithat, sinner as you are, the Q. R. is open to you.
                                                        have
Isaid more than some will like, yet give you my word that

full half'of my history and comments was cut out, and even

many facts ; because either I, or Stokes, or Broderip, felt that

it was anticipating twenty or thirty years of the march of

Ihonest feeling to declare it undisguisedly. Nor did dare

come down to modern offenders. They themselves will be

Iashamed of seeing how they will look by-and-by in the page

of history, if they ever get into it, which doubt. Tou see

that what between Steno, Hooke, Woodward, De Luc, and

others, the modern deluge systems are all borrowed. Point

out to the general reader that my floods, earthquakes, &c,

Iare all very modern, also waste of cliffs ; and that request

that people will multiply, by whatever time they think man

has been on the earth, the sum of this modern observed

change, and not form an opinion from what history has re

corded. Fifty years from this, they will furnish facts for a

better volume than mine. The changes in organic life, which
I intend to be more generally entertaining
Iand more new, must be deferred to Vol. than  the inorganic,
                                                 will attend
                                        II.

to your other requests immediately. r~

       Yery truly yours,

                 Charles Ltell.

   IP.S. -- have been very careful in my work in referring,
Iwhere have borrowed, to authors, and am not conscious of

Ihaving ever done so without citing in a note. doubt whether
I have embodied sentences from any author so much as from
- Iyou, and you will see that that is in great moderation.

  1 conceived the idea five or six years ago, that if ever the
Mosaic geology could be set down without giving offence, it

would be in an historical sketch, and you must abstract mine,
in order to have as little to say as possible yourself. Let
them feel it, and point the moral. /«-

272           SIR CHARLES LYELL.                   chap. xr.

              To POULETT SCROPE, ESQ.

                         London : June 20, 1830.
     IMy dear Scrope, -- go on Tuesday morning to Havre,
I Ifor the Pyrenees.
              trust you will agree with me in what
Ihave said in the winding up of the chapter on the Calabrian

earthquake of 1783 as to excavation of valleys. have never
seen this subject touched on in all the theories of valleys --
compare my allusion to the land-slips in the Batavia shock

in 1699. Forests floating on the sea in Jamaica speaks also

volumes as to effect on valleys. Whewell tells me he has

just been at Oxford, and with a cavalcade of forty horsemen

went out for Buckland's field lecture. He held forth more

than ever about the impotence of modern causes. Had he

and Conybeare been engaged to review me, they might posi

tively have done some harm in retarding the good cause,

and much more in stopping the sale of a certain number of

copies.

I--/ In the volcanic causes, the only material thing for which
  am indebted to Von Hoff is the tracing out the volcanic
regions more fully than is found in other books. As to the

Iphilosophy or geology of volcanoes, he gives nothing that

have thought worth borrowing, and he attempts but little.

Danbeny had seen but profited less than he should have
              I it,
done by it.

     Whether my concluding theory of excess of subsidence

will do, more than can predict. Like many others,
         is                                        it
                                                      is it
           I
my own, and thought out after turning the subject over in    is is
every way. have not had time to study Elie de Beaumont's

dashing theory of Epochs of Elevation, but have seen enough
to be sure that much of will not stand. The review of his
                     it

notions will come properly in my next volume, for  by

fossil zoology alone that all dates of the relative upheaving

of mountain chains must be decided, or guessed at. It

preposterous to say that the Alleghanies were raised when

a certain European chain was, because they are parallel.

He runs riot in these extravagant generalisations, just as he

compared the Dauphiny Alps to the mountains in the moon,
in sober earnest. E. de B. does not, as far as can see,
                                       I

1830. ELIE DE BEAUMONT.                                273

entertain any suspicion that before laying down as an axiom
that ' parallelism of axis of elevation indicates contemporary

elevation,' some respect should be had to what may now be

Igoing on ; or if we know too little as yet, at least let us wait.
  expect to come into collision with his doctrines, for he

seems to me to be embarked just as Von Buch was, in his
c Elevation Crater ' system, on the plan of speculating on an

cient times without caring about modern causes. Think of

Ihis saying that the Deluge may have been caused by the
sudden rise of S. America !     respect him as one of the best

of the young Frenchmen. He has done much good, but
Ithree -fourths of his theory won't stand five years.
                                                         am
Imore anxious than can tell you that you should hit it off

well for Q. R. Of such an article as many reviews would

jump at, there is no fear ; but if Murray has to push my vols.,

and you wield the geology of the Q. R., we shall be able in a

-short time to work an entire change in public opinion. /

         Ever very              truly yours,     Lyell.
                                        Charles

         to poulett scrope, esq.

                                                               Havre, France : June 25, 1S30.

   IMy dear Scrope, -- Not being able to cross over to Hon-

fleur to-day, because of tide not serving, have seen all the
geology which the cliffs afford. Chalk capping, under which
Upper Green Sand just as in the back of the Isle of Wight,
and blue marl at bottom raised in same manner by under
mining --tide rising 22 feet, and sweeping away land 500 feet

Ihigh. Having done this, took up Elie de Beaumont's new
Iwork, published in ' Ann. des Sciences.' Now am somewhat-
glad to find how much my views differ from his. In his

memoir entitled ' Recherches sur quelques-unes des Revolu

tions de la surface du Globe,' &c, he begins by saying, that

whatever be the causes which have raised mountain chains

and put the beds composing them into their present position,
it must have been ' un evenement d'un ordre different de
Iceux dont nous sommes journellement les temoins.' In my

comments on the Huttonian theory, throw out that there

have been, in regard to separate countries, alternate periods
                             t
vol. 1.

274              SIR CHARLES LYELL.                   chap. xi.

Iof disturbance and repose, jet earthquakes may have been

always uniform, and show or hint how the interval of time

done, may make the passage appear abrupt, violent, con

clusive, and revolutionary. Now E. de Beaumont's reign
ing notion evidently is, that because 'le redressement des

couches s'arrete brusquement a tel ou tel terme de la

serie des couches de sediment (in different chains) , et affecte
avec une egale intensite toutes les couches precedentes, le

phenomene de redressement n'a pas ete continu et pro-

gressif, mais brusque, et de peu de duree,' &c. Now it is un

Idoubtedly brusque as far as the solution of continents, but
why therefore the 6 convulsion ' of short duration ?  do not

find anywhere in him the notion of restoring in imagination

the geographical features of Europe of N. Hemisphere by
causing the land to sink, which has been since upraised --as to
Ichange of climate he has nothing to do with it.
                                                      told you
I Ibefore, that have, as far as I, and others whom have con
Isulted know, to answer for all the sins committed in that
new theory. Before dared hazardit          went to Stokes,

                    iIt,
who has often condemned my follies to the flames, but he

said he was sure there was much in it, and might be as''
much as thought. At all events, would do much good to
try it, and would set others to work/ E. de B. gets hold ofI
three or four chains, proves that one has been elevated since

the Jura limestone, another parallel since the chalk, and then

infers that they were upraised nearly about the same time,

and, as they are parallel, he thinks very probab that these
                 it                         le

                      a
accidents of the surface, which have community of direc

tion, ont ete formes pour ainsi dire du meme coup, et sont

les traces d'une seule et meme commotion.' Ann. des Sciences'
Nat.' tome 18. Whatever may be said of my theories,
there are sweeping conclusions in E. de Beaumont, for which

  would not be answerable for good deal. At the same
time his work in many parts, as far as can judge without

being able to test the facts, of great merit. It difficult to
I                a

             is        I

                              I is
follow him, and for so new a subject he has been think un-

pardonably concise, and therefore obscure in laying down his
views. do not half comprehend what he would be at, yet
have talked much with him on geology in general. My con-
       is I                                           I

fldence      shaken by knowing that he  is  an unflinching

1830.  UAUBUISSON.                         275

Ifollower of Von Buch's, in theory of ' Elevation Craters.5
mean to make almost straight to Olot in Catalonia, but mj

companion, Captain Cooke, must go and see the DruidicaJ.

monument at Carnac in Normandy. This out-of-the-way

Iline will cost some extra days, but you shall hear in five or
six weeks of the volcanic region.   shall be surprised if Olot
Iwas destroyed by lava, or an eruption -- probably an earth
quake, but if lava, so much the better.  will see what the

river has done in three centuries.

With remembrances to Mrs. Scrope,

       Believe me ever truly yours,

                           Charles Ltell.

                             To His Stster.

                      I Toulouse : July 9, ] 830.

    My dear Marianne, -- arrived here yesterday after hav
ing traversed fro in Honneur to Bordeaux, a great part of

INormandy, Brittany, and La Vendee, on the most detestable

roads, and through some of the finest countries ever saw.

It is common to see waggons with nine horses unable to

move the machine out of deep ruts. In the diligence twenty
persons had to turn out several times in the mud, during

heavy storms, to let the carriage be dragged out. My com

panion, Captain Cooke, took me this round-about, to see the
great Druidical monument of Carnac, near Quiberon Bay,

which is a fine thing, though we have paid dearly for it in

time, &c. However, 1 learnt of course something of the
geology of the countries we went through. Cooke is a com
mander R.N., son of a country gentleman near Newcastle,
well informed, a good linguist, knows Spain, a botanist, and
gets on in geology. He is a little too fond of lagging a day

Ifor rest, as here where nothing is to be done. But such

peccadilloes pardon for his manifold virtues. At Bordeaux
we learnt a great deal ; the place abounds in geologists, full

of zeal, and their museums and conversation were very in
structive. Here we have a great gun of the old Wernerian
school, D'Aubuisson, who amuses me much. He thinks the

interest of the subject greatly destroyed by our new innova
tion, especially our having almost cut mineralogy and turned

it into a zoological science. In short, like all men, he dis

                                               t2

276     s/K C&AXLES LYELL,          chap. xr.

likes that which, destroys his early and youthful associations,
and he has too much to do as an engineer to keep up with

the subject. It is what they call cold unseasonable weather

in the south of France, but just what we like. The verdure is

splendid and probably very unusual here. Fruit half ripe,
vines promising no crop for want of sun. Instead of suffer

ing by heat, they tell us we shall be too cold in the Pyre

nees. The line of huge blocks at Carnac are nearly as big

as Stonehenge in parts, and, forming ten rows, reaches four
or five miles in a direct line E. and W. How they got them

up is marvellous ; some are twenty feet high. We go to
morrow towards Ax, meaning to make a short excursion to

a volcanic district round Olot in Catalonia, where Cooke has

already been as a botanist ; we then return to Bagneres de
Luchon, and then to Pau-- future movements in the Pyre
nees will be governed by what we find in our first excursion .
I hope to receive news at Bagneres de Luchon, and hea.r
Iwhether my book comes out or not.  shall be glad to hear

Iyour honest opinion of the work, regarded as one compre
hensible to the uninitiated.  am afraid that what delights
my friend Scrope more than all --the honest history of the
Mosaico-geological system -- will hurt the sale. D'Aubuisson
said this morning : ' We Catholic geologists flatter ourselves

that we have kept clear of the mixing of things sacred and

profane, but the three great Protestants, De Luc, Cuvier, and

Buckland, have nob done so ; have they done good to science

or to religion ? --No ; but some say they have to themselves

Iby it. Pray, gentlemen, is it true that Oxford is a most or

thodox university ? ' Certainly. ' Well then, make allow

ances for a professor there, dividing events into ante and

post-diluvian : perhaps he could get no audience by other

means/

This attack against Buckland convinces me that the

IFrench Institute chose Conybeare before Buckland, because

they considered the latter as trading in humbug, which

Iam sorry to say is notoriously true of Cuvier, but not of

Buckland, for although am convinced he does not believe
his own theory now, to its full extent, yet he believed it

when he first started it.
     The quiet and perfect order and calmness that reigned

1830. FRENCH POLITICS.                                               277

at Bourbon, Vendee, and Bordeaux and Toulouse during the
heat of the elections, afford a noble example to us --never

were people in a greater state of excitement on political
grounds than the French at this moment, jet never in our

country towns were Assizes conducted with more serious

ness and quiet. There is no occasion to make the rabble
drunk. All the voters of the little colleges are of the rank

of shopkeepers at least, those of the highest are gentlemen,

only 20,000 of them out of the 30 millions of French. They

are too many for such jobbing as in a Scotch county, and too

independent and rich to have the feelings of a mob. This
city has elected all seven ministerial men--a rare case. The

little colleges have in general elected four out of five oppo

sition, the great colleges four out of five ministerial. The

former are the democratic body, yeomen, merchants, &c.

The landed interest is in the greater college. The number

of royalists here is attributed to the personal influence of

the ex-minister Villele. A gentleman told me at dinner to

day : ' Villele is the only man Charles X. can choose. Poli-

gnac must yield. Villele lost his place not by the censor

ship of the Press, nor by the law of sacrilege, nor by any of

his unpopular ecclesiastical measures, however impolitic

some of these may have been, but he lost it by his bill of

primogeniture, a necessary measure for the salvation of

France, but so hostile to the feelings of the people, that it

is at the bottom of nruch of the opposition now manifested.

IEvery family is in arms about this measure ; yet we shall be
ruined if this partitioning goes on for ever/  have been

amused at their telling me that Polignac, when in England,

became an ultra-aristocrat. They say that Chateaubriand

made a stand against Almack's and the exclusives, but

that Prince Polignac gave into!

                                  it,

                                                                  a
                                and as the Stewarts lost

their crown by the monarchical lessons taught in France, so
P. will lose his premiership by the ultra-aristocratical

notions taught by the D. of Devonshire. Think of French

man reasoning in this manner

Love to all. Tour affectionate brother,
                                         Chaeles Lyej.l.

278             SIR CHARLES LYELL.     chap. xi.

                To His Sister.

     Prades, near Perpignan, Valley of the Tet : July 21, 1830.
     IMy dear Caroline, -- believe it is an age since 1 last
Iwrote, which.
                believe was addressed to Marianne from

Toulouse. Thence we went by a baddish diligence to Foix

on the Ariege, one of the most picturesque places on the

Inorthern flank of the Pyrenees. From thence we went to
Ax, one of the great watering-places.  got two famous

days' geology on that side of the mountains, and we filled a

Ismall box full of good fossils, which will throw light on the

chain, of which got a clear idea, as to structure.

   IThere is something in the general character of the deep

valleys of the Pyrenees, different from what remember in

other chains, or rather the characters which belong elsewhere

to minor valleys and those in rocks of a distinct nature,

happen here to acquire a grand and Alpine scale. After Ax,

where we found a number of French strangers, not like our

loungers at watering-places, but really invalids, we ascended

Ifrom the region of oaks and beeches to that of pines. A

forest of silver firs was covered with the lichen, which think
Iwe used to call in the New Forest ' old man's beard/ some of
them being several feet long.  admired them so much, that

Cooke was amused not a little. He is a great fancier of

pines, and has discovered two or three new kinds, and looked

Ion the lichen as a loathsome disease. He has rather a fancy

to begin insect-hunting, and could hardly persuade him

that if we set up a net, there would be an end of geologising.

IWhen we got into the centre of the chain, into the granitic

region, was glad to relieve ennui by joining him in catch

Iing those which were polite enough to offer themselves with

out trouble, and have put them up in paper as Alpine

kinds. We travelled on mules over the central chain, and

then entered French Cerdagne by the valley of Carol. We
went to Bourg Madame, as it is now christened, a village

burnt by the Spaniards during the late war. On this

frontier, close to Puycerda, we discovered a freshwater

deposit unknown before, of considerable extent, filling an

enormous valley, and containing animal, or at least testaceous

1830. EXCURSION INTO CATALONIA.                    279

remains, and wood. Although an old affair, and with a valley

500 feet and more cut through it, the nests of planorbis and

lymnea and the whole aspect of some beds are singularly

like the Loch of Kinnordy. We heard from good authority

an unfavourable account of the state of Catalonia, where
there are three parties it seems --the constitutionalists, who

think King Ferdinand too despotic; the royalists, who

Iconsider him as the best of all possible kings ; and the Carlists

-- fear the strongest party --who consider him as not half

despotic enough, and who would re-establish the Inquisition

in full force. We were dissuaded from entering at present,

and as Cooke feared to descend to the eastern extremity

of the Pyrenees because of the heat, he kept upon the hill

tops among his favourite pines, intending to visit the valley

of Andorra, and then to go to Bagneres de Luchon, where

Iour letters await us, and where am to join him. My work
Iwas clearly in this region, and to-morrow morning shall
be at Perpignan. This cool season, the heat is positively a

mere trifle even down here in comparison to what even

IMurchison worked regularly in, in Auvergne, Yivarais, and

the Vicentin. As for me, have only been just warm

hitherto. My present scheme is to see the valley of the
Tech, Tet, and La Gly, on the eastern extremity of this

chain, and the newer formations at their foot near the sea,

then to see the flanks of the chain, always the most interest

ing point to a geologist who is not too fond of mere mineral

hunting, and so to get to Bagneres de Luchon in seven, eight,

Ior more probably ten or twelve days -- all which time shall
Ibe without news from England since my departure.
                                                   have

Igot through part of the Spanish grammar, probably to small
purpose, except at some future time.  must get a cram in

pronunciation from Tom. My companion has been very
agreeable, but, as you may suppose, not quite so far gone in
geology as to be inclined to keep it up with as much spirit

I I I Ias do, and doubt not shall make great play now have

gob sufficiently interested in the study of this magnificent

Ichain, to caro less for the birth of my book than did en
Ivoyage ; but in writing to you, am curious again to know
Iwhether it is out, which shall not learn for some two or
Ithree weeks, or possibly more. What saw of the Spanish

280        SIX CHARLES LVELL.          chap. xi.

peasants in the valley of Puycerda, pleased me much, with

their red bonnets, fine sunburnt countenances, swarthy

almost, and active mountaineer walk. They make capital
Iguides, and will beat a horse in a day's journey in the hills.
   need hardly say that my pure Castilian did not aid me
Imuch in interpreting their language, but Italian did much.
Yesterday  was among pine woods ; to-day, olives, vines,

wild pomegranate, &c.

     With my best love, believe me, your affectionate brother,

                                             Charles Ltell.

                       To His Sister.

                       Perpignan : August 8, 1830.
     IMy dear Fanny,-- have just returned from a successful
I Iexpedition into Catalonia.
                       believe mentioned in my last
Ithat Cooke and separated, after finding it impracticable to
get into Spain, and after losing three days in the vain

Iattempt. Encouraged by some Catalonian gentlemen here,
   went in two days by diligence to Barcelona. A glorious
view of the Pyrenees and of the delicious country bordering

the Mediterranean to the south. The heat so great, that

five Cuba merchants, my companions, pronounced it beyond

that of the tropics. It did me no harm. We were fanned
by machines at breakfast and dinner as in India, went without

coats, drank incessantly, perspired while sitting still as if in full

Iexercise ; but there was so much novelty in all to me, that
Inever felt my energy flag. As entered Barcelona on a
Ifete day, was struck with the gentlemanlike appearance

of the numerous priests, a fine, venerable-looking set in

general, respected by the people, so different from the poor,

sneaking clergy of France, who look -as if they had no
business in the country. The garrison, 8,000 strong, was in

full review in honour of the Queen's birthday, before the

Conde d'Espagne, an officer who distinguished himself

under the Duke of Wellington in Spain, and who is looked

up to as the main instrument of ridding Spain of the last
French invasion, by outdoing the French in diplomacy. He

was covered with orders. About 2,000 of the Eoyal Guard
were among his troops -- a mark of the high favour he is in.

1830.              AT BARCELONA.                   281

IThe next morning, July 24, called on the Count at the

Palace, with Stephens, an Englishman, a great favourite at

Court. He, d'Espagne, is obliged to be very inaccessible, or

he would be mobbed, but his regard for the English ensures

them a polite reception if recommended to him. As Stephens

was intimate with Yyvyan and other brother Oxonians, and

Ias was the companion of Captain Cooke, a friend of
Id'Espagne, met with great attention from the Count, who

is Captain -general of Catalonia, and has more power than an

IIrish viceroy in that great and populous province. He called

the next morning and left an invitation to dinner. dined with

him both that day and the next, and received from him a

special passport signed by him, and letters to Governors,

IAbbots, &c, and was pressed to take with me one of his

body-guard. ' can ensure you respect from the authorities,

but no magistrate can guarantee you against the brigands.
You will have heard that we are not troubled with many now,

but in the mountains, a district of smugglers, who can say
Iwhat may. happen ? For my sake, and that may feel at rest,
Ido not refuse."
                   accepted, but when the Captain of the
I IGuard came with the ' Mucho,'
                                    declined, as felt no

insecurity, and as not one of the guard could speak French,
nor serve as interpreter. With a mule and a guide on foot,

Iwho knew a few scraps of French, together with a few

sentences of broken patois, and Italian of my own, got on
without one misadventure through a glorious country for a

geologist. Saw Monserrat, the salt mines of Gardona, Yich,

and the volcanic district round Olot, and returned across the
Pyrenees by Massanet to Ceret. A naturalist at Olot, who
Ihad written on the volcanos, talked French well.
                                                   re
entered France, August 7, and find that in my absence a
great revolution was accomplished.
                                    The tricolor flag
hoisted on all the churches, and the utmost order prevailing,
without any apparent apprehension even on the part of the
Iroyalists as to security of person and property.
                                                   am not a
I Ilittle glad that saw what have seen in Spain before this
news reached them. For whether there be a convulsion or
not there, the apprehension which the authorities entertained
Ihad got to such a pitch even before quitted, that but for the
ICaptain* general
                   might not have got out again so soon ;

282              SIR CHARLES LYELL.                 chap. xi.

Idelays to travellers will at least be multiplied.  must tell
Iyou my adventures and what saw in Spain in future letters,
for it was a tour full of novelty. The sort of feeling one has
there of the government and laws and state of the nation is
such, that the topsy-turvying of all things here seems a trifle
to me in comparison. Here you know everything, bat in
ISpain there is a darkness and mystery, and an evident sense

of danger which makes you uneasy ; and had not been

excited unusually by the scene and the important geological
I I Ifacts learnt there, should not have enjoyed it as really
Idid throughout the whole fortnight.
                                      have got so inter

ested now about the Pyrenees, tha.t even the seeing in the

newspapers how a dynasty had been upset, or rather how

they had upset themselves, seemed a milk-and-water affair
Iin comparison.
Iweeks           hope to keep in this mood till in a few

           have run along the flank of this fine chain to

Bordeaux.

     Although the Prefect, Sub-Prefect, and almost all the

lower officers here have been already dismissed and replaced,

I got my passport this morning with such promptitude, that
I cannot but admire them. They seem determined that the

machine shall work well in the midst of so complete an over

turning of the old hands, or out- turning. The outs even do

not pretend that they are in any apprehension here, and

other travellers are moving about with perfect confidence.

No one has been even scratched here, and the troops are in

perfect good-humour, though they kept up the old flag in the

citadel, or at least refused four days to put up another until

ministerial orders came, expressly commanding it.

     IThe only popular act of violence here has been the pulling
down the crucifix erected by the congregation.      expect to

hear they have done this almost throughout the country ; it
was the banner of a party which has chiefly ruined the old

regime.

    With mj love to all, believe me your affectionate brother,
                                                Charles Ltell.

]83o.  VOLCANOS OF CATALONIA.                   283

                      CHAPTER XII.

                      AUGUST-NOVEMBEB, 1830.

VOLCANOS OF OLOT --   EOAFRTTHHQEUAPKYERSE--NECEOSU--NTPINDE'-ETSRPAEGESNE----POCLOIRTKIC-TARLEESSTAOTNE
     THE FRENCH SIDE
OF THE COUNTRY -- EXPEDITION TO MONT PERDU-- LETTER TO SCROPE ON
GEOLOGTT --RIPPLE-MARK -- PARIS--LOUIS PHILIPPE -- POLITICAL AGITA
TION IN BELGIUM AND FRANCE -- STUDYING SHELLS WITH DESHAYES -- DIS
TURBANCE BY THE MOB -- RETURNS TO LONDON -- SCROPE'S REVIEW IN
<QUARTERLY '-- REMOVES TO RAYMOND BUILDTNGS.

                      CORRESPONDENCE.

                      To POTJLETT SCROPE, ESQ.

       Bagneres de Luchon, Dept. de la Haute G-aronne : August 10, 1830.

IMy dear Scrope, --As  liave just returned from the
ISpanish side of the Pyrenees, will not delay thanking you

for your suggestion that the Olot volcano should be visited,

a hint which has turned out fertile in good results to me,

not only in regard to igneous rocks. After working a little

on the Ariege from the plains of Toulouse, up to the source

of that river, from the tertiary at the base of the chain to

Ithe granite which separates Prance from Spain, descended
Iwith my companion Captain Cooke to Puycerda. . . . But
must now tell you something of the volcanos of Catalonia.

Like those of the Yivarais, they are all both cones and

craters, subsequent to the existence of the actual hills and
dales, or in other words no alteration of previously existing

levels accompanied or has followed the introduction of the

volcanic matter, except such as the matter erupted neces

sarily occasioned. The cones, at least fourteen of them

mostly with craters, stand like Monpezat, and as perfect, the

284              SIR CHARLES LYELL.  ch/Ip. xn.

                                                                                                                                                  (

currents flow down where the rivers would be if nek dis

placed. But here, as in the Yivarais, deep sections hatfe been

cut through the lava by streams much smaller in general,
and at certain points the lava is fairly cut through, anid even
in two or three cases the subjacent rock. Thus atjCastel
Follet, a great current near its termination is cut through,
and 80 or 90 feet of columnar basalt laid open, resting on an
old alluvium, not containing volcanic pebbles, and belciw that,

nummulitic limestone is eroded to the depth of 25 ffeet, the

river being about 35 feet lower than when the lava, flowed,

though most of the old valley is still occupied by the lava current.

There are about fourteen or perhaps twenty points of eruption
without craters. In all cases they burst through secondary

Ilimestone and sandstone, no altered rocks thrown up, as far

as eould learn, not a dike exposed. A linear dir action in
the cones and points of eruption from north to south. Until

some remains of quadrupeds are found, or other organic

medals found, no guess can be made as to their geological
date, unless anyone will undertake to say when the valleys
Iof that district were excavated. As to historical dates, that
is all a fudge.  found out the man who provided Maclure

with all his antiquarian information, and after reading
I
                               a
                                             '
                                 it
                          is I
                                                                   '
                                                                 is
                                                   if
                                                                                                    a
                                                   iIt,
can assure you that there never was an eruption within

memory of man. There was an earthquake from south of

Olot to Perpignan about four centuries ago, of which the

exact date and all the circumstances are known. It did not

do serious damage except at Olot, where the whole town,

save one house, fell in. So may do again, such shock
as rent every house in Genoa in 1829, and shook the Apen

nines and Piedmont, should return, for there are underground

passages, and subterranean rivers, and grottos, and hollow
mountains, in which the rimbombo
                                     remarkable in the

suburbs and environs of Olot.  say fell in, for houses and

monasteries sunk entire into the ground, and have been dug
out, their roofs on level with the soil, within the time of

men now living there. JSTo shock or even tremor has been

felt since, so that although Olot far from the great line of

fire, do not think that earthquakes invalidate the rule,

that at a distance from the great line, the shocks are rarer

and less violent. The hollow foundation was an accident

1830.  COUNT UESPAGNE.                            285

owing to yolcanic eruption perhaps of another epoch, cer
tainly very ancient.

    Believe me, dear Scrope, yours ever mCohsatrtlreusly,Lyell.

       To His Sister.

       St. Gaudens, Haute Garonne: Augnst 16, 1830.
IMy dear Eleanor, -- Before
                             forget my Spanish adven
Itures, will tell you a few of them before they get too stale.
I ISince re-entered France have heard nothing but abuse of
Ithe Count d'Espagne, from whom received so much atten
Ition. On my arrival at Perpignan, found that the Count's

cousin-german, Baron Raimond, Prefect of the Department,

had fled in disguise to Barcelona. He has left behind him

the character of a man of business and talent, but a tyran

nical instrument of the late ministry. He was most detested
for having thrown seven Spaniards --refugees --into prison,

where they had remained half-a-year, unable either to obtain

a trial or accusation, or any notice of their offence. All

declare this was done at d'Espagne's instance.    The
                                                   got
Iprisoners were released when Baron R. fled, and
acquainted with one, a gentlemanlike well-read man, both in

French and English literature, apparently rich, a thorough
Spaniard, and proud of his country. He declared that

d'Espagne was a sanguinary partisan without ability, that he

was a Frenchman, never more than a colonel when the Duke

of Wellington was in Spain, and that he owes his elevation

to accident, &c. My own opinion, after conversing on many
subjects with him (d'Espagne), was, that he was well-

informed, but far from a man of first-rate talents, and if he
is comparatively so in Spain, it would lead me to suspect
that dans le pays des aveugles les borgnes sont rois. In Cata

lonia they give him credit for getting rid of the French by
his diplomacy, and for having shot indiscriminately the
priests as well as laymen, who were murdered in an insur
rection which the King sent him to quell. To the fear in

spired by his defiance of the ecclesiastics, many impute the
tranquillity which reigned afterwards in his province. The
Carlists or high-priest party hate him, but they fear him

286  SIR CHARLES LYELL.         chap. xii.

Imuch. To their dislike, however, rather impute the failure
I Iof our entry by Puycerda. believe never told you the par
Iticulars. When Cooke and reached the frontier, we went

Iimmediately to the Alcalde of Puycerda, to get our passports

regularly signed. This Mayor or Justice of Peace (for
believe he serves in both capacities in Spain) kept us two

hours waiting, and then said he could not sign till next

morning, though he could not make any objection to our

passports, which were quite en regie. Next day we waited

as before, and were then examined and cross-examined, as

to our objects, &c. The slow and dignified air of the

Iworthy magistrate were so diverting, that Cooke, who was

not so keen as to employ the time otherwise, thought

Ihimself well repaid. We were remanded for a third inter

view, but it was agreed that Cooke should go, while geolo
gised, and had a good day's work. On that day Cooke

found a priest with an immense shovel hat on the bench

with the Alcalde, who cross-examined in a most inquisitorial
way, and said that our objects seemed suspicious. ' That he,

a captain in the British navy, should travel for stones and

plants, neither he nor his companion being Medeein, or Agent
des Mines-- that a society was organised in London for dis

seminating liberal principles of government throughout

Europe --how was he to know we were not Commissioners?

They had orders from Madrid/ &c. &c. Cooke showed an

old passport from d'Espagne, and offered to send an express

to Barcelona, but was told we must both appear before them

the day after, i.e. the fourth day! The director of the
French Douane now entreated us not to go. ' You risk your

personal safety; they often throw foreigners into prison, aud
Iwhen it is found that they are innocent, they let them out to
be sure, but no other redress.  will go to the commandant

of Puycerda, who is indignant at their treatment of you,

and he will guarantee your personal safety and your return

to the French frontier well and good.' The military com

mandant, a man of family, and very gentlemanlike, said he

would rather decline a squabble with so troublesome a

parvenu as the Alcalde. So we demanded our passports to
be returned, but the devil a bit would he give them up.

'As to the Conde d'Espagne/ said the great man, <I receive

1830. DELAYS AND IMPEDIMENTS..         287

my commands from a higher source, from the King himself I '
When this was afterwards told d'Espagne, he said, and the

Isaying soon reached Puycerda, ' wonder it never occurred
Ito him that as happen to he on the top of the ladder, and
Ihe at the bottom, may kick him off/ The fact is the

Mayor was a Carlist, an inquisitionist, and his hatred got
the better of his prudence. We went without our national

passports, and, but for Baron Baimond's politeness at Per-

Ipignan, should never have got into Spain. After such a
Iwarning, made a complete study of the police, and took

every precaution, by getting d'Espagne's special passport,

&c. Once every day a signature must be got, which is often

Ivery awkward, as when the rivers were impassable, and was

sheltered in a miserable hovel far from any mayor or magis

Itrate. But the most annoying event was on my return.
had taken pains to get not only my passport and the guides,

but also the passport of Mons. le Mulet, en regie at Olot, but
was told that the latter would require another signature on
I I Ientering Prance. When got to Massart was told could
I Inot pass unless got another horse.  went to the Alcalde in
Ino small rage. Luckily he could speak French well. showed
him all my letters from d'Espagne, pass, &c, and said that
the Mayor of Olot had insured me against any delay. Like
all Spanish authorities, he first was very dignified, made me
Isit down, and then wrote a letter and gave orders about

other matters. This am told they always do, lest by
attending to you at once, they should let themselves down.
But at last he stirred in right earnest, insisted on my
guide taking a day's less pay, and got with some trouble
Ianother beast, who happened to be provided with a proper

passport. < could sign your passport/ said he, < but have
not authority to sign your mule's. There is no magistrate
nearer than S. Lorenzo (half-a-day) who could give you
that ! ' What a glorious state of political economy ! yet they
are quite right. The priest and Mayor of Puycerda frankly
told the French Douanier that < the fewer English and
French who travel in Spain the better,' and so it is for their
views. By prohibiting books, travelling, internal circulation,

Iof commerce, &c, they may retain then- absolute dominion

some years longer, and shall not pity them if they are

288      SIX CHARLES LYELL.                     chap. xii.

I Ithen hurled down from their place like the Parti pretre in
France.  must defer a curious religious ceremony which

saw till next letter.

     My love to all. Believe me your affectioCnahtaerlbersothLeyr,ell.

                       To His Father.

     IMy dear Father, --         Bagn&res de Luchon : August 17, 1830.

                          arrived here last night, and found

Ithat Captain Cooke had had the patience to wait here. Had

he known, he says, how much should accomplish in Spain,

he should have braved the heat. We are now going to work

Iat the Central and Western . Pyrenees. The excursion to

Spain prize the more, as the gates are now closed upon us ;
at least no prudent man will now venture across the frontier.
There is such excitement in Andalusia, that whether it pass

off or not, the facilities of travelling are at an end. On my

way from Perpignan to Barcelona, on the French side of the

IPyrenees, passed for many miles through a great forest of
Icork-trees, with some ilex intermixed, and came back

through a much larger wood of cork in returning from Olot

to Cerat in the valley of the Tech. Some were as large as

Isrood- sized oaks, and more like old olives than had imagined.
I was surprised that the bark was only red when the outer
bark had been taken off for cork, so that the red colour

Ispoke of in Southey's 'Don Eoderick' is due to laceration.
   suspect that Mr. S. got his information second-hand, and
was not aware that it was no characteristic of natural scenery,

that the white bark is more picturesque, and that the partial

removal of so thick a rind has a very bad effect in the land
scape. The old trees are quite disfigured by it ; he has been
guilty of singing the praises of the mere result of commercial
                                    if he knew  howunpoetic  and
         and might     be annoyed   upon. It    was a very   fine
         feature he     has seized
I Iindustry,

vulgar a
country went through, and had several days of wild rides
                                      pathways through end
from Cardona to Olot, by mountain
less woods of pines and olives mixed  and some fine ilex. It

looks much in the state of Sicily, but perhaps farther
advanced. The heat is shown by the fact that there are

machines for fanning you and driving off flies as you eat ;

1830. SPANISH PREJUDICE.  269

milk, butter, coffee, or tea to be got anywhere, but strange

to say you can get a better cup of chocolate than you could

often meet with in France, in a poor peasant's house, for a

small sum, and made in five minutes. Their brown bread is

not so black and bad as in Sicily, the wine generally good

and cheap, the meat very bad, cost of living about the same as

in France, but less fair dealing in small places. Although the

French journals pretend the contrary, their national pre

judices, especially against them, are very strong in all parties,

high and low. In fact they are ignorant, and immense pains

are taken to keep them so. The gravity with which after

Iconsultation, my dictionary and Spanish grammar were

allowed to pa.ss, the only books had, was diverting. Yet

the arts of writing and reading appear to be pretty generally

spread among the poor in Catalonia, and they are advancing.

I IAs knew d?Espagne might feel it as a slight if declined
Ione of his guards, determined to see if there was among

them a good interpreter, in which case it might have been

worth while. As Catalonia is on the frontier, and the French

Iwere settled there longer than in any other part of Spain,

fancied it impossible that out of the hundred men one should

not be found to speak French. The barrack was a curious scene,
a swarthy race of most active-looking armed mountaineers.
They carry a small rifle and a cord with a loop, which thev

throw over the head of any one they pursue, much like the

lasso of South America. This singular weapon of the police
gives them immense advantage in pursuing an enemy up hill.

As each group was asked if any one of them could speak

French, they replied with a kind of shout, Somos Catalanes, a
little indignation being felt at the very idea of such an

un national acquirement. Even in the enlightened city of
Barcelona, a Gastilian is regarded as so far a foreigner that

genteel families from Castile, settled there, find the national

prejudices much against them in society! The abbe of
Monserrat moaned over the splendid monastery which the

French had levelled to the ground by their cannon in hello
inclependentice (he talked Latin to me), and over the reduction
of his friars to the small number of three hundred ! And

how many had you before ? 'Nine hundred ! On the top
vol. 1.
         u

290  SIR CHARLES LYELL.     chap. xii.

of a liill 3,000 feet high, singing morning, noon, and night, in

an empty church ! They have rebuilt the convent in a vulgar

Isquare house, like an enormous manufactory. At Olot
arrived on the fete day of the Patron Saint, and saw the
procession well from the balcony of my friend the apothecary,
Bolos -- what a good name for a pharmacien ! His daughters,

Ieven the youngest child, seemed to be so tired of such sights,

that their only amusement was the interest took in it. The
standards of twelve saints of the town came first, with an

image at the top of each. When the procession stopped, to

chant before different altars in the streets, these standards

were made to rest on the ground erect, by means of ropes
connected, like the shrouds to a mast, with the top of the

pole, and these ropes held by men and boys who balanced it
in this manner. The children held small flags, and could

not resist using them to fan themselves as the heat was

great. When laughed at for this, they often made a drive at

the boys round them with the sacred banners, then came a

regular English scuffle. The combatants got beyond the

length of their tether, the saint was tugged on one side, and

the image of St. Stephen, after three swings, came within a

few inches of my head in the balcony. The older men did

Inot seem to scold the youngsters for this, as it seems a sort

of saturnalia, and saw several other similar rows. Before

a long line of Carmelitans who were chanting, was a girl of
about seventeen years, dressed in white, and with two immense

white paper wings on her shoulders. She carried a great
silver cross. c Look out for the angel ! ' exclaimed Bolos 's

children to me, and sure enough there never was a better

figure in any pantomime. A cherub who preceded the

Capucins was nothing in comparison. One part of the
procession was really imposing : it consisted of ' the

devout/ private individuals, chiefly peasants, who volun
teered attending, each with a long torch and with a

brown cloak thrown over them. They went two by two,

Iso that there was a long line of flame as far as the eye could
reach in either direction.  observed to Bolos that there

was much religion throughout Catalonia, though the French

say there is less than in other parts of Spain. His reply
was, 'C'est un pays de montagnes, monsieur.5 Want of

1830. PINE- TREES.                          291

space must cut short my Spanish journal till another oppor

tunity.

With     love  to  all,  believe  me, your  affectionate son,

                                                Charles Lyell.

                         To His Sister.

                  I Bagneres de Luchon : August 18, 1830.

My dear Caroline, -- have been writing a long letter to
Scrope this morning with an account of the Olot volcanos, in

what they agree, and in what they differ from those of ten

Iother volcanic regions which we have both visited between
Clermont and Capo Passaro.              was in Spain yesterday,

having crossed the frontier a few miles on the summit of the

ridge. All is quiet in Aragon, the French news universally

known. Many of the people give the present king's ministrj^

the credit of having wished several reforms, but of having

Ibeen prevented by the ultra-priest-and-king-party at Paris.
  wish this may be true. The climate here is almost cold, a

sudden change from Barcelona, where the thermometer was

for three days at 94° Fakt. At Olot 90° and above. My mule

Iwas furnished with a pair of thick wooden stirrups, clumsy

things which fancied would be close and hot, but they were

luxurious as keeping the sun from striking on my boots,

which felt as if they must crack when exposed to his rays.

ICooke tells me that the great forests of moderate-sized pines,

mixed with Olives and Hex, which passed through in Cata

lonia, were all of Firms halepensis. It is not so handsome as

Pinus pinea, but resembles it. The old forests of the Pyre

nees have suffered terribly by the axe, and will soon be

annihilated. They have been magnificent, and are still fine

here. Beech, silver-fir, and high up Pinus uncinata.

D'Espagne is now near us here, having marched as great a

Iforce as he can muster to the frontier, for fear of an explo

sion at so critical a conjuncture. For my part expect the
troops will be as ready as any to set up a new order of things,

the officers being very generally in favour of diminishing the

power and revenues of the church.

   IWhat you mention about the election and the anecdotes

of the mob-rule which see daily in the papers, make me

                                  XT 2

292  SIX CHARIES IYEII.                          chap, xil

ashamed of our system. Tlie calm manner and the rational

behaviour of the Trench in their last elections, when greatly

excited, forms a proud contrast for them. Much public spirit

was shown in placemen resigning or braving the threats of

displacement, when ordered by the Prefects to vote for

ministers. The south of France is more monarchical than

the north, and they are relieved beyond measure at finding
that at Paris the republican party did not muster stronger.

IThey forget, however, that it was not Paris, but the Deputies

who conducted the revolution. have heard furious disputes.

One day a fierce republican, a collector of the taxes at Ceret,

was nearly silenced, and at last one of his opponents said,

c But in point of fact, sir, do you not anticipate the nomina
tion of the Duke of Orleans to be king P ' ' C'est probable,

Imonsieur, car nous sommes toujours les singes des Anglais/

Did tell you a Frenchman's comment on the removal of the
cross of the mission from the Cathedral at Perpignan ?

' Chacun a son tour, le bon Dieu a eu le sien.5 An American

here tells me that he was opposite the hotel of the Prefect at

Bordeaux, when the mob nearly killed him. He kept his

drawn sword in his hand the whole time.. They threw his

carriage and four fine horses into the Garonne. The latter
of course were drowned. Not one person was killed at

IToulouse, and the reports of deaths were all fables. heard
a dispute this morning in which a friend of Charles X. said,
' You stand up for the responsibility of ministers --well and
Ifgood --how then can the king be responsible ?
                                                 you punish

his advisers, you must admit the principle "that the king
can do no wrong." ' The answer was severe enough.

6 Monsieur, dans nos jours ce n'est que la canaille qui violent
leurs serin ents en France/

     Believe me, your affectionate brother,

                                         Charles Ltell.

                              To His Mother.

                                                       St. Sauveur, Pyrenees : August 25, 1830

   IMy dear Mother, --Since last wrote to Caroline from
IBagneres de Luchon have made with Cooke a successful

expedition to near the summit of Mont Perdu, which is

1830.  MONT PERDU.  293

within a few hundred feet of being the highest of this chain.

IAs the last letter from Kinnordy told me you were reading

my book without being pozed or wearied, ought to tell you
that besides affording the most picturesque scenery of these

mountains, this celebrated point is of the highest geological

interest, from its affording an exception to the general rule.

In other chains the loftiest and central parts consist of rocks
which do not enclose any remains of shells and corals, and

you must go to the flanks or to the low grounds at their base
in order to collect such objects. Here, on the contrary, you

find at an elevation of between nine and eleven thousand
feet, a profusion of sandstones and limestones, in the very
middle of the Pyrenees, full of plants, shells, and zoophytes,
many in so perfect a state, and in such thick beds, that you
cannot doubt for a moment that you see the bottom of an old
sea, now covered by glaciers, or so high that it supports no

vegetation. There is one scene, the celebrated Cirque de
Gavarnie, an amphitheatre of rocks with a high cascade on

Ione side, which is quite unlike anything in Switzerland. On

my arrival at Gavarnie, had a fine view of this in a clear
sky. The next morning we started for Mont Perdu. Having
learnt that our whole time would be occupied with going and

returning without leaving any time for work if we did not

sleep on the mountain in a shepherd's cot, we resolved to do
so, as other geologists had done. First we climbed up by

steep precipices, and over much snow to a great rent called

6 Orlando's breach.' Just before you arrive there, you must

cross a glacier which is very steep, and overhangs a deep
precipice. The guides had hatchets to cut holes, by which
alone you can stir a step ; in addition crampons are fixed tG
your shoes, and you have the usual alpine pole with an iron

pike at the end. Six smugglers carrying burdens on their
heads, and armed like ourselves with pikes, followed in our

train, and reminded me exactly of my father's plate of the
ascent of Mont Blanc of Saussure and his party. Roland's
breach is an opening in a ridge or wall of limestone, which
runs down from the summit of Mont Perdu about seven or
eight hundred feet in height. You cross this portal from
France to Spain in about forty steps, and you are carried at
once to a new world as it were, a grand mountain view with

294                   SIR CHARLES LYELL.          chap. xii.

six distinct distances opening on the Spanish side. The

foreground is a remarkable scene of desolation. Although

not covered with snow, the rocks are bare, with scarcely

a patch of green, not even on the most level parts. The
anatomy of the hills is exposed in a manner very unnsual,

and very satisfactory to a geologist. You see that the strata,

once horizontal, have not been carried up 1,000 feet without

getting twisted and thrown about in the most confused

manner. After a long day's hard work, and very improving,

we crept into the Spanish shepherd boy's cabin. A small

flock is sent up to feed on a few patches of green for about

two months in the year. On the side of a precipice a hovel
has been made, covered with turf in so rude a manner, that

when we came to it, and it was pointed out to us, we looked

for a long time and could not guess where the habitation

was. You crawl in on all fours, as into a cave ; the inside

was ten feet by six, and about five feet in its greatest height.

In this was made a fire of wood, the smoke escaping through

chinks in the wall, and by the hole of the entrance, which is

never closed even by a stone. The inside of this hut was

smoke-dried quite black. We had each taken up a blanket,

and kept up a fire all night, but unluckily there was not

room for us, especially my companion, who is a head taller,

to lie at full length, so we passed an uneasy night enough,

and were not a little delighted when a second fine day
Ienabled us to crawl out at sunrise.
                                      am quite sure that had
I Itaken two blankets and bivouacked instead, should have
Islept sound after my fatigue, and another time would
always do this, for had we had a bed instead of hard stones
to lie on, the being unable to turn and lie at full length

would still have been painful for so many hours. The poor

Ilad gave me a bag of hard oats to put under my head,
' because/ he  said,  ' might find a stone (which was there  for
a pillow) not  soft            '  We of course had taken     up
                      enough
                              !

provisions, for he had not even a drop of milk, and was
obliged to go half an hour's distance for the nearest water,
and three hours for a single stick of fuel. He passes two

months with a child (his brother), is very happy, congra
tulating himself that he has not to   sleep out   like the
glers, with the risk of imprisonment   for life.            smug
                                                  It was    matter

1830. FRENCH PROPRIETAIRE.  295

of no small regret to us tliat tlie present severity and delays
of Spanish passports forced us to abandon our proposed con

tinuation of tlie same line of observation down to tbe base of

the Spanish side of the chain. When we returned over the
glaciers it was necessary to make a new road, all the deep
holes leing filled with water which had frozen in the night.
We brought back a famous quantity of fossil shells.

     With love to all, believe me,

                                      Tour affectionate son,

                                              Chaeles Ltell.

                              To His Sister.

                                                                               Bayorme : September 10, 1830.

    My dear Marianne. -- At Orthez we collected a good many

fossil shells, and had a present made us of some by a French
proprietaire, an amusing character. He took us to his marl
pits on the summit of some hills covered with oak, fern,

heath. &c., in short quite New Forest scenery, which re

Iminded me of some similar marl pits near Stony Cross,

where used to hunt for shells > He had bought a good
quantity of land very cheap, out of the savings as we after
wards learnt of a place of no less than 200Z. sterling per
annum, an immense thing in France, which he had got in
the tax office from the minister Villele, whose physician his
fathei had been. He has turned agriculturist, and im
prove! the estate very much. But he lives in hourly dread
of losing his post, which we were afterwards assured he

certainly would do, and his gloomy anticipations made him
see all the late changes in a light which may be taken as a
good example of what thousands of the ' outs' now feel in
this country. We gave him a dinner at the hotel, and as

he rever suspected we should learn anything of his real
history, he launched out without reserve, declaring that
Fraice had within her, in an unexampled degree, all the
elenents of happiness, but when things were well they
cou.d never leave them alone, that a pure despotism was the
onV form really suited to the French, and that Villele was

the greatest minister they ever had, that the deprivation of

the Villele peerages was not only illegal but une sottise ; --

296              SIR CHARLES LYELL.       CHAP. XII.

that persons now in place had not resisted the late changes,

because on former turns out they had not changed more
than the chiefs, but had it been known that all were to be

upset, the revolution would have been withstood. To be

quiet, it was supposed would have brought its reward with

it. But the new order cannot last, &c. Then he uttered

a furious tirade against place-hunting. c Every shop-keeper

has left Orthez for Paris, and each thinks he shall return a

Prefect, or sub-Prefect at least. To be only a mayor, is

what a cobbler would not condescend now to accept, if he is

but a Liberal. As Lafitte is from Orthez, the}r all go up to
Ifhim, to beg that so and so may be turned out to make room
for them/     clever men could talk like our little Mend, it

was high time that the demoralising effect of Villele's

system should cease. As for place-hunting, while men can

Ifbuy estates out of the savings of a few years, there will be
enough of that.  they want to cure the disease ii part

they must economise and reduce salaries.

                 Your affectionate brother,
                                             Chatiles Lyeil.

                 To POULETT SCROPE, ESQ.  |

                                                                                                                                          I

                      I Bayonne : September 11, |1830.

     My dear Scrope, -- trust that neither the length the
                                             Q. i>f
article which the spirit has moved you to. pen, n<jr the
                                               I
strength of the doctrines will prevent the editor fromdnter-

posing between me and that powerful party amoig us,
'

          it
who are nervous to a degree on certain subjects, ^nd of

whom even some of the moderates, have already hinged to

members of our family, that my work, though ceiiainly

creditable to the author's talents, contains opinion^ that
                              The decision of the E.
may well cause some alarm  !'
would settle the doubts of many of those good people] who
                             I
only want to be told from authority what they may t\ink.
How wish could profit by the perusal of the slips, par
     II
           I
ticularly on the part relating to the laws of running w^ter,
before enter upon an explanation of experiments which
                                should like to make the
wish you to make, and which
subject of a paper by Scrope and Lyell for the G, S., refer

1830.          GEOLOGY OF PYRENEES.          297

ring to it, if not concluded before, in my next vol., as about
Ito appear ! It will require patience to obtain all the results,

but am now more sure than ever that we may out of
Ismall and apparently trifling observations, if not construct,
at least overturn many much-famed theories.  have for a

long time been making minute drawings of the lamination

and stratification of beds, in formations of very different

ages, first with a view to prove to demonstration that at

Ievery epoch the same identical causes were in operation.

was next led in Scotland to a suspicion since confirmed, that

all the minute regularities and irregularities of stratification

and lamination were preserved in primary clay-slate, mica-

slate, gneiss, &c, showing that before their transformation,

they had been subjected to the same general and even acci

dental circumstances attending the sedimentary accumula

Ition of secondary and fossil-bearing formations. Lastly,

came to find out that all these various characters were iden

Itical with those presented by the bars, deltas, &c, of existing

rivers, estuaries, &c. Now, in my present tour, have more
in support of these positions than it would be possible in a

Isheet to explain, but will just put down the facts and
Itheories as they occur, currente calamo, and do it, in full
Iconfidence that you will soon begin the experiments they
will suggest.  have igneous experiments to suggest at

another time. On the flanks of the Pyrenees is an extensive

formation of vertical, curved, and contorted beds, of thinly

laminated sandstone, sand, clay, slatey marl, slatey limestone,

<fec, all thinly bedded, as well as thinly laminated. The only
organic remains in a thickness of many hundred feet are

numerous and beautiful impressions of fuci. The sandstone

slabs have almost all the ripple-mark, visibly and exactly

preserved. The fuci are spread out conformably to the

planes of lamination, bending with the undulations of the

ripple-mark. The ripple-mark is strongest in the sands,

and indicated by layers of mica. A section longitudinal to

the furrows, and ridges, gives a slightly undulatory lamina

tion : transverse, gives a wavy and curved line, and other

figures common in primary and secondary rocks. An in

spection whether of the surface or of the transverse section

of the laminae of a ripple-marked slab, shows at once that

298        SIR CHARLES LYELL.                                CHAP. XII.

such a disposition of laminae is the effect not of the action
Iof running water upon matter deposited, bnt on matter

depositing. The general notion, believe, has been that the

farrows have been scooped out; it is not so, the ridges are
made bj addition, not the grooves by subtraction. Hence
a difficulty may be got over. -- How could 600 feet and more

of ripple-marked beds be formed in succession ? how could

the ripple influence the bottom at such a depth ? Answer,

It arranged the sediment in that way near the surface,

which fell through an undisturbed medium hundreds of feet in

Ifthat form, and fell in that order on the bottom. Qy.

sand and mud be spread through a river, going at such a

rate as to hold it in suspension, and a wind blows against
          a

                                                                                      it,
and raises ripple, does not this cause lines of retardation

which cause matter to fall from the upper part in long

coils? Try experiments. The ripple cannot penetrate many

fathoms deep, may not its superficial effect or sediment be
the cause The ripple arrangement seen in sandstone on
       ?

              it

                I
                               it

                           Ia
                                                         is
                                     II
very different scales of magnitude, from minute curves of

a few lines to waves a foot and a half large each.
                                                                     it
observed a strong ripple-mark on the sand of the river Gave
                                                                      a it I
de Pau, parallel to the bank at Orthez.                      destroyed in

certain parts. Next  day    was not renewed                  in those  parts,
but remained where    had                                                on
                           not touched it                    effaced

sand-bar at the confluence of mill-dam. In the evening,

when the sluice was open, a muddy stream came down.

Next day the sluice being shut, found the new surface of
the bar as deeply ripple-marked as the sea-sands ever are --

and although was soft sand and the water only inches         2
deep, a strong ripple of the river, washing over, did not in

the least blunt or obliterate the undulations, yet loose grains

of sand thrown into the hollow were immediately washed

away.  I  threw sand and small pieces of dead leaves water

logged into a creek, the sands of which were ripple-washed,
the depth of water being about six inches. The fresh
matter was washed to and fro, sometimes all in suspension,

sometimes thrown down irregularly, but every now and
then all the vegetable matter arranged itself along the axis
of the ridges, and waved backwards and forwards like sea
weed, as growing in lines upon the top of the ridges. After
       if

1830.  RIPPLE-MARK.                                         299

a whole hour of this movement there was no tendency of the

newly-injected matter either to increase the ripple-mark, or

to diminish it by settling in the hollows. It is evident that

the preservation of the ripple-mark is consistent with con

siderable agitation of the bottom. In sandstones this pecu

liar disposition of laminse is more marked and more general
than in mud-stones. But if mud be deposited on an uneven

surface, it will preserve the form of the mould. When

shale and marl alternates with sandstone, they must be

ripple-marked. Gneiss, as Macculloch truly says, does not

in Scotland present in hand-specimens those small undulations

so common in laminae of mica-schist. May not this be that

the granitic schists (gneiss) in which are much felspar, came
from mud, aluminous clayey beds, &c. ; those in which are

only quartz and mica (mica-schist) from             mica
                                                     once
Iceous sandstone? This is thrown out
                               ripple-marked

                               as a guess. --

saw the sand-dunes of Calais, which are from one to two

hundred feet high, ripple-marked for acres, as distinctly as

a sea-beach. This theory must apply to air, therefore, as well

as water. It was fine-blown sand, and no vegetation on

Ithose parts to ca.use or interfere with the wind's motion.
The sands had been moved recently at Ussat.         stirred up
the fine sand of the Ariege. It rose in clouds, and the mica

was seen suspended in thin broadish plates all parallel, and

reflecting the sun quite in a blaze. They fell on a steep
Ibank at last, which glittered with them. One should have
lots of mica for experiments.  will get a box full from

Scotland. Meantime pound up mussel shells, freshwater,

which will do perhaps as well. A large and deep trough,

with gently slanting sides, might enable us to experiment.

Get a paddle-wheel which will turn with the hand, and

make a ripple ad libitum, and sand and mud of different

kinds to be deposited. Then we will afterwards mix matter

in chemical solution. After a due series of failures, blun
ders, wrong guesses, &c, we will establish a firm theory. --
Have you read Dr. Toting' s experiments on the arrangement

of sand upon boards vibrating by different notes of stringed

instruments ? The symmetrical forms obtained are wonder

ful.   Believe                 me ever yours,       Lyell.

                                           Charles

300        SIR CHARLES LYELL.            chap. xii.

           To His Sister.

     IMy dear Caroline, --                 Bordeaux : September 20, 1830.

                            have received your letter on my

arrival to-day, besides two epistles, one from Broderip, and

another from Scrope. The latter informs me that Lockh art-

had allowed him three sheets for his article on me, and that

he had printed and revised nearly four, an unconscionable

length, which may probably incur the pruning of which he

Iis very apprehensive ; and though expect a good article
Iwritten con amove, am much afraid there are parts which

it may be prudent for the editor of the ' Quarterly Review '

to omit, lest he should excite hostility from the Oxonians

and others. There are some of my doctrines to which he

demurs, though in general with me. As to my original

receipt for heating up or cooling down our planet to the re

quired degree of temperature, he was very animated against
it in his first letter, but at last he fairly owns that he gives
up the attack, ' that he shall not grapple with it at present,

and though perhaps not true, it is certainly most ingenious,5

I&c. Broderip says he is making marginal notes for the second

edition, of which therefore he makes sure. am glad that even

in vacation time they contrived to give Cuvier a public

dinner,1 at which Fitton was President, and Broderip vice-

president, and thirty men, including all the eminent natural

ists then in London, were there. In addition to his higher

claims to such a distinction, Cuvier is always most attentive

Iand hospitable to the English at Paris.
     Cooke is gone into Spain, suppose, this day, the very one

Ifixed on by 17,000 Spaniards to enter, as they declare here,

sword in hand. Ferdinand the beloved has just published,

am told, an orclonnance ordering any one they catch to be

shot immediately, which is a good set-off against the late
deeds of the brother Bourbon, c The Spaniards/ says Cooke,
6 conduct a war and even a revolution, with such slow and

deliberate measures, that you have only to pass into the next
I Iprovince, and it will be weeks or months before the mischief
is there/  must say would not go in myself, unless to

           1 At the Geological Society.

1830.                  PARIS.                      301

Itake part with the Liberals, to look close at them, and be

able to give a true account of what expect will be a serious

business; but Cooke positively means to make a scientific

Itour, and he ought from experience to know how far it is
practicable.  got him out three out of four wet days, along

the cliffs south of Bayonne. On the last a tremendous surf,

in addition to the heavy rain, cooled considerably what little

Icourage was left in him ; and although he soon revived

again, shall get on much better alone. Murray of Simprim
said to me, ' Take care and get a companion, if you have one
Iat all, on a short lease, renewable at pleasure/
                                                   am happy
Ito say we parted excellent friends, but did not do the most
Igeology in a given, time when with him. Since left Bayonne
I found at Dax some famous French provincial workmen,

and a very pleasant society. Delightful old oak forests, as

wild as ours in Hants, interspersed with beautiful heaths,

and here and there a tract of sand covered with pines, pinus
I Imaritima, the only one which will grow there.
                                                   think

never saw such fine old Roman walls and towers as at Dax.

I made many acquaintances, and a geological discovery, with
Iwhich will not trouble you now.

   I ought to have begun with the Bayonne cliffs, although

the Parisians do not appear yet to have explained them welL

There is the key to the Pyrenees, and God grant a revolution

I Iin Spain, that half of it may not be closed to geologists.

Had been alone should hardly have made such a blunder
as to begin in the interior, when there was a coast at hand

exposed to the tides.

With love to all, believe me,

                       Your affectionate brother,

                                              Charles Lyell.

                              To His Sister.

                      I Paris: October 2, 1830.

    My dear Marianne, -- found all the world here, as you

Imay easily suppose, full of politics, and on no other subject

can they think or talk. Prevost, when saw him first, had
just been dining with the King, in the dress of a private of the
National Guard, having been invited as the principal member

302              SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap. xir.

who happened to be in Paris, when the Geological Society have

thought fit to go up with an address which Prevost penned.

He sent a copy in to the roi tres citoyen about an hour

before. The reply, which was delivered viva voce, was very

Ifneat, and was in allusion to each part of the address, and in
the same order.  Louis Philippe had not the gift of making

these speeches, with the ease which he does, and always to

the point, and just such as please the Liberals, his labour

would have been insufferable, for the number he has had to

make, and the variety of the subjects, is extraordinary. All
agree that he plays his part as if born for the peculiar situa

tion in which he now is. The difficulty of finding lodgings

here now in hotels is considerable. The confluence consists

Iin no small measure of place-hunters from the country, quite

confirmatory of all had heard in different towns of the de

parture of innumerable expectants of new promotions. This

hotel is full of military men, called, as it were from the dead,

the forgotten and proscribed campaigners of Napoleon, who

are reinstated to a certain extent, those who were not too

old, and who are now in part employed to drill the National

Guard. A great many cannot get employment, and are

praying night and day for the entry of the Prussians into

Belgium, in the hope of the French being drawn into the

affair. A finer opportunity, they say, could not have happened

for ' resuming our natural limits on the Rhine ; ' but then

they have a pusillanimous cabinet, and unless the people rise

again, as they ought to do, there is great fear that the Bel
gians may be put down, and that the ex-ministers will not
be condemned. Pine constitutional notions ! The affair of

Brussels has excited great interest here, and they contrive to

persuade themselves that it is much more a counterpart of
their own than it really is. The effect of these stirring news

every hour has been that none of the French naturalists have

thought of geology, and Prevost has made but little progress

even in reading my book, which ere this he was to have half

translated. He says moreover that he finds himself too little

of an English scholar to be able without great labour to com

Iprehend les periodes soutenues of the introductory essays.

found Deshayes excusing himself for having made no pro

gress in naming my Sicilian and other shells, by his necessity

1830. NEW GEOLOGICAL THEORIES.          303

of working for his daily bread for encyclopedias, &c. ; and

Ihaving ascertained that his situation was very bad, came

to an agreement to take him off all other work in order to

give me a private course of fossil conchology, in which he is to

give me all his time for a month, towards the zoological part

Iof YoL 2, also to give me two months' additional work when
  am gone, providing me with the results derivable from his
great collection and that of others at Paris, relating to the

Inewer formations, which he intends to publish in a Manual
of Conchology a year and a half hence.  shall thus be

giving the subject a decided push,, by rendering the greater

wealth of the French collectors available in illustrating the
greater experience of the English geologists in actual ob

Iservation, for here they sit still, and buy shells, and work
indoors, as much as we travel.  am nearly sure now that

my grand theory of temperature will carry the day, and at
Ileast have had the satisfaction hitherto of finding no one
Idispute its entire novelty.
                              will treat our geologists with a

theory for the newer deposits in next vol., which, although
Inot half so original, will perhaps surprise them more.
                                                         am

prepared to hear from Murray that the political hubbub has
injured the sale, for all the Natural History and Medical

booksellers here declare they shall be ruined; they are
literally reduced to sticking up political pamphlets in their

windows.

    October 3. --A soiree at Baron Ferussac's last night. In

stead of natural history, he was full of an approaching
election contest, for a place for which he is to stand in the
south. He got in by three votes as a Charles X. man, a

Ishort time ago, but now he has hoisted the tricolor flag.

shall have to work for three weeks or more here, and shall
be glad to hear from you. The best geologists are not yet
returned from their summer campaign to Paris. One of ours,
Weaver, is here. Great disappointment among the officers
to-day, because the Prussian invasion of Belgium is contra

dicted.

With love to all, believe me yours affectionately,

                                        Charles Liell.

304              SIR CHARLES LYELL.            chap. xii.

                 To POULETT SCROPE, ESQ.

     Hotel clu Rhone, Rue de Grenelle-- St. Honore, Paris : October 8, 1830.

     IMy dear Scrope, -- must not delay any more writing for
Ifear you should put off your proposed expedition to the sea-

coast, in expectation of my joining you, which shall be
unable to do, although nothing would really be to me so
Igreat a treat.
                 must, however, be satisfied to run one hare
I Iat a time, and am flying at high game just now.
                                                    am

going through a course of fossil conchology, particularly with
a view of satisfying myself as to the identification either of

Irecent with fossil tertiary species or of those of different

basins with each other ; and am having, at considerable

expense, tables made out of more than 3,000 species of ter
tiary shells in the collection of Deshayes and others in

Paris, of which the localities are well determined, and have

been almost all visited by myself. The results are already

wonderful as confirming the successive formation of different

Ibasins, and the gradual approximation of the present order

of things, and will settle, hope for ever, the question whe

ther species come in all at a batch, or are always going out

and coming in. A multitude of other surprising conclusions

arise, and the harmony of the whole with the phenomena of

earthquakes and volcanos, of geological super-position, of

Ithe position of land-quadrupeds (fossil), of contents of fresh
water lake formations, &c, is very beautiful.  am too busy

to enter into the ripple theory. Prevost has been working at
it here, for in the Calcaire-grossier it is a common pheno
menon. He thinks with you it is connected with undulations

of inferior currents, &c.
     Make experiments on waves in an estuary. It is to me

a most puzzling phenomenon. The wind was blowing up

Ithe Gironde one day, and as thought the waves rolling up,
Ialthough the tide ran down several miles an hour. threw
some pieces of paper into the river (we wrere at anchor), and

was astonished to see them first fly out of my hand to the

south, or up the stream carried by wind ; but instantly on

touching the water float down very swiftly, passing over the
waves as if there were no wind against them. At last the

1830.           LIMESTONE ROCKS, ST. MIHIEL.  305

wind got up so as to make the waves curl over and break in
foam upon themselves. Of course, when pieces of paper came
to one of these breakers the falling wave stopped it for a
moment, but the instant afterwards it was seen far below,
                                     It was clear, then, that
Ifloating on the superficial water.
                                     then remarked that on
the waves were tidal waves ; and
them there was ripple which the wind caused. This small

Iripple was all the wind could raise. Now on watching this

ripple saw it often remain quite abreast of me, the great
waves passing down, just as a person in a long barge going

down a canal might keep close to you as you stood on the

Ibank, by running from the prow to the stern at the same

rate as the barge was carried clown. Here apprehend was

Ia complete equilibrium in part of the upper stratum, while
the ripple retained its place.     found just within the mouth

of the Grironde, in the sands at low water, a large tract with

a beautiful double ripple-mark, a larger one parallel to the

shore, and the other at right angles, consisting of small ones.

The great ridges were 5 inches or so high, the smaller ones

1^ about. They were like a plan in relief of longitudinal
and lateral valle3rs in a mountain- chain ; but the summit of

I Ithe larger and higher ridges had not been disturbed by the

cause which added the lateral ones. am afraid shall not

be intelligible without a longer letter.
       Deshayes has found at St. Mihiel, south of Verdun on

the Meuse, not far from where you mention, and in that

same deep valley, four old needles of limestone like those of

chalk in the Isle of Wight, one called the Devil's Table (do
you remember ?) ; they are composed of old remnants of the
white crystalline limestone of highly inclined strata. They
have three distinct horizontal lines of perforations like the

columns of the Temple of Serapis, the hollows, sometimes

empty, but thousands of them filled with the saxicavas, now.

He has shown us some ; they go all round the Needles. The

same are seen on the neighbouring precipice at similar

heights. The shells get petrified in situ, and so are imperish
                                          You will at once
able ; species cannot be determined.
draw all the consequences. All that the river has done, is at

best up to the highest mark of the alluvion. And here, in
the middle of the continent, at such an elevation, we have
                                x
       VOL. 1.

306         SIR CHARLES LYELL.       CHAP. XII.

preserved the sides of an old frith, and proofs of the suc
cessive rise of the old rocks out of the sea, for they are worn
by the wind and water mark at the three places perforated.

                      Believe me, ever most truly yours,

                                              Chaeles Ltell.

            To Gideon Maotell, Esq.

                     I Paris : October 10, 1830.

     My dear Friend, -- find from Pentland you have had the

disagreeable job of dunning Deshayes again. The Sieur

D., as Murchison calls him, is undoubtedly one of the most

I' imperturbable 5 characters in these respects have met with,

Inor can defend his conduct in this, and some other small

matters. It does not, however, arise from anything dis

honourable in his conduct or intentions. He was, you must

know, for ten years a medical man, in considerable practice

for a beginner, in one of the unhealthy and therefore not

well (or wealthy) inhabited quarters. He had about fifteen
patients a day, who kept him constantly at work, and never

paid. At last he determined to cut the affair, and try to live on

natural history, which, although his passion^ he had aban

doned. He has earned his bread with great difficulty by writ
ing for encyclopaedias, &c, and spent every sixpence on very

Iexpensive works, on fossils and recent conchology, between

SOZ. and 401. worth, and on shells. Just as obtained the

crag shells from you and Taylor, Eozet, who has published a

small work on Geology of no originality or value whatever,

engaged him for five hundred francs to write a small conciio-

Ilogical appendix, and this entirely prevented his doing any

thing for me. Had known his situation, it would not have

happened, but to tell the truth, his bearing was so indepen

Ident, that should as soon thought of asking Broderip to
Iname my shells for argent comjptant as Deshayes. Now am
Ibetter informed, see that he is not justified in giving me a

day without pay, for he has sacrificed his existence to make
Ihimself, for the benefit of science, the first fossil conchologist
in Europe.  have now engaged three months of his time,

to enable him to teach me conchology, and to construct

1 830.      DESHA YES.                                30 7

Itables, wliicli have planned for my second volume of tertiary
shells, and to name all my Pyrenean specimens, &c. At the
Isame time, am enabling him to cut inferior work, and to
Ituse the same materials for a Manual of Conchology.  will

make a deep cut into the small sum which Murray is to pay

me for vol. ii., and will indeed consume all which the amanu

Iensis and the extraordinary expenses had not eaten up, but
find already that it will pay me in the satisfaction of giving

an essential push to our favourite science. Already the

results of Deshayes' collection are yielding fruits unexpected

Iby himself, and very confirmatory of the order of succession

of tertiary formations which had arrived at, from purely

geological observations. The crag though probably older

than almost all the tertiary formations of Sicily, is still a

formation containing a decided preponderance of living
Ispecies, and between it and the London . clay you will see

how magnificent a series of events will describe. As your
fossils could not be properly compared till we come to those

Igenera, for am going through the whole comparing with
IDeshayes, you must still let us keep them a little, but will
not leave Paris without them. Cuvier last night spoke with

great pleasure of having made your acquaintance, and hopes
you will visit Paris. He is not in spirits about political

Iaffairs, and consequently got him for the first time to talk
Iabout fossil anatomy freely. Eemember have heard no

geological news for three months, save the dinner to Cuvier,

and a note from Murchison saying that Conybeare had fired a
shot at me in ' Annals of Phil.' What is that about?

Politics absorb all the thoughts of geologists here. There

Iare croakers enough about the state of France, but see no
ground for  it,
            and believe            left to themselves they will
                 I

                                  2 if

                                                                                      is
get on. To do without some odious taxes, with an increased

army, and with commercial bankruptcies innumerable,

the difficulty for the moment.

            Ever most truly yours,          Lyell.
                                   Charles

                                x

308  s/fi CHARLES LYELL.                             chap. xii.

     To His Sister.

                       I Paris : October 19, 1830.

     My dear Caroline, -- must stay here a week or two more
Iin order to make myself fully master of the details from
which my great tables of shells are to be drawn up.  have

Igone through a great part of Deshayes5 collection systemati
cally, following Lamarck.  had no idea that shells so

studied could be so interesting, or that the arrangement was

so philosophical, being founded on the animals which

inhabit the shells. With an immense collection before you
of recent and fossil shells (35,000 individuals and 8,500

species), all well arranged in their natural groups, and with

a clever conch ologist at your elbow, you may in a short time

Imake yourself master of more than ever expected to know.

I am determined to begin a collection in earnest, having
Ialready a fine start in all my Italian and Sicilian shells now

named, and in eight hundred named fossil species, which
have bought of Deshayes. No one in England has an idea

of the results to be obtained from a good collection of fossils,

Ior the value and accuracy of these medals when well

collected, but tiust in my next volume to make them know

it. This morning all my Etna shells were examined ; out of

sixty-three only three species not known to inhabit the

Mediterranean, yet the whole volcano nearly is subsequent

to them, and rests on them. They lived on a moderate

computation 100,000 years ago, and after so many genera

tions are quite unchanged in form. It must therefore have

required a good time for Ourang-Outangs to become men on

Lamarckian principles.

     The night before last we were alarmed here by a mob,
not for ourselves, but for the inmates of the Palais Royal,

because they were quite unprepared, and the guard weak.
The people think, as John Bull would have done under
similar circumstances, that the proposal to abolish the

punishment of death is prejudging thecase of the ex-ministers,

and many moderate bourgeois even are become violent
against what they call a ruse. The lower class, who suffered
most in the fight, look on the ex-ministers as their prisoners

1 330.  MOB DISTURBANCE.  309

of war, and are exasperated at the notion of their escaping
scot-free. So they came as they say, to serenade c Le citoyen
Philippe, proprietaire, No. 200, Sue St.-HonoreV Several

thousand of them sung the Marseillaise and Parisienne
alternately, with such energy, that when two diligences

came down our narrow street, and when we should hardly

have heard a musket under the window, we heard every note.

Anything but cannon would have been drowned. It was like

the roar of several tempests bellowing in correct time.

IThere was a ferocity in it that was more horrid than any

thing ever could have conceived, yet we were six times the
distance of the king's rooms. After keeping up this for
three or four hours, there was a call of ' Vincennes/ the
prison where the ex-ministers are. Instantly they all went
off, rushing up all the side streets from the Rue St. Honore

so fast, that we thought the cavalry were charging. Luckily
the general at Vincennes was prepared for them, and they
could do nothing. At half past two o'clock they returned
here, and sung again. The first shout awoke us all like a
cla/p of thunder in the dead of night. Since that, all is quiet,

the national guard can be relied on, and are 80,000 strong.
The king was a good deal alarmed., but acted with spirit and
prudence, and no one fears now, and a reaction in favour of

the king has been produced. A small mob last night, who

collected there, went away cheering him, upon his coming

Jout on foot, and saying c that they should have justice, but

not vengeance

    With my love to all, believe me, your aCffhecatriolensateLbyreotlhl.er,

 To Gr. Poulett Scrope, Esq., Castle Combe, Chippenham.

                                          9 Crown Office Row, London : November 9, 1830.

  I'My dear Scrope,-- received several letters in Paris
Ibefore read your article congratulating me upon having

fallen in with a critic who was capable of handling the
subject in an able manner, c and in whose review a friend's
spirit pervaded the whole, though he finds objections to those

Iparts most generally controverted.' Among others, was

delighted at Murchison having been taken in, and attribut

310                                SIR CHARLES LYELL.                           CHAP. XII.

ing it to Sedgwick, whom he liad not then seen on his return.

Perhaps yon know that he idolises even more than the
Cantabs < the first of men/ as Adam is usually styled there,
and although he really has talent enough to appreciate most
fully the merits of a good thing when he reads
                                                                           ' it,  yet the

eulogy was somewhat more from the soul than might have
been poured forth on one younger than himself, and who was

neither entitled as president or Professor to show him the

way. Murray, among others, wrote to say that the sale of

the first three months before the Quarterly Eeview appeared
                                               '
was 650 copies, and he had no doubt that an article acknow
                                                      a II
ledged to be at once masterly and popular,' would soon help
1

                    c

              I

                         if
                               it

                                           is
them to dispose of many more. For myself, assure you with

out reserve, that am quite sure of, what am sure will be the

universal opinion, that                        incomparably the best thing you

ever wrote, and in point of style as well as originality, great
                                                                                is
stride beyond any former composition on scientific subject.
                                                                                  Ia
include those parts where you oppose me, even when still

differ very considerably. The suggestion that the Mediter

ranean would sink                  separated from the ocean,                      so self-

evident when stated, yet so new, and opens such magnificent

views, and explains so much, that would have redeemed
                                               it is
fifty pages of prosing. The explanation, which                                  is I  had
                                                 I a it
endeavoured to hit off in vain, of the sandbanks opposite the

indentations in river channels,                so clear, that like most
discoveries, all will wonder how they missed it. It your

own conclude the attributing                   to the momentum. These
I
    I

                               is
hints will enable me greatly to improve my second edition                             if

have one, as                       expected. Such broad-side will do far

more than my book to sink the diluvialists, and in short all

the  tthheeoloAgnicnaallss*o'phainstse. xplCoosnioynb5earaegainasmt  told  has  published
in                                                                    me.       shall not
     '                                                                     II
                                                                                I
          it, l

                                            '
answer but thank heaven he cannot turn the battery of
the Quarterly Review against me now. Basil Hall at the

first meeting of the Geographical last night, which just

cut into from the Dover coach, said to me, Well, will tell
                                                                     '

yon fairly, did not think you could have written such a
I
     I

          I
                  I
book.' And so, know, almost all of our council will say of

your article, but neither nor Lockhart are of that mind,

and am gratified that you have by an anonymous article

1830.              TERTIARY SHELLS.                                                                                          311

Isurprised many with, an admission of your capability of doing

what have frequently endeavoured in vain to assert you
might do, when regretting that you had cut in some measure

science, for political pamphlets, h

Murray ought to send you 701. for the good you have

done the review,2 to say nothing of probable aid to his book.

1 am going on now with vol. ii. It would sell, even if

stupid (which it shall not be), so great is the excitement for
Iand against, which vol. i. and your article have together
caused.  am in all the mess of unpacking, so must con

clude, and with kind remembrance to Mrs. Scrope, believe me

ever most truly yours,                   Chaeles Ltell.

                        To Dr. Fleming.

                         9 Crown Office Row, Templo, London : November 12, 1830.

   IDear Dr. Fleming, -- am just returned from Paris,
Iwhere spent five weeks, steadily applying myself to the

study of recent and fossil conchology, in the rooms of M.

IDeshayes, whose collection, contains 8,000. Although have
Ithus late entered in earnest on this branch, hope some years
Ihence to possess as fine a collection, arid perhaps as much in

formation respecting it as anyone here ; and am building a

cabinet and have purchased considerably in good tertiary shells.

It might perhaps be agreeable to you, as it would be most

serviceable to me, to exchange duplicates of French tertiaries

for carboniferous fossils, and might induce you to collect
Ithese zealously.
                   shall always be ready to send you what
Iyou may wish in return in this way, as know no point
where so much has been done in this, as by you in Fife.
Your letter on my book was very kind, and at a time when

Iin Paris, could find no one whose mind was not occupied
Iwith politics, and when had received no news of the pro

gress my book was making, it was most consoling. Every

one agrees with you that the size of the volume and the

         I

                 2
                                                            :

                                          ' it,
                                                                         is

                                                                                                                         S.
type has been much against and Murray of that opinion

too. But as your friendly anticipations have been already
realised, shall be able to correct this, in a second edition,

         Note by Mr. Scrope He gave me 100Z.'--G-. P.

312          silt CHARLES LYELL.              CHAP. XII.

Iat no distant period. It seems that, for the first three

months, they sold fifty copies a week, and since that have
Iheard no bulletin, except that the demand is constant.

Murray declared, that if could give him vol. ii. in six
months, before half the purchasers of the first had either

forgotten it, lost it, gone abroad, died, &c, he was convinced
that in twelve months from the present time not a single

Icopy of either volume would be unsold. With this en
couragement  shall be glad to persevere, and benefit by

any criticisms either in letters or in print, which you or

Iothers may come out with.                    am obliged

    It would be doing me a service, now that

to spend money on secondary fossils with hard-dealing

merchants, if you would exchange them against books

Iwhich you may want ; a proposition so common in France.,

and think so fair between naturalists, who must make

Isacrifices, in order to form their libraries, that propose it,

sans ceremonie, and it might justify you in seeking more

keenly for Fife shells and corals, than you would otherwise

feel disposed to do. Believe me, ever truly yours,

                                             Chaeles Ltell.

                                To His Sister.

                      I London : November 14, 1830.

     My dear Marianne, -- have pretty good news to tell you
about my volumes. . . . The booksellers assure me that if
the latter part of my work is as popular and readable as the
first, it will prove an annuity to me. Whewell of Cambridge

Ihas done me no small service by giving out at his University

that have discovered a new set of powers in Nature which
might be termed ' Geological Dynamics.' He is head tutor
at Trinity, and has more influence than any individual,
unless it be Sedgwick. The young baronet 3 who franks this
says that my new theory of deriving salt from inland seas,
like the Mediterranean, went the round of the newspapers in
his county (Cheshire) with great applause, as they felt a
local interest in the explanation. He himself swears by it.
He is yery fond of conchology, and promises to send me

                           3 Six Pkillip de Malpas Grey Egerton.

1830. SETTLES IN RAYMOND BUILDINGS. 313

immediately a complete set of the N. of England freshwater
Ishells.  have fixed on new rooms in Raymond Buildings,
IGray's Inn ; very light, healthy, and good.
Iten days shall have shifted quarters.         suppose in

I shall send you soon some exceedingly entertaining

German books, and hope when you find them likely to be

Iuseful, and make some progress, we may read them together

in the spring, as soon as have got rid of vol. ii. Lieutenant

Graves is arrived, and has, at this most opportune moment,
Ibrought me several boxes of shells from S. America.
                                                      shall
Ibe in a bustle for ten days fear, getting into my new

rooms. They are on the same staircase as Broderip, whose

library and great collection of recent shells, worth some

thousand pounds, will enable me to dispense with laying out

Imoney, some of which would have been necessary otherwise.
   shall also be very near Stokes. Brown the botanist has

just given me some good information about a mummified

IEgyptian plant, and am going to get a wood-cut executed.
I ISeveral friends have asked me to dine out, and as see
Imust make a firm stand, have refused all, and shall only
go to a club dinner once a week. There is scarcely any
         a middle course. All my friends who are in

         clo this all the year, and every year, and do not
          should not be privileged, now that have a moral
steering

Ipractice,
I Isee why
certainty of earning a small but honourable independence, if
I labour as hard for the next ten years as during the last
Ithree.   never was in better health, rarely so good, and
Iafter so long a fallow, feel that a good crop will be yielded,
I Iand that am in good train for composition. How wish
Iwe could be fellow-labourers ! Yesterday Milman the poet,

whom scarcely know, sent me a long and curious extract

Ifrom a German book about some theory of the followers of
Zoroaster, to help me for the second edition.  have sent
for a translation from the Miss Somervilles. If you were

Inear this smoky hole, which after my late stay in Paris,

appears dirtier than ever, would gratify your desire to be
useful to its full extent, but since we are both pinned like

shrubs to the spots we are planted in, we must be satisfied,
I Ithink may be out in six months, poz ; Murray says iivey
I Ibut that cannot,
                     am very confident that the matter ru

314  SIR CHARLES LYELL.               chap. xii.

Ivol. ii. will be more generally popular than in vol. i. if
I Isucceed in making as much of it as see it admits of.
shall only go to the end of the tertiary period. It will

include the history of the globe as far back as the time
If Iwhen the first of the existing species came in.
                                                     have
Isucceeded so well with inanimate matter, surely shall
Imake a lively thing when have chiefly to talk of living

beings !

   I shall send the shuttlecocks and battledores, but don't

Iquite wear them out in the winter, as may be with you

before out-door exercise is always within reach, if your

account of ordinary springs be true.

     With love to all, your affectionate brother,

                                                 Charles Lyell,

i83r. SECOND VOLUME OF 'PRINCIPLES: 315

     CHAPTER XIII.

FEBRUARY-SEPTEMBER, 1831.

APPOINTED PROFESSOR OP GEOLOGY AT KING'S COLLEGE-- VISIT TO CAM
     BRIDGE--JOURNAL TO MISS HORNER-- MRS. SOMERVILLE'S l MECHANISM
     OP THE HEAVENS '--PARTY SPIRIT ON THE P.EFORM BILL --ON EDUCATION
     OF BOYS -- MADAME DE STAEL AND HER WRITINGS -- SIR WILLIAM NAPIER
     GOES TO SCOTLAND -- EDINBURGH-- LORD COCKBURN -- DR. GREVILLE --
     KINNORDY.

     [Mr. Lyell made a tour of some weeks during the summer of
1831 to tbe Eifel, a volcanic district between the Rhine and Moselle
rivers.

     He was appointed Professor of Geology in King's College, Lon
don, and gave a course of lectures in 1832 and 1833. After which,
finding that the duties would interfere with his schemes of travelling
and original research, he resigned the office.

     He was appointed Deputy-Lieutenant of the County of Forfar in

1831.]

CORRESPONDENCE.

To Dr. Fleming.

             I2 Raymond Buildings, Gray's Inn : February 7, 1831.

My dear Dr. Fleming, -- hope you are proceeding suc
cessfully with your volume on organic remains, of which,
I Inow that am writing on the secondary strata, should be
If Ivery glad.
you were printing it should crave a sight
Iof the sheets done, in order that might benefit. We
expect you will throw much light on the organic remains of
Ithe carboniferous era.
                         am finishing the last two chapters
Iof a somewhat longer volume than that of which you have,
hope, received a copy from Kinnordy, and T mean to lecture
from the slips, as far as that can be done, having magnified
all the sections a hundredfold, which are to adorn my book,

31<>  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                               chap. xiii.

Iffor the lecture-room.    the course of twelve lectures should

prevent my being out with the volume before my marriage,

Iin other words, before a year or more, shall sadly regret
Ihaving accepted of the chair. But hope to do both. The
King's College is coming on gradually, the number of

students having augmented by more than one-third, both in

the junior and senior departments since Christmas, and

promising to increase again in the same ratio at Easter

next. Sedgwick wishes to make your fish scales a means of

identifying his Caithness schists, and all their fish and the
Itrionyx, with a member of the lowest ' old red.'
                                                       am sure
I Ihave no objection, for would as lief start with vertebrated

Ianimals and freshwater, as with a universal ocean, and the

simplest forms of animal life. Only require rather more

proof for identification than the Welsh Captain did, when he

made out that his hero and Philip of Macedon were the

same, e for there is a river at Monmouth, and likewise also

there is a river in Macedon, and there is salmon in both.'
If the species of salmon and of plants could be proved to be

I<as like as my fingers to my fingers,' then think it would
do well enough. In one of your last letters you mention
Ihaving reptiles from the carboniferous era in Scotland -- this
is delightful news to me.  expect to prove that there are

three distinct mammifers in Stone sfield slate. Vernon admits

that his single saurian vertebra was only in alluvium, but

that alluvium entirely composed of mountain limestone.

                           Ever most truly yours,      Lyell.
                                              Charles

                      To Gideon Mantell, Esq.

                                                                                                 March, 1831.

I~^My dear Mantell, -- have been within this last week

talked of and invited to be professor of geology at King's
College, an appointment in the hands entirely of the Bishop
of London, Archbishop of Canterbury, Bishop of Llandaff,
and two strictly orthodox doctors, D'Oyley and Lonsdale.
Llandaff alone demurred, but as Conybeare sent him (volun
teered) a declaration most warm and cordial in favour of me,
as safe and orthodox, he must give in, or be in a minority of
one. The prelates declared ' that they considered some of

1831-          PROFESSOR OF GEOLOGY.            317

my doctrines startling enough, but could not find that they

Iwere come by otherwise than in a straightforward manner,

and (as appeared to think) logically deducible from the
facts, so that whether the facts were true or not, or my

Iconclusions logical or otherwise, there was no reason to

infer that had made my theory from any hostile feeling
towards revelation/ Such were nearly their words, yet
Featherstonhaugh tells Murchison in a letter, that in the

United States he should hardly dare in a review to approve
of my doctrines, such a storm would the orthodox raise

against him ! So much for toleration of Church Establish

ment and no Church Establishment countries. It is, how

ever, merely a proof of the comparative degree of scientific

knowledge diffused./-- Pray be so kind as to give me the
               A shock   inneaSriclyilyonw, hifichnotthroenwthdeowsanmMe edlaazyzoa?s
earthquakes.
seems to have  occurred

Dover. Another just announced in China has killed, they
say, a million of men, all in favour of modern causes ; -- it is an
ill wind, &c. The young Prince George of Cumberland told
me the other day of you and the great lizard, which last has

taken much hold of his imagination. 'Tis clear, as Aber-
nethy said, you will ride on that beast.
                                             Don't throw away
I Iany great big specimens, for if lecture,  shall be as greedy
I Ifor them as have hitherto been shy of them.
                                                will get a
scene-painter to put Etna and Auvergne on scenes as laro-e
Ifas in a theatre, on canvas, from Scrope's and my sketches.

Scrope writes, ' the news be true, and your opinions are to be
taken at once into the bosom of the Church, instead of con
tending against that party for half a century, then, indeed
I Ishall we make a step at once of fifty years in the science

in such a miracle will believe when see it performed.'

                         Ever yours,

                              Charles Lyell.

                               To His Sister.

                                                                          London : April 7, 1831.

I~l My dear Marianne, -- almost forget where you are in
I I Iregard to my affair of the chair, but think said had

indited an epistle to Bishop Copleston (the minority of

318       s/R CHARLES LYELL.       chap. xiii.

Ione) to tell him among other pleasant news, that meant to

do my best to show in volume ii. that no deluge has swamped
Europe within 4,000 (I might have said 40,000) years. On

I Ihis other points was fully agreed with him, and on this
Itold him had no objection to his drowning as many people

as he pleased on such parts as can be shown to have been

inhabited in the days of Noah. In his answer he thanked

I Ime for my candid statement. Although some of my friends

assure me shall lose by this concern, do not; and most
of them agree with me that it places a man who wishes to
devote himself steadily to a branch of a science, in a much
more agreeable, influential, and respectable situation, and it
is not like takiug orders, a step without a retreat.

      Conybeare has taken his last shot at me. Daubeny has

Ifired off one at me, in a timid sort of a discharge, and full of

puffs about ' Oxford being proud of me, though am not of

Ithe Oxford school of Geology.5 Sedgwick's attack is the

severest, and shall put forth my strength against him in

volume ii.
                                Your affectionate brother,

                                            Charles Ltell.

          To Gideon Mantell, Esq.

                                   Athenaeum, London : June 22, 1831.
                         take the largest sheet see near
     I IMy dear Mantell, --

me at the Athenaeum to write an apology for my remissness.
A visit to Cambridge of a week with Buckland, Conybeare,
Daubeny, and other Oxonians, who were returning a visit

which the Cantabs made to them, was the first cause of

silence.  were lionised  with  a vengeance --lectures,  experi
     We

ments (optics, polarisation), feasting, geologising, and evening-
Iparty o-oing, and nocturnal smoking and cigars, and by way

of finale, Conybeare and took our ad eundem degrees, and
were admitted M.A.s of Cambridge. Then came an arrear
of work here, and my father and brother in turn gave me
lots of interruption, notwithstanding all which, as also much

Ilionisino- of Conybeare, who wanted to be introduced to

divers persons, have reached p. 110 of printing volume ii.

1831.             JOURNAL TO MISS HORNER,  319

The four great slabs are two of the in worth nothing, but the

Iother two are as magnificent specimens of the forms of

ripple as ever saw. Many thanks. Murchison and his

wife are gone to make a tour in Wales, where a certain

Trimmer has found near Snowdon- 'crag* shells at the

height of 1,000 feet, which Buckland and he convey thither

by the deluge.

You heard of Fitton's accident ? Changing his residence

as usual; going from his country seat near Sevenoaks to a

new place eleven miles north of town, taking a maid-servant

to Harley Street in a gig, horse ran away in Regent's Park,

dashed against a gate. Fitton's arm said to be broken high

up, but Brodie can't make out where ; feared that the blade-

boue was injured, but hopes not, as Dr. F. is doing so well.

Lonsdale says that the great femur of which Trotter has

given us a cast, was of an animal that had paddles. What

is the largest paddle-bone you have ? No room to talk of

age of reptiles.

                  Ever most truly yours,

                                Charles Ltell.

                                JOTJKNAL.

     [Extracts from letters and journal to Miss Horner, eldest daughter
of Mr. Leonard Horner, to whom he was engaged, and who was with
her family at Bonn on the Rhine.]

                     I Rotterdam : August 1, 1S31.

    My dearest Mary,-- tried, as soon as the steamer passed

IBonn, to compose my thoughts by steadily reading Mac-

culloch's vol. ii., and succeeded tolerably, till landed at

Cologne, and then walked to the Cathedral. It was eleven

Iyears since had been in it, with my father, on our way to
IItaly. remember well the splendid painted windows, and

that singular semicircular aisle behind the altar. Although
there is no such architecture in Italy, this gigantic frag
ment of a church reminds me of Italy. There is nothing
there so striking as the innumerable monuments of the
designs of architects and priests, which outran all reasonable

320  SIR CHARLES LYELE                             CHAP. XIII.

Icalculation of means. It is rare to see an Italian church

finished* But suppose if Catholicism had remained in
full force five centuries more, Cologne would have been

finished9 for the secret of our own grand gothic buildings

having been finished, was their having been added to, during
many successive centuries, by ' corporations that never died.'
I IAfter bad left the Cathedral heard a bell begin to toll,
I I Ithe finest bound
     thought                    had ever heard.    returned,

and found about sixteen men or more pulling at one rope in

the great tower, or to as many strings attached to one main

rope. This huge bell, they told me, was only rung on a few

occasions in the course of the year, not on Sundays and

ordinary fete days. This was the eve of the King's birthday.
IThey say it is the finest bell in Germany.
Iso much struck with any, even at Home.            was never

                                                   waited a

quarter of an hour to hear it in the great tower, c swinging

slow with sullen roar,5 and then tried to find my way to the

Itown hall, but lost it ; fortunately, for blundered on a
Istreet where saw a mark in a stone of a great flood of the

IEhine in February 7, 1784, when its waters were seven or
eight feet higher than they have ever been since.  cannot

understand this, since in February there could not have

been a great melting of Alpine snows, but that for half a

century since, nothing like such a flood has occurred, is a
2"Ood fact ; the effects of rare combinations of the most
ordinary causes, are scarcely ever reckoned upon enough in

I Igeology, and could preach for a page on this text, if did
Inot fear should put you to sleep. We have had to-day the
certain news of the Prince of Orange having entered the

IAntwerp territory, and so many stories of that city having

been attacked, that fear something must have happened.

IAs the Dutch have the best organised army, and are more

united, think they do well to show a little spirit, and
unless a general war comes on, they will get better terms

by it. Here the war is popular, and the going out and
return home of the regiment quartered here, to exercise, is
                                           and evening. Tell
Iquite a triumphal procession,  morning   finds her thoughts

your mother, with my love,      if she     if she can get it,
fatigue her, recommend her
                                to read,

Madame de Stael's chapter on the efficacy of study in such

iS3i. M                       PAGANINL                                                        321

caselto calm the mind. It is in her work, ' L'Innuenee des

FlasSons sur le Bonheur des Nations et des Individus/ one of
the most splendid productions of the age. The sun has just

rrfade an effort to break through the clouds, so we shall have

lip

     I

                          7.
rain think.
                            -- Sent my Rotterdam-arranged MS. to
 August

*ed the hungry devils, and corrected             sheet and half of
                                                 a

                                                   aI
                                                             Ia

                                                                                     is
text, of that set up in my absence, the fruit of three hours5

/hard, steady work, aided by my steam-engine Hall, for in
 this stage of the business more than half of the work

mechanical.                   hope to receive from the binder my old
         it

              I

                                             ;

                                 it

                                           is
copy of the work of De Stael, of which spoke,, that you

may have it. Be careful not to erase my marks.                                                shall

re-read with delight                            the work of mind which had

been agitated strongly by almost every passion, which had
felt intensely, and therefore wrote eloquently -- her rules and

precepts are often inexplicable to ordinary affairs and com

mon minds, but                splendid production. recollect the
                              it                 I

                                  is
                                      a

                                     I
chapter on study (though have forgotten its details) made
a lasting impression on me, and taught me among other
things to take delight when engaged in composition, in im

proving, enriching, and embellishing thoughts, instead of

deeming that drudgery just as an artist retouches paint
                              is                 ;I
                                     ;
                                             is       is
ing. My copy of De Stael just returned                          ahave been
dipping into it. It the more striking as being so exagge

rated. The balance against the chances of happiness in

many of the most natural and best passions, not so un

favourable as she paints      it,        but such would the world be,

if all were as romantic, sensitive, and imaginative as she

was.

August 11. --Went to Paganini's concert, Prandi havino-

sent me a ticket. Paganini can play both beautifully and
wonderfully, but would rather have half an opera another
             I

time, than all his performance.
    August 12. -- Boue, the French geologist, called, just

arrived with his wife from Paris. Am to see him again to
morrow, and to show him my Sicilian volcanic specimens.

At Athenaeum saw with pleasure that the Dutch had routed

the Belgians.                 go to rest,        few words of                                 day of
                                    Y
    August 13. --Before

      VOL.
      I.

                   I

                                                            a
                                                                                           a

322  SIX CHARLES LYELL.  cMp. x\n.

steady work, and few incidents --wrote to Mantell, dispaEohM
nearly half the printed Tables to Deshayes --walked^vjar
the rooms at King's College, which promise to be handsouae
and well lighted. Found the table of Athenaeum this
evening covered with new books --in this respect a clib

Iis a real economy --Whately's new lectures on Politic*

Economy. In the first of those which skimmed, is a lorg

combat against those who object to the Eev. Professor-'?
science, as opposed to the Bible. He says that the cry i^
louder 'than against geology/ because people will admit

that the sacred writings were not to teach us physics, but
say that a science connected with human concerns should
be in accordance even with the letter.

     August 14. -- Webster brought the corrected drawing
from my sketch of the Val del Bove on Etna, one of the

Igrandest scenes in Europe. Although a poor representation,

it will give some idea, and be useful geologically ; shall go

to Chelsea, and hope to find the Somervilles.1 Arrived at

five o'clock, and found that dinner was at seven : was lucky
enough to find Mrs. Somerville in the garden, told her of
my expedition to Eifel, &c. She showed me her volume,2
all done save the index. The preliminary discourse will be

popular, dedicated to Lord Brougham, as he suggested it ;

no word of flattery to him. The Murchisons have been stay
ing with the Conybeares in Wales, which country, said Dr.

Somerville, c they have now done.'
     August 16. -- Mrs. Somerville said yesterday that she

never knew politics in London so embitter people as in
t'lis Reform Bill : the fact is there never were such private

interests at stake before. Pew bills for the confiscation of

property ever passed in any country which smote individuals
so hard. When a man has several brace of borough appoint

     1 Mrs. Somerville, b. 1780, d, 1872. Author of Mechanism of the Heavens,
from La Place; Connection of the Physical Sciences , Physical Geography, &c.

    I2 Mechanism of the Heavens. i Mrs. Somerville's volume is ready all but

the index. The preliminary discourse into which dipped will be popular and
of high interest ; it touches on all the grandest subjects. Speculations, for
example, on cavernous structure of the interior of the earth ; what the total

number of comets may be ; what the climate of other planets, and in which of
them our plants, &c, could live. How the sun and other bodies look from
each of them, and an immense variety of other topics.' -- Extract of letter from

Mr. Lyell to his father, August 15, 1831.

1 83 1.          REFORM BILL,                                                       323

ments, each worth forty or fifty thousand pounds in the

market a year ago, he may well cry out, and may easily

persuade himself that the good derivable to the country is

problematical. The Liberals say that the cutting up coun

ties will make each district a close borough, and so a

Inew aristocratical influence, as bad as the old, will arise.
doubt whether it will be as bad, but the new House will be
aristocratical enough. A letter from my mother to-day an

nounces her recovery. She is going up to the hills, to a shoot
ing quarter of ours. Some day or other, we will go up to

Ithat shieling in the midst of the heather, where there is a

fine air, and where many a time have enjoyed the glorious

view of the Grampians on one side, and on the other of

 Strathmore and its lakes, with the Sidlaws and the Lomonds

Iof Fife in the distance. Although the game was scarce,

. used to like it betcer than Lord Airlie's preserves, as he

has no scenery, though thirty brace for one bird on our

ground.

    August 17. --The best day's work, at least the greatest

Inumber of hours at composition since Rotterdam -- it will

require a multitude more, before have done this volume.

The facts which are given in a few sentences, require weeks

of reading to obtain. A letter from my aunt Heathcote,

one of the most amiable creatures in existence, and moreover

Ian elegant style of person, inviting me to pay her a visit.

How lucky that the very day got she must have received
         I

                                                            !

                                              it,
mine to say meant to come Lonsdale has just told me

that one of the principal reviews, as he heard from Fitton,

has just held up Sedgwick's speech, and my first volume, as

models of style for all English scientific writers.                                 must
                                                                                    I
learn where this is, for as Messieurs les Critiques give one
                 fair to seek out their commendations.                                         k,
some hard rubs,
is

           3

                    it

                              is
                                            ?
It a reward for doing a thing with care. Did not Miss
Parker remark that the gravel of the Eotherberg was as free
from scoriae and volcanic rocks as that above Friesdorf?
What are volcanic rocks she would say.
                                                                                 I  answer, Any of

those which the said Eotherberg in general, or Eolandse<

are made of. Webster tells me, he spends all his time in

         For seven years the valued friend and governess in Mr. Homer's family.
                                                            y
3
                                                                              2

324                SIR CHARLES LYELL.              chap. xiii.

teaching ladies geology, and remarks that they have more
liberal curiosity about science than young men. The fact is
our boys are worse educated now than girls ; they spend ten
years and more at school and college, in learning Latin and
Greek ; two weapons which nine out of ten never use. They
are mere linguists of dead tongues -- they get learning with
out knowledge, and without the taste of acquiring a know
ledge of things. A system which would make our youths
not scholars, but  lovers of
                   be easy,   knowledge, would      be a grand
reform. It would                                   in youth to
                              for it is natural

love it.
     IAugust 23. --Made good progress in my MS.
                                                   forget
Iwhether told you that Mrs. Somerville's book was shown
nie in boards, but without the index, at least a hundred
pages longer than mj first volume, and about the same
dimensions in other respects, Mine even was deemed too

corpulent, as well as having too much crowded into a page,
which in the second volume we mean to correct, though
using the same type. About 500 pages of Mrs. S. is alge

Ibraic, x, y, e, and sealed save to those deeply initiated. The

introductory hundred will be popular, and trust serve as

Isails and winds to waft the heavy cargo on through these un

promising times. While was working here at four o'clock

Lord Northampton came in, and sat cozing three quarters

of an hour, about fossil insects, shells, and how he should

vote on the Eeform Bill. After supporting second reading
he is to go to Borne, and not leave his proxy. i They will
Ialter it so that cannot say what the third reading will be,
Iand am not a thick and thin man that can trust another
Iwith my vote.'    have just received your letter. Do not

suppose   that my marks of Madame de Stael's       sentiments are
always   of approbation --they are like the hear,  hear, of M.P.s

Iof something which strikes, often as true, often untrue, or
doubtful.  look upon her as a phenomenon -- a giantess

almost rivalling any male giant of her age. Her imagination

was vivid and poetic, and tempered by judgment, and she
had a philosophical mind also. Had she written first-rate

poetry, she would have shown that the very best power of
mind which can be developed in man may belong to her sex

--which nevertheless would be unfair, since they have many

1831.         MADAME DE STAEL.                     325

Iexcellences which men cannot have.       think her work the

more interesting, as showing how a powerful mind, placed

under the circumstances that a woman's must be, would
think and write. Hereafter her writings will stand out in

relief more prominently, among those of her contemporaries,

than they do now ; very few as boldly, and this is saying

much, when the general standard is so high, and so many
minds are highly cultivated. But when an equally great

vigour of genius is given to some woman, who has more of

the perfect qualities, the peculiar attributes of her sex, we

shall have something more splendid and characteristic and
original. Like most great characters, she was a mixture of

I Igood and bad. From much that have heard of her, can

believe her speech about her daughter, that she was bete

comme son pere, although her husband was much above par,

and if he had not been, she would have fancied it, had she

been amiable. But her extravagant admiration of her

father, whom she overrated, in a great degree from filial
feeling, was a redeeming quality --as regards feeling, what

in this case overpowered her better judgment. Had our friend
Mrs. Somerville been married to La Place, or some mathe

matician, we should never have heard of her work. She

would have merged it in her husband's, and passed it off as

his. "Not so De Stael, she would have been a jealous rival.

What she says of Nature never having given great talents,

without accompanying the gift with a love of displaying
them -- a desire to make them tell -- is most true, but much

that she says of the incompatibility of even moderate ambi

tion and love, is false and curious only, as showing that she

had found her desire of fame to be that of one placed in a false

position. A man may desire fame, reputation, and even
glory, for the sake of sharing it with one he loves. A woman

cannot share it with her husband, it will be the utmost she
Ican do not to make him of less importance by it.
                                                   am
sure that it is very common in ambitious men to look upon

Iwhatever they acquire, whether of fortune or fame, as
chiefly valuable for the sake of others.  could, and should

feel this ; for a wife, children, brothers and sisters, that the
              constituted its chief and almost only value -- that
sharing  it,

the mere personal aggrandisement was of itself a shallow

o*»  SIR CHARLES LYELL.   chap. xiii.

pleasure. As for love being an episode, &c, it is true both

to man and wonian in the sense of that romantic sort of

love which the Authoress of ' Corinne ' would try to persuade

herself should run through life, but what never could nor

Iought to do, or to be more than an episode in any person's

life -- but speaking of love in a more sober sense, do not
believe it, and could point out proofs ol the contrary.

     To reap the full benefit of what the Germans are doing

and thinking would require no moderate intimacy with the
Itongue, and its idioms.
                          am sure you will work at it with
Imore zeal if you believe you can help me by it, as labour
Iwith greater spirit, now that regard myself as employed
Ifor you as well as for myself. Not that am at all sanguine
I Iabout the pecuniary profits that shall ever reap, but feel
I Ithat if could have fair play for the next ten years, could
gain a reputation that would make a moderate income for

the latter part of my life, yield me a command of society,

I Iand a respect that would entitle me to rest a little on my
oars, and enable me to help somewhat those love.              met

Smith, F.E.S., to-day, coming to ask me to join Wallich the

Ibotanist and Sir Robert Inglis at B>.S. club dinner. Smith

poured out, ' am in the middle, and full of astonishment

and admiration at your having, among other things, been

the first to take the bull by the horns, about the antiquity

of the Earth, and contrived to do it in so inoffensive a

 way,' &c.

     August 26. --The Chevalier Eicasoli came in to receive

the second packet of Tables, which he is to take to Deshayes

to Paris. He caught sight of my plate, intended for a fron
tispiece, -- from a sketch of my own, a view in Catalonia in

ISpain, the volcanos of Olot. Prandi4 was delighted. ' Ah !

that is Olot indeed. Well fought there for thirteen days,
five were we encamped on that hill by that church ; and so

Ithe hollow was the crater, and the cone a volcano. How

odd, never dreamt of that ! at its foot we killed 400 of the
factions ! but from that hill (another volcano), as we passed
to enter that valley, a discharge of shot thinned our ranks.
We could not return it with any effect, we were on that flat
plain, and on the slant of the cone, concealed in the vines.

     4 An Italian refugee, who resided many years in London.

1831. SIR WILLIAM NAPIER.              327

There is the defile, through which Milano brought his troops
from Gerona, and this is Olot, with its villanous population,
of 30,000, all factions/ c What do you mean by factions? '
e Why those were the times of the established constitution,

they were rebels, now the legitimates.5

    August 27. --An hour and a half good work before break

Ifast, ditto after, then Hall reading De la Beche, while

shaved, half hour's recreation. At one o'clock walked, met

Judge Patteson, a coze with him. Called on Spiller,
librarian of the House of Commons. Davies Gilbert in the

library, very curious to hear about the Eifel volcanos and

the gravel of Rotherberg. Stepped into a neighbouring cafe
and took a cup of coffee ; on the table was the ' Westminster
Review '--read a splendid extract from Napier's ' Peninsular

IWar.' It must be a noble work. One day last spring, when
   called on Sedgwick, he read me a whole chapter of his
friend's book, an animated aud graphic sketch of a skirmish

in Portugal. Scott in his best historical novels never made

you more completely present on the spot. Returned, and

worked tvro hours ; have made great way to-day, and yet a

day of much enjoyment withal ; seven hours' work, and quite
Ifresh.
         shall take a walk to the Athenaeum. Is it not
Istrange, after what have said above, that at the Athenaeum
I Ithe first man sat down beside was Colonel Napier ? 5 was

struck with his conversation, addressed to Stokes, and on

Iasking who he was, found it was he whose third volume

had been admiring; a fine-looking man to boot. Stokes

showed him a five- franc piece of Henry Y., for the Bourbons

are carrying on a parody on the exiled Stewarts to the last.

There are crins which Stokes has of Henry Ninth, King of

England. Did you ever see Stokes's toy of the man whose

head you 3an cut through with a penknife ? Napier

remarked, 6 In these times such a gift would serve a king
better than such dollars.' In the library found Greenough

and Decimus Burton. Greenough turned up to a note he

had made on the Rotherberg in 1816. It struck him in every

respect as it did me -- no trap in the gravel, which therefore

Iis not posterior. He speaks of a section by the walnut-tree

near the fam-house in the crater, which missed.

         5 Sir William Napier, K.C.B.

328               SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap. xiii.

                  To Dr. Fleming.

                        I London : August 29, 1831.

'I My dear Dr. Fleming,-- was very giad to hear from

you, on my return from a tour of four or five weeks to the

Eifel, that tract between the Rhine and Moselle, in which

abundance of extinct volcanos have burst through a country

which is composed of strata much like the Sidlaw (where it

is free from trap), the same sandstone and shale, and similar

fucoidal plants, connected in some few parts with trilobite

limestone, and with genuine old coal. Through these the

supra-marine volcanos burst, and strange holes have thus

Iblown through the mountains, each eruption haying been
almost invariably at some new point.  daresay you may

have heard of a certain case of diluvium of the Rotherberg,

i.e. gravel on one side of the crater of one of these modern

(tertiary) volcanos. The fact is, it proves nothing as to the

post-diluvial, or rather post-alluvial origin of that volcano.

IThe gravel was there before the eruption, and contains no
volcanic matter.  never saw so clear a case, and it is one

of ten thousand proofs of the incubus that the Mosaic deluge

Ihas been, and is fear long destined to be on our science.
INow am fully determined to open my strongest fire against

Ithe new diluvial theory of swamping our continents by waves
raised by paroxysmal earthquakes.     can prove by reference

to cones (hundreds of uninjured cones), of loose volcanic
scoriae and ashes, of various and some of great antiquity (as

proved by associated organic remains), that no such general
waves have swept over Europe during the tertiarj era -- cones

Iat almost every height from near the sea, to thousands of
feet above it.    mean when lamenting the rash introduction

of such hypothetical agency, to hint a.t the unfairness of gain
ing votes for new c guesses ' by the temptation of a promise

to explain the Mosaic deluge, if they will consent to adopt

Ithese new views.      intend to allude to the debt due to

    At the same time,

you, for having been the first who had the courage to main
tain the untenable notion of a non-exploded dogma, and of

having faced the obloquy which others are at this day no

longer in danger of sharing.

1 831.    GRAHAM ISLAND.                              329

   I Idon't lecture till April, and unless see the Institution

promising very well, shall only give a very short course of
nine lectures at the most, on a branch of the subject. Some
of my friends think it was a foolish fancy. Others, with
Whewell, that it will serve ' to give an anchorage to my

thoughts, and keep me more steadily to our great subject.'

Eemember me kindly to Mrs. Fleming, and believe me,

ever most truly yours, u~  Charles Ltell.

          To G. Mantell, Esq.

                           London, August 30, 1831.
I·M!y dear Mantell,-- hope you got my letter after my
Ireturn from Germany ? Since that have been detained here
Imuch longer than expected, and am now on my way to
IScotland ; first to Edinburgh, then to Forfarshire.  wish

much to hear from you, as your silence has made me uneasy.

IWrite to me here, and your letters will be forwarded free to

me wherever may happen to be at the time in the country.
IBarrow has sent me a box of specimens from the new island6

thrown up off Sicily in a spot where did not at all look for

a submarine eruption, but am nevertheless well sa/tisfied

therewith. Chocolate-coloured sands and scoriae of the same

hue. The c Britannia' man-of-war passed over the spot

some months ago, and feeling her bottom struck as if by a

rock (slight earthquake), she sounded, and found eighty

fathoms. Now the isle is 200 feet above water, and is still

growing. Here is a hill 680 feet with hope of more, and the
Iprobability of much having been done before the ' Britannia '
sounded.  congratulate you, one of the first of my twelve

apostles, at Nature having in so come-at-able a part of the

Mediterranean thus testified her approbation of the

advocates of modern causes. Was the cross which Constan-

tine saw in the heavens a more clear indication of the

approaching conversion of a wavering world? more especially

as the first box of specimens from the new isle came through

the post office by the Mediterranean steam packet, and was

    6 Graham Island, which rose August 1831 in the Mediterranean, and
towards the close of October was nearly levelled with the surface of the sea^

330              SIR CHARLES LYELL.                chap. xiii.

presented by Barrow to me before lie bad opened tbem

hiinself, eight or nine days after they had been thrown up

hissing hot. l.

                 Ever most truly yours,            Lyell.
                                          Charles

                 To Miss Horner.

                                  Steamboat 'Soho,' Orford Ness : September 1, 1831.

     I have been proBtably employed this morning since break
fast in reading Conybeare's last little work, and several

chapters of Om alius d5Halloy's new c Elements of Geology.'

What a proof of the interest now excited by the science,

that since my first volume appeared we have three works,

Macculloch, two volumes., De la Beche, and this, on Geology,

besides innumerable memoirs !
     Septembers. -- ' Soho/ off Bass Rock, three o'clock. We are
at last in calmish water again in the Forth after a rough, rainy,
Iand very slow passage,, against a north wind. All ill, and
Iwas obliged to lie in my bed nearly all day yesterday.
                                                         had
Ian agreeable compliment paid rne in conversation, which

overheard. One of the party was describing the washing away
of the small port of Carse on the Solway Firth, near Dumfries ;

which led another to say, ' Have you read Lyell's account of
the ravages of the sea of the E. and S.E. coast of England? '

ITo which a blind old talkative gentleman, who learnt was
Ia Dr. Milligan, replied, c have ; it's by far the first work on

Ithat science, and the writer, ye ken, is a countryman of ours.'

On the score of his being aware of the latter circumstance,

deduct one half from the value of the eulogium, and am

satisfied with the remainder.                 minutes      to
                                                doubt    not
   IEdinburgh : September 4. -- have just ten

Ispare, before dining in Charlotte Square, and

jou will like to hear all that passes between me and your
old friends. Macbean took me to call on Mr. Thomson,7 with

whom I' was much pleased. He told me he had heard

Chalmers 8 preach, and make a somewhat wire-drawn dis

     7 Thomas Thomson, advocate. « Formidable in dignity and in antiquarian
learning.' -- Lord Cockbwrris Memorials.

     8 The celebrated Scotch divine.

1 83 1.                DR. CHALMERS.  331

tinction between an ungodly man and a sinner. <Wonder

what lie would make of an ungodly sinner ? ' said I. Finding
I Ithe celebrated preacher was to perform service in the after
noon, determined to go.   went to the kirk, and for a

shilling got an excellent place, which is a great point, as
there are many words in Chalmers' sentences which one may
Imiss. if not very near.
                          have a great prejudice against
Ipopular preachers in general, and almost all have heard
have strengthened my original impressions. But not so in
this instance. It was a very long discourse, but admirable.
The subject was <repentance,5 a hackneyed one enough. You
are to repent to-day, not because it may be too late to-morrow,

as you may die ; but because, though you are to have ever so
long a life, your case will be more hopeless should you resist
this warning. Your mind will be hardened by the habit of

resisting. He then explained the effect of habit, and its
increasing power over the mind, as a law of our nature, with

as much clearness and as philosophically as he could have

done had he been explaining the doctrine to a class of

university students in a lecture on the philosophy of the

human mind. But then the practical application was enforced

Iby a strain of real eloquence, of a very energetic, natural, and
striking description.  hardly think any critic could have

detected any expression or image that sinned against good

taste, although he was very bold and figurative. But un

fortunately, every here and there he seemed to feel that he

was sinning against some of the Calvinistic doctrines of his

school, and all at once there was some dexterous pleading
about ' original sin,' which interfered a little with the free

current of the discourse, and gave me an idea, that in order

to be popular with a Scotch congregation, a preacher must

deal a good deal too much in tlie unintelligible doctrinal

points of theology. Upon the whole, however, judging from
I Ithis single specimen, think would sooner hear him again
Ithan any preacher
                       ever heard, Reginald Heber not

excepted.

   ISeptember 5. --When got to Mr. Maitland's this morning,
I found him with an excellent newspaper account of the new

volcano in the Mediterranean, prepared for me to read*

332                 SIR CHARLES LYELL,  CHAP. XIII.

The Solicitor9 did not arrive till half-past eight o'clock.

You would have been amused with the first interview.

Maitland, having been employed to draw up for the new

Reform Bill the boundaries of the borough of Musselboro',

was showing his map to me ; so when he introduced me,

ICockburn gave me a moderately good reception, a bow, and, if
  remember right, a shake of the hand. We all began to

move to the breakfast room, when the Solicitor exclaimed
I(the first sentence heard from him), ' Is it Mr. Lyell ?
ILord ! thought it was some d
                               d surveyor come about

Iyour map/ Then he shook my hand in right good earnest.

On my telling Cockburn how much was struck with

Chalmers, he gave me a most favourable sketch of his various

acquirements, private character, &c, and said that Chalmers

was now studying so hard, that he had told him (the

ISolicitor) that he had been idle all his life before. On my

observing that could not agree with Macbean, in wonder
ing at the small number of successful popular preachers,
because they had such trammels to contend with in the pul
pit, so many religious dogmas to steer clear of, &c, Cockburn
said, i Besides, how many of the most popular weapons of

Ioratory are utterly prohibited -- sarcasm, irony, ridicule ! '
Iagreed to go to Bonaly l to-morrow.
                                      then sat down, and

took a good hour and a half's work at composition of the

IMS. chapter of my second volume, which left off at in town.
I delight in thus making the business of acquaintance- making
Iand calling on people the mere recreation necessary between

hours of work. After this set-to, found, thanks to the
Ilawyers' early hours here, that it was only twelve o'clock.
Called on T. Allen, not in town, then at Jamieson's.             then

                               it,

                                  it I
                                          I

                                                              a
went to Hibbert's, at home, glad of as wanted good

confab about the Eifel, to which he had laid a six months'

siege, whereas had only attempted to take by storm in as
                :I
many days.                                                     found
    Kinnordy September --8.< On my arrival here,

every one quite well, and two letters from you. Mrs. Hibbert's

       Solicitor-General for Scotland, afterwards Lord Cockburn, author of Life19
             y
of Jeffrey Memorials of his Time, an old and valued friend of Miss Horner's
family.

        Lord Cockburn's country-seat near the Pentland Hills, Edinburgh.

      1831.                           EDINBURGH,                                  333

      drawings of the Eifel are really splendid, most of them worth

      publishing, yet when she began the tour, she had hardly at
      tempted to sketch from nature. She has caught that style of
      Scrope which gives you a sort of map-picture of a country, a

      half panorama taken from high points. A view, for example,

      from a hill looking down upon the Laacher See, and taking in

                                                                     it,
      the whole lake, and the hills surrounding and part of the

      adjoining country. Never having heard of that beautiful
      map which Yon Oeynhausen lent me, they lost much time in

      constructing map, which Hibbert did trigonometrically.
             I
      They have really collected both rocks and shells, and workeda       '
      and sketched to great effect. In the loess descendinga
                                                                  '

      from Kruft to Andernach, they found vast number of land
                                                              2a
      shells, which seem to indicate a modem date to that forma

      tion. About nine o'clock Dr. Greville came in, and insisted

      on my breakfasting next morning, promising as a bribe that

      he would get ready,             came, drawing of the new volcano
                                      iIf

                                                           6

                                                           a
      in the Mediterranean, copied from one an officer has sent

      him, as present for the Sky Parlour here. At ten            '
      o'clock went to Mr. Thomson's -- a capital supper --grouse,
                                                                     3

      &c, and all good things, and the guests just sitting down as
       entered --Mr. Maitland, Professor Napier,4 Professor Pillans,5
I is I
      and one or two more. Pillans has been with a friend along

      our Angus coast, geologising in an amateur way for his

      health. Next morning early went to call on Maclaren,
                                         I

                                                 '
                                                                         a
      that furious radical as Editor of Scotsman/ and a mild,
      amiable, simple-minded man in private, and great reader

      and lover of geology. Greville's drawing of the volcano was
      quite beautiful --his talent of rapid drawing and colouring

         truly enviable. Hibbert was there, and quite delighted
      with piece of antiquarian geology which T. Thomson had
      given me at supper. He has fished out an old Latin legend,
             aa
        believe in Pinkerton's Lives of the Saints/ of St. Ninianoc
      (or St. Ringen in corrupt English), evidently founded on those543 2
      impressions of the feet of animals which have recently made
      such noise in the geological world, preserved in the Dum

                                      Botanist, author of Cryptogamic Flora, &c.
                                      Museum at Kinnordy.
                                      Macvey Napier, editor of Edinburgh Review.
                                      Professor of Humanity Chair in Edinburgh.

334  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap. xiii.

friessHre red sandstone. The saint had collected all the
 cattle of that country, to sprinkle them with holy water and
bless them. A thief thought it a good opportunity to steal
 a few, but a bull ran at him and kicked him dead, and the

 saint softened the rocks, so that like wax they received every
 impression of the furious animal's hoofs as he plunged about,
 and then they were hardened in attestation of the miracle.
 Hibbert offered to show me a gun of the Spanish Armada,

Iencrusted with shells, fished up from the sea, and other

 antiquarian remains, bearing on a chapter was then writing,
 canoes, &c, so we went to see them. Macbean showed me

 Williams' original paintings of scenes in Greece. What a
 glorious country their poets had to write about, as far as
natural scenery was concerned ! He was a fine artist. When

we arrived at Bonaly, the Solicitor- General was waiting,

Iready for a walk ; showed me the bowling-green, then to

 the terrace, which admired much, thongh the distant view

Iwas lost in the haze The white pony came to receive his

caresses. At the end of the walk was shown the statues of

Robert Bruce and another, c which the mason had painted
white, and Horner cleaned by whole bottles of acid.' After
ascending to the top of Graham's Dell, he showed me the

marsh surrounded by rocks where the Covenanters used to

Ipreach, then over the height, and down to the Linn by the

 single elm tree. ' Here have seen Frances 6 stand with an
umbrella., which keeps off the water longer than you would
think, picking wild flowers.' Then we went over Mushroom

Hill, where we filled our pockets with mushrooms, and back
by Torphin. He talked to me much of Brougham, how

treacherous as a friend, and how gigantic his power as a
servant of the public. He has cleared off nearly all arrears,

and if he does what he proposes here (all the forty appeals,

I IScotch), he will do what has not been done for centuries.
   talked to him of the state of France, when was there last
year, their new peerage bill ; of Spain, of which he asked me

Imuch; of Buckland, with whom at Craig Crook he was much

delighted ; of Etna, and made him understand the differ
ence between the volcanic and other rocks of the Pentlands
in the dell. This led him to talk of Play fair, and he cited an

                       6 Miss Horner's next sister, now Lady Bunbury.

1831.        LORD COCKBURN.                                335

elegant passage of his about Hutton. On these and fifty

Iother subjects did we enlarge, and think exchanged more
I Iideas than have often done with men with whom have

been acquainted for years. There is a delightful simplicity

of character, an entire absence of ceremony, without any

unpleasant familiarity, and without inviting it, a disposition

to be amused and informed, and a wish to be thoroughly

Iidle, when he is not working, that is delightful in him ; and
   observed that he could in an instant, on his return, sit

down to severe work, for he has a dreadfully difficult case

about patents submitted to his arbitration, which takes up
much time. This decision, whatever it be, must ruin one or

two very rich men, for the law is in a state of disgusting

confusion arid ambiguity. Mrs. Cockburn had returned from

IEdinburgh, where she had been spending her morning with
her sister.  thought her very kind, and what is no small

Imerit, always looking so happy and cheerful. On my return

to the drawing-room, found a carriage arrived with Napier

and T. Thomson. We sallied out again for a walk in the

Igarden ; Cockburn with Thomson, and with Napier. From
Ithe latter learnt many particulars respecting Playfair's
style of composing and amending his MS., which amused me,

Iand some good anecdotes of Dugald Stewart, of whose style

of writing have always been a great admirer. At dinner,

the principal fun was a general attack on Napier, for having
been shooting three whole days, and not having yet taken

out a license. At firsb Thomson told him with such gravity
how concerned he was that an information had been laid

against him, that he was literally alarmed, and began to

guess who had done it, or instigated the informer. When
he began to hope it was a joke, Cockburn said, 'How can you
expound the law to a class after thus violating it P Why the
                                                        '
very act  is an implied  forfeiture  of  your  chair  !    Cockburn

told us of a curious action which was brought against the
Siamese twins, who had been out shooting, and had returned

I Iblows on being assaulted by a Colonel. This led me to talk

of what saw of these youths, and when mentioned how

Ifreely they conversed with others, and yet never to one

another, he asked me why 9 c suppose they are each ac
quainted with so precisely the same facts, that they have no

336         SIR CHARLES LYELL.                                      chap. xirr.

ideas to exchange. Do you not remark that people of the

same family, who always live together, sometimes sit silent,

Ialthough the "best of friends, and yet are talkative to

strangers ? 9 ' Yes,' he replied, ' and have often thought

that scarcely any companionship, scarcely any conviviality

is so delightful, as that same social silence.9 He laid a deep
emphasis on these last words, which brought forcibly to my

Irecollection many an occasion when had felt the same,
Iand when would have preferred to walk or sit in a room
Iwith one loved without speaking, to any conversation with
an indifferent person. Cockburn asked me about the Zoolo

gical Gardens in town, and on my describing the prehensile

tails of the c spider monkeys/ declared he had often thought

that if men had had tails, what volumes would have been
written on the peculiar beauty of such an appendage to the

human form, and of its utility, &c. Then he went on with

speculations on the sort of caudal ornament he should like
for himself. He put Napier on the defence of the last No.
of the <Edinburgh Beview,' protesting against it, as the

dullest, heaviest, and most unreadable one ever published ;
            joke, and the editor took it
bat all in   battle-- much better than                    well, and really fought
a famous
                                                          about the license. It

appears that Sir William Hamilton wrote that stirring article
about Oxford. In short we had a most agreeable merry

Iparty, and when went away Cockburn made me promise to
Icall on him the moment returned to Edinburgh.

   I left Edinburgh for Kinnordy, and met Marianne and
Caroline at Glamis, and in an hour afterwards was at
Kinnordy, having spent only three days most agreeably, and
you will allow not idly at Edinburgh. The drive from
Kinross to Perth through Glen Earg is beautiful, and not
Ihaving been able to get an inside place, enjoyed a seat on
Ithe outside on a sunny day very much.                              found the place

here in great beauty, the more so after the uncommonly
Issutinllnyleftsuamllmtheirngwshgicrheent,hebyuthwaviteh  enjoyed,   and which has
                                                          a warm    look upon them.

like the change in the garden very much, the turning part
I IcoefnttSheerpatnfelmkowbaeenrrdb9f.oi--lredeorsfmdiunasthtoliartsehtenuorEwnngionlniscfheullsatgbyalloeinw, .atnod
                                                                    a magnifi
                                                                    Bonaly.

1831. DUG ALU STEWART'S MONUMENT.                                              337

forgot to say, that when we rejoined the ladies after dinner,
there was an animated conversation about Dugald Stewart's

Imonument, which is now rising on the Calton Hill, and
Ithink promises to be beautiful. Turner, E.A., when in Edin

burgh this year, augured ill of its effect, but foretell it

will be no failure. Cockburn wishes to have Dugald Stewart's

Ibones removed to the spot. Some one (Napier think) declared

that the relatives would not have them taken from conse

crated to unconsecrated ground, but Thomson denied thatit,
               is
they had any objection. c It is not for the sake of the bones
being really there,5 said Cockburn, c but if people could be

made to fancy their associations would be stronger of the

monument belonging to the man. Well, will grant you, if

you please, that this mere illusion, and what more, one

which do not require to aid my feelings, but others will
aI                        I
   I
                                      is

                                                                              ;

and procession would not be enough, unless the bones were

carried there, or some of the bones.'
     Kinnordy, September 12, 1831. -- After Hall's arrival (the

day after came here), set to work as of old in the India
      is                  a
                      T
                                          t
paper room,' a most cheerful drawing-room and fine height.
The paper, covered with birds, &c, was made by order for

the room, and not faded in thirty-five years. Walked

with Marianne with baskets for mushrooms, which we filled,
so that they were heavy to carry to the hill above Kirriemuir.
A glorious view and day.

     Letters from Donald Ogilvie (Lord Airlie's brother) can
vassing us for the county, Maule, M.P., having become Baron

Panmure. Others from Hon. D. Halliburton (brother of
Lord Aboyne) who opposes on Maule's interests.
I                                                                              had

           I.

                                                     ;

                                         is

                                                                            Z

                           I
                                                                a
                                             II
risen early to secure two hours before breakfast, after which

went to the Episcopal chapel with large party.                               then

rode to Cortachie Castle, and apologised to Lord Airlie at

never having acknowledged the letter of his agent announcino-

my nomination as Deputy-Lieutenant of the county.

am getting on very steadily with my work, and really
believe as well as in town which like to believe, as nothing

can be more cheerful than the whole party here at present,
my mother being in very tolerable health, and all the rest as

well and happy as the day long.

    September 15, 1831. -- Cockburn mentioned to me in

VOL.

338                      SIR CHARLES LYELL.              chap. xiii.

my walk with him at Bonaly, that the best thing Playfair
ever wrote in point of style, was a controversial pamphlet on
Dr. Keid's eligibility to a Professorship at Edinburgh, not

withstanding certain alleged unorthodox opinions which the

Iministers of the Kirk charged him with entertaining. As it

is precisely the kind of topic which have been obliged to
Itouch upon in my history of the progress of geology, and

may have again, should much wish to read it, but cannot
                                        will try and think of any work
Ibuy as                  out of print.  I
          it,                                   I
                      c                              it, I
                it                                             I
                     ison Switzerland or the Alps for you to read. wish you could

get up the geography of the country of the Alps and neigh
bourhood, which E. de Beaumont has made the foundation

of his successive elevation theory.'    must take things in

their turn, and shall be unable to think of our tour much for

some time. As to geology having half of my heart, hope
  shall be able to give my ivhole soul to with that enthu

siasm by which alone any advance can be made in any

science, or indeed in any profession.

    September 17. --On Thursday the 14th, by way of a lark

(to use a slang term), we went, seven of us, with wheel
barrow to the hill of Kerry, and filled entirely full of mush
                                        it

                                                                     a

rooms, besides five baskets fall. Much joking about setting

up a ketchup manufactory, and chalking the walls of Kerry
with LyelFs Matchless Ketchup.5 To-day walked with
     '

Marianne to seek for ferns and other plants, which Stokes

wants for his herbarium. Dined at Baldovie went in the
                                             a

                                                      :
open carriage, and returned at night by fine moonlight.

Laing Mason and several other lairds at dinner.

1831. EXPERIMENTS WITH BEES.  339

                           CHAPTER XIV.

                               SEPTEMBER-DECEMBER- 1831.

 XEW VOLCANIC ISLAND IX THE MEDITERRANEAN -- LIFE AT KINNORDT WITH
     HIS FAMILY --ELECTION EXCITEMENT-- MURRAY OF SIMPRIM-- RETURNS
      TO LONDON-- DINNER AT THE LINNJEAN CLUB -- CUMMING- THE SAIL-MAKER
      -- GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY MEETING DUKE OF SUSSEX AT THE ROYAL
      SOCIETY --VISIT TO JERMYNS -- THINKS OF GIVING UP HIS PROFESSORSHIP
      AT KING'S COLLEGE.

                               JOURNAL.

                 Continuation of Journal to Miss Horner.
Kinnordy : September 20, 1831. -- A frank brought nie a
Malta gazette, containing an excellent account of Graham's
Island, the new volcano in the Mediterranean. The island is
160 feet high, a mile in circumference, and twenty-five miles

from Sciacca in Sicily. It has been landed upon, but is ex

pected to be washed away in time by the sea, which has
already made perpendicular cliffs since the eruption. One
fragment of limestone has been found on it unburnt, thrown
up from below. The submarine eruption is still going 011

Iwith great violence.
     After my usual morning's work on Monday, went to see
Fanny's l bee-hive. Yesterday she tried the stratagem of
taking away the honey, and then uniting the bees with those
of another hive, instead of killing them. Strange to say, it
is believed that in consequence of the additional heat gene
rated by a double number of bees, they eat so much less ; that
the consumption of the two hives when united is, during
winter, no more than that of one when separate. One hive
is put under the other in the night, and the bees go up to
the higher one, which is full of honey. When the swarm there

                                              1 His sister.

                                                                               z2

340           SIR CHARLES LYELL.                chap. xiv.

is sleeping, and during the night, they acquire the same smell,

and in the morning are recognised as part of the same fra

Iternity. Nearly all entered ; but five or six dozen did not

get in, but tried to enter next day, when saw them. They

were detected as strangers, and much fighting ensued, and

lots of dead bodies were cast out of the entrance, until nearly

all who had been excluded, and probably some of the others,

were killed, as also one queen bee, for they never suffer two

in any hive.

     One of the great amusements here this summer seems to

have been to watch the bees defending the entrance of their

hive against a tinea, a species of moth of the same genus,

and nearly the same size as the clothes moth, which hap

pened to swarm by thousands every night. The guard at the

door was trebled while the pest lasted, and numbers were

employed in dragging out the moths which entered to

plunder the honey. Tender as these tinea appear, they

rarely are killed. The wasps are great depredators, and
                                        out by five bees, but are
              they are  usually pulled
              killed.   Caroline says,  'A wasp looks so like a
Iswarm also ;

scarcely ever
thief hustled out by a party of constables ! '  afterwards

rode with Eleanor a most beautiful ride, across the Prosen,

and a ford of the Esk, to Cortachie Castle, and then to

Downie Park.

   ISir James and Lady Ramsay came eavly to dinner.

Ramsay wanted me to go to Banff, but as had declined
ICaptain Far quhar son's tempting invitation to go with him to

Invercauld, could fight off with a good grace. They always
make me a speech here about c knowing how fully my time
is employed,5 &c, which would annoy some people who like
Ito be thought to produce books without any effort ; but as
Ihave no such vanity, am content to be thought privileged
I Ito do as like.
                   took Eamsay to the top of the Tower,2

and to see the Canoe : 3 afterwards walked with Caroline and
Eleanor 4 to a ' den ' on the river Carity, to collect ferns for

    2 In the garden at Kinnordy, containing a museum of curiosities.
     3 An ancient canoe taken out of the marl in the Loch of Kinnordy, in the
.summer of 1820. See Transactions of the Geological Society, 2nd series, vol.

ii. plate x.
     »His sisters.

1831. INVERQUHARITY CASTLE.                                  3-il

IStokes, and got five species on the rocks. My door is open,

and hear Lizzy,5 who is the best performer, playing c the
Bonnie House of Airlie,' of which she has a beautiful set. .
The two parrots which Tom brought from Africa are chatting

away in the passage, but neither of them are given to scream
ing now, as they were apt to do at first. To-day the Mudies
of Pitmuir, cousins of ours, but not very near, came to make

Ia call from six miles the other side of Forfar.
     September 24. -- went a long ride with Eleanor to Balen-
tore, went over the shooting quarter, which is a suite of
6 laird's rooms ' attached to those of the farmer. We went

hunting a little for ferns and lycopodiacese, and with tolerable

success, and returned by a different road. Balentore is our
northernmost farm, fairly in the Grampians, and among the

Igrouse.

   If you are not frightened by De la Beche, think you are

in a fair way to be a geologist ; though it is in the field only
that a person can really get to like the stiff part of it. Not
that there really is anything in it that is not very easy, when

put into plainer language than scientific writers choose often

unnecessarily to employ.

     My father, Maria,6 and Fanny went to make a long round
of calls in the open carriage, to Tealing -- Mr. and Mrs. Foth-

eringhani Scrymgeour ; Sir John Ogilvy's, Baldoven House,

near Dundee ; Miss Graham of Balmure, &c. Sir John's

family was in times of old, as tradition says, a branch of the

Airlie stock before they were titled, and they (Sir J.'s ances
                  the feudal castle of Inverquharity, which
tors) possessed                                              now
belongs to my    father, about four miles from here. It      is in

the valley of the S. Esk, and by far the best wooded and most

beautiful part of our property. Although much fine timber
has been felled there in the last twenty years, it would stand
not a little cutting now. The river and park scenery about

that place is so very superior to anything near Kirriemuir,

Ithat many think Kinnordy should have been built there.
rode with Eleanor and Maria to Pearsie, a beautiful highland

place, and most comfortable house. When a boy, just before

I I Iwent to Oxford, thought it a perfect Paradise. When

visited it at that time it was a Mr. Wedderburn's, and Mrs.

                          5 6 His sisters.

542                SIR CHARLES LYELL.            CHAP. XIV.

Somerville, when Miss Fairfax, used to stay there, and as a
girl came over from it to dine at Kinnordy, in my grand

father's time.

   ISeptember 27. -- To~da}r went with Eleanor a long walk

np the hills behind us on the north, and got two more plants

Ifor Stokes on the Clune and Castle Hills, where we started a

great number of blackcock. On my return found Dr.
Fleming just arrived. He showed a strong interest about

I IKing's College, and told him that as had received my
Inomination in a manner that was highly complimentary,
If Ishould do my best for a short course. Upon this he said,

' you lecture once a year for a short course, am sure you

will derive advantage from it. A short practice of lecturing

is a rehearsal of what }tou may afterwards publish, and
teaches you by the contact with pupils how to instruct, and

in what you are obscure. A little of tliis will improve your

power perhaps as an author. Then, as you are pursuing a

path of original and purely independent discovery and
observation, it increases much your public usefulness in a

science so unavoidably controversial to have thrown over
you the moral protection of being in a public and respon
sible situation, connected with a body like King's Col

lege. But then you must stipulate that you are to be
free to travel, and must only be bound to give one short

course annually.'
     I perceive you are very busy and studious, which gives
Ime great pleasure.               was born with a taste for
I Inatural history,
                     Though   if take up a new branch--
                   find that
Ibotany for example, or conchology-- am obliged to do very
Ilittle at a time, or get a temporary distaste. It will never

do to force these things, either on ourselves or others. Dr.

Fleming has been spending much time in the Sky Parlour,
selecting duplicate insects, some of them handsome things,
which Eleanor brought from Jermyns 7 last spring, and
which are not Scotch. He has no collector's box with him,
which he says proves he came with honest intentions ; but
he was greatly delighted to hear that            , when here, had

the  inside of the crown of  his hat lined with  cork !           of this
     Kinnordy: September                           papers
                              30, 1831. -- The

     7 His uncle Captain Heathcote's place, near Ronisey, Hants.

133 1. ELECTION EXCITEMENT.                         343

morning were full of the dreadful hurricane of Barbadoes,

in which 3,000 persons at least are said to have perished,
and the whole island to be now a desert. This morning Dr.
Fleming went away in spite of us, in our open carriage to
Forfar, at a quarter before six o'clock, to meet the coach in a

Ihard rain, which has continued all yesterday till to-day.

Ithink omitted yesterday to mention a letter from Tom to

Eleanor from Portsmouth. ' We are under weigh for Cork,
where ^ve are to rejoin Admiral Codrington's fleet.' Sophia

and Lizzy have discovered that an election is a good thing,
as there is to be a ball on the 10th (a county ball) at Forfar,
which has grown out of it. As we could not go out for the

Irain, we had a good game of battledore and shuttlecock,

with some famous rackets which brought from Paris last

year.

     October 3. -- My father went to the election to-day at For

Ifar, and have done a great day's work, nearly finishing my
Ifourth chapter. walked with Eleanor, and got a few ferns, and

in the garden for apples. Eight o'clock. --Messenger arrived

with the news that the Tories have triumphed, and Colonel
Ogilvy is M.P. Sophia tells me it is quite right that Colonel

Ogilvy should be member, because he will conduct the

IForfar ball with more spirit.
October 4. --Yesterday          took a walk with Maria to

Kirriemuir quarry, the largest in this country, one of m}r
father s, which, although not a very valuable possession, is

really a fine object. Lord Airlie called to-day in his carriage

Iand four, and Captain William in his carriage, when was
out, a sort of formal way of paying a visit of thauks. But

his manner was anything but formal, and he thanked my

Ifather as warmly as if he had put his brother in. When

Eleanor and called at a cottier's to-day, an old woman said,

' It has been sair work to get on, they Parliam enters,'

alluding to the 14,000L spent last year by the Airlies in

trying to get into the borough. But this county election has

Inot suppose cost 300/. My brother Harry was to have
Ibeen on the roll this year, but am glad my father has

a

         it,

                           it

                                            I
stopped  as certainly would be throwing away money,

for reform in the Scotch system cannot be far off.  went

to call on my old nurse Nanny (or Mrs. Yeates) to-day, who

344                  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                chap. xiv.

is not well. She talks away with the familiarity of one of the

family, in which she takes a real interest.
     October 8. --Mr. Blackadder the surveyor came from

Glamis to consult about a map of the county, which he is to

construct for a joint memoir on the Geology of Forfarshire,

for which we have been preparing materials for years, to be

published by the Geological Society.

     Sunday. --Walked with Eleanor to chapel, where the

carriage also went full. The principal talk was about a

dire event, no less than the putting off of the county ball,

which was to have been Sophy's and Lizzy's first Forfar debut.

And why? Because Mrs. General Hunter, the directress,

had heard that the Forfarians were resolved to break every

carriage to pieces of the Tories, if on Monday the news

should arrive, as they anticipated, of the bill being thrown

out by the Lords ! Dresses and all for nothing ! and the

Miss Drummonds staying at Cortachie for nothing else, and

a large party at Logie for the same. So Colonel Ogilvy, the

director, was obliged to send round notice only two days

before, that the ball was put off.

   IOctober 9.8-- hope the returns of this day, as long as my
Ilife lasts, will very rarely see us separate ; never, would
Iwillingly say, if thought all my wishes could be realised.

   I rode alone to Glamis, to choose some plants (fossil)

which Blackadder's wife and daughter had collected, they

having taken a fancy to fossilise. He rode back with me as

far as Kirriemuir. Met Wedderburn Ogilvy of Earthven,
who rallied me on my republican principles -- but in great

good humour he said, 6 As you are looking better than last

Iyear, presume you have not been fagging so hard.5 When

I Ireturned found that my father, Fanny, and Sophy were

gone to dine     at  Fotheringham, and to sleep.       They met
      Thursday.      The Fotheringham party returned.
                 --

Sir Francis Walker, Lady Drummond of Hawthornden and

daughters, Mr. Fotheringham Scrymgeour, Lord Airlie, &c.

It was just an Angus set-to of the old regime. They arrived

at half-past six o'clock, and waited dinner one hour. Gentle

men rejoined the ladies at half past twelve o'clock ! They

in the mean time had had tea, and a regular supper laid out

                     8 Miss Horner's birthday.

1 83 1.  PARROTS AT KINNORDY.  345

in the drawing-room. After an hour with the ladies, they

returned to the dining-room to supper at half-past one

o'clock, and my father left them all at it at half-past two

o'clock !

     The ladies did not go to this supper. Cockburn remarked
that Forfarshire was the last stronghold of those Scottish

Ihabits being maintained, but it is fast wearing out. forgot

to say the other day at Cortachie that the conversation
turned on a trial now pending at Perth on Lord Mar, for

shooting at a man with intent to kill and wounding the

Ihorse. Lord Airlie said, ' was very lucky once. An old
Iman and a youngster came to fish at Airlie Castle, and

Iwarned them off in the morning, so they went ; but when

Icame back in the evening found them again, and broke

the old man's rod, and on the other's making off, shot at him
when 90 yards off, and peppered him, so that he was obliged
to have the shots extracted. Fortunately for me he did not
prosecute.' Erskine of Linlathen did not vote for Colonel
Ogilvy, because he will not take any oaths. He (Erskine)
has built a house 220 feet long in front, they say the largest
in Angus.

     Our parrots have acquired a nice accomplishment, that
of imitating the squeak of two doors as they move on their
hinges, and of a wheelbarrow of which the wheel squeaks.

IWhenever they see the passage door move, they set up this

concert, which am now enjoying, and when they see the
gardener's man, we hear the barrow performed. This has
replaced the dog whistle, with which they used to salute

Tom. All the sisterhood (five of them) went this morning

Ito Dundee, with a beautiful basket of ladies' work, which

hope will bring 8Z. or more for Lady Earn say's table. They
had the large carriage, with a pair of horses besides our
own, a nineteen miles5 stage.

    October 15, 1831. --Our five lassies returned from Dundee.
They sold their ladies' work at high prices, and it seems to

have been an amusing meeting. Many gentlemen, to show
their gallantry, were buying at the tables of ladies of their
acquaintance. As they came back through our village of
Kerry at night, a mob of about 40 reformers hissed. They
put down the windows lest stones should be thrown, but this

346  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                      chap. xiv.

it seems was not intended. They think that as they had
four horses, it was taken for Lord Airlie's carriage, but per
haps it was in honour of my father's Toryism.

     October 24. --The Murrays of Simprim arrived. Having

a horror of the habits of a considerable set of the Angus

lairds, Murray voted himself a Perthshire man, and would

Ihave nothing to say to them. Indeed, had he been in my

father's place, am persuaded that, like him, he would have
emigrated. But Mrs. M.'s great friend, Mrs. Farquharson of

I IInvercauld, persuaded her to visit her namesake of Baldovie,
and there met them some seven years ago.     soon found

in Murray, and he in me, a congenial spirit, and he was

Ialways asking me to Meigle, about ten miles from here, in
the direction of Perth, where his place is.  went occasion

ally, and found him an original character, with a great love

and respect for science, and who had all his life cultivated

literary society ; full of anecdote, and who had the art both

in the country and when in town of filling his house with

an agreeable society. He used to go occasionally to the

Royal and Geological Societies with me, and at last they

called at Kinnordy, in spite of the rule they had laid down,

and continue to visit here, Our party was Mr. and Mrs. M.

and their youngest daughter, about twenty years or twenty-

one \ Mrs. Kinlonh and her sister Lady Ogilvy (the dowager) ;
Annie Kinloch ; John K. (the laird of Logie) ; and Mr. James
Ogilvy. Murray told me that his cousin, Sir Alexander

Mackenzie, had refused to read my book when he, M., bored

him so to do ; but lately he fell in with it somewhere by
accident, and has been most active recommending it to all

Ihis friends.
     Kinnordy: October 25, 1831. -- see by the paper that

I ILeslie, Brewster, Ivory, Herschel, and Charles Bell are knighted
-- Guelphic Order, believe.  begin to think that all our

Iacquaintances will soon be dubbed Knight-Bachelor.

  \ Edinburgh : 27. -- had an inside place in the coach, and
read with much pleasure and profit, Play fair's Disserta
tion on the Progress of Physical Science in supplement to the

I I6 Encyclopaedia Britannica,' which Mr. Maitland procured for

me when was lastnere. 1 think can give a new definition
of geology modelled on Playfair's definition of Physical

1831. TRANQUIL REFLECTIONS.                       347

IAstronomy, which will give you to read to your father, as
Ihe thought my former definition open to criticism, and

shall be glad to know if he likes this. ' Geology is a science

arising out of the comparison of the phenomena of past

change, observed on the surface and interior of the earth's

crust, with the laws of chan genow regulating the terrestrial

creation, whether animate or inanimate.' It is perhaps too

Iabstract for general readers, yet may be useful in the body

of the book. A definition, suppose you know, is of all

things the most difficult, and must in the present state of

I Igeology involve a theory. ,r~                  get into
     Saturday. -- shall write a few words before

the steamboat, just to tranquillise my mind a little, after

reading several controversial articles by Elie de Beaumont and
If Iothers against my system.
                                find myself growing too
Iwarm or annoyed at such hostile demonstrations,
                                                  shall

always retreat to you. You will be my harbour of peace to
I Iretire to, and where may forget the storm.
                                               know that
Iby persevering steadily shall some years hence stand very
differently from where I now am in science ; and my only

danger is the being impatient, and tempted to waste my

Itime in petty controversies and quarrels about the priority of
discovery of this or that fact or theory.  am glad to see

Ithat E. de Beaumont has reiterated in more explicit terms

all those general views which expect to overthrow, intoxi

cated, perhaps, by Sedgwick's eulogy, who was carried away

Iby the novelty and dashing assertions of E. de Beaumont.
    Monday. -- have been writing a few sentences for my work,
and reading ' Don Quixote,' which is provided by the librarian
here. We shall have a third night of it in the river, which

we must not complain of, as we have had still water the
I Iwhole way.
am convinced that if can but keep my mind
Imoderately fixed to the publication of my volume, that
Ishall outdo expectation in this volume ; but as the part am
Inow about is of necessity, from the present state of the

science, exceedingly controversial, and as am contending at
once seven or eight distinct points with no less persons than
Sedgwick, Conybeare, E. de Beaumont, and three or four
Iothers, you may well suppose how very carefully must
Iweigh every word and opinion.
                                see by the new articles

348  SIR CHARLES LYELL,                         chap. xiv.

just out that they are beginning to differ from one another,
Ias well as from me, and shall make new schisms among
Ithem by this volume.
                          shall be as careful as possible not

to controvert uncivilly.
     ILondon : November 2, 1831. -- have most to tell you when
Iin town, but least time to spare for writing.
                                                fled from the

I Iconfusion of unpacking, to the dinner of the Liimsean Club,

which is always amusing. In a few minutes forgot was
just off the sea, and heard all the news. Old Lambert,

Prince Cimitelli, old Caley, and myself were all that sat

down; an unusually thin meeting, but a merry one. Adjourned

Ito the Society's rooms, and heard a learned botanical paper

by Eobert Brown, on the fructification of the Orchidacese.
Iwas glad to meet my friend Dr. Hooker the botanist, also

Burchell the African traveller, whom had not seen since

his return from the Brazils. Bicheno, Wallich, Curtis, all
had some news to tell me ; a week's reading of reviews and
magazines in Angus, or at the Manse of Misk,9 would have

given me less information about what is now going on, and
coming out, in sciences connected with my department. And

I Ithen, the excitement is so useful ; many inquiries what
precise page had arrived at in print.  was glad to see

Curtis the entomologist, and to compliment the meritorious
but ill-requited author of the most beautiful and scientific

Iwork on insects ever published in England, on the merits of

his last number, which had found on my table. The great

news of the day among the collectors, was the arrival of the

long expected sail-mciker, Cuming, a man who, having
made a little money in trade in Chili, some ten years ago, and
fished up a few new shells, which brought in in London six
or eight guineas each, took it into his head to build a small

sloop, and sail along the American coast and isles of the

Pacific, dredging for shells and corals, and observing their

habits, as also Crustacea and other classes, till he filled four

Ihundred chests of things, numbers of them quite new.
     On my return home, found my chum Broderip glad to
see me. After a morning's work, went with Broderip to the

sail-maker's, and found not a few eagles gathered together
around the carcass -- Lambert, Gray, Children, &c. His

     9 Pr, Fleming's Manse in Fife.

1 33 1.  GEOLOGICAL CLUB DINNER.  349

treasures only half unpacked, but much that was interesting.
Dinner at Club of Geological Society, as usual an agreeable

meeting. Murchison in the chair, agreed to meet on Friday,
and tell me lots of news. Greenough, Broderip, Pringle,
Stokes, Basil Hall, and strangers. Basil Hall brought his
newly purchased autograph of the cAntiquary/ by Sir Walter
Scott, and two pages of preface lately written by Scott at
Portsmouth, in his own handwriting, giving his reasons to
Basil Hall why he liked the c Antiquary' better than all his

novels. A paper of Dr. Turnbul], Christie's, on Sicily, led

IMurchison to call me up, and had the field much to myself.
I told you that a temporary cloud came over me in Edin

Iburgh at seeing the controversial storm gathering against

me in the horizon; but must say it was dispelled by

Ithis meeting, for never on the first meeting, after my first

volume appeared, did hear it so much spoken of. Fitton
declared to the meeting his conviction that my theory of
earthquakes would ultimately prevail. Greenough made
one of his ultra-sceptical speeches, saying that once he onty
doubted what ' stratification ' meant, but now he was quite
at a loss to conceive the meaning of the term < sea ' in
geology, and he thought no one could explain what ' the sea '
meant. Fitton gave him some hard hits for thus fio\htino-
shadows, and c assisting the cause of darkness ' by doubtino-
elementary truths. Basil Hall, with more humour, said as a

sailor, that he felt alarmed at hearing the existence of a oreat
mass of waters (for he would no longer give offence by talkino-
of ' the sea ') called in question, &c. He then eulogised my
book, and after the meeting two American gentlemen came
up to be introduced, and poured out a most flattering com
ment on its popularity in the United States ; but what was
much more to the purpose than this sort of incense, they

Igave me many facts bearing on my theories respecting part

of North America. did not get back till near one, and then
a great fire in Holborn, which was too grand a sight to lose
detained me three-quarters of an hour.

   I2 Raymond Buildings, Gray's Inn: November 5, 1831.

After a good morning's work, went with Lonsdale * to see

     1 William Lonsdale, b. 1794, d. 1861, assistant secretary and curator of the
(geological Society. ' To no one man has our body been more indebted

350     SIR CHARLES LYELL.                                  CHAP. XIV.

the panoramas of Quebec and Bombay, and instead of re
creation got into a long argument with him. He took up

the cudgels in favour of Elie de Beaumont and Sedgwick,
Ihut made him abandon some points and doubt on ah the
Irest.  returned to work, but after this went bj invitation

to drink tea with the Murchisons, and was thus kept to
Igeology till half-past eleven o'clock at night, so that after

my work this morning found my head ache, and thought

to relieve myself by going up to Dr. Horsfield,2 who lives

Iover me, to see his insects, which he studies every Saturday.

Here was excited again, for the Doctor was just re

Iturned from Ley den, and told me that he found Rein ward

(Professor of Zoology, believe) just publishing a grand
work in Dutch on the East Indian Archipelago, with

a geological introduction, in which he declares his entire
adherence to all my ' Principles/ and illustrates them by

facts of recent elevation, &c, snch as, Horsfield says, will

startle all but me. Now you must know that Horsfield is

Ione of those heretics of whose conversion never had any
Ihope, so was amused at the pains he had taken to shake
Eeinward from the true faith, but all in vain. As Horsfield

has a prodigious opinion of Eeinward, and as he has that

natural turn for philosophical pursuits that renders a person

somewhat restless when in a state of doubt as to the explan

ation of grand phenomena, he has been reading Leonhard

and other works to strengthen himself in his old faith, and

declared himself still an unbeliever, though he wants amaz
ingly to read my second volume. You will be glad to hear
that your knowledge of Dutch will be so useful to me by-and-
by. Mrs. Murchison was in high spirits, and has evidently
enjoyed their tour,3 and above all the York meeting. Her

whether for his publications, his conduct of our affairs, or the zealous and
disinterested labour he bestowed in aiding and improving the works of his
associates.' -- Leonard Horner, Geological Society's Proceedings.

    2 Dr. Thomas Horsfield, F.R.S., b. 1773, d. 1859. For some years keeper
of the Museum of the East India Company. His contributions to entomology
and other branches of zoology are well known.
3 During this expedition Mr. Murchison discovered that the Upper Silurian

rocks (then called Upper Grauwacke) were stratigraphically  conformable with
the lowest members of the Old Red Sandstone formation,      and that its dif

ferent beds could be recognised from their containing peculiar fossils, Mur
chison here laid the foundation for his great work on the Silurian system.

1831. BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT YORK.            351

real delight in conehology is of great use to her in taking
away the tedium of long sojourns in out-of-the-way places,

and she had a fair opportunity of collecting. They have

Ifound recent Irish Channel shells in abundance, 300 feet high
on the Lancashire coast !    am delighted, because the

identity of the living species of plants and animals in England
and Ireland made me argue that some great changes in the

distribution of land and sea had taken place in that part within

the modern era. It is clear to me that the muster of nobles,

dignitaries of the Church, and scientific men at York, must
have done great good. A hundred and fifty ladies, and many
of rank, at the evening discussions, must also have ' popu
larised ' scientific pursuits. Lord Morpeth seems to have

acquitted himself with great ability. Murchison made a

capital cruise in the geological way. It is cheering to see

how unabated his ardour is.

On his hearing from me how much your father was geolo

gising, he has determined to write to him some hints about
the geology of Diisseldorf, Cologne, &c, and to point out

some things to be cleared up. The satisfaction he expressed

at hearing that your father was so employed, amused me.
He said very truly that a succinct account of what the Ger

mans have done about that country would be a most accept

Iable boon to us here.             wrote to Whewell, to ask
     November 12. -- This morning
him if he would review me, as Lockhart wishes, in the
' Quarterly.' Murchison has read the first three chapters,

and liked them much. Necker of Geneva, Murchison, and

ILonsdale breakfasted here. Necker expressed great regard
for your father, and inquired about you all.  wish much

Ithat we may be able to pay a visit to him (in Switzerland),

and think he would put me in the best way of seeing parts
of the Alps, where he thinks Elie de Beaumont's grand
theory may be put to the test, and where he thinks it fails

Imost entirely. Chamouni. moreover, is the grandest thing

in Europe, and should like you to see that.

King's College is in good odour. My friend Dodd, author
of 'Autumn on the Ehine,' who declined a chair of English

Iliterature as unprofessional, he being a barrister in practice,
is trying to get a chair of common law made.  want -the

352  SIR CHARLES LYJiLL.                                                                CHAP. XIV.

accession of a man like Dodd, who would strengthen the

gentlemanly tone of the thing, as that is of more importance

even than talent, to success.

     Lord Lansdowne told Murchison yesterday that he had

spelt my first volume from beginning to end in his late

tour.
     November 17. -- We had yesterday an excellent meeting,

both at the Club of the Geological Societ}^ and at Somerset

House. A paper of Count Montlosier on Somma and Ve

Isuvius excited much interest ; we had a famous discussion.

Buckland, Greenough, Fitton, De la Beche, and began, but

ISTecker, on being invited, spoke half an hour most capitally.

I never heard a better lecture. Otter, on seeing me at
IKing's College yesterday, when looked in after Geological
ICouncil, said, ' am glad to see that you show your face here

sometimes.3 He looks very ill ; he is probably too old for such

a work as starting an university, though all has gone on

quietly. There was a discussion at our end of the table

about the costume of the King's College students, some saying

that they ought not to have adopted the gown and cap, and
others defending. As for the Professors, they all wear their

Iown gowns, that is to say, according to the academical de

gree they may happen to have. Thus shall have my
Oxford Master of Arts gown; some have their Bachelor of

Divinity ; in short, the robes are as varied as at College of

old.                               I have not seen her. Wol~
     Mrs. Somerville is returned.

laston says she is looking ill, and attributes it to her anxiety

Iabout Greig,4 who is recovering from a dangerous illness.

Buckland is, think, in pretty good spirits, though certainly

\ery gloomy at times, and croaking about the state of the
country. So are Stokes, Broderip, and many others. A
feeling of insecurity of property has much lessened the de
mand for labour. Lockhart says that an additional stagna

Ition of six months would make every bookseller bankrupt,
teoxocespttroLnogn. gmAsanfoar npdubMliucraraffyair;s,bIuthathveis,longsulpepftosoef,f  is a little
                                                                                        troubling

myself about them, as knowing that one engaged in scientific
pursuits has as little to do with them in point of influencing

     4 Woronzow Greig;, her son by her former marriage.

1831. DINNER AT CHELSEA.                                 353

their career, as with, the government of the hurricanes or

earthly motion ; and if one becomes annoyed, there is an

end of steady work. Even Whewell is frightened about the

Reform Bill.
    London : November 20. -- We had a most agreeable muster

at Stokes's ordinary this morning, at which Buckland,

IBrown, Basil Hall, Broderip and were at breakfast. All
Iof a sudden took it into my head to go and dine at Chelsea,
Iif found Mrs. Somerville well enough. Seeing her book on
Ithe table, led me to think of this, which had before re
Isolved not to do, till knew she was better. Found Stokes
Igoing to Athenaeum, who agreed to go on to Chelsea, if

would stop at the club ten minutes. Crawfurd there fastened

on me, and told me about a book on India, which he is

coming out with, and of a geological chapter he wishes to

write. On our way we looked in to see Chantrey's fine
statue of Canning. Is it not provoking, that just after

Chantrey has built a most splendid and truly elegant house,

Lord Grosvenor's agent has persisted in building just
opposite, in spite of remonstrances, a vile, tall steam-engine

chimney ! ?Tis enough to sour any one for the rest of his
Idays, but Chantrey is luckily not atrabilious.
                                                 found Mrs.
ISomerville quite glad to get me to dine there, and spent a
most pleasant evening, and stayed very late. All kinds of

offers from her and the girls, to be useful to me in getting
Iup my lectures. Mrs. Somerville is looking oldish.
                                                        think
I Ithe book has done her no good, and when see it, am sure
that such a work  must have been too
one in the time.                       great an effort   for an}^
                   It was a gigantic  undertaking.      Babbage

was offered knighthood, but declined, not as underrating it,
but because he had written on the necessity of titles bein^

given, &c, and it would look ill if it appeared that he had

done so for personal considerations. Martha and Mary S.
         beautiful collection of
         22. -- have been this
have made a                       seaweeds at   Bognor.  who
                                  evening with  Necker,
   INovember
Iwill, hope, on his return from Aberdeen, visit Kinnordy.
He has been planning an expedition to Chamouni and the
Vallorsine for us; and as all the points, some of the most

Ipicturesque, as well as geological of the Alps, which ono-ht
most to see, are the same to which he took his mother an
vol. 1.
                  AA

354               SIR CHARLES LYELL.                      chap. xiv.

oldish woman, last year, it is clear that you can go to them.

ITalking oyer Chain ouni has revived my admiration for that

region, to which all the rest of Europe which have seen is
poor in comparison, for grandeur and sublimity of scenery.

Somerville was remarking that De la Beche's book is un

I Iintelligible, and that must write an introduction, which
I Itold him intended to do. Anticipating a small class,
have been thinking that the only way to ensure my not

letting down my reputation in my lectures is to determine

to write so many chapters for an easy introductory volume.

ITou cannot think how much my spirits have risen, so far as
the lectures are concerned, since   saw more clearly than

formerly how easy they will be. Somerville's wine and

coffee, and the excitement of walking home with Stokes,

Iwho kindly volunteered entering on what my introductory

lecture ought to be upon, made my head ache, and hardly

got any sleep, and am almost good for nothing to-day. Mrs.
Somerville begged me to send a copy of her book to Bonn,

Iwhich is going in the parcel to Von Oeynhausen.
     December 2. -- had a hard task yesterday to keep my
resolutions of severe temperance, for Murchison was so

Iunwell, that he asked me to preside at the Geological Society

club dinner, and take his friend Colin Mackenzie to it ; so

was obliged to push about the bottle, and to sham taking a

fair quantity of wine. Our numbers were thinned by the
Eoyal Society Anniversary and by the rain, but it went off

well, and in the evening brilliantly. A sort of geographical

paper, long and dull, and really of no value whatever, was to

have been read by my travelling companion Captain Cooke,
now again in Spain. We had staved it off till we had read
out the others. But when your father's letter to the Presi
dent came about the new isle north-east of Pantellaria,5 we
determined to shove Cooke's into the coal-hole without
ceremony. So when Turner had read some passages, Mur

chison   (for he  was recovered     enough to take the    chair) said
to the  meeting                     not be doing justice  to Captain
                   ' that it would

Cooke to go on, since there were certain maps and illustra
Itions which ought to accompany, not yet arrived : that it was
begun, just that it might keep its place, &c.                          then

     5 Graham Island, visited by M. Hoffmann, the Prussian geologist.

i83i.  GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.                                    355

officiated as secretary, Broderip being ill, and read Hoffman's

Ipaper,6 which produced an animated discussion, into which
entered largely. The structure of Pantellaria, the wasting

away of the new isle, the par-boiled fish, the floating cinders,

the clefts at Sciacca, &c, all afforded subjects for Fitton,

myself, De la Beche, Dr. Babington, Murchison, and others

to dilate upon. The President was knocked up by his

extreme imprudence. He went to dine with thirty other

F.B.S.s at Kensington, with H.R.H.,7 and came home with

ICaptain Smyth, who seduced him to a smoking bout till three

o'clock next morning ! punch believe accompanying. He

was half dead at the council. This morning he persuaded

me to go in his carriage with him to see the (Eningen

freshwater tortoise (achelonia) which Bell, the dentist, has
got over for his museum. After the paper of Hoffman's was

over, old Whishaw came up to me and said c he never heard

one more interesting, and he thought Horner had drawn it

up with great clearness and judgment.' He and Fitton
Imentioned having received letters from your father.
                                                              told
IMurchison long ago that meant to dedicate vol. ii. to him,

Inot only as President of the Geological Society, but because
  use our joint and unpublished notes on Auvergne in the

volume, and because we had together part of the best and

Ilongest geological tour which ever made, my tour which
Imade me what am in theoretical geology, or completed my
Iviews on that. Scrope came here this morning, full of the

frightful state of the country. For my part am, in regard
to politics, in the happy condition of Voltaire's gardener :
' Travailler sans raisomier, c'est le seul rnoyen d'etre

heureux.'

    December 6, 1831. -- A letter from Whewell, expressing his
delight at my three hundred pages, and that he had actually
begun a review of me for Q. P., excited me to work with

spirit ; and after two days thinking of the delay which the
completing the subject in one volume more would occasion

Ito the getting out the large part already done, resolved to
Isee if could get it out as a volume by itself. Told Broderip
I should dedicate it to him. He was more overjoyed than 1

       6 Drawn up for the Geological Society by Mr. Horner.
       7 The Duke of Sussex, President of the Royal Society.

       AA2

356         SIR CHARLES LYELL.                    chap. xiv.

have seen him many a day, and the day after he declared

Ithat if a legacy of 5,000L had been left him, it would have

given him less pleasure. So must explain to Murchison
that the third volume is the one he ought to have dedicated
to him, as it is the part in which he is strong, and where his
Iname will appear.

     December 9, 1831. -- am just returned from a very late
            the Eoyal Society, at which
sitting of                               the President's  (the
Duke of     Sussex) speech was read.                      very
                                         It touched on

delicate ground, his election, and his conception of his duties,

and why he thought himself fit for the office. Yet there is

Ireally not a word that one could wish altered. It raises him

much in our estimation, and know few public men who in

so delicate and personal an affair could have acquitted them
selves so well. His allusion to Herschel and his father was

Iexcellent. ' Sir John Herschel, to whom had the honour,
I Ifor cannot call it the misfortune, to be opposed.' When
Iget the annals or proceedings of E. S. will send them.
You will read the Duke's speech with interest, if you have

Iever heard of the feuds and schisms which our contested
election gave rise to.  was quite amused to find, from con

Iversation with Whewell last night, how much his tone is
altered in regard to my anti-catastrophe system.  am sure

that, when volume three is out, there will be few of the
paroxysmal school left-- comparatively few -- and they will be

far more moderate.

   IDecember 12, 1831. --Dawson Turner was at Athenaeum

last night, with whom had some talk; also two good hours'

confab with Scrope, who has a most active intellectual mind
--alive to everything, politics, political economy, Hume,

IBerkeley and Eeid's metaphysics, geology, Irving, the
Eoweites, and progress of fanaticism.    went this morning

to thank Otter for a volume of Horsley's sermons, one of

which on the discrepancy of Genesis with certain philosophical

discoveries is very striking, and perhaps the most straight

forward, manly, and to-the-point declaration that any
eminent divine has made.
     December 13. -- The Athenaeum was very entertaining last

night, so many members of the honourable House coming

there, after the new Eeform Bill was moved, and giving their

1831.  VISIT TO JERMYNS.                     357

Iopinions pro and con.  went to call on Mrs. Lockhart, who
is expecting to lose her eldest boy, poor ' little John,' every day.

I made a great blunder in missing the Geographical Society
Ilast nighty through forgetf ulness, where should have got

some sound information, instead of hearing politicians

discuss the interminable bill. Young said, c Scrope, nothing
will please you, because you are a philosopher half a century

in advance of your age, who wants to Owenise the representa

tion, and divide the constituency of the country into parallelo

Igrams.' We all laughed at the sally of the old beau, for it

hit my friend hard. You will like Scrope, am sure, very

much. Dined at the Geological Society club. Majendie, the

famous French physiologist, sent by the Institute to Sunder
land about cholera, dined with us. He complains of the

public hospital. Agrees well with the opinion which you sent

me about Mittau, that in general the less you do, the more

you leave it to nature, the better. A pleasant club. Stokes,
Greenough, Buckland, Lord Cole, Broderip, and a few more.

Murchison was pheasant-shooting in the countiy, but cut in

for the meeting. A short paper on Springs, and another by
Mr. Hutton on the Whin Sill of Yorkshire, drew up Buckland,

Greenough, Fitton, Murchison, and De la Beche ; and as they

Iseemed much disposed to go on for ever, Buckland speaking

five times, but not once too often, was glad to sit quiet,
having held forth at such length on the new isle, &c, last

time. Mrs. Somerville has just sent me the most peremp
Itory mandate ever received from her, to come there next
I ISunday.
       know not who is to be there.          was sorry to

miss the Brahmin Hamahoun Roy last week. Went to

Beaufort at Admiralty, to go over a new map, showing

Eiiodern and ancient coast line of Adriatic.
     Sunday. --Went with Stokes and Broderip to look over the

splendid collection of South American shells brought home

Iby Cuming.
    Jermyns : 8 December 24, 183 1 . -- found them here all quite

well yesterday, and Marianne and Caroline looking really
Iquite blooming and happy and pretty. We are just going out
for a walk together.    have announced to them my decided

wish to get free of the professorial chair, and at the same

                      8 Near Romsey, Hants.

358  s/R CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. XIV.

 time recommended my aunt to send cousin Gilbert to King's

 College, to prepare him for Cambridge. The examination of

 the forty-one mathematical and classical students, and the

 various lectures of Hall, Austin, and Otter, have given me

Ian exceedingly high idea of the general education system at

 King's College, and am certain that when once it is known
 the increase will be very great. There is emulation, a
 genteel set of youths, most of them going to Oxford and

 Cambridge, and three elegant scholars and gentlemen.

IConybeare was at the Royal Society on Thursday. On my

 hinting that should probably get free from King's College

 next spring (you remember the move he made towards my

Igetting the chair), he was almost sore, and said he trusted

 should think better of it, that it was a fine position, &c.
The fact is, Conybeare's notion of these things is what the

English public have not yet come up to ; which, if they had,

the geological professorship in London would be a worthy
aim for any man's ambition, whereas it is now one that the

Imultitude would rather wonder at one's accepting.

     Christmas Day, --Marianne, Carry, and went to Hursley
Church, a long service, and it was a frost, and the church
not over warm. What you say of the Lutheran equality is
certainly a striking contrast to that most aristocratic form
of Christianity which has been established in England.
Gibbon Wakefield says in his pamphlet, amongst a long list
of causes which make the poor feel an aversion to the higher
classes : ' Even in church, where some of them preach that
all are equal, they sit on cushions, boarded, mattedr and
sheltered from the wind and the vulgar gaze, whilst the
lower order must put up with a bare bench or a stone floor,

which is good enough for them.' We got out of the
carriage when we were half way back, about two miles, when

we got into fine forest scenery, so we had a delightful walk
on the fine gravel road, and a bright sunny frosty day. Just

Ias we were going to dine, the children raised a shout of

< Tom, declare ! ' and a gig drove up. Great was my surprise

to find that it was my own brother Tom, whose ship had

come yesterday from the Downs to Portsmouth, who, finding
himself within three and a half hours' drive of Jermyns, had
just had time to get leave, boat it ashore, hire a gig, and

i83t. LETTER FROM MURCH1S0N.                                             359

cut in for our five o'clock Christmas dinner. My aunt was quite

Ioverjoyed, and we had a very merry, cheerful evening. shall

stay to-morrow and return on Tuesday, and be thoroughly
idle all the time. Eleanor says ' Fanny had a cheerful letter
from Harry. He says he never had been in such good health

since he had been in India. The regiment was stationed at

Secrora, in the province of Oude, one of the very best stations

in India, and he was thinking of not taking his furlough till

they left that, which would make up his twelve years. We

are going a long walk, and Marianne has proposed taking
me on this fine frosty day to see where c the chalk hills ' join
the sands, &c, which this house is on.

    London : December 29, 1831. --A letter from Murchison,

concurring most warmly in the propriety of my cutting

IKing's College after the first course. ' look to you as my
Isuccessor as President of the Geological Society.
                                                                         wish

Phillips may become Professor of Geology at King's College.

ITouching the book, quite approve of your dedicating this
Ipart to Broderip, but shall be not a little mortified if any

delay, whether caused by devils or angels, should retard the

Ipublication of the third part beyond my consulate, inas

much as had in the pride of my heart calculated (after what

Iyou told me) on this dedication, as markiug an epoch in my

life, of which am justly proud, by the distinction of all

others most flattering to me, this tribute from my colleague

and friend.' Another letter was from Whewell, followed the

day after by his review of my book. Though it is not so

spirited in style,, nor so rich in thought and original matter

as that in the c British Critic,' 9 it is very good, enters com

pletely into my conception of the subject, sees the bearing of

the whole on geology, and explains it in a clear way. Sir

Walter Scott's health improved on his voyage to Malta, but
they feted him there too much, and he has rather relapsed.

Mrs. Lockhart is quite overcome at the loss of little John,

and sees no one.          have been walking back from

  IDecember 31, 1831. --
IHampstead on a fine frosty night.
                                    feel quite at home at

    9 Review in British Critic on the Prmcij)les of Geology , vol.  i.,  by the
Rev. William Whewell.

360          SIR CHARLES LYELL.                      chap. xiv.

I24 Church Eow.1 Mrs. Mallet says, < am afraid if you do
Inot retain your Professor's chair you will not live in London
by-and-by.'  said it was partly a fear of that, that first

induced me to court some official place, which shou]d oblige
Ime to be in the metropolis of science, for dreaded it becom
Iing prudent to live elsewhere, which knew would be giving
Iup my career for ever.
                         talked with them already over the

joros and cons like old friends. What a cheerful counten

ance hers is ! there is such a happy look, as may gladden any

I Ione who talks with her.                           should

--(If could secure a handsome profit in my work,
feel more free from all responsibility in cutting my cables at

King's College. Do not think that my views in regard to

Iscience are taking a money-making, mercantile turn. What
   want is, to secure the power of commanding time to

Iadvance my knowledge and fame, and at the same time to

feel that in so doing am not abandoning the interests of

my family, and earning something more substantial than
I Ifame.
         am never so happy as when at the end of a week
Ifeel have employed every day in a manner that will tell to
Ithe rest of my life, and last week will, think, be one of
them. ^

             1 Residence of John Lewis Mallet, Esq.

1832. CONVERSATION WITH BABB AGE.                       361

CHAPTER XV.

JANUARY-MAT 1832.

CONVERSATION WITH BABBAG-E--MRS. LOCKHART --VISIT TO DR. FITTON AT
    HENDON -- DINNER AT MR. MALLET'S AT HAMPSTEAD-- ENTOMOLOGY --
    ANNIVERSARY DINNER OF THE GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY --PARTY AT MUR-
    CHISON'S -- SEDGWICK DECLINES A LIVING -- CAPTAIN BASIL HALL--ZOO
    LOGICAL FARM AT KINGSTON HILL -- BUTTERFLIES -- ON RELIGIOUS
    TOLERATION --LECTURES AT KING'S COLLEGE-- REFORM BILL.

     [In January 1832 the second volume of the ' Principles ' was pub
lished, and a new edition of the first volume, which was already out of
print. In this year he married, and made a tour up the valley of the

Bhine, and visited the Yalorsine on his way home through Switzer

land.                                                   and revisited

    In 1833 he gave lectures at the Poyal Institution,
the Phine and Bavaria.

     He received the gold medal from the Poyal Society for his work
on the ' Principles of Geology.']

JOUENAL.

IJanuary 6, 1832. -- am writing in an unaccustomed place,
the room in which Babbage's celebrated machine is con
structing -- Southward; for having met him, he proposed to
me to take a walk here, and has left me while he transacts
Ibusiness. He said, * am going to give a course of lectures
Iat Cambridge.' ' How many ? 5 <Four.5 ' thought you
I Itold me it was loss of time.5 ' So did ; but
                                                        am coming
I Iout with a pamphlet on the Political Economy of Machinery,
and mean to discharge it first in a lecture.            would not

have gone through the work that these four have cost me,

for many times my professional income.5 He said that he

Iwould advise me to try a course of lectures before judged

of the degree of interruption they would give me -- that he

·362  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                              chap. xv.

Ibelieved the council of King's College would be glad to retain

me, even if would only agree to give six lectures in the year.
As Fitton strongly recommended me not to give it up so

I Ilong as they permit me to do as like, incline at present to
Igive Otter notice by-and-by that will not lecture next
Iautumn, and that shall probably not lecture till after

IEaster next year, and must be at liberty then to give as few

lectures as like. My second volume is to be laid upon the

Itable of the Geological Society this evening.

      went hj appointment to Greenough's, Regent's Park,
to get instructions respecting a recent formation examined
by his friend J. Burton on the shores of the Red Sea. On

Imy return called on the Lockharts, and after a confab with
Ihim, went up to her. She was looking much worn by
Ianxiety, but never saw her appear to greater advantage.
IShe brought down ' baby,' a child of four years old, who
broke her arm the other day -- getting on very well.  heard

a long description of the accident. She showed me an ode

of ten lines written by Wordsworth on her father's leaving

IEngland, in the highest strain of poetry and very original.
  shall try to get a copy some day, as it would delight you.
IAnother longer ode by the same, on the same subject, was

good, but in a commoner style and lighter strain. Just as
was going, ' Conversation Sharp ' came in. He began to rail

Iagainst Clubs. ' Well,5 said Mrs. Lockhart, ' don't know
Iwhat should do without the Athenseum. Lockhart is never
I Iso entertaining as the days he looks in there, and that is five

times a week, but don't let him stay there long.5 have
been getting on to-day pretty fairly. Babbage and Fitton

were so delighted at seeing my volume dedicated to a private

friend, instead of some great man, that in the effusion of

their feeling of friendship for Broderip, and their anti-aristo

Icratic spirit of independence, they came up, and each shook

me by the hand, saying, e am as much obliged to you as if

 had done me a favour.5
London: January 7, 1832.
Iyou                      --  received a letter from Tom
Ithis morning, sent when he was just sailing.
                                               shall do all
I can steadily for him, but poor fellow he has small chance.
A better officer or man never lived, or who has roughed
                                                                 ifc

more, from being shipwrecked when nearly all were lost, to

1832.        VISIT TO DR. FITTON.           363

every description of tyranny in the captain. His present
one is so violent that he has broken more than one flve-
guinea telescope on the heads of the sailors, and sworn at

Ihis first lieutenant before the crew. His health suffered in

such a manner on that vile African station, that dread the

IWest Indies.
       am very fully persuaded of one part of Mr. Cockbum's
advice to }tou--to marry one who earned his bread by his

I I Ilabour. At least am sure, that unless can feel that am

working to some decided end, such as that of fame, money,
Ior partly both, cannot be quite happy, or cannot feel a
Istimulus to that strenuous application without which
Ishould not remain content.
                             am told by most authors that,

though slow work at first, yet, with a name, one can command
Ithe booksellers.
I Ithough slowly.
             certainly feel that my power is increasing,

             fancy that if am allowed to do little for
Iseveral years, shall by degrees get up a course of respectable

length without much fatigue or loss of time ; and knowing, as
I do, that it is a science that is only beginning to unfold its
I If Iwonders, hope to continue it always.
                                            can only earn

Isome cash to enable us to travel, it will be a grand point for
both of us.  propose this summer to go up the Ehine to

Basle, see the Falls of Schaffhausen, then north of Switzer

land or a peep at it, then Chamouni, and take a run over the

Simplon, returning perhaps by Mont Cenis or some other

Ipass.
    Mill Hill9 Hendon : Sunday. -- came by coach to this
place after breakfast, passing through Hampstead. Dr. Fitton
is residing here, at Mr. Wilberforce's house, a most de

lightful residence, eleven miles from London. Mrs. Fitton

and children quite well ; six children. Conybeare and Bab-

bage the only visitors ; most agreeable ; but not lying
fallow. Fitton pronounces me to be rather thin. We have
had great fun in laughing at Babbage, who unconsciously
jokes and reasons in high mathematics, talks of the ' alge
Ibraic equation ' of such a one's character, in regard to the
truth of his stories, &c.    remarked that the paint of

Fitton's house would not stand, on which Babbage said,
' No ; painting a house outside is calculating by the Index

minus one/ or some such phrase, which made us stare ; so

364         SIR CHARLES LYELL.                                 chap. xv.

Ithat lie said gravely, by way of explanation, ' That is to say,

  am assuming revenue to be a function.' All this without

pedantry, and he bears being well quizzed for it. He says
that when the reform is carried he hopes to be ' the secu

larised Bishop of Winchester.' They were speculating on

what we should do if we were suddenly put down upon the

planet Saturn. Babbage said, ' You, Mr. Lendon (the

clergyman there, and schoolmaster, and a scholar), would set

about persuading them that some language disused in Saturn

for 2,000 years was the only thing worth learning ; and you,

Conybeare, would try to bamboozle them into a belief that
it was                                                            y
        to  their interest  to  feed  you for  doing  nothing  !

     Fitton's carriage brought us from Highwood House (the

Icorrect name of his place) to within a mile of Hampstead,

and then Babbage and got out and preferred walking.
Although most enjoyable, yet the staying up till half-past

one with three such men, and the continual pelting of new

ideas, was anything but a day of rest. We were disputing

Isometimes on difficult scientific questions, sometimes on other

topics, Tom Moore's poetry, to wit. cannot recollect Cony-
beare's favourite lines, but it is where Moore says to his
country that his songs on Ireland are not his, but, like ' the

breeze, they wake the magic that is all thine own.' Babbage
Ithought the Irish melodies superior to all the rest, in which

  agree, and Fitton cited these lines : --

            IWhen midst the gay meet

            Those gentle smiles of thine,
            Though still on me they turn most sweet,

            I scarce can call them mine.

            But when to me alone

            IYour secret tears you show,

            Oh, then feel them all my own,
            And claim them as they flow.

I am not the better for drinking hock or Rhine wine there

I' to our friends on the Rhine.' was as temperate as the rest,

but that is not saying much.
     January 13, 1832. --Mrs. Mallet thinks your mother the

most exemplary person she ever met with, for making the
best of everything, and not giving way at difficulties ; and
admires much the courage with which she set out to Bonn

1832. WALK IN HORTICULTURAL GARDEN.                      365

I Iwithout Mr. Horner, in which fully concur.  hope we
shall both of us contrive to cultivate a disposition --which

           said was better  than a fortune of 1,000Z. a
           the bright side
I ID-atvoidlooHkumoen                                    year
                            of things.  think shall,      and

believe you will.

Fitton tells me that they had serious thoughts of putting

me out of the Council, in order to give me the Wollaston

Imedal, but am glad that this subterfuge is avoided. Besides,
I would rather avoid at present anything so invidious as a
prize, and it would be against the spirit of Wollaston's
Ibequest.
           went to Lockhart's, and on a solicitor coming in
Ion business, went up to Mrs. Lockhart. After an account
Iof her visit last week with the children to the Horticultural

IfGarden, said : ' you had not been there so lately, we

might have gone together to-day.5 ' Can you take me in on

a Sunday? ' ' Yes.5 'Well, then, I'll go again : it will be
a nice walk this frosty day. Lockhart is going with Mr.
Murchison to see some pictures, and we will go to the

Igarden, and if you can take two ladies, will ask Miss
IAlexander to accompany us.' So marched off with my two

ladies, and they were much pleased. Indeed the gardens

Iare much improved and enlarged in the last five months.

Baby's arm is going on well. At Chelsea found Somer-
ville just recovering from a touch of the gout. They were

Iright glad to see me after three weeks' non-intercourse.

took in my pocket a volume of my work, but found that Dr.
Somerville had read it right through, and made notes on it.
IShe is looking well, and so are the girls. A walk home in
a bright moonlight did me much good.    looked in at the
Athenseum on my return, to see if any companion was there,

I Iand found Stokes just ready to walk home with me.
forgot to mention, among my lucubrations, calling on Scharf

and seeing a fine piece of scene-painting which he has done
of my panorama of Val del Bove on Etna (nine feet long)
for KMionngd'asy.C--ollWegheewleectllurceasl,leda,ndanodthisergosicnegnigcredaetclyoratotioimnsp.rove
the review. Murchison had pointed out that Om alius
d'Halloy had based part of his new <Elements of Geology*

on the Lamarckian transmutation system, more than a
justification of my having expended so much powder and

366           SIR CHARLES LYELL.                                                       chap. xv.

              it,

                      I

                                              it

                                                       I

                                                    I
shot upon     though did not see O.'s work till had

written my first half. As 0. thinks man existed at the old

coal epoch, and finds authority for in Genesis, expect

Whewell will give him the lash.

     Mrs. Somerville showed me an interesting letter from

Ivory, written on receiving her book. He says astronomy
has gone as far as can in certain lines, till new mode of
              is

                       it

                                                                          a
calculating     invented, and that may be done.
     London:                                                                           met me
              Tuesday, January 17, 1832. -- Sedgwick

to-day, and carried me to his lodging, to show me his maps
made last year, and his summer's work. After you and the
              I

                                       :

                                        T
                                           a

                                                      a

                                                                                    c
Oxonians left us, was kept in Cambridge by a parcel of old

women, who came there on         visit. What think you                                 !

Phillips, R.A., wants me to sit for my picture. Maiden

blushes suffuse my cheeks very handsome, no doubt, to paint

me for nothing, and he says look best in a black stock.
Very dry work geologising in Wales, all primary and old

rocks, like rubbing yourself against grinding stone.'

Henslow was at Linasean. He sent us a beautiful paper

on a hybrid foxglove, with plates published in Cambridge
Transactions, the excellence of which cries shame to Oxford,

which so far behind, that they cannot attempt to get up
     is

Transactions on Physical Science.
     Thursday, 19. -- Went to the Council. Warburton, Sedg

wick, Conybeare, Basil Hal], Murchison, Clift, Broderip, John

Taylor, Turner, Pitton, Greenough. A grand discussion
upon the Wollaston medal, and ended by an admirable
     is

                       '

                                           it
                                               it

                                                              is
                                                                  a
resolution that this year's dividend of the Wollaston fund
should be paid to Lonsdale, to assist him in continuing his
survey of the oolite of England.' We must force him to
undertake field work, or his health will entirely give way,
and he so good an observer, that                                                       sin to chain him

to clerk's work and museum arranging. We had a very full
meeting at the Geological Society, Henslow being there,
and his famous paper on Anglesea incidentally alluded to,
Conybeare got up, and quoted some lines from Pindar on
the feats of the infant Hercules, as he observed that

Henslow's first paper was such masterpiece. At which the
              a
                                                                  '

first of men' rose, and begged to observe, that as mytho
logical allusions were introduced, he must inform them that

1832.  ROYAL SOCIETY.                                     367

Henslow was making his first tour with him, his master in

geology, when he went off on that expedition ; so that, like
Minerva, he had sprung full-armed from the head of Jove !

    January 24. -- A letter from Captain Cooke, R.N., from

Madrid, dated December 1830. He has been geologising

until laid up by a kick from his mule. Government there

Imore civil to strangers, but robberies increase.
     January 25.-- went to Eoyal Society last night, the
fullest and best attended meeting since the Duke was

IPresident : he was not there. Conybeare introduced me to

Dr. Pritchard, whom have cited and eulogised. Chantrey

Isaid, c Lyell, I've not seen you an age. congratulate you on

your new birth, and on being unlike so many of my friends

in not looking older for your hard work/ Wollaston said he

had read to Chapter Thirteen, and was going on most
I Idiligently.
       have not had so many pats on the back
Idon't know when.
                   had a very good day's work yesterday.
I I Ithink never do so much as when have fought a battle
not to go out. The way to do much and not grow old, is

to be moderate in going out, to work a few hours or half-

hours at a time, to have nothing but a pot of porter and a

chop the days you do not feast, and to go to bed at eleven

o'clock. But, above all things, to keep out of the excitement

of politics, which is now raging like a high fever here.

                         COEEESPONDENCE.

                     To Gideon Mantell, Esq.

                                                                                   January IS, 1832.

     My dear Friend,-- Sedgwick is in town, and has been rather,

I should say, wasting his giant strength on a barren primary

district in Wales, which he owns was like c rubbing himself
against a grindstone.' Conybeare is here, and in good
feather and spirits, but does not seem to have made much

Iprogress in his promised work on Geology. Henslow is to

be at the meeting to-night, so much wish we could see you
amongst us. Buckland has also promised to come up.

   IThey say he will give us the Cave book soon, but shall
Ibelieve it when see it. Two or three pages of green sand

fell through Fitton's houv-g'ass, and then to be positively

368  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                                                 chap. xv.

talking of giving it up till next vol. ! after printing some
thing. How lucky your chalk tables came out ! Buckland

is reported to have said to his wife, when she asked him what

Ihe should do for the Bridgewater prize of 1,000Z, c Why, my

dear, if print my lectures with a sermon at the end, it will
be quite the thing/

   I am working hard in the hope of getting out vol. iii.
I I Ibefore go abroad, for if do not, suppose it will not see

the light in a great hurry. Ever most tCruhlyaryleosursL, yell.

     JOUBNAL.

     To Miss Horner,

    London: February 2, 1832. --At the Somervilles' on Tuesday.
They were remarking that it was odd that Chantrey and

Stokes, and Brown the botanist, and Trough ton the optician,

Iand one or two more whom forget, are all blind of one eye.
IMrs. Somerville had nearly finished another volume. fear
that it can hardly sell, because, Sedgwick says, so few men

at Cambridge can go far enough to enter into it. He pro

posed to the Philosophical Society of Cambridge to elect

her, by acclamation, member on receipt of the book, but some

objected to the manner of doing it. Sedgwick says : ' It is

most decidedly the most remarkable work published by any

woman since the revival of learning.5

    February 3. --Just returned from the Geological Society,

having dined at the club, and since taken an active part in
a debate, with Sedgwick, Conybeare, De la Beche, Fitton,
Greenough, and others --which was prolonged unusually till
half-past ten o'clock -- ' on the old and new red sandstone,'

and other dryish subjects, which Adam made entertaining.

The paper was by him. The attendance was quite splendid,

IveryFenburmuaerryou4s.,--aTnod-malol rrtohwebest men     there.        breakfast
                                                  expect  an agreeable

at Stokes's. Captain Hewett is to go there with me, an R.rT.

surveyor, who has been collecting according to my instruc

tions in the North Sea, and wants a lesson from Stokes.
Murchison is to call here on his way, and to talk over some

Isections for a chapter of mine on c the crag,' one of which

1832. DINNER AT HAMPSTEAD.             369

think of borrowing from his last year's note-book. Captain

Hewett called, and went with me to Stokes's, where we met

Brown, Murchison, and Captain King. Both the naval men

gave me many valuable facts in regard to tides, currents, &c.

Hewett has been reading all the nautical or hydrographical

parts of my first volume with a critical spirit, and will

help to correct and amplify for second edition. After
breakfast Murchison came to my rooms to talk over his

speech, and go over on a map my intended tour with you.

IHe stayed long, and thought it imj>ossible to get to Hamp-
I Istead, but thought would try, and they had not sat down
Ito dinner. The party were Dr. and Miss Yellolay,
M. Prevost, Mr. Martin, Mr. Merivale.  thought Yellolay

very agreeable. He spoke with delight of the last meeting of

the Geological, and talked of the early days of the Geological

in Lincoln's Inn Fields, when he and Horner and Laird

were working together, and when the Medico- Chirurgical
Society shared apartments with the Geological. He supposed
that Mr. Horner was now cultivating his old hobby at Bonn,

desired to be particularly remembered to him, and recurred

Iwith enthusiasm as we came home to the old times, and to
Francis Horner, &c.  was much pleased to hear Mrs.

Mallet talk with such amazing delight of the geological

lectures which some time ago Webster delivered at Hamp-
stead. She tells me she could think of nothing else for a

time but geology, and that she has drawings now from

recollections made as notes to those lectures, which she is to

show me some day.

   I have been so wishing that your father was within reach,
Ifor would give him the rough copy of my chapters in MS.,

Iand should be so much benefited by his aid. Brown has

invited me to read some notes and corrections he has made :

this is all one can get from him. He will not help one to

any general views, but if you blunder at all in facts, he will

Icorrect you.
     February 10, 1832. -- am just returned from the Mur-
chisons. My favourite, Mrs. Lockhart, was there. She

told me she had been desperately alarmed for two whole days,
the little dog Spicey having been missing. We are going
together on Friday with the children to the museum in

vol. 1.              bB

370  SIR CHARLES LYELL.          chap. xv.

IBruton Street. Mr. and Mrs. Conybeare, had not seen her
Ifor many years, ten think. She is looking well. Mrs.
Lockhart told me that Hogg was much feted, and told her he
Iwas dennered on for the end of the month, if the grand
denners did not kill him first.  took a very small box of

insects taken, last year at Kinnordy to the Linnsean Society,

and you would have been amused at the sensation created

by a pair of beetles from Catlaw, our highest Grampian near

Kinnordy. They proved new, and belonged to a favourite

family (the carabidce) of a favourite order with all entomolo
Igists (the coleoptera). But will not trouble you with along
Iaccount of this most glorious discovery, of which
                                                    have

already written a full despatch to Eleanor. Mrs. Mallet has

certainly a considerable turn for natural history, for she is
reading my book with more eagerness than most of my

friends. Have just returned from Eoyal Society, where a

paper by my friend Captain Smyth was read, proving that

the new isle did not rise on, or near the shoal, but in water

one hundred fathoms deep. So that Prevost's elevation
crater is in the highest degree improbable or impossible, but

there is nothing strange in a volcano seven hundred or eight

hundred feet high.
     Friday morning. -- Captain Smyth l called immediately

after breakfast, and cut up half my morning, which would

have tried my temper, but for listening to what he had to

Isay about the Eoyal Society, and having renewed by a coze of

two hours an old acquaintance which much prize. His
letters from France have disgusted him with the manner in

which the eminent scientific men have thrown up their

pursuits, and turned place-hunters, even Arago. Smyth has

Ian ardent love for science for its own sake, in which his wife

sympathises most strongly, and know no people who have

less worldly-mindedness and low ambition, and real happiness
and contentment with a small income. Yet it proves that

there is no great decline of science in England, that Smyth

has hardly been a loser even in a pecuniary point of view.

     1 Admiral Smyth, b. 1788, d. 1865. Distinguished for his aftle survey of
the Mediterranean, and later on for his devotion to astionomical science. He
erected an observatory at Bedford, and the accuracy of his observations won

for him the gold medal of the Astronomical Society.

183:. MRS. MALLETS LOVE FOR SCIENCE. 371

IHe might have been hydrographer,   am told, and the
IAdmiralty voted him a sum of 500Z., believe, for his astro

nomical observations.

    February 13, 1832. --Young Murray tells me Mrs. Somer-

ville's book does not sell at all, and that Brougham had made

great professions, both to him and his father, of what he

would do to push it, whereas he has not taken the slightest

pains to help it. The surprising and fine part of the work is,

that everything which she there shows she so perfectly

knows, was acquired for mere pleasui*e, just as others read a

poem. The State might award her 55000Z. for the benefit
conferred by a woman who could thus teach what Johnson

justly called 'the most overbearing of all aristocracies, that

of mathematicians,' how most of them can be equalled and

surpassed by a lady who was merely reading for her amuse

ment. It is true that there is not much display of

inventive power in the book --not that kind of power, for

example, which enabled Babbage to invent his machine,, but

Ithere is some understand.
   I expect that in the course of the next ten years the

Iseeds which have sown in regard to the action of modern
causes will come up in an abundant crop, and stifle all the
school who delight in what they call c the poetic mystery ' of
Igeological causes. For T find every day the hydrographers
are coming to me for instructions.  have just drawn up

some for Captain Fitzroy, who has my book, and is surveying
in South America. Captains Hewett, Beaufort, King, Vedal,
and others, are in continual communication. There has been
:i little talk of getting a bust from Chantrey of Mrs. Soiner-
ville, to be put up in the Eoyal Society at their expense.
Mrs. Mallet showed me her geological drawings and sec
I Itions, which are very well copied, and am sure
Isoon make her a geologist.                        could

                             was regretting you were not
staying with her when she attended Webster's lectures.
IShe observed, ' When one has for a long time been remarking

and wondering at a thing, as had, at chalk and chalk flints
at Margate, the first gleam one gets on such a subject is so
highly interesting.' Now the fact is that most people are
as a friend of Stokes said, who was bothered with people
wondering at the comet in 1811, and talking of nothing

B li 2

372  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                      CHAP. XV.

else. 'Why/ said he, 'have these people thought of the

heavens for the first time ? have they always taken the stars

for granted ? ' Most people would take a chalk flint/or granted,
and if they had thought and doubted enough of what it
could be to be delighted when told it was often a silicified
sponge, it shows that they had minds apt for cultivating

INatural History, and prone to inquire into c the causes of
things ' --which people  believe are born with in very dif

ferent degrees, not by any means in proportion to the talents

Ithey may happen to have for other pursuits.
     Did tell you that a Belfast Professor of Divinity, Edgar,
has been denouncing an unfortunate Dr. Drummond, who

gave lectures on geology in the Eoyal College there, for
having declared that ' the changes proved with tolerable cer

tainty by geology must have occupied time to which our

historical eras were as nothing ;' and then the Professor wrote
to me, as Professor of King's College, to know if the lecturer
or he was right, expressing great alarm for Christianity if
Isuch doctrines were true.
                            shall not go to Murchison's to
Inight, for am getting round again, and will be very quiet,

Iand to-morrow shall do a great day's work again.
     February 19. -- On Friday went to the General Meeting

and the Anniversary Dinner of the Geological Society, at
the Crown and Anchor -- a splendid meeting. Near the

President sat Lords Milton, Morpeth, Cavendish ; Sir John

Malcolm, Sir J. Herschel, Sir J. Johnston, M.P., Sir E.

Yyvyan, Sir C. Lemon, and other M.P.s. Literature repre

sented by Hallam, Lockhart, Sotheby, &c. Geologicals--
Buckland, Conybeare, Fitton, Greenough, Sedgwick. Then
from Cambridge, Whewell, and many other good men. All
the best geological residents in town. Murchison was ill,
Ibut got through the fatigue very respectably indeed. All the
speeches were short, and many of them able.  was glad

when mine was over, but Murchison made my reply easy,

by giving me something to say off-hand, as he told them he

Ishould say nothing of my book till the evening ; and told
Ithem should follow the President's example, in thinking

that they would have enough of me if they heard of me once

in a day. Hallam asked to be introduced, and talked of
Bonn friends. Ferguson of Eaith asked me to walk with

1832. BUST OF MRS. SOMERVILLE.                373

him from the tavern to Somerset House, and asked after

you all. There were about one hundred and thirty at the

Idinner, and a hundred of them picked men. When came
Iup here on Wednesday morning, found your father in town.

He drank tea with me in the evening. The Royal Society

has actually engaged Chantrey to make a bust of Mrs.
Somerville -- a very gracious proceeding -- and they sent a
deputation to communicate their wish that she would sit

Ifor it. At Cambridge, too, am told it has been decided
Ithat it shall be a class-book. So hope it will sell, though

Islowly, and certainly it will now be useful.
        heard this morning that Senior means to give up not
only the chair of Political Economy   at King's College, but
to abandon the course of lectures he  had promised --nine in

number; his reason being that he is appointed Commis
Isioner for inquiring into Irish Tithes, &c.
                                              shall consider
ISenior's withdrawing as the loss of the man whom had
most satisfaction of being a colleague with, as one of known

talent, and well known at Oxford.

    March 16, 1832. --An excellent party at Murchison's last
night-- many at dinner, and the rest came early, and evi
dently to a thing they enjoyed --very select. ' The first of

men, Adam/ alias Sedgwick ; Mrs. Somerville, the first of
women, not of the blue ; Schlegel, Brewster (now Sir David),
Babbage, Dr. Somerville, Conybeare; Lords Morpeth and

Wentworth (Lord Milton's son), and Upton his tutor; Sir
John Johnston, M.P. for Yorkshire, and his lady, who wTas a

Miss Vernon Harcourt ; a sister of hers, a very pretty lively

girl. Sedgwick as usual was in rhapsodies with her, and

Italked to me of her all the way home.
        put my name down yesterday for two guineas to Mrs.
Somerville's bust. About 80/. subscribed--200/. required.

It will soon be filled up, and if not, Chantrey says he would

happily put down the rest himself.

     Murchison is one who has worked at science chiefly for

the rewards, but not entirely, for if he had had no pleasure
in it he would have failed. Sedgwick and Conybeare for the

Ipleasure chiefly. What shall always cherish, is a love for
Iscience, rather than its rewards ; but indulge the hope of

profit, as the best earnest of usefulness, and also of protec

aV4  SIR CHARLES LYELL.     chap. xv.

tion against its becoming a duty to accept some offer of an

Iuncongenial situation.
     Dr. Wollaston and Mrs. Somerville, of whom have seen

I Imuch, were very useful in c mortifying ' in me much of the

vanity which formerly had, and think they were two

kindred minds, and ought to have been united. She has

done a real service to science, by showing many who are

proud of inferior achievements what can be done by one of

Ino pretensions. Of course there are some who are jealous
of the homage paid to her.  hear every week of some one

Iwho says : c What has Mrs. Somerville done in the way of

invention? what is she but an expounder of La Place? '
Icannot judge of her inventive talents as displayed in this

work, and don't suppose she has exercised them, but she

has worked in all that has been done since La Place, and

doing that is an enormous work. Undoubtedly the highest

honours are due to original discoveries and inventions, and

nothing is so rare as inventive talent, which Wollaston for

one possessed ; but her introduction proves she has it, and
how little hers has been called into action I At least there

are not live persons in this country that could have written

her book, if that number.

     Sedgwick has declined a living of 1,100<L a year offered

Iby Brougham, on the ground of not being able to retain
his professorship with it.  hardly rejoice at it, except for

the cause of science. As a votary of geology, Sedgwick of

course must not exchange a fellowship of 430 Z. a year, and a

chair of 200Z., for a cure of souls of 1,100?. It was merely a

question of marriage : as a bachelor, he would be mad to

exchange a college life, and his position in the University

and in science, for becoming a country parson. Some will

say that Sedgwick is old enough now to remain a bachelor.

He is forty-seven, and from what he told me of his hopes and

feelings on the subject of matrimony a year and a half ago,
I believe he would be much happier, and would eventually
Ido much more for geology.  warmly remonstrated with

Murchison for advising Sedgwick to decline; and on giving

my matrimonial reasons, got finely quizzed, as you may sup

Ipose, and they have been bantering me ever since. As to

Sedgwick getting a stall, hope he will. It should have been

1832.         PROFESSOR SEDGWICK.     375

given before, but the Whigs may cease to reign, and he will
not cease to grow older --and 1,100£. a year is not a bad

Ithing to have to give up to a chancellor in exchange.
        gave Mrs. Mallet an invitation to my introductory

Ilecture, with which she was much pleased, and pressed Mr.
Mallet into the service immediately.  wish half my

audience may be as intelligent listeners.

    Tuesday, --Lord Milton was at Murchison's on Sunday,
and it was lucky for Curtis the entomologist, for he was

introduced, and Lord Milton also talked to him of his own

insect-hunting as a boy, and how he knew the Yorkshire

species now, and how fond his sons were of it, whom he

would bring to see his collection. Sedgwick asked me to
Iwalk home with him.
Iand marked.          found a gloom upon him, unusual

              most carefully avoided all allusion to the

rejected living, but now when the first excitement of the

declining the boon is over, and that others have expressed

their wonder at it, and that he finds himself left alone with

his glory, he is dejected. He told me, Thursday last, that he

I Iwished before he left Cambridge to do something. c Now if
  take a living instead of going to Wales, abandon my

professorship, and cannot get out the volume on the primary
rocks with Conybeare,' &c. Then he hinted that in a year,

Iwhen this is done, he may retire on some living, and marry.

But know Sedgwick well enough to feel sure that the work

won't be done in a year, nor perhaps in two; and then a
living, &c, won't be just ready, and he is growing older.
He has not the application necessary to make his splendid
abilities tell in a work. Besides every one leads him astray.
A man should have some severity of character, and be able

to refuse invitations, &c. The fact is, that to become great
in science, a man must be nearly as devoted as a lawyer, and

must have more than mere talent.

   IAs was much amused with Power, in an Irish character,
I Ion the night heard Miss Kemble, went again to the
Adelphi to hear Yates for a couple of hours, which is as long
Ias like to be at a play, and got home and in bed by eleven
Io'clock.
           have enjoyed parties, and two plays this last

month very much, because it was recreation stolen from

376          SIR CHARLES LYELL.                 chap. xv.

work ; but the difficulty in the country is, that on the con

trary, one's hours of work are stolen from dissipation.
     Wrote to your father on geological queries of Dr. Fitton

-- frank from D. Gilbert. His brother-in-law, Guillemard,

came to ask me to come down a fortnight hence into the
Icountry with him.  refused with pain, but it is only by
Iresolution of this kind that anything can be done.
                                                     always
Ireflect that if had a recognised profession, all the world
would think me right, as called upon to be equally un

Ifriendly ; therefore, as am determined to make science a
Iprofession, will do it. In the end they will think me right.

     Another day nearly gone and not through chapter so
             !

                      iIt
                                                                             i.,
short a one too But in             am grappling not with the

ordinary arm of flesh, but with principalities and powers,
with Sedgwick, Whewell, and others, for my rules of philoso

phising, as contra-distinguished from them, and must put
                                   ! ;I
on all my armour.                            I
         found on my return three small volumes from Basil

Hall --voyages, travels, second series most diverting --not

yet out, though reviewed three weeks Stokes remarked to
I
    I it itme that his enthusiasm about my first volume, and the

                     itmanner in which he went about, when was in the Pyrenees,
                               it
crying up as the finest thing ever written, was anything
but that of an egotist entirely absorbed in his own literary

works. He read at the Athenaeum till some one told him

he kept too long, and then he bought it, and they say

thought and talked of nothing else but my geology for a
             had met him at a relation's four years before in
month.
Angus, but was never intimate till my return from France.

The first thing he said to me on my return was, Lyell,
                                   a

                                            I
                                                            a
                                                                              *
                                                     II
never thought you had in you to write such book.
don't mean as a geologist, but as writer. That passage

about Vesta and Tivoli might do for the style of any English
writer--nothing in Playfair beyond it/ &c.
                                            was more

pleased with a compliment as to style from Basil Hall,3 than

  should have been with an eulogy as to general views. In
I
the former he excels, in the latter he usually wrong and
          2                        is

                                                                         ;

       Captain Basil Hall, E..N. Author of Fragments of Voyages and Travels*
See Appendix A.

1832.       DR. MA NTELL.                               377

when lie goes East, 'tis a sure indication that the true course

is West.

IMantell was at Geological Society, and came home with
me --in much better spirits, though overworked.  think he

will soon flit to Brighton. He announces that a diploma for

me from Philadelphia is soon to arrive.

Mantell is to be here in two hours to spend the evening,
Ia great pleasure, for he is an old geological friend.
                                                        went

and introduced myself to him on a tour a chevcd, with a spare

shirt or two in my pocket, in one of the Oxford long vaca

tions ; and having previously seen the Isle of Wight, ventured
to question the whole arrangement of the Sussex beds below

the chalk, which Greenough and Buckland, then the top

authorities, had given Mantell, who looked up to them as

Iinfallible guides. Fitton afterwards confirmed my arrange

ment and acknowledged it in print, and got great credit
for it with Mantell, who being unable to travel and compare

countries, but doing wonders in his small field of observation,

Iwas obliged to depend on others for more extensive genera
lisations.  have watched his gradual professional rise with

much interest, and look forward to see him a great Brighton

Iif not London surgeon.

    March 31. -- am knocked up a little to day, and half

meditate going to Hampstead and taking the Mallets by

surprise ; for Sundays are Murchison's evenings, and to
Imorrow Mrs. Somerville is there, and don't like to go
Iand come away late.
                      have paid 201. for compounding to
IZoological Society, so now have compounded to all the
Societies -- a good thing over, instead of being bothered by

annual payments.

    April 7. --Last night at the Royal Society Sir J. Rennie

Itold me that he and his engineers used my first volume as a

text-book, and all said of currents, &c, he had found true

in examining harbours, estuaries, &c, professionally; and he

offered to send me a MS. with facts bearing on power of

running water, &c. Thus, he said, below old London Bridge

the current descending through the arches has hollowed out

the bed of the river to the depth of thirty-seven feet at low

water (the ordinary depth of the Thames elsewhere is only
Iseven feet), and this for sixty yards below bridge.
                                                        have

378  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                         chap. xv.

been so long off the hydrographical part of my book, that
this news was very cheerino*.

     Went to Loddige's garden yesterday with Stokes and
Broderip, to see 100,000L
blow -- a wonderful sight.  worth of Camellia   Japonica in fall
                               Belgian affairs  hurt their sale.
All the naturalists here are much grieved about Holland,

as they say the king did so much for natural history, far

ImorAe pthrialn10a.n--y Yoetshteerrdsaoyvemreiogrnn.ing ran out to Kingston Hill,
where the farm of the Zoological Society is situated, to try

Iby walking about there to get rid of a slight headache.
took Hall,3 who wanted much some country air, with me,

Iputting him on the outside of the coach at nine o'clock, while
  went in. At ten o'clock we were in the farm of thirty-five
acres. Beautiful ground, a view like that from Eichmond
Hill, down into the rich vale. Saw the Kangaroos, Quaggas,

Emus, and other birds and beasts, which are there breeding.
IAfter walking an hoar, went to the adjoining Combe Wood,

classical ground to entomologists, of which had often read,

but never before visited. Saw some insects there, but as the

old keeper whom we met in the wood (once himself a collector
and dealer) said, c London is walking out into Combe Wood,
and two houses (villas) building in the middle, and all the
underwood cut,' &c.
     IYou asked me in one of your letters how
I ISchlegel -- so little, that avoided him.     liked

                                                met him three

times, and exchanged some words each time. He is full of

conceit, talks incessantly and of everything, not like Hum

boldt, whose loquacity bored some people, but never me, be

cause unmixed with self-conceit, like Schlegel's. He called

at Chelsea and annoyed Mrs. Somerville. He wanted to be

pressed, he said, to lecture at the Eoyal Institution, and

wished to know if he could be seen from all parts of the

theatre, because the change of the expression of his counten

ance would add great effect to his delivery of certain pas

Isages ; and, 6 1 will lecture in French, for although read and
Ispeak English welly should be more at home in French.'

   IApril 14. --The old keeper, formerly a regular entomolo

gical collector, who mentioned having met with in Combe

                            3 His clerk.

1832. BUTTERFLIES.                                       379

Wood last Sunday, was quite a character. 'When there
Iwere but a few gentlemen,' said he, ' who cared for insects,
they gave any price for rarities.  remember a red beetle

Iwith long horns that sold for two guineas ; and once at the

bottom of an old stump, just by that copse, sir, found a
quantity of them, and there ivas an end of they.' That is to
say, their market value was destroyed. JSTow that entomolo

gists have multiplied, who really care for things, not because

rare, but for the study of them, they scarcely ever buy, but
exchange with one another. In another part of the wood

we met with two youths who had purchased a regular in

strument made for digging for chrysalises at the roots of

trees. Think of an invention for that purpose ! One of the

Iyoungsters said to me, ' What have you seen to-day f ' said,

6 Urticse,' the common tortoiseshell butterfly ; to which he
Ireplied, c have seen Gonepteryx rhamni,' the yellow brim
Istone papilio.  was rather pleased with this adventure, be

cause was cold ungenial day, and required all this to
   ifc

               a
                   a

                  is
                         it

                           I
                                                 it
make me believe that was really the Combe Wood that
                                                     it

                                                          is

                                                             II
had read of as boy. We found some black beetles, and
found that Hall remembered the exact names --
                                                         wonder

ful how fond he of entomology. should never make him

take to geology in the same way. He has planned himself

a  nice wire net-hoop, which goes into his hat, and takes out

and fits into a walking-stick. To-day Lt. Graves dined with

Broderip, and joined them at dinner, sending, in old college
   I

           a
fashion, wine down to Broderip's rooms. He a thorough
                                                     is

good sailor, and naturalist sent by the Admiralty to survey
                    ;
Loch Neagh in Ireland, and going out to the Grecian Archi
                     I
pelago.
   I                                                 a
    It was curious enough that should have met Spedding              is
           a
just as was turning into King's College Chapel, because
         I
about two months ago we were saying what complete
failure that same chapel was of Smirke's, not being even so'
much like place of religious worship as most conventicles.

Spedding and had been accustomed to those two beautiful

chapels, Lincoln's Inn and the Temple, where the service
admirably performed in all the beauty of holiness,' as
David would have said, and the preachers excellent -- Lloyd,

Heber, Maltby, and many other eminent men being the

380            SIR CHARLES LYELL.                  CHAP. XV.

I Ipreachers there, since remember. think there is much
in the association of the building, and our chapels at Oxford

Iare^Asoprbiel au2t1i.f--ul. cannot imagine anything more afflicting

than such a death as poor Mrs. WVs,4 and believe that in such

a case the only state of mind in which a person of real

feeling can find the least comfort is that of religious resig

nation. It matters comparatively little, as far as that con

solation is concerned, how many erroneous dogmas and

Iabsurd rites are connected with the religion, provided its

professors do not see through their fallacy. All wonder at

is, that enlightened and inquiring minds can, even by aid of

Ifearly association, reconcile themselves sufficiently to some
parts of the Catholic creed and ceremonies.        it were not,

however, for the proneness of the people to superstition, and

I Itheir gullibility, should like a good deal of ceremonial.

like our English service so much better than the Scotch. 1

know some religious Frenchmen, who say they would turn

Protestants if ive did not believe so much the same as

Catholics, and that our creed is not much more philosophical
Ithan theirs.
               almost wonder how some of your German
Ifriends can be such staunch Catholics and so tolerant.
have sometimes thought that if all the world should become

Christian, and be as divided into sects as we now are, and as

tolerant as the Prussians, we should come ronnd once more

to the opinion of the Romans, who most sincerely believed

' that all religions were true '-- tha.t the gods or saints of all

and every people were their gods, and that their forms of

worship were true, and worthy of veneration, though some
more and some less. That they were all, in short, modes of
adoring Him whom, as St. Paul says, ' we ignorantly worship.5

Talking of sects, a curious thing has happened here. The

Society of Useful Knowledge started a penny magazine a

month ago, admirably done and very entertaining, and with

a good moral tone. They sell 80,000 copies-- an unexampled

success --well illustrated and remarkably cheap. The Dis

senters have been so cut out in the sale of their innumerable

tracts, that they preached against the magazine, and thus

doubled its sale. The Church party could not help liking

               4 The wife of a Professor at Bonn.

1 8 3?.  LECTURES AT KING'S COLLEGE.                    381

what the Dissenters disliked, and so they rather patronise

the concern.

     Wednesday. --A letter from Kinnordy from your father,

and was much delighted to find he was at last domiciled,

there. He begs hard of me to sit for a portrait to Richmond.
IWhen Mrs. Horner first asked it, spoke to Wright, who
Idid those likenesses so well for Phillips, E.A., but was so
I If I Ipressed for time, gave it up.
                             do it, shall go to
Wright, at your mother's old request. A north-country

attorney called this morning with a brief. He expressed great
Iadmiration of my work on geology, and said it was thought
much of in the north.  declined the brief, though he tried

to persuade me that as it was merely an opinion wanted on
Ia simple road question, might without scruple pocket the
I Ifee. Of course
         might have got a friend to do it, but
Ihave cut my cables, and now will stand firm by one
Ifbusiness, and one only.
                             nothing untoward happens, you
Iwill see shall turn it yet to profit as well as fame.
April 24.- A letter from Elizabeth. Yery sorry Mr.

Horner was gone, very dull without him. He was a great

favourite.                                              Have

   IMay 1. -- am just returned from Hampstead.
Iwalked home with Herman Merivale, whom like as a well-
Iinformed man, and particularly in a tete-a-tete. He is,
Ithink, very remarkable for his age, in the accuracy and
extent of his acquirements.  like him, too, especially as a

brother Oxonian, for the warmth of his advocacy of the

more general cultivation of all branches of science, especially

against the Oxford exclusive system.

     Wednesday. -- Grand disputes at the Geological Society
about the propriety of admitting ladies to my lectures. Bab-

bage most anxious to bring his mother and daughter and

Lady Guildford; Harris to bring Lady Mary Kerr ; and so on.
I begged them all not to do so, and they promised ; but at last
IMurchison said, ; My wife, however, must come. promised
Ito bring her, and she would be much disappointed.      will
not bring her till the doors are closed.' Then they all

declared they would too, and so bring the affair to a crisis

one way or other.
     Friday. -- Prepared yesterday a new lecture. The ladies,

382  SIX CHARLES LYELL.               chap. xv.

" Dr. Fitton, and otliers have been assailing Dr. D'Oyly and

Iothers of the King's College Council to admit ladies, and

they seemed disposed. At all events am likely to have a

large audience to-day. Only nineteen subscribers up to

I Iyesterday, but met with Spedding, who said, < am going
I Ito subscribe. Ignorant as am, followed you so well that

you have really forced me, at great inconvenience to my law
studies, to attend.5 His and many other names are not

down yet.

   ITuesday. -- have most completely succeeded in my second
Ilecture, which was liked much more than the first. tell
Iyou these things freely, because you know it is not from
vanity, and only between ourselves.   worked hard upon

the subject of the connection of geology and natural theology,

and pointed out that the system which does not find traces

of a beginning, like the physical astronomer, whose finest

telescope only discovers myriads of other worlds, is the most

sublime ; and as there is no termination to the view as regards

space of the acts of creation, and manifestations of divine

power, so also in regard to time, &c; concluding with a truly

noble and eloquent passage from the Bishop of London's

inaugural discourse at King's College, in which he says that

truth must always add to our admiration of the works of the

ICreator, that one need never fear the result of free inquiry,

&c. did not the least, in the opinion of Fitton and
Babbage, compromise the utmost freedom of the philosopher ;

while Lonsdale, the Archbishop's secretary, Archdeacon

Cambridge, Otter, and others were most exceedingly pleased.

Mrs. Somerville and Mrs. Murchison were there. The pro

fessors mustered very strong in honour of me to-day, and

the number of gowns, to an old Oxonian, looked most re
spectable and dignified. You don't know how, from old
association, we attach respect, order, academical rank, &c, to

Ithese insignia. For my part, though don't care about them
I Iat King's College, cannot believe that should look back

to Oxford with as much regard but for these dresses. They
Ibecome so interwoven with all our ideas of college, as much
as a military costume to an officer.  slept ill last night,
but no coming lecture will ever discompose me again. Jelf

the clergyman, and his brother the lawyer and others,

1832.              REFORM BILL.                  383

Ipressed me to publish, the lecture. D'Oyly thanked me for

the benefit had conferred on King's College, &c.
    May 7, 1832. --Went up to Hainpstead, did not find Mrs.

Mallet, but wrote her a note, offering her free entrance to

my lecture-room, with two other ladies. Dined at Chelsea,

and asked Mrs. Somerville to come to my lectures, and her

two daughters. She said she was charmed with the effect

my first lecture produced on Martha and Mary. They never

would read before, but when they came home they set to

work in earnest at mv two volumes, and examined each

other on the points of the lecture. The Somervilles are to
come regularly. Then to Murchison's soiree -- very full.

Many had objected, or rather some, to the last part of my

Ilecture, as too free ; but Babbage and others had converted

almost all to think with them of the good had done, &c.
I IWalked home with Stokes, rather late.
        begin to flatter myself that am, as Lubbock said last
night, when he came down from the R.S. chair, doing good

to science by these lectures, which at all events are talked of

over London, but politics are of course the chief and absorb
I Iing subject.
             am going to Uncle Lloyd's to dine, so if do
anything to-day to the book, it must be between this and
                                  dog in the fable, and lose the
dinner ; so  let me not play the  shadow--the solid reputation
substance    by catching at the

in many countries which my work may earn, for the excit

ing ready-money profit and applause of a lecture-room.

   A letter just arrived from J. Murray, jumping at my

proposed reprint, and only doubting between 750 and 1,000

copies for next fourteen months. Bravo ! Lord Tyrconnel

has been begging me to give a glossary of such words as
Itertiary, and says it will sell hundreds more.
Iwill, but fear delay.                           suspect it

Ia list of hard words.  shall set Martha and Mary5 to make

                        am in for thirteen lectures in con
Isequence of repeating the first : if can cram in three in one
Iweek will do so.
     Last night, in the House of Commons, Sir Robert Inglis

declared that if the Duke of Wellington, now Premier, and

trying to form an administration, takes up the Reform Bill

as reported, all character and morality in public men will

                   5 The Miss Somervilles.

384           SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap. xv.

for ever be destroyed. Baring said no administration could

be formed but by reform. In short it seems impossible for

the Duke to make an effective cabinet, and not impossible

that Lord Grey may be recalled. Of course with the Tories

so divided, and a majority of eighty in the House of Com

Imons for reform, great concessions must be ma.de. Sedg

wick being at my lecture, took a shot at him, which

amused Fitton, and made him come up laughing after lec

Iture, and shake me by the hand. Murchison said to-day,

' don't know when they will leave off saying the last is the
best lecture of all/ Every one can hear every word, even most

distant benches. Sotheby came to-day, Malthus Junior, the

Dean of Carlisle, only Dr. and Misses Somerville: she came not,

being rather unwell. Such inquiries for her by strangers, as

since her work was reviewed in the Edinburgh (for Herschel's

in Q. P. is not yet out) she has been the great lion in town.

How strange that people never knew before that she could

have done all this ten years sooner ! They knew it in France.

I Ihave told Murchison cannot be President. He remon
I Istrated, and was sorry, but was firm, and suspect he

thinks me right. It is just one of those temptations the

Iresisting of which decides whether a man shall really rise

high or not in science. For two more years am free from
les affaires administrate es, which, said old Brochart in his
late letter to me, have prevented me from studying geology d'une
maniere suivie, whereby you have carried it already so far.5 The

Duke of Wellington has been unable to make a ministry : so

much the better, so Lord Grey and the rest are back again.

     Tour father will tell you what an actor-like sort of cele
Ibrity my lectures obtain me, but will look to something
Imore solid.
              am not improving my work and my own mind
Iby them so much as by tranquil uninterrupted study. As

I Ihave renounced being President of the Geological Society,

so will write to Otter that do not pledge myself to

Igive any lectures next year, waiting till the second edition of

my whole work is ready for press, and will give him all my
reasons --being all connected with my pursuing my original

researches without disturbance, until this work is accom

Iplished, and got out in its permanent form. Murray says it

must be printed in a cheap form, which am glad to hear.

1832.        BABBAGE ON GERMAN SAVANS.                      385

ITinFitton said,
                 so sorry missed you last time, when the

world says you floored BucklandV As Babbage expressed it in

Ia note, c tore Buckland's theory to tatters before his face.5

But must say B. showed his good sense, for he has been
I Imore good-humoured since. But he and Sedgwick & Co.
blaze away at me so, can but retaliate.  pronounced my

eloge on Cuvier to-day, and a digression on the comparative

state of advancement of natural history in France and

England, and quoted Herschel and Babbage on the decline of

Iscience, &c. The episode was, fear, rather too long in pro
Iportion to the geological part of the lecture, but am rather

glad to have unburdened myself.

    May 27. -- You cannot think how Marianne and Caroline
were charmed with Mrs. Mallet for her frank manners, and

the soul with which she entered into everything. Babbage

Iwrote me a note about my last lecture which was glad of.
I doubted whether my eloge of Cuvier, and my comparison

of French and English systems of cultivating science, had
Itbeen popular.
                 seems they were, especially the former,

and the latter cried up by Babbage & Co. with enthusiasm.

One can only please one party in some things. He wants

me to printisbut shall not be drawn into controversies
                 it,
of the kind. Babbage in his note, enumerating distin
                        is
guished German savans to whom we cannot show any equals
                  I
in their respective branches, reckons up many names of

astronomers and others, whom never heard of, and at last
                            I

one, who he says has just married and become rich, and all

agree doing and likely to do nothing. We have at least

no danger on one score, that of being rich, which am sure,
much as money wanted in science, does stop men's careers    T

more than anything, and gives them innumerable duties, by      I
which they become stewards of their property, rather than

men who have time to devote to philosophical pursuits. Bv
withholding the temptation of the President's chair and the

lectures at K. C. next year, shall, think, have done two
                            I     1

virtuous acts of self-denial, but they will require to be
backed by still greater; for precisely in proportion to mv
not having any of those public and ostensible engagements
to plead, will be the difficulty of fighting off the importu
nities to idleness with which shall be assailed. Did tell
                            I

vol.   1.                   c
                               c

3S6  SIR CHARLES LYELL.             chap. xv.

you to what a fit of desperation the interruptions of genial

Oxford have at last driven Buckland ? Literally obliged to
hire another house out of town, five miles, and to leave his

library and other conveniences ! Had he not got the 1,0Q0L

we should never have had another volume from him ; but,

luckily for his fame, it became at last his duty, and he was

driven to the plunge. The loss of time in travelling to his

I I Ilibrary, and going for books of reference, will be immense.
  think should have given out that was dying, and fee'd
Ia physician to have given bulletins. But then one's relations
would not have kept the secret.     reckon that the loss of

time, of reference even now and then to one book, as far off

as G.S. from me, is so great, that it is cheaper in general to

buy. Only think of his going five miles from his books !
    Otter said to me, c You will find that when you are

married you will do a great deal more in geology than as
a single man, particularly as you will be able to follow it up

most successfully as a profession/

1832.  KING'S COLLEGE LECTURES.                  387

                         CHAPTEE XVI.

                               JUNE 1832-APBIL 1834.

HIS MARRIAGE -- TOUR TO SWITZERLAND AXD THE ITALIAN LAKES -- RETURN
    TO LONDON -- LECTURES AT THE ROYAL INSTITUTION -- HEIDELBERG --VON
     LEONHARD'S LECTURE-- DR. SCHMERLING;S WORK IN THE GATES NEAR
     LIEGE --DR. BOWSTEAD -- SYDNEY SMITH -- THE DRUMMOND LIGHT.

       COEEESPONDENCE.

       To Charles Babbage, Esq.

                    I2 Raymond Buildings, Gray's Inn: June 3, 1832.

My dear Babbage, -- proposed to Fitton to take up the

Ilectures on geology, as my friend and representative at King's

College next year, while am completing my education and
work ; and in a kind spirit lie has at first sight of it agreed.

I IHe could begin with Maestricht beds just where end, and
Ireally know no one whom would allow of all the London
geologists to teach in my place so soon as Fitton, as he
enters so fully into the spirit of the ' modern cause ' system.
       Otter is delighted with the idea, having paid me the
compliment of being quite down in the mouth at my not lec
turing next year. Fitton will consult you, so take care you
are not the cause inadvertently of his gibbing. You know
how many years we have been in getting him to let out his
knowledge, and this would be a most effective vent, and we
should all profit. To me, of course, it would be falling on
my legs most agreeably.
       You will be glad to hear there are symptoms of repent
Iance in regard to the hasty resolution of the council at K. G.
against the admission of ( women.'  have said nothing in

remonstrance, but they have made the discovery.

                         cc 2

388                SIR CHARLES LYELL.           chap. xvi.

   I have worked in the Temple of Serapis, and will soon
Isend back the books, &c. The Balanus is B. sulcatus; the

Area have not yet got at.

                   Ever truly yours,

                            Charles Ltell.

                   To G. Mantell, Esq.

                                                June 14, 1832.

    My dear Mantell, --My lectures were splendidly attended.

I have shown the public, and made the discovery myself, that
I can do the thing, and it may yet provide travelling money.
IBut shall not give much time to it, at least for several
Iyears. When the course was over, received from some of
Ithe class whom never saw, most enthusiastic letters, ex
pressive of their
much --especially  admiration and   gratitude.   This is worth
                   as they had the  good taste  not to applaud
in the theatre.

     Buckland was really powerful last night on the Megathe
rium-- a lecture of an hour before a crowded audience : only
standing room for a third. Lots of anatomists there ; paper
by Clift ; the gigantic bones exhibited, and still to be seen
there, but likely to be removed by-and-by. Buckland made

out that the beast lived on the ground by scratching for yams
and potatoes, and was covered like an armadillo by a great
coat of mail, to keep the dirt from getting into his skin, as

he threw it up. As he was as big as an elephant, the notion

of some that he burrowed under ground must be abandoned.

Ic We may absolve him from the imputation of having been a

borough-monger ; indeed, from what before said, you will

have concluded that he was rather a radical.' He concluded
with pointing out that as the structure of the sloth was beau

tifully fitted for the purpose for which he was intended, so
was the megatherium for his habits. ' Buffbn therefore, and
Cuvier even, in describing the sloth as awkward, and Cuvier

Ithe megatherium, erred. They are as admirably formed as

the gazelle/ &c. It was the best thing ever heard Buck-

Ian do.

                   Most truly yours,

                              Charles Lyell.

1832.              HIS MARRIAGE.                     389

                   To His Sister.

                                                                Bonn: July 3, 1832.

My dear Maria, --The grand day l is at last fixed for the

12th inst. Professor Sack, the Protestant clergyman (or
Lutheran, as they say here), agreed to put off his lecture in

I Iorder to oblige us. He appears to be a very superior man ;

indeed, should think, from what have seen, that the dif

ferent departments were generally very well represented in

the university here, and the Government seems very liberal.

They tell me the king gives 14,000L sterling a-year for the

IBotanic Garden. The Professors have to lecture nine months

in the year--too much, should think, for allowing time for

due advancement of the teacher. On Monday we had a
grand expedition to Godesberg. All we ten, Miss Parker

included, Mrs. Barton (widow of a General Barton), her
daughter, Mr. Frederick Windischmann, a gentlemanlike

young son of a Bonn Geheimrath, and Count Schlabrendorf,

eldest son of a rich Silesian noble, a yonng student. Godes

berg is looking most delightful now, and the scenery, both

the home views and the distant, are scarcely equalled by

Ithose of any single spot know.
   I Ihave exchanged calls with Schlegel, and as hear he

Iis reading Rossetti in earnest, and much interested in it,
hope he will give my father the benefit of some of his own

comments upon it.  Tour affectionate brother,
                                            Charles
                                                     Lyell.

                              To His Sistes.

                    I Axhern (near Strasburg) : July 20, 1832.

    My dear Eleanor, -- hope to send this letter from Stras
burg to-morrow, and shall first take up the diary from Hei
delberg, which we stayed at on the 18th. Leonhard was
very attentive, showed me part of his collection, and begged

his wife to take mine to a fine view from a neighbouring

hill ; then went with us to the castle, showing me by the way

some geological sections, which, added to my short excursion

                                  1 His marriage with Miss Homer,

^90  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap. xvi.

to the Felsenroeer, have enabled me to obtain something like

Ia fair notion of the Odenwald, both its scenery and geology.
   then introduced Mary to Bronn, Professor of Natural His
tory, and learnt some geology from him of the country in a
different department from Leonhard's. Next day, the 19th,
to Carlsruhe, making a delightful detour on the road, up a

Ismall valley leading from the plain up into the Odenwald

hills, where went to see a singular deposit, called ' loess '
provincially, filled with recent species of land shells, and
which is peculiar to the Ehine valley, found at Bonn, Stras-

Iburg, and hundreds of intermediate places. The Bergstrasse,
   should tell you, is a line of road running nearly north and
 south along the foot, first of the Odenwald, as from Darm

 stadt to past Heidelberg, then of the Schwartz wald, another
 chain of mountains, which we have seen all to-day in coming
from Carlsruhe to this. The plain of the Rhine is nearly as

fiat as that of the Po, and like it composed of horizontal beds
 of gravel and sand, hundreds of feet deep at least, but depth
 unknown. The mountains are of inclined strata of older
 rocks. Tf you keep in the plain it is like sailing on the sea
 and having a distant view of an adjoining isle, or main
 land ; and Mary was not sorry that my geological tastes

 have led me several times to land, and make short trips
 into the interior. This morning we saw the palace at Carls

 ruhe, and then returned to the Bergstrasse, making an

 Iexcursion up the valley of the Murg, and from that to

 Baden-Baden, the pleasantest German watering-place have

  seen.

       With love to all, your affectionate brother,

                                              Charles Ltell.

                              To His Mother.

                                                                Strasburg : July 22, 1832.

    My dear Mother,--Voltz, a mining engineer of this place,

Iand a good geologist, gave us a famous view of the Museum

here on our arrival yesterday ; after which went with Mary
up the tower of the Cathedral, and saw a fine panorama of
the great plain of the Ehine, with the Schwarzwald on one
side and the Vosges on the other, rising rapidly from the

1832.                  THE VOSGES.           391

plain. On the north the plain is uninterrupted, but looking

south jou see a small group of rocks rising like an island
from a sea midway between the Yosges and Black Forest.

IThis group is the Kaiserstuhl, which am told is an ancient

Ivolcano -- a submarine one though, and ancient enough.

Iwas thinking of seeing it, but as it would cost a day or two

more, will not go. Yoltz has recommended me to go by
all means to Berne, as Studer is now there, who is by far the
best geologist of Switzerland. As the excursions into the

IOdenwald and Black Forest have repaid us so well (me in

geology, and Mary in seeing the country), was glad to see
a little of the opposite coasts, or the Yosges. Yoltz gave

Ime a plan of a trip for to-day to Soulz-aux-bains, or Soulz-

bad, which is at the foot of the Yosges, where saw many

quarries of rocks, which compose a great part of the Yosges.

It was a delightful drive, first over the plain, then a hilly

country, behind which the mountains rose boldly. The cos

Itume of the peasauts amused Mary exceedingly, and was

delighted by a dance which they had at an inn. The music

was excellent, and the waltzing and gallopading by no means

to be despised. They seemed so bappy and so superior to
our peasants in the refinement of these holiday pleasures,

I Ithat could not but dwell on the unfavourable contrast.

always fancied that Strasburg was on the Rhine, and mar
velled to find that we left the river and found that the city
only communicated with it by means of a small canal. The
number of the National Guai*d (6,000), together with several
regiments of the line, gave a very gay appearance to the

town, and so many soldiers mixed with the costume of

the peasants made the roads appear as if there was a national

fete.      24.-- From  Strasburg, along the  Bergstrasse, past

     July

the Kaiserstuhl (which became a considerable group as we
approached) to Freyburg in Brisgau, a town larger than

Bonn, with a University and a most beautiful Cathedral,

bobh in the exterior, which resembles Strasburg a good deal,

and the interior, where there is good Gothic architecture and

painted glass. From Freyburg we have passed through

what the Germans call the c Holle Thai,' or valley of hell, a
defile in granitic mountains, but which is too beautifully

392  SJR CHARLES LYELL.  chap. xvr.

covered with fir wood to deserve the name. To-morrow we
hope to arrive at Schaffhausen.

      Believe me, my dearest mother, your affectionate son,

                                             Charles Ltell.

                               To His SlSTER.

                                                               Sumiswald : July 28, 1832.

     My dear Fanny, --We are here, on our way to Thun and
Interlachen, at a small inn. This route, which we take as

the easiest, and not requiring pedestrian or equestrian exer
tions, like the Brunig, has shown us so much quiet liveable

Ihome scenery, and cultivated gently undulating ground, as
   really hardly knew to exist in Switzerland, where one
usually keeps so close to the mountains. We see many new
houses of the best style built in every part of Switzerland,
which bespeaks the growing prosperity of the country, and
which is never seen in Rhenish Prussia. The part of the
Bernese territory which we have been in, looks particularly

Iflourishing.

    Berne: July 30. -- was much disappointed at finding
Studer absent, and mean to go with Mary in search of him
to-morrow at Gurnigel, five leagues distant. At Thun we
saw the Jungfrau in great beauty, and though the view of
the Alps from the ramparts here was not so clear as that we
saw in 1818, it was nevertheless very fine, and only half
covered with white clouds mingling with the snows. They
have now four bears in the moat here, and a herd of deer.
The town and everything in the canton looks most flourishing.

IAs my rapid tour has served to excite, rather than satisfy

my curiosity about the geology of Switzerland, want to
ask Studer a hundred queries. He is just about to publish
on the geology of the country, and ought to stand a good

examination.

     Fribourg : August 1.-- We are stopping here for a twelve
o'clock dinner, having breakfasted at six o*clock. The view
of the Alps as we left Berne was very fine. Yesterday was
a well-spent day. We started early for Gurnigel, the highest
watering-place in Switzerland, among the fir woods. Found
Studer, a good, honest, intelligent Swiss5 not quite read up

1832.     THE SIMPLON.                        393

to Saturday night, bat not so far behind as to be ignorant of

a certain work, which made him receive me well, and express

Ihimself grateful for rny visit. He took me to two ravines,

where saw a considerable section of the flanks of the Alps,
very like the Pyrenees. He also gave me useful geological

hints for the Simplon, Lago Maggiore, &c. The valley

which led to Gurnigel was splendid, and the view of the Alps

from it.

          Ever your  affectionate brother,    Lyell.

                                     Charles

                              To His Father.

                                                                               Simplon: August 5, 1832.

    My dear Father, --We have just reached this village,

I Iafter ascending from Brieg in a most beautifully clear day,

and are sure think of seeing the descent, which thought
so much' more beautiful, in most favourable weather. They
say they have not. had for a long time so little travelling
over the Simplon --absolutely no English. Wars, cholera, and

other fevers seem to have put an end to travelling. In the fine

parts of Switzerland many French families driven away from
Paris by cholera have come and sojourned, which has been

some compensation, but none to this noble pass. In spite of

this, however, no expense has been spared in keeping up the
road here, which is in beautiful order, at least the Swiss

side.

    Domo d'Ossola, evening. --We reached this by six o'clock.
Mary has been amused at the costume of the peasants, at

the stone floor of our bedroom, and other novelties to her ;
among the rest, the announcement that no milk, not a
thimbleful, can be purchased in the whole town. And such
herds of cows and goats as we passed. So we solaced our
selves with a repast which costs no more, and is perhaps

Imore suited to the climate, an ice and a roll of bread. In

my way up the Vallais just stopped at Bex to call on
Charpentier, the geologist of the Pyrenees, now superinten
dent of the salt mines there. We took a car and drove to his

Ivilla. He told me something of the geology of the country,

and said if would return and examine it he should be glad

394  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                  chap. xvi.

to show it to me. We find the people here occupied with a

fete c per Vonore delta Vergine: ' soldiers firing, band playing,
and a great pole in the market-place, with prizes for the

boy who climbs to the top ; but they have put up so tall a fir

from the mountains, that no one can get a fifth of the way

up. But the soap will be rubbed off in time, and by midnight

some one will mount. The balconies are full of ladies gaily

dressed, and the crowd laughs loudly as often as any one
Islips down the pole. They call this la cocagna. At Vevey,
  wrote to my geological friend Necker, to announce our
intended visit to Geneva and Cha.mouni.
     Milan : August 7. -- We saw the Borornean Isles in great

Ibeauty, and had the gardener, who was so fair a botanist, to
show us the trees and shrubs.  am grieved to hear that

I IBoromeo's eldest son (aged about forty), a geologist to whom
   had letters last time was here, and who in spite of his
rank is really advanced in scientific knowledge, is gone to
Aix in Savo}r. At Arona, yesterday, we went up to San

ICarlo Boromeo's statue, really a fine thing, and interesting

also from the great deception, produced suppose by its good

proportion ; for when you are at the foot of the statue you

would not believe that your arm could go into the nose,

whereas half your body, with head and arms, mav be packed
into it. You mount by a long ladder to half the height,

Ithen by an iron bar within, not a thing for ladies, nor indeed
for gentlemen who have not good nerves.  went up, and

Igot into the nose, at least part of me. Mary was glad when
   was down again, though really there is no danger, and, on
the other hand, no recompense for the trouble and fine of

four francs. After we had boated it most agreeably to the

isles, and got off in the carriage, a storm, the first rain for

two entire months, came down and laid the dust. It has

Imuch refreshed the country. The Lago Maggiore is nearly

of the same colour (cabbage- green if may be so unpoetical)

Ias the lakes of Switzerland which send their waters to the

Ehine. Geneva Lake is a deep blue, and, if remember, much
more like the Mediterranean, to which its waters flow. ISTo^
that they have made out that the sea contains iodine, as do
many mineral springs, and that there are innumerable mineral

1833. INFLUENZA.                                           395

Isprings in the Alps, suppose they will find a solution of
Itheir colour, but forget Davy's conjectures on the subject.

With love to all,

              Believe me your affectionate son,            Ltell.
                                                  Chaeles

              To Chaeles Babbage, Esq.

                              16 Hart Street, Bloomsbury : Saturday, January 5, 1833.

   IMy dear Babbage. --This year am determined to give

the Temple of Serapis iii grand style, and am preparing

scenic illustrations.

    Would you be so kind as to lend me again all the plates

Ion that region which you let me have last year, and which

was unable then to make use of.

The Royal Institution, hearing that the King's College

will not admit ladies, have sent me an. invitation of a pressing

kind to give them some six or eight lectures after Easter,
Ioffering me what believe they consider very favourable
Iterms as far as emolument.
Imust think of it.               am inclined to accept, but

                       shall have time certainly.
If not at home when the bearer leaves this, you can look
Iout the plates and leave them out for me, and will send
Iagain.       should like to show you Sir W. Hamilton's plate
Iof the place where think you found the serpulse on the
cliff south of Puzzuoli, to ask you if am right.

Stokes and Broderip are to dine here on Tuesday at six

Io'clock, no one else. Could you not join the party, and
renew your acquaintance with my wife ?  cannot tell you

how much pleasure it would give us, to see you here at our

first party.           Ever yours most truly,

                                         Chaeles Ltell.

                     To Gideon Mantell, Esq.

                                                                        London : April 30, 1833.

   IMy dear Mantell, --Like all the world, have had the

influenza, which went through my house, servants, visitor and
all, save Mrs. Lyell, who remained well to nurse us. This
embarras, and getting out vol. iii. and up two courses of
lectures, must be my excuse for not having written to you or

396                 SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. XVI.

anyone. My introductory lecture at the Royal Institution last

Thursday was attended by 250 persons. This morning, the

I Ifirst King's College lecture by 200 persons, or, as some compute,

250. Nevertheless, doubt whether shall have any class,

scarce any having as yet entered ; and Jones, the Professor

of Political Economy, a very eloquent man, having had an
audience of 200 the first day, had on the third not one indi
Ividual, and now he goes on lecturing to five, which would
Inot.
         was very happy to have my 200 to preach the true

I Idoctrine to, gratis.                              mean
        am glad you have got your book out so soon.
this summer ,to geologise in the Tyrolean Alps, and make

up my mind on Von Buch's dolomisation theory.

   I start June 9, with Mrs. Lyell.
   I have been taking lessons with her on shells from G.

Sowerby, who is a bankrupt, and now wishes to be a teacher
in Natural History, for which he is better qualified than for

shop speculations.

         Believe me, ever most sincerely yours,

                                        Charles Ltell.

                    To Dr. Fleming.

                                 16 Hart Street, Bloomsbury, London : May 1, 1833.

     IMy dear Dr. Fleming, -- am at a loss to decide how to
Isend you a copy of my third volume, which has been out this
week.    think you told me you should soon establish some

regular mode of communicating between London and Edin

Iburgh, and that you would let me know how to forward a
parcel.  long to hear whether you have made progress in

the Fife coalfield, especially in the fossil shells and plants,

and vertebrated animals of the period, when only 'the
simplest forms of organic life ' were in existence. As Agassiz

Ithe icthyologist was seized with a complaint in his eyes, and

his visit to England consequently deferred, have made no

step towards settling the genus and species of my red sand

Istone fish, which much regret.
   I ISince launched my work, have been busy lecturing.

The King's College governors determined this year that
ladies should not enter my lecture-room, because it diverted

1833. LECTURES AT ROYAL INSTITUTION.  397

Ithe attention of the young students, of whom had two in

number from the college last year, and two this. My class

Ibeing thus cut down to fifteen, gave them a short course,
Iwhich is now going on, and find them very attentive and
Iin earnest, but would not of course give the time to such a

Iclass again. The Koyal Institution invited me very warmly

to lecture in their theatre, and consented to seven lectures,

Iwhich have been attended by 250 persons (scarce ever less),

about a hundred of them men. But do not fancy this

want of concentration of my lecturing labours, and shall

either settle upon some one theatre, or stick to writing,
Iwhich believe is most improving and profitable in every
Iway.
       regret that the bishops cut short my career at
IKing's College, as should have had a splendid class this

year, and thrice as profitable as at the Eoyal Institution, but

there seems no way of having a large audience but by one
of two methods -- an academical class, or one open to women

as well as men. Grant lectured gratis at the Zoological

Society to overflowing rooms, but the moment he began at the

London University, for a trifling fee, only about eight or ten
students came. Tet people will still buy dearish books, and

though willing to hear Turner lecture gratis on Chemistry
or Geology, they will not pay at the rate of Is. a lecture to

hear him. My book has got on so rapidly, as to put me in

great good humour with the public. Bake well has just
Icome out with a new edition, but have not heard whether
Ithere is anything new in it.
                               get on in conchology some

Iwhat, and Mrs. Lyell and my sisters, two of whom are now with
me, make rapid progress.  am going this year to the Tyrol,

to make up my mind about Von Buch's theory of dolomisa-

tion of the limestone of the Alps. Ever CmhoastrletrsulyLyyeoullr,s,

                              To His Sister.

                                                                           Paris : June 18, 1833.

   IMy dear Marianne, --We are just returned from a visit

to Montmartre, where have shown Mary the underground
streets or excavations made to extract gypsum -- the same
gypsum in which Cuvier's celebrated animals were found.

398                SIR CHARLES LYELL.                         chap. xvi.

She had also an opportunity of collecting a fossil shell or two
for the first time. The view of Paris from Montmartre is by
Ifar the finest there is ; St. Denis seems very near you on
one side.  was much amused at the Geological Society last

night. My last volume has told here very much. Prevost

assures me that the first two were far beyond them here.

He says they are beginning to appreciate them, but that it
will require several years before they see as clearly as he

does the geological bearing of them. There have been several

schemes to translate the work, but the German translation

checks them; for they say that in France every one writes,

and no one reads or buys, and that they depend regularly on

Germany and England for the sale of two-thirds of a scien.-

tific work. Their sale is far more limited than in Germany.
I am resolved to continue with zeal to collect fossils and
Istudy conchology.
                    am very glad to see Mrs. Somerville

Iagaiu, and hear her opinion on society here, which upon the
whole is favourable, but not in all things.       know no one

further from being prudish, and yet she tells me that she can

scarce admit any modern French novel nor literary work

into  her  house,  so unfit  are  they  for  her  daughters.  Lyell.

                                                   Charles

                               To His Mother.

                                                                Heidelberg : July 30, 1833.

   IMy dear Mother. -- am now for the third time upon the
IBergstrasse, and admire it as much as when first visited

it thirteen years ago with my father. When we left Bonn,
Dr. Thomson and his son were agreeable companions in the
steamboat as far as Coblenz. We first stopped at Neuwied,
leaving the boat and taking a carriage at that small village-
metropolis, to cross the plain to the boundary hills. We

went over an immense flat plain about five miles broad,
which is composed of horizontal beds of volcanic matter,
chiefly white lapilli of pumice, which we saw at the pits, and
when we came to the small river Sayn. Then at the town
of the same name we saw the iron- works, having an intro
duction to the Superintendent. The views of the plain
from the hills and the old ruined castle at Sayn are beauti

1833.  WORMS.                                        399

ful. We went on to Ehrenbreitstein, slept there, and next

morning rejoined the steamer, to be carried on to Bingen,

where we disembarked for good, and got a carriage for

Mayence and did much geology on the way, in what we call
the Mayence tertiary basin. On the 27th July we followed

the Rhine to Oppenheim, and then to Alzy, Eppelsheim, and

IWorms, seeing many quarries, and at Worms much of his

torical interest, particularly as what had read in Robertson

and Schiller has left a lasting impression. A few miles

from Worms is a large lime tree of great age, which stands

like a giant, all the other trees in the plain being younger
and of moderate height. This tree has been spared because
tradition has said that Luther, when he was on his way to

the Diet of Worms, sat under its shade to rest. It is called

4 Luther's Linden.' Worms is a fine old place, standing in a
great plain. We looked down upon it, and in the distance
on the one side, the Hardt mountains and the Donnersbero-,
which we had approached in our excursion the day before,
and on the other, the hills at the foot of which we now are.

Opposite the cathedral, on the very spot where the Rath-
haus stood, while the Diet was held, stands the Lutheran
church, in which the Lutherans and Calvinists now join
worship in the same service here (Darmstadt), as in Prussia.
The church is very simple and plain in its exterior, but

within is remarkably striking. It is not much more than a
century old. On the entrance side is a large picture of the
Diet of Worms, Charles V. in the chair, and on his right
cardinals and bishops ; on his left, nobles in their robes ;
before him, Luther standing and speaking against Eckius,
who is contending on the other side. There is a gallery on
one side only of the church, ail along the front of which is a

Idouble row of pictures, more than a hundred should think,

Ipainted believe on wood, the upper row in illustration of
the Old, the lower of the New, Testament. Each tells its tale
admirably, and the effect of the whole as adorning the church,
the ceiling of Avhich is coloured so as to harmonise, is quite
beautiful. The pictures are very amusing, and many of the
marvellous stories of the Jewish history are collected ; and
from the Revelations there are dragons with many heads
Iand other beasts, and Death on the pale horse, &c.
                                                     should

400    SIR CHARLES LYELL.            chap. xvi.

suppose tliat tlie children, and not a few grown-up folk, are

employed during service in divining what the pictures relate

Ito. Martin Luther himself would stand no chance with the

artist. For what he said on this spot believe he was im
prisoned : it is curious that his church should now stand

there, exactly opposite the old vast Catholic cathedral.

    July 31. -- After passing along the plain from Worms to

Manheim, we crossed the Rhine on entering the latter, and

climbed the tower of the observatory, where we had a splen

did view. In the town, the juncture of the Neckar with the

Rhine ; in the distance, Spires on one side, Worms on the

other ; the Vosges and Black Forest mountains to the south,

and the Taunus to the north. Professors Yon Leonhard and

Bronnhave been very attentive here. Yesterday evening we

Ispent with the former, and this evening with the latter.

After the party at Leonhard's, Mary and took a moonlight

Iwalk over the ruins of the old castle, and stood on the splendid
terrace which overhangs the Neckar.  received a letter

from Count Miinster of Bayreuth here, in answer to one

from me from Bonn, saying he will be glad to see me, aud
will be at home, and pointing out things which he recom

mends me to see before reaching him. He has not only the

first collection in Germany of fossil remains, but is reputed

to know more about them than any one else. We go by

Heilbronn, Stuttgardt, Goppingen, Pappenheim, Solenhofen,

Nuremberg, Bayreuth (seeing the famous caves of Muggen-

dorf, &c, between the last places), Bamberg, Wiirtzburg,

Aschaffenberg, Frankfurt, Bonn.

     With my love to all at Kinnordy, believe me, my dearest

mother, your affectionate son,       Charles Lyell.

       To His Father.

       Manheim, near Pappenheim, Bavaria : August 8, 1838.

     My dear Father, --We have just reached this on our way

to the famous lithographic stone quarries at Solenhofen.

IMy last letter to my mother was just before quitting Heidel
berg.  attended a lecture of Von Leonhard on mineralogy,

and was much interested. He has been the first to introduce

1833.           VON LEONHARD'S LECTURES.                       401

a modified Lancastrian system of instruction into liis lec

tures. When he has given a general history of a particular

mineral, he describes a certain number of specimens to four

or five of the more advanced of his class, who have already

followed one or two courses. He then passes to one end of

the room, and a small group closes round him, each seeing

the specimen well. He goes on : c Epidote, this pale green is

epidote, the white is quartz/ &c. The others go round the

room with their specimens at the same time, so the whole

class is for some time broken up into a number of private
lecture pupils, till the exhibition or c demonstration ' is over,

when the whole are again intent on the general views of the

Professor, who holds forth in a pleasant, easy, extempore
strain. He only got through two minerals in the hour. At

IStuttgardt got a hasty view of two collections and of Drs.
IHahl and Jager, the latter an author on fossil remains.

was lucky enough to meet Professor Voltz, of Strasbourg, at

Dr. Hahl's, who gave much information on the fossils.

       We saw Danneker's studio, and the sculpture by him in
Ithe palace.
                     do not admire D/s Ariadne, which is so
Imuch talked of. His Christ thought very fine, and many
Iothers beautiful.   went to Goppingen, at the suggestion of

Count Miinster. Dr. Hartmann, physician at Goppingen,

has a magnificent collection of organic remains of secondary

rocks, and was very liberal in giving me specimens, and took

us to some localities where we collected plentifully.

                Believe me, your affectionate son,             Ltell.

                                                      Charles

                     To G. Mantell, Esq.

                              16 Hart Street, London: September 16, 1S33.
       IMy dear Mantell, -- have just arrived from Dover, having
Ipassed through Belgium in my way.
                                              saw there at Liege

the collection of Dr. Schmeiiing, who in three years has, by

his own exertions and the incessant labour of a clever

amateur servant, cleared out some twenty caves untouched

by any previous searcher, and has filled a truly splendid

museum. He numbers already thrice the number of fossil

cavern mammalia known when Buckland wrote his ' Idola
         '
specus          and  such is  the prodigious  number  of the individuals
        ;

       vol. 1.                DD

^02  SIR CHARLES LYELL.               chap. xvi.

of some species, tlie bears, for example, of which he has five

species, one large, one new, that several entire skeletons will

be constructed. Oh, that the Lewes chalk had been cavern

ous ! And he has these and a number of yet unexplored,

and shortly to be investigated holes, all to himself. But envy
him not--you can imagine what he feels at being far from a

metropolis which can afford him sympathy ; and having not

one congenial soul at Liege, and none who take any interest

in his discoveries save the priests -- and what kind they take

you may guess more especially as he has found human re

Imains in breccia, embedded with the extinct species, under

circumstances far more difficult to get over than any have
previously heard of. The three coats or layers of stalagmite

cited by me at Choquier are true. Talking of the priests,

they have obtained grants for new monkish establishments in

Liege, while the University of Ghent falls to the ground, and

the Protestant professors are cashiered, and King William's

patronage of natural history excluded. The movement was

mainly one of Catholic bigots against a king who wished to

introduce schools, and who, whatever faults he committed,

was of all European sovereigns the greatest promoter and

most judicious patron of physical science. Leopold has
nothing left for it but to lean on the priests, reinforced as

Ithey are by the Jesuits exiled from France. But as yet the
Belgian press is free : with that there is always hope.  ex

amined near Mons strata of the age of Maestricht, and

Icollected shells of which 250 specimens have been found,
and were shown me by Count Duchatel.  saw those newer

beds reposing on white chalk with flints, and this on chloritic

chalk and chalk marl or malm, very soft and clayey, full of
upper G. Sand shells (pecten 5 -- costatus, &c.) . The ancient
shore of the chalk, then resting upon inclined mountain lime

stone, is still seen, as the quarries are worked out, strewed with

pebbles of coralline limestone (mountain), of old red sand
stone, coal shale, &c. ; these pebbles covered with green sand

species of plagiostoma, patella, emarginula, &c, the softer old-

red pebbles bored by fistularia, of which the shells remain
--the subjacent limestone seen in situ, perforated by large

regular sarcophagous hollows. But better than all, rents and
sinuous cavities are seen in the underlying limestone into
which the sand of the ' malm ' or c firestone ' beds, to speak

1834. HEAT OF MELTED IRON.                        403

Sussex to you, fell, and into which innumerable shells of the

cretaceous era were drifted. These shells escaped being

stonified, and consequently 200 species the same as in the

marl are in a state of perfection rarely equalled by tertiary

shells. Terebratulse loose, and with all the internal parts

-entire. It is a wonderful country, and well ransacked by

Duchatel,  who took me to the best localities.    Lyell.

           Very truly yours,             Charles

     [In 1834, he made a tour of several months in Sweden, and wrote

a journal to his wife, which was posted at intervals, from which large

extracts are given in the following pages. In November of this year

he read a paper to the Royal Society on the proofs of a gradual rising
of the land in that country, which was published in the c Philosophical
Transactions ' the following year, as the Bakerian Lecture.]

                    CORRESPONDENCE.

                    To C. Babbage, Esq.

                   I 16 Hart Street : January 16, 1834:.

     Dear Babbage, -- am half afraid you are gone to Cam

Ibridge, but will take the chance of this note reaching you,

as am at a stand for want of an answer to what may be a

simple question.

Daniell tells me that the melting point of iron, or rather

the heat of melted iron, is about 4,000° Fahrenheit ; and that
so long as any fragment of solid iron remains in the melted
mass it is impossible to raise the temperature higher --just
as water will not be raised above 33° so long as any ice is

floating in it. Now he (Daniell) asks whether, if this be the

case, the interior of the planet can, as the central-heat men

assume, be at temperatures far above 4,000° F. ? Would this

Ibe possible so long as a solid crust above remains unmelted ?
        objected that pressure might possibly allow of great in

crement of heat beyond 4,000° without liquefaction being
produced. But Daniell doubts whether iron and other solids
would be prevented from melting by pressure? At all
events, would it not follow that the central parts of the
Iearth, or all below the outer rind, are incandescent and solid
rather than fluid?  see that Fourier and other mathe

maticians assume that it is consistent with the laws which

                    D D2

404                 SIX CHARLES LYELL.            chap. xvl

regulate the progress of heat through conducting bodies,
that a cold, frozen, solid crust may cover a nucleus which

may be at any imaginable temperature. Query.
     Dr. Young, in his lectures on Natural Philosophy, says
that at the earth's centre steel would be compressed into
one-fourth its bulk, and stone into one- eighth.
                                        Charles Ltell.
     Ever yours most truly,
     IIfP.S. -- you were not a Professor should have craved a
breakfast with you on this subject; but fly me a note, if

possible, by post.

     To Leonard Horner, Esq.

                                                                            London : February 26, 1834.

    My dear Horner, --Tour paper is positively to come on

Ito-night--first my Pyrenees, then you, then Egerton.
stood out for this arrangement, as we had priority by right.
IThe answering was a heavy business. Greenough not in
spirits, Buckland heavy, no Sedgwick.             communicated

some information received the same day from Boue about

the Strasbourg meeting, and the Stuttgardt reception of the

Isavans, which the King of Wurtemburg is preparing.

also took occasion to recommend those who were going to

the Continent to visit Germany, and praised their geologists,.

Iand stated how interesting the geology of Germany was in

relation to our own. Lastly, gave a rapid sketch of the

Icontroversy about the level of the Baltic and rise of Sweden,,

and announced that was going there.

     Eitton's short speech was the only one which made them

laugh. Dublin and Dr. Pitton was the toast. He descended

on Antrim, and said that Playfair told him that when he
(Playfair) visited the Giant's Causeway ' the sea was rough,

a swell, what in Ireland would be called a state of agitation.

The boatman proud, as all Irishmen are of their country,

and annoyed that the stranger gentleman should be dis

appointed, after two ineffectual attempts to get to the

Causeway, said, ' Your honour sees that it's not the sea that

is out of humour : the sea (say) would be quiet, your honour,
if the wind would but let her alone.' The speakers were
Greenough, Buckland, Sir T. Ackland, Sir J. Johnston, Mur-
chison, Pitton, De la Beche, Lyell, J. Taylor, Dr. Turner.

Eitton's account of Greenough's speech was that c more than

1834.  DR. BOWSTEAD.                                                   405

lialf of it was employed in pelting Lyell with nonsense, and

at the end summing np in his favour.'     Charles Lyell.
                   Yours affectionately,

                      To Leonard Horner, Esq.

                                                                                       April 17, 1834.

   IMy dear Horner, -- have been so often in danger of
Ibeing fairly run down by the printers the last fortnight, that

have found no time to write and congratulate you on the favour

Iable aspect of affairs as connected with the Factory Bill.
  begin to be sanguine that the Bill, after considerable modifi
cations when new clauses come into play, will last our time

Iand do good, especially in respect to education, the chief

point in which conceive governments to have a right to

Iinterfere, or rather a duty.
        should hope that by returning again and again to the

same districts (when you have got the factories in train)
you will be able to effect much in geology. For the grand

secret is to revisit countries, and to compare them frequently,
Ifafter thinking over what you see in the interval.
                                                                       you

write on volcanos you can bring in the ancient lava and

dikes near Edinburgh, and the volcanic rocks near Dundee.

I wrote to Bowstead,2 to say that if he had any notice on the
I Iloess of Andernach, would read it when read my paper.
After sometime he replied that he can venture nothing, but

should have answered my letter sooner, had he not been em

ployed this Easter vacation in geologising in Derbyshire, with
a Mr. Hopkins. Is it not delightful to have got such a man

fairly bitten? He concludes his letter with saying he shall

'Isee us in June (when we shall be far away), and adds :

was delighted to hear of Mr. Horner's appointment to the

Iimportant and responsible situation which he fills,3 as
shall ever preserve a grateful recollection of the kindness,

Iencouragement, and assistance which derived from him in
Imy first feeble attempts at geological investigation.
Ishould long ago have written, had known Mr. Horner's
address in this country, to congratulate him on his appoint

ment.5 Amongst numerous sallies of Sydney Smith, some of

     2 Afterwards Bishop of Lichfield.                          Homer  was
    3 The Factory Act was passed in August 1853, and Mr.
appointed one of the four Inspectors of Factories that autumn.

406            SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap, xvi..

I Iwhich presume have been told you, when dined there, he

wondered when c Cockburn would come up to town, and

be baptised,5 &c. On mj saying that be was already
one of the most social of beings, a most excellent fellow, &c.,.

ISydney said, ' know him well, and his merits ; but why
I Ishould a man say will be intimate and social only when

have known people fifteen years ? One must be always
beginning, and extending one's acquaintance, or be left

alone. Life is not long enough for such a plan. A man must

allow for something intermediate between cold reserve and
I Irntehpseoenrfvaeimtd, ifltoioarraiatlnlyywomitfhasnwchthoooomlsbaoyy,sc."annIwottillwplsialhlyutnatomtleyadpmo-,forousgitrh,,"
                                                                                                                                   depend
                                                                                                                                   and be-
                                                                                                                                    '

     You will be glad to hear that Constant Prevost overcame

the Ecole des Mines and all the intrigues, and is now our-

IFrench Pres. G. S. have heard no particulars. Last night
I took my brother Hal to see a comparison of the Drummond

light and the most intense light of voltaic pile which could
be made. The latter they say was most bright, but it was not

sustained enough to allow of a fair comparison. Buckland

was there, and very full of Hibbert's discovery of a Plesiosaur

and crocodile in the coal of Edinburgh, or Burdie House

quarries. Murchison said that he had not made out that it

Iwas below mountain limestone ; but said that, having visited
IBurdie House, could not doubt that any saurian found there-
must have been contemporaneous with the coal plants.
     I hope you will be obliged to go to the mills and manse of
IClackmannan.  know of no one so able to help one in
IfScotch geology as Dr. Fleming, especially on the coal.
Iyou are much in Edinburgh, would determine in five or six
years to have the finest collection of the carboniferous beds
north of the Tweed. A few pounds annually expended would
be justifiable as an investment, as Murchison said to me in
1827, after he and others had lost thousands in speculations,.

           Sowerby's family sold his collection well.
           was, when sold my land, not to invest in

           know how dangerous it is to begin, unless
and when old

I Ic What an ass
Ifossils ! ' But
one confines oneself to a very limited field, either to some

one branch of paleontology, or a certain geographical,

district.  Believe me, affectionately yours,

                                         Charles Ltell.

1834. DEPARTS FOR SWEDEN.   407

                        CHAPTER XVII.

                                    MAT-JUNE 1834.
DEPAETS FOR DENMARK --LUBECK --PICKS UP SHELLS ON ^THE BALTIC --

     ARRIVES AT COPENHAGEN-- EXPEDITION TO MOEN WITH DR. FORCH-
    HAMMER -- THE CROWN PRINCE CHRISTIAN -- VISIT TO THE COUNTRY
    PALACE OF SORGEN-FREY-- GEOLOGY --DEPARTS FOR SWEDEN-- ENGAGES
    AN INTERPRETER-- LEGEND OF THE BACKE-HASTEN --CASTLE OF KALMAR.

              JOURNAL.

              To His Wife.

              On board ship for Hamburgh : May 21, 1834.

My dearest Mary, --I have been ten hours without a word

with rny love, but thinking of her more than half the time,

I Iand comforting myself that she is less alone than am.
foresee much profit from a full conference with the Danes
Iand Swedes.
              have learnt much to-day about the state of
IHeligoland, and will try to get drawings of it. have been
reading Forchhaminer, and am quite sure that the geology of
the Danish isles, Moen and Seeland in particular, on my way
Ito Copenhagen, will be one of the most important things
Ihave to do.  remember that Deshayes told me that the

fossils of Scania were those of Maestricht and Ciply, and

Ifrom the Cranias and other shells mentioned by Forch-

hammer, shall probably find Moen to be so too.

   IHamburgh: Sunday, 25. -- The scenery on nearing Altonais

very beautiful, and sections by the riverside which sketched,

and had decided to see if possible. Landed, and went to Hotel

de Eussie. This is a curious old place, more like Nurnberg
than any other we saw together, with a likeness to a Dutch
town also, with its canals. Drove to Altona, to Prof. Schu

408    SIR CHARLES LYELL.                    chap. xvii.

macher's, who was not at home. Eesolved to dash on in a

drosky to the section lower down the Elbe than Altona, at

Iabout three miles from Hamburgh. Got to the very place

sketched in the morning, at the Teufel's briicke -- cliffs, 60 or

70 feet high. Filled three pages of note-book. Saw the
source of the great Holstein granite blocks -- gathered shells

thrown ashore by the Elbe. Eeturned to Altona and saw Schu

macher, Danish Astronomer Royal, a man who has done much

to advance }3ractical astronomy as applied to navigation.
Went with him to a Mr. Parish, a rich Anglo-Hamburgh mer
I Ichant, who took me where wished in his carriage.
                                                     have
Imade progress already, think, in making out the Holstein

formation, and by aid of a peasant got two shells which are

rare.

   ICopenhagen : May 28, 1834. -- have not had a moment of
Ileisure to write to you since the morning left Hamburgh, in
a carriage which that kind man Schumacher sent me from

Altona, because he said my bones would be broken in a post-

carriage, as the road was so bad that twice my head went

against the roof or windows. There are two reasons for the

disgraceful state of a road which connects two rich and

active independent cities, which have their vote. The first

is a geological cause, loose sand, and huge boulders floating

in it. But why with their wealth do they not break up the
granite and macadamise? The reason is that it would half

ruin Denmark's king, through whose dominion the road runs.

His revenue is principally derived from the dues paid on

Ifentering the Sound, and on these the last debt was guaran
teed.  the commerce of Hamburgh was conveyed by a

good road to Liibeck, half these dues would be lost. So that

though Hamburgh and Liibeck offered to make the road, Den
mark refused. The negotiation is still going on, and it is

hoped Denmark will be shamed into concession. After

getting through innumerable small jobs at Hamburgh, and

Ithe horrors of packing with an increase of things, small

boxes of shells, &c, at last got off. It blew a hurricane,

and the loose sand and the cold forced me to shut up at last,
I Iby which lost no geology.
                              worked at Bang,1 and was
Iglad you packed him up, an excellent book.
                                             had collected

       1 Work on Conchology.

1834. BALTIC SHELLS.                                 409

shells on the banks of the Elbe, which excited my desire to

consult him. On to Oldesloe, about five German miles,

Ihaving baited one pair of steeds three or four times. Here

·are salt works, which saw : then to Segeberg. Here an ex
Itraordinary mountain of gypsum, &c, bursts up through the
loose sand.        delivered my letter from Schumacher to

Geheimrath Von Rosen, who was just returned, late in the

evening, with his wife and six young children, from a tour of

.seven days. Simple mannered Germans. After tea he went

with me up the Hill of Gyps, and introduced me to a Nor

wegian Bergmann, who superintends the works. He was

quite my beau ideal of an intelligent, frank, independent

INorwegian. It was darkish, so it was arranged that between

six and seven next morning and the Bergmann should ex
Iamine the hill together, which we did, much to my edifica
tion. He was delighted to find  had letters to Count

IWedel and other Norwegians. Five hours' ploughing of the

deep sands took us to Liibeck. On the way gathered some

freshwater and land shells; read Rang, and Eorchammer,

and De la Beche, on chalk, &c. ; wished you were in the car

Iriage ; and at last got sight of the towers of Liibeck, a very
curious old city.  had only three-quarters of an hour before

the steamboat started, which conveyed us sixteen miles by

water down the Trave, first half fresh, and last salt. By land

it was only eight miles, but the steam beats the carriage.

The river sometimes opened into a kind of estuary, then

contracted -- very picturesque. A fleet of thirty fishing-boats
were met all together in full sail, going to the Baltic. In two

hours and a quarter we were at the small port of Liibeck,

Travemiinde, where we found two fine steamers, one Russian,

just going to Petersburg, the largest ; and the other Danish,

into which we and our luggage were all transferred.

When my luggage was safe, we had still three-quarters
Iof an hour, and was ambitious of picking up a shell or two
Ion the borders of the Baltic.
                                landed, as we were alongside
the pier, in our new boat -- it was low water. The shore was

·covered with Turbo Mttoreus, Mytilus edidis, Cardium edale,

IMactra, Tellina, and quantities of a minute paludina, suppose

P. ulva. This association of the paludina with the marine

.shells delighted me, as analogous to the Mayence basin, which

410            SIR CHARLES LYELL.              * CHAP. XVII,

Iwas no doubt brackish too. After we had started, stood

washing my new treasures, the shells, in a basin, and pack

ing them up, to the admiration of the crew, who some of them

begged the loan of my magnifying -glass. A Russian gentle

man, who afterwards proved to be Mr. Eperlim, Eussian Con

Isul at Helsingborg, offered, as seemed to him a naturalist,,
Ihis services if wished any information in my travels in the

INorth. This was apropos enough, and profited greatly on

the voyage by his hints and encouragement as to travelling
cheaply and easily in Sweden. As we sailed out of the Gulf

of Lubeck, we saw the Mecklenburg coast on our right, evi

dently composed of the same loam, sand, &c, as Holstein,

and producing a similar aspect of country, like parts of

IEngland : the cottages and hedges of Holstein are much like-

the south of England. found my little German there most
useful, and should have learnt little without
               a                               either at
                                                                 it,

                                                                              a

                                                 I
Oldesloe saltworks, or from the good Bergmann of Segeberg.

The steamer was good one from Liibeck, and we began

with- ten miles an hour, which was much reduced by north

wind steadily against us all the rest of the voyage.

ordered them to wake me when in sight of Moen. Up at seven

o'clock, sketching the white chalk cliffs of that isle, which

Ihoped to visit again. To bed again. Then up, and read

for some hours. Left Moen at last, and in sight of the white

cliffs of Seeland, which are much lower. Those of Moen are

400 feet high, and look like the white cliffs of Dover. The

first point of Sweden which saw was the end of the small
promontory of Ealsterbo --low, only withI
                                               line of trees
                          .
                               .

                                        it, a

                                I
growing as were from the water. Then the long line of
     it
the Swedish coast, and the Danish isle of Amager. Then
            ;
the celebrated city of the Baltic, which, seen from the seay

disappoints one but when we had entered   the squares and
streets were fine. Went to Forchhammer.
                                          It being a great

object for me to get Eorchhammer to go with me, wrote him

a letter explaining my views. .

    May 29. -- After six hours' work with Eorchhammer in the

museum, he agreed to go to Moen, Seeland, &c, with me.
We start to-morrow at six o'clock. Dr. Beck, the Prince's

naturalist, a man with whom am delighted, accompanies me
               T
                                                     is
to Lund on Wednesday next, to see ISTilsson. There much

1834. VISITS MOEN AND SEELAND.                        411

Idoing here, which is unknown in England and France.  am

more than ever struck with the extreme slowness with which,

science travels, what with the multiplicity of languages,

Idouanes, &c.

    Copenhagen : June 1, 1834. -- have just returned from an.
expedition of three days with Dr. Forchhammer, in which we

have travelled by land, posting upwards of two hundred
English miles, first from Copenhagen to Stevns Klint on the
east coast of Seeland, and then to the small ferry which

separates the isles of Seeland and Moen, visiting the quarries-

of Faxo on our way : then to the tall white chalk cliffs of

Moen. The first day was cold and rather rainy, but on the
whole good working weather -- the results will make alone an
Iinteresting memoir illustrated by several drawings.
                                                      have

seen the junction of the upper chalk and Ciply or Maestricht

beds, and satisfied myself that Dr. Forchhammer has mis

interpreted the Moen cliffs and their geological relations.

IBut the, case was a most difficult one, with which need not
trouble you yet. The scenery was often beautiful, friths and

bays running into the green isles ; a low undulating country

running in Moen into hills five hundred feet high, where

the chalk is covered by splendid beech trees ; cliffs near four

hundred feet high, covered with wood at the summit, and

with a fine shingle beach of flint at their base. My com

Ipanion well informed on many branches in which wanted
instruction, and who has taught me much of the geology of

Iregions have just been seeing, and am to see. It opens a
Inew world coming here, and the Danes, find, can tell one
much of Iceland and Greenland, as well as of the Baltic.

IThe night before this expedition went to Mr. Macdougal,.
Iwho was very civil, and on my saying was going to Dr.
IBeck, the Prince's naturalist, said he would go with me, as
he knew him.  found Beck very strong in conchology.
He has, in <his Highness's ' collection, one of the finest in
Europe, if not the best, even up to the last new shells of

ICuming and others in London. Beck offered to go to

Lund with me, which most gladly accepted, the more so as

he is intimate with Mlsson. My scheme is to try to get
Isome naturalist or student of Lund to go with me to Stock

holm, and thus should escape a servant, whose expenses

412               SIX CH ARLES LYELL.        chap. xvir.

Iwould be as great, and should get instead an intelligent

companion, such as ISTilsson would recommend. It was

strange, on returning by a different road to Copenhagen this

evening, to find this capital a fortified town. Forchhammer

tells me that one of Charles XII. of Sweden's dashing

enterprises was to cross the ice with his army and cannon,

marching down the Sound to attack Denmark, since which

Ithey have fortified Copenhagen. Forchhammer speaks and

understands English like an Englishman. On my return,

found a letter from Councillor of State Adler, saying that

the Prince Christian had ordered Count Vargas and Dr.

Beck to attend me at his Highness's collection at ten o'clock

to-morrow morning, and that the Prince had charged him to
Iinvite me to dine at the Palace to-morrow.  wish it had
I Ibeen any other day, for fear shall get late, if at all, to

Eorchhammer's soiree, where the famous Oersted, and the

travellers, Pingel and Olafsen, and two other good men, whom

I want to see as much of as possible, are asked to meet me.
   IMalm'6 in Siveden : June 4. -- was at the museum in the

Palace at the appointed hour, and tried in vain to get Count

Vargas, who was to show me the minerals, not to wait on me,
I Ias wished to set to at the shells and fossils.
                                                   first got
IBeck to name the shells had picked up ; among others, a

true Neritina, which abounds in the brackish water of the

Baltic. Beck has decided that it differs from Fluviatilis and

others, and says he has found it in the Elbe, as well as the
I IBaltic, and would give it any name chose, so christened
Iit ' subsalsa.'
                  was soon informed by the Secretary Adler,

Ia gentlemanlike man, that the Prince wished to have an

audience, so was taken away from business to wait with
others in the ante-room, and introduced to Baron Pumohr,

Ialso in attendance, who has written, was told, on Grecian
Iworks of art, of virtu, and on gastronomy. When had
Iwaited some time, long enough to be impatient when
I Ithought of what had left, was introduced. The Prince was

standing, decorated with orders, and playing the kingly part
'Ivery well; good-looking rather, and of good height. He
was very gentlemanlike, and said,      shall come to the

collection when this ceremony is over, and spend the morn

ing with you, and learn what you have made of the contro

1834. PRINCE CHRISTIAN.                               41S

I Iverted points of Moen. Meanwhile, as you are to be here one

day more, may say only named to-day on that account ;
but if you have any engagement, dine with me at my country
Ihouse to-morrow/
                   told him of Forchhammer's party, and
Iit was deferred till next day. He immediately sent, as
afterwards learnt, to Dr. Forchhammer and Oersted to meet

Ime. After had worked some time with Beck, the Prince
Ijoined us, and spent many hours while went over the Faxo

shells, an ancient coral reef, where the genera, Cyprcea, Olivay

Mitra, Voluta, Conus, &c, had already in the chalk era

begun to flourish as now in the tropics. The Prince has
Istudied the characters of all the genera of shells.
                                                      had

several presented to me by him, as we went over the drawers.

When Moen was discussed, my task was a delicate one. It

would have been easy to damage Forchhammer, for Vargas,

Beck, and others, who thought him wrong, were glad to hail
Imy decision, though in some respects
Ialso.                                 think them wrong

        enlarged on the difficulty of the case, and declared
I Ithat had I not studied both the Isle of Wight and Norfolk

coast, should have perhaps fallen into what called Forch-
hammer's mistake. That he was ten years stronger in

Igeology now than when he wrote on Moen. In short, took
care to do Forchhammer justice, praising also the candour

with which he was now inclined to abandon opinions to

which he stood so pointedly committed. The Prince then

Iordered Vargas and Beck to bring me out next day, seven

miles, in one of his carriages, and resumed my inquiries of
Beck in the collection. Vargas is a good-humoured man, but

a complete courtier. Beck called to say he was in great
distress, that his wife was very ill, and he could not possibly

Igo either to the dinner, or next day to Malmo and Lund with

me. set off with Vargas in one of the royal carriages.
He told me that Prince Christian, or 'the crown prince/
has no more than 12,000L a year, which there may equal
twice that in England ; that Adler has no easy matter to

manage his finances, as the Prince could not resist when a

good shell or mineral was offered. The country place was a
small chateau, with beautiful grounds in the English style.
IWhen we entered the party was assembled.
                                           was in

troduced to the Princess, a very handsome and interesting

414  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                       CHAP. XVII.

Iwoman, daughter of the Duke or Prince of Augustenburg,

whose family will believe reign in Holstein, if this Danish
stock dies out, as is expected, when the small kingdom will

be split up. She has a stately manner, yet is agreeable, and

talked of my tour in Moen, &c. A German prince of

Bertheim Steinfurt, related to the Duchess of Cumberland,

led her out ; then the Crown Prince took out the Countess

Saxogeborne, princess of some house on the Ehine ; then

Count Moltke, who was long Danish ambassador in London,

took out Countess Yule, a dame d'honneur ; then Vargas

another of these ladies ; after which came Count Bliicher,

who is related to the general of that name, who sat next me,

talks English well, and has married for love an English

lady without fortune ; then came Oersted, with two orders of

merit decorating him. There was much laughing and free

conversation at dinner. After dinner, Vargas wanted to

escape, which led to an amusing scene. We all walked

about the shrubberies, and the Prince pointed out to me and

others the points where the trees were finest, or views best ;

when Vargas told me that the drive to a hill half way to

IElsinore, which was proposed, would make me far too late in

my packing, &c, upon which agreed to return with him,
provided he could do it with propriety. Meanwhile Porch-
hammer took it into his head, after talking with Count Hoik,

the Hof-Marschall, that Vargas was jealous of the Prince's

attention to me, and Porchhammer accordingly begged Hoik

to take care that Vargas did not carry me off. So Vargas
came to me and said, ' Now the Prince is with the Secretary
Adler, answering letters --they                         it ; and
                                 will be for  hours at  Hoik to
then comes the drive. Now I       have only    to get

promise to make our excuses. Saying this, he led me to the

ante-room of the Prince, where Hoik and another were in

attendance. On Vargas communicating the request, the

master of the ceremonies laughed and said, 'Vargas, it is

you that want to get home ; go in yourself to the Prince.5

IAn altercation ensued, with many a smart thrust and parry,

when at last Hoik said, ' Come, will arrange it. There are

three carriages and four, and one with two horses. Mr.

ILyell and yourself shall be in the last, and when you get

half way, will contrive your retreat, and you shall be in

1834. DRIVE WITH THE PRINCE,                                             415

town by nine o'clock. Soon after this the Prince came. All
were ready. Hoik called up the first carriage and four, and

the Prince put the Princess and some others intoc                        and

when the three were filled, and Vargas, being summoned,it,

had taken his place with gracious bow as commanded, the
          :

                           5.
                                    a
                                            a

                                            a
Prince' turned to me, who remained alone, and said, You are

to go with me.' Up drove the carriage and two, and away

we went, preceded by jager as avant-courier, and with a

man on the box with two epaulets, and the coachman. The

train followed us, and made gay cortege.                                 can
    Lund June --My dearest Mary, the best way
                                               is

                                                    I
comfort myself for the disappointment of having outrun the

tardy post, and found no letter from you here, to continue

at once my journal, which makes me constantly think of you.

   had about three hours alone with the Prince. He asked me
I
to explain Faraday's last discoveries in electricity, of which
        it

        II
              I'
he heard was the first narrator to Oersted. He entered

into with pleasure. Then he inquired           could explain
                                               iIf

                                                                                        ;
why beeches grow best after fir, and fir after beech, in his

country.          gave him Decandolle's theory of cropping, and

of the matter rejected by one plant being good for others
                        will suggest another theory. Some plants
when he said,

may absorb those gases and earthy              matters which might
                                               to purify the soil, and
poison others--time may be required

then a tree of different family may flourish.'    was so
            if          c
               it
                              a
                     a
                               I

                                               it

                                          I

                                                                      a
struck with his way of putting it, that asked Forchhammer
                  was not new. He got it,' said Forchhammer,
afterwards

*  from the very memoir of mine which he cited to you, but he

must have thought much of it, and has put better, and
                  his own.' We had splendid view from hill,
believes  it

              is

to which all walked up, of Copenhagen, the royal parks, the
sea, the castle of Kronsborg at Elsinore. Then we continued
in the same carriages, the Prince describing to me on the way
their peat bogs, and fossils in them, mode of preparing peat
fuel, after which he sent all the other carriages home, and

took me to see some newly-discovered heathen tombs, huge
stones from the great drift boulders of granite. He also

good-hurnouredly stopped at a quarry of boulders, while
                        it

                             ;

                                    I

                                                      I
got out and geologised  but while was there he got the

jager to help him over the dike, and came too, offering his

416                 SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap. xvii.

speculations as to which blocks came from Norway, &c.

When we got home, we found the rest thirsty and waiting
for tea, which would not have been touched until the Prince

If Icame, though it had been midnight. After coffee, when
Vargas got me off, the Prince said before them all, '  did

not know that your curiosity was excited about this country,,
Iand that you must return to visit Bornholm Island another

year, should be unwilling to let you run away in such
haste/ His lady added a civil speech, and away we went in

our carriage. Vargas amused me, as his ideas are so drilled

to a court. He confessed that his only reason for cutting
geology was ' that it was a science for those who could

afford to be independent in their opinions, which he could not,

for the controversies led to quarrels, and these to loss of

place ! 9 But he was in manner quite the gentleman*
     Lund, in Scania:'2 June 5, 1884. --This evening, as Ml-
Isson is unable to see me, shall indulge in reminiscences
Iof my proceedings during the last two days, which have
Inot yet sent you.  asked Prince Christian how Sweden,

having only a few inhabitants, and so little a literary
country, had done so much for science. He said, ' Because

the universities were endowed with much of the wealth of

the church, and there is an independence for men who,
if they love science, may devote themselves for life to it/
IHe asked me whether lived much in London, but he
Iadded, '1 need not ask, for suppose you still hold your
Iappointment in the University there/
                                        explained to him
Iwhy gave it up. He said, ' You do well, if you can
dispense with it, to do so ; for after all it is a small circle

you address as a teacher there, whereas by travelling and
writing you can teach all the world/ This was all talked

in French during our drive. At dinner the conversation was

French and German, now and then running into Danish and

English in different quarters. The Crown Prince has the
character of being very aristocratical, tempered with great

intelligence and information; and that he has good men

always about him, Vargas being the only thorough courtier.

     2 Scania, the ancient name for the southern provinces of Sweden, Malmo,

and Christianstad.

1834. DANISH POLITICS.               417

Whenever people wished to be very civil in Denmark, they
began ' Herr Professoriug 5 rae, which goes for more there
Ithan even in Germany . In Denmark a title is called a c cha

racter/ and here in Sweden have been already asked
6 what was my character ? '      e When they ask me a favour/
said Macdougall, ' they say,  "  Wow, good Mr. Librarian Mac

dougall/5 ' &c. Prince Christian was King of Norway for a
short time, and would have remained so, had not the Nor

wegians been constrained by the Allies to be bound, much
against their wishes, to Sweden. ' There are twelve courts
to keep up/ said Vargas ; and then he enumerated the dif
ferent brothers or near relations of the King and Crown

Prince who had establishments. The young Prince who is

banished for a season to Iceland is a son, by a former

marriage, of Prince Christian, and the mother is separated,
and at Pome -- mad, as her son is thought by many to be at

times. So was the father of the present King an avowed
madman, although it is a fact that he was named guardian

of the Duke of Ploen when he went mad, together with two

III.other guardians, the Emperor Paul of Russia and George

of England ! The young Prince is twenty-three, and married

several years, without children. After him Holstein would be

separate. As the monarchy is the most despotic in Europe,

the coming to the throne of such a man would of course be
a calamity. Some say it is in prospect of this that the

present King and his councillors have wisely given a sort of

form of a constitution, which was proclaimed the very day,

May 28, our steamboat arrived at Copenhagen, but without

exciting any feeling. It is, however, a very important event,

as it appoints four places, Holstein, the Isles, Sleswick, &c,

where deputies representing the people are to meet; and

though they are only to consider provincial matters, it is a
beginning, and they will be the organs by-and-by of a legal
reform if the country is pushed by a madman to a revolu

tionary movement. Good men, therefore, hail the gift with

satisfaction. Meanwhile the King has retained absolute
power. He is much liked and respected. 'He ivas liberal/
said Oersted to me/ and we cannot accuse him of having

changed ; but the times have changed, and have now gone

far beyond him.5

VOL. I.                          EE

418  s/jR CHARLES LYELL.       CHAP. XVII.

     Our late return from the country palace called c Sorgen-
frey,' or ' free from sorrow/ made my packing rather hurried,

Iand should never have got through it before the packet
Isailed, if had not got the assistance of a laquais de place

who talked English. We sailed over the Sound to Mahno
in about five hours very pleasantly, though the boat was so
small, that had it rained or been rough, it would have been

wretched. The low island of Salholl was on our right

Inearly all the way. A Danish naval officer who talked

English helped me, and got successfully to a humble inn

at Malmo, and walked on foot along the shore to the lime-

works at Linnhaven, and back in a peasant car, filled with
Idry seaweed. On the sea-side
                               remarked the extremely
Ismall size of the Cardium edule and Mytilus edulis, which
have since learnt is characteristic of all the truly oceanic

species which contrive to live (both fish and mollusca) in the
brackish waters of the Baltic. They miss their proper dose

of brine, and the farther from the Sound the smaller do they

I Ibecome.

    Surfra : June 8.-- must return to Malmo, where began

to feel the want of the language (even at so flourishing a
port where the English trade) a very serious inconvenience.
As to transacting the bargain of a carriage, my courage
misgave me, when in stepped a gentlemanlike sort of a
young man, talking good English, and introducing himself
as Mr. John Robert Johnson of Malmo, a Swede, whose

Imother was English, and offered his services as interpreter.
   liked his manner much, and after purchasing with his
assistance a covered carriage on springs, with harness in

Icluded, for the moderate sum of about 91., taking it first upon

trial to Lund, asked him if he would goto Stockholm. He

said he should be glad to try and arrange it, so he went with
me in the light carriage to Lund, and on the way told me his
history. His father died when he was a boy, and the widow
kept the English Hotel at Stockholm. She was soon ruined
by the knavery of the waiter who managed the inn, and was
then invited by Mr. Dundas, a Scotch gentleman who bought
an estate near Lund, to be his housekeeper, which she was
for five years, when she died. Her only son, who was thirteen,

upon this quitted Stockholm, was first sent to school, and

1834. DEPARTS FOR SWEDEN.                                                         419

then to study at the university of Lund, being intended for

the Church ; but becoming rather deaf, and expecting to get
worse, he gave up the idea, and became teacher of the English

language at Malmo, where the Swedish merchants have need

Iof a teacher, and keep him to it ten hours in the day.
was referred to Dundas, who was hourly expected in Malmo,
Ibut having consulted a Malmo merchant on whom had a
I(letter of)
Imatter at
credit, felt no fear. After talking                        over the
Lund with Professor Hill, a chemist,                          offered
IJohnson a little more than should for a servant, and his

expenses back to Malmo, which he agreed to joyfully, re

quiring nearly the whole in advance for outfit. He returned

Ito Malmo to pay for the carriage, being absent only two
days, which  spent most agreeably and profitably with

Mlsson. He showed me his fossils, and gave me a valuable

collection of duplicates. We made an excursion together

through a country of greywacke with orthoceratite limestone

and schist, containing a curious zoophyte called graptolite

in great abundance, and a few shells. These rocks are
seen by the banks of a small brook in a place called

IFogelsSng (pronounced song), or 'song of birds,' where
heard the nightingale and cuckoo. The vegetation was
Isuperb. It was here that Linnaeus first studied botany when
a student at Lund.  had often wondered that in his tour

in Lapland he contrasts so much the plants and insects of

the northernmost climates with the south, thinking that

Sweden was far north ; but Scania is like England, splendid

woods of beech and oak, and flowers innumerable.

    Korby. --We have just made another stage from Lund of

nine miles, and are waiting a few minutes while a black

smith mends the tyre of the wheel of my bargain ; but really
Ithe machine promises well, and will hope sell for near
Iwhat gave for
3

                        it,

                                                            ea
                                                                               2

                                    I

                                                                    is

                                             I
                    so as to cover any extra expense of

Johnson, who comes on very well.
    Nobblo. --Another stage, and in clanger of waiting an

hour for horses. After Christianstadt             suppose                         must

have a forebud.3 The country to-day from Lund by
Hurfra, Korby, and Wren to this place like England,

       Forebud --a Swedish term for    messenger  or avant-courier, sent on to
order horses from stage to stage.    e

420     SIR CHARLES LYELL.                    CHAP. XVI L

Iand scarcely what  had expected. The fir trees have
Ibeen rarer think than even in the south of England,

and oaks and heeches and a variety of other hard wood

of handsome size have been spread over a country much

like the New Forest, with the same glades opening here

and there, but greener and much less heathy in Scania,

and with the difference that the country here, though hardly

more hilly than Hants, is strewed over with innumerable

blocks of granite and other crystalline rocks, so as some

times to resemble the Forest of Fontainebleau. The

weather delicious, roads good, though not quite equal to

England. It is most creditable to the Swedes to have made

such roads without turnpikes. Every here and there are

gates opened by children, who are pleased with the sixth or

even twelfth part of a farthing. The juniper has been

nearly as plentiful to-day as heath in England or Scotland.

All the floors of the rooms are strewed with it. Between

Hurfra and Korby we were for hours in sight of a noble lake,

Iby the side of which are several country seats of noblemen
and gentlemen, which look much like England.  went to

the shore of the lake, and found it covered with stones, on
which were abundance of the common Succinea amphibia. A

squirrel was sitting on a great stone close to the road when we

Ipassed : it played about when we were very near, and looked
at us.  saw a great many bogs, as in the New Forest, and

horses feeding in them up to their knees in mud.
     Christianstadt. --This is a neat fortified town ; horse

artillery exercising ; passport demanded for the first time.

Stopped at the gate while a blacksmith repaired the iron of

the wheel of the carriage. Symptoms also of one spring of

the said vehicle letting one side of our seat down a little ;

but it runs well, and in this cheap country the two repairs,

which at Strasburg might have produced a heavy bill, were

Ionly 2s. 2d.
     Karlshamn :
        June  10, --Johnson  comes  on very well, and is

an excellent whip. After Christianstadt made an excursion
quite out of the way to visit the lake of Ifosjon, in the middle
of which is the isle of Ifo (pronounced Ivon), where beneath
the sand and boulder formation, under which in general the

country is buried, appears in steep cliffs a calcareous green

1834.  BACKE-HASTEN.  421

sand of the chalk era, with numerous belemnites, some
oysters, and a few cranias. Of the belemnite, a species --

I Iwhich believe is only Swedish --was so plentiful that filled

some small boxes full. Getting boats and cars for this expedi
tion, and waiting for each, cost much time. There is a village
on the isle, which is rich and beautiful, and we found an intel
ligent clergyman, who insisted on our dining with him, and
while his horses were sent for to take us to a cliff, his

daughter, who had waited at dinner, played from a book some

Ipieces on a piano, with a kind of flute accompaniment, for it

was half an organ. cannot say much for the melody. The
priest, as Johnson called him, has the reputation of speaking

Imany languages, but he knows nothing but Swedish.

tried him in vain in Latin. He gave me a fossil or two, and

offered me some stone hatchets. Before Christianstadt we

passed a huge block of granite, as large as a good-sized
house, which even in this country of boulders is a wonder,
and is called the j)hantom stone c Trollesten,5 the subject of

Imany a legend of witches.

    Karlshamn : 'June 10, 1834 -- mentioned the Trollesten in

rny last. When talking of those legends we asked the inn
keeper whether the peasants about him believed in the
6Brook-horse,' or < Backe -hasten,' pronounced Bake-hasteten,
the e in the first word as in German. 1 had seen in the

morning many horses and pigs up to their middle in the
Scanian bogs, feeding, and thought how elephants of old

Iand other cattle got mired for the benefit of our modern

anatomists. This evil spirit corresponds exactly, conceive,
to the water-kelpie. The host began by saying how rapidly
all these superstitions were disappearing; and then con
fessed that very lately, when a cow of his was put out to
grass, and came home lean, and with her back rubbed and

raw, nothing would persuade his servants that anything

could be done for the beast. It was the Backe-hasten which

had been riding it : there was nothing else the matter. This

demon tempts the cattle into mires, and the peasants after

Ithem, and carries them out to where they sink, and drives

the cattle, &c. Among other stories am told that, as find
ing of buried treasure is of no uncommon occurrence still,

there are some persons gifted with a magic glass, which,

422      s/R CHARLES LYELL.                 chap, xvil

wlien they take it out with a lantern at night, shows them
Ifwhere the hidden money is.
                              anyone gets unaccount

ably rich in trade, &c, it is attributed to his having a glass.

But  as  dragons guard the treasure, it is  dangerous   to take
it.       you ask what sort of dragons,      they say  like the
     If

great wooden one in the church at Stockholm, which St.

Georgejs killing. About four years ago, a live alligator in
very good condition was found in the fields near Lund, and

was taken by the peasants for one of these dragons ; so that
it was not till they had collected in considerable numbers

that they ventured to seize him and carry him to Lund,,

where he now appears in the museum as a stuffed specimen.

Malm 6, the nearest port5 was twelve miles off, but he is

supposed to have swum ashore from a wrecked vessel at

Helsingborg, thirty miles off, his line of march being traced

by the slaughter of geese, which had been attributed to the

unusual rapacity of the foxes. As it was the heat of

summer, the creature had probably formed a tolerably good

opinion of Scania.

   I give the story as told me, but unluckily did not hear it
Ibefore left Lund, so could not get from Mlsson an authentic
account. We get on very slowly, though the roads are good,,

but the delays are so numerous. They often send the merest

Ichildren to bring back the horses, who have hardly strength

to hold the reins, so it is fortunate have a good driver as
a companion. For three years he was a probationary

preacher, having, as is usual, obtained leave from the

bishop to that effect. My collection of belemnites excited
much curiosity. In the country where they are common the

people call them candles, saying that the witches burnt

them. When transparent, they are not very unlike the

amber so common on the shores of the Baltic.

    Holy : June 10. --It seems to me we shall never get to-
          on. We
         -- posting.
IStockholm at the rate we move              have only }ret met
                                                only wonder the
two other carriages since Malmo

inns are so good. What a vast country this is ! Blaking

is very beautiful, granite covered with wood, and blocks of

granite among the trees. The rye bread is sometimes nearly
white, and sweet and palatable. Along the road are black

painted boards, with the initials of the peasant who is to keep

1834. CASTLE OF KALMAR.          423

Iit in order.  should be quite lost without an interpreter.

Johnson is a perfect gentleman in his manners and feeling,
and, when we were with the priest's family in Ifo, played his

part admirably.

    June, 11. --Yesterday we slept at Ronneby, a Swedish
watering-place situated in a picturesque granite country.

INilsson had begged me to inquire about the discovery of

shells near the river at Konneby, which did from a fine old

clergyman, whom they call the Dean, and who is much
respected for his learning. Dean Weltergrund visited the
spot with me, and cross-examined the men who dug the

Itrench. This morning we were off by half-past six to Karls-

crona, where failed in seeing the docks, which are not shown
to strangers. They are said to prove that the sea has not
fallen there. The northern part of Blaking5 which, like

IScania, once belonged to the Danes, has afforded the first

fir woods had yet seen. The juniper is very ambitious

there, and aspires to be a tree, rbing sometimes to near

fourteen feet ; and putting aside its shrubby, bu shy growth,
it is then quite handsome, a sort of northern cypress. We
have also passed some woods of birch, but never saw large

Itrees.
    Kalmar : June 12. --To-day have been examining and

Itaking a sketch of the an cient castle here, now a prison, and

it affords proof, think, of the very slight, if any, change of
relative level of land and sea since 500 years. It is a fine

old castle, and stood many a good fight with the Danes.

IWe saw the hall in which the treaty of union of Sweden,
Denmark, and Norway was signed.  have been about the

latitude of Edinburgh and Fife, and the climate and natural

productions seem very similar. We have had no great heat
Inor cold, but the best kind of weather both for travelling and
working.  am just returned from an examination of fhe
beach. It seems as if the Baltic, being neither good for fresh

Inor salt-water shells, had not yet received a peculiar brackish
tribe of its own.  only found a few small cockles and

mussels, one Tellina Baltica and Lymnea ovata ? the latter
alive and in abundance.
    June 13. --We are penetrating into the interior from

Kalmar. All the houses have been of wood, almost through

424  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                       CHAP. XVII.

our whole route, even in many towns. It is a great country

of peasants, all of whom have a little land. They invariably
take off their hats as they pass us. This morning some poor

children brought out each of them a pottle of fine ripe wood

strawberries, to sell for a halfpenny each --the baskets in

geniously made of the bark of the birch sewn together.
With rich cream at the post-house, and some sugar, we had

a fine dish for two, for twopence halfpenny. We are now

passing numerous lakes, in a flattish granite country, covered

Iwith fir wood, and here and there a piece of better land
with rye upon it, fenced in with fir fences.  have just got

a new light in regard to good roads and cheap posting. The
peasants, it seems, hold their lands upon the tenure of keep
ing the roads in order, and providing horses. This last,

though paid for, is generally looked upon as a tax, and only

on some roads, where they are very poor and the travelling
frequent, do they profit. They take turns in turning out

steeds, which are sometimes taken from the plough. This

is a sort of feudal service, and the traveller is admitted to
share the privilege of a ' lord superior/ and have the services

of his vassals.              pushed on about a hundred

   INorJcoping. --Yesterday
Imiles, finding the horses always ready, but was on the road
from five o'clock in the morning till half-past nine o'clock.
I IA country of rock, fir wood, and peasantry. It seems to me

that have never seen a shop since entered Sweden. Even
at Linkoping and this place there only appeared things to
Isell in one or two windows.
                              have not been at all annoyed
Iby dirt, but then am not always inquiring for it, a VAng-
Ilaise. Twice have been slightly bitten by the insect tribe.
ITo-day went a round by Berg and the west side of Lake

Roxen, to visit limestone and slate quarries. The locks of

the great canal, which are the wonder of Sweden, appear

nothing to an Englishman. The cost, however, was severe

on this poor country. The numerous smaller lakes of Oster-

gothland reminded me of Windermere and the English lakes.
IThe rooms are strewed here with the leaves of the birch tree.

Every room have seen in Sweden is strewed with this, or

juniper, partly to scent the rooms, and in part to conceal dirt

on the boarded floors.

1834.         FOSSIL CONCHOLOGY.           425

              CHAPTEE XVIII.

              JUNE-DECEMBER 1834.

'STOCKHOLM --BEEZELIUS --REVIEW OF THE FLEET BY PRINCE OSCAR--
     UPSALA -- HERR ADJUNCTER MARKLIN -- LINN^EUS'S GARDEN -- LIBER
     ARGENTEUS --MEASURES THE SEA-LEVEL --RETURNS TO STOCKHOLM --
     GOTHEBORG- -- SAILS TO HULL -- EDINBURGH SCIENTIFIC MEETING --

      AGASSIZ.

              JOUBNAL.

Norhoping : June 15, 1834. --It is now twenty-five days that

Iwe have been separated, and have often thought of what
Iyou said, that the active occupation in which should

              be engaged would give me a great advantage
                trust, however, that you also have been actively

              At leisure moments have done some things
constantly

Iover you.
Iemployed.
towards planning my next volume. It will be necessary for

us to have a work together at fossils, at Kinnordy first, and

then in town, and then in Paris. When at Kinnordy, if you

Icould get some disciples to teach them fossil conchology from
Deshayes5 work, it would be a great step.  picked Lymnea

I·auricularis out of the Gotha Canal, where it flourishes, as at
Poppelsdorf.  find that the work at the loess shells has

Imade me acquainted with nearly every freshwater and land

shell have yet met with here, which is encouraging.

INilsson gave me his little work on the shells of Sweden.

When consider how thinly the population is scattered

over this vast country, and that rich natives and foreigners

Iare passing along the high roads, and that the woods con

tain no robbers, am lost in wonder. But then every pea
sant has something; there are scarce any paupers. The
peasants drive along in their light cars, with loads of deal
planks, at the rate of six or seven miles an hour, and often

426              SIX CHARLES LYELL.              chap, xviil.

Ikept up with. us. They are a well-grown race. We saw a

great number of jays in the woods, and observed some
insects which are common in the south of England, such as.
PapiHo rhamni, which
                        do not   go so    far north as Scotland-
It is enough that they   have a           very hot weather, and
                                  little
If Ithey care not for cold, as they can be dormant.
                                                     had
Inot seen them, should hardly have thought that it was
hotter here than in Scotland in summer. Much rain in the

last two days, but only in showers. Drivers spoke with
glee of ten cubs of wolves just caught, but no old one

taken.

   IStockholm : June 19. -- have been two days in this capital,
I Iand like what have seen of it much. But before begin
Iupon it, must endeavour to fill up my journal. The ISTor-

koping steamer went first smoothly down the river, the
same which drains off the surplus waters of Wettern, and

several other lakes, banks covered with fir, and islands,

and a broad river. Scarce anything but wood and rock.
We came in a few hours to the open sea, and a gust of wind
caused a swell, which made the ladies ill. They were

merchants' wives and daughters. After a few hours of this

we entered a passage between an endless string of islets and
the mainland. The water here smooth as a mill-pond. We
passed swiftly on in deep water, close to the rocks, on the

barest of which are a few firs in the clefts. These are evi

dently the summit of submarine mountains. We then in

the night came to the Sodertelje Canal, which joins the sea

and Lake Malar. We had to wait here several hours till

the lock was open, and the time was spent in taking in

wood.

     No. 4 Norre Smidje   Gatan [North Smith     Street), Stock
                         a quantity of fuel was  taken into the
holm. --While we slept,

boat, not black, dirty coal, but sweet- smelling fir wood, which,

never makes the least smoke from the chimney that was

visible, and leaves the sails quite white. Early in the morn

ing of the 17th the gate of the lock opened, and we ascended

into the lakes.

     The banks of the lake were of granite, covered with fir

and some oak and birch ; beautiful, yet perhaps somewhat

monotonous, after the similar scenery before, until the fine.

1834.  BERZELIUS.  427

city of Stockholm came in view, so superior in its site to
Copenhagen, from the -uneven ground on which it stands,
and the numerous deep friths which intersect it, and

Ithe strong, deep current which runs out of Lake Malar

through it. The inns were full, but soon got a lodg
ing here in a good central place. Went to Berzelius,
and had from him a most kind reception, and to business at

once. c You have time to do much/ said he, c provided you
can escape dinners.' He went at once to the point, and
having told me much that he knew about changes of level,,

offered to drive me next morning to some interesting spots
in his drosky. He also introduced me to the keeper of the
Museum of the Academy Eoyal of Sciences, of which he>

IBerzelius, is the head, or secretary ; and they find him a

good mansion, and suppose a salary besides. He lectures
on chemistry to the College of Physicians. He was the
son of a priest, of a good family, educated for medicine, but
never practised it, but early devoted himself to science. Was
ennobled by the present King, without; any title, except some

orders, which however are only appended to his name, as he
is still c Professor de (af) Berzelius/ He has officiated in
the Chamber of Peers at some Diets, but tells me he has

cut politics, and a Peer may, when the Diet opens, declare
whether he will or not act in it. The present Diet is an
extraordinary one, called by the King to convert the paper
circulation into coin. The bank-notes descend now to the

sum of three-pence English ! and are almost all in rags. On

Ithe morning of the 18th spent five whole hours with
IBerzelius, tete-a-tete. After all kinds of hints, which noted

down for my tour, he drove me to see some alluvial pheno
mena near the Observatory, and in the beautiful royal parks
a few miles north of this city, of Haga and Ulricsdal, in
both of which are fine lakes and woods and country palaces.

Then to Solna, where marine recent shells are found some

thirty feet above the sea. Berzelius entertained me with

Iresults of his last analysis of meteoric stones, which he

believes come from the moon. While made drawings, and
collected specimens, Berzelius gathered grass for his well-fed

and handsome dun pony, which he is great friends with,,

and can leave him quite alone. <As he only gets hay,5 said.

428           SIX CHARLES LYELL.                   CHAP. XVIII.

Berzelius, < all the year in the stable, every mouthful of this

is a sweetmeat to him.5          came home  from my ride
                                            dined at the
   IStockholm: June 21. --After
Iwith Berzelius, in the middle of the day,
Club, or Society, as it is called, a handsome building over

looking the strom, or grand current which issues from Lake

Malar. Here some of the gentlemen helped me to order
dinner, which only cost about a shilling, beer included.

Afterwards to Colonel Blom, who drove me in his carriage
through the c deer park/ to show me this royal park which
is open to the public, in which he, Blom, has erected several
·of the ' transportable houses 5 of which he was the inventor.

They can be put up in a few weeks anywhere, well heated

with stoves : are made of wood, painted with oil. The King

had one in a great hurry once, to give a fete in the park,
and was so pleased with it, that it is now cased in stone,

Iand forms a country palace, of which Blom gave me a draw

ing. On the 19th saw Hisinger for the first time, for he
Iis much taken up with committees of the Diet. He is oldish,
good-humoured, but has withal rather a triste manner.                           -

Iexpected more of a devotee, and suspect it is an unfavourable
time when a man is worked with political affairs.  got an

old plan of Stockholm from Blom, and we went through
Professor Johnston's article in Jamieson x together, whose

proofs of the fall of the water here are so bad and exagge

rated, and some of them absurd, that it is enough to provoke
Iscepticism.
              determined next day to examine the spots,
Iwhich Professor Johnston cannot have done.
                                                   was intro

duced by Blom to Lieutenant-Colonel Lundstedt, who re

Iplaces Hallstrom, whose absence all are regretting, for my

-sake. Next day (yesterday) went with my interpreter in
a caleche to all places cited in the article in Jamieson's

Journal, a beautiful drive, and satisfied myself that, though

the water may be falling, most of the historical proofs

adduced are ridiculously nugatory. One case for example.

'Charles XL built a fishing lodge 150 years ago, which stands

Ithirty feet above water. This near the lake, but now far

from it, and high above it; but found a great oak, which

     1 Jamieson's EcLiiibwrgh Philosophical Jowrnal, 1833. On the Rise of Land

in Sweden, by J. F. W. Johnston, F.R.S.E.

1 834.                   STOCKHOLM.                  429

Iis upwards of two hundred years old, and which measured,

and of which the base is eight feet only above the lake.

This oak then loved the water 150 or 200 years ago more

than our willows do now. The hut must have always been,
Iwithin a foot or two, as far from the lake as now.
                                                     spent

two hours with Hisinger, who gave me four volumes of his-

works, with some plates and maps, all in Swedish. Read

Swedish for the first time one hour with Johnson, who

teaches pretty well.

    Stockholm: June 22, 1834. -- Stron, the Keeper of

Woods and Forests, has offered to measure the height of

Charles XL's oak, and has sent me in his reasons for saying

it is four hundred years old, and much more valuable infor
Imation.
          am now in hopes, by the altitude of this tree, to
Ifix a limit to the possible rate of the rise of land here.
must stay here a day or two more. A new man, Col. Norde-

wall, comes into the field to-morrow, willing and able to serve
I Ime. Berzelius says : ' see you will extract what
                                                     could

not get him to print, because he will see that you must have

it at once, and he is a procrastinator/ This is justly called'

the Venice of the North, and now the sun is powerful,

though hitherto the weather in Sweden has been delightful.
Prince Oscar, who is Lord High Admiral, is to review the
fleet to-morrow, and it has come into the suburbs, and four

or five ships of war, among them one good- sized frigate,

have actually cast anchor opposite the windows of the

palace, such is the depth of these blue friths, which are yet

so narrow as by no means to detract from the height of the

houses. The bronze equestrian statue of Gustavus II., and

those of other kings in the squares, are in a superior style.

I Ishall only hear the cannon at a distance to-morrow, as

Iam determined to go to Sodertelje again, and next day to
Upsala.   have fully determined to return to Stockholm

Iafter a tour to Gefle, and a little to the north of Gene, then
Fahlun, Sala, and here.  am making myself master of the

kind of evidence relied on for the change of level of the
Baltic, and it is necessary to cross-examine both nature and
Iman. The testimony of the former is strong ; of the latter,
Imust say, so weak and contradictory, that require to know
Ithe men, and find how they got their views.
                                                     must

430    sm CHARLES LYELL.                 chap, xviii.

endeavour to see Hallstroni. Old Nordewall stands ine out

that a bed of Carclium eclule, 100 feet high, proves that the

fresh water of Lake Malar was once that much higher.

   ITour letter came to-day, and was most welcome, and

better than the/e^, for which partly stayed, knowing that

Johnson thought it a sin to be out of town. In its way it

was fine. The troops, both Swedes and Norwegians, well-

grown men. The parade very fine. The ships of war

Iopposite the palace covered with gay flags. Afterwards the
yards manned. All over in a short time.  afterwards

drove in a gig to talk with Berzelius, then to Nordewall,

then to the suburbs.
      Upsala: June 26. -- The Sodertelje expedition told more

Ithan anyone have made in Sweden. Shells of the Baltic
Inearly one hundred feet high. All that got at Lubeck save
Mya arenaria, and perhaps that is not a Bothnian Gulf
species. But what think you of ships in the same formation ?
I--nay, a house. It is as true as the Temple of Serapis.
                                                          do
I Inot mean that discovered all this, but shall be the first
Ito give a geological account of it.  came home in high

I Ispirits at this prize, and the chilling influence of old Hisinger
was more than thawed.  think have hit on his character.

Sweden is his preserve, and he wants no young poachers.
If you ask for instructions to such a place, he will say, ' Oh,
I Ithat is all known already.'
                       told Berzelius of what

thought of Sodertelje, and he was not staggered at my
requiring an enormous subsidence and re-elevation. Had

Nordewall or Captain Cronstrand only known that neither a
Carclium nor a Tellina will live in a lake, it would have saved

them a world of trouble.

     Upsala : June 26. --We were sent off from two inns, and

Ithis, into which we have found our way, seems excellent and
full.  went to bed without candles last night, after eleven

Io'clock, and happening to wake at three o'clock, found

it daylight. This believe is about the latitude of the
IShetland Isles, yet a nice summery-looking land in this

season. In a stream to-day, slow flowing, found num
bers of Planorlis corneus ; at Lund, marginatus was equally

abundant.

    June 27. --Walilenberg exceedingly polite and gentle-

1834.  GARDEN OF LINNALUS.                      431

manlike, but seems sickly, which some here attribute to his

being a martyr to the homoeopathic system. As he is now
full of botany, he handed me over to Herr Adjuncter

Marklin, an assistant professor, who was a peasant, and only

began to read and write at the age of twenty-one. Very

simple. He tells me he has only 171. sterling a year, but never
sells fossils or other things : an enthusiast, full of knowledge
Iand originality.
                   have learnt much from him already, and
Ion finding he was delighted with Rang, gave it to him,

and he has given me duplicate copies which he had of Dal-

man and Wahlenberg, on trilobites, and has presented me

with shells collected on the coast of Norway, and with some

transition fossils of Sweden, of which his collection is beau

tiful. We talk German together, and regularly have

recourse to Latin when either of us are at fault. He is
Iabout fifty, and when mislaid my gloves, he remarked that
Ihe was fortunate in never having had any.
                                                should not be
surprised if they who search for the shirt of the happy man,

should find no such incumbrance on him. Certain it is that

when the City of Frankfort offered him four or five times

his present income to be keeper of their Museum, &c, he

declined, partly, he confessed to me, because the German

diet makes him ill. He has a collection of insects, in which

Ithis country seems very rich, having many species which we
consider more southern.  have been with him through

Linnaeus's Garden, where the hedges of fir, clipped, stand as

he planted them (Pinus abies). Linnaeus had five children :
the son died young, and all but the eldest of the four

daughters are married. They are much delighted at

Iforeigners coming to see the house in which their father
lived, especially at Hammerby, in the country.  may per

haps have scarcely understood part of the story, but Marklin

was speaking of some Englishman who obtained from Miss

Linnaeus the cups out of which the old gentleman drank,

Iand sent in return from England a service of plates with the
Linncea horealis painted on each article.  saw his lecture-

room, and Wahlenberg showed me his statue in another

place. There are nine hundred students here.

  IJune 28. -- Besides zoologising yesterday at Marklin's,

went to the hill, a hundred feet high, on which the tower

432        SIR CHARLES LYELL.                    CHAP. XVIII.

stands, to examine marine shells. All of Baltic species*
You remember that in the half-hour between the two steam

Iboats at Lubeck, or rather Traveinunde, collected shells
Iby the quay. Not one fossil have found newer than the
chalk in Sweden that was not in the number of those

found living, in that half-hour. To-day, after studying with
IMarklin, saw Col. Bruncrona, chief of the Swedish pilotage
Ifor many years.
                  am to get some hints from him to
Imorrow, hope, about the marks at Gene. Tornea (says
Wahlenberg) is not so well worth examining as Gene for
Ithis point. Afterwards went, at Wahlenberg's recommen
Idation, to UlfVa, three or four miles off.
                                             went in style,

with my driver, my interpreter Johnson, and, thirdly, my
naturalist Marklin, and a good pair of steeds to my carriage,

which after, on the whole, about four guineas repair, seems

Ifit
to go  the world over.      much  geology here.  It is fine
June
       29.-- have learnt

agreeable summer weather. Linnseus's Garden looking very

like one in Hampshire, and no signs of a latitude north of

ICape Wrath.
     June 30. -- am stopping at a house in a fir wood, between

Upsala and the great iron mines of Danemora, while horses

Iare sent for. Nothing could have told more than my stay of
three days at Upsala.  have got a date for some of the

I Ilargest erratic blocks, and shall quite overset the debacle

theory, and expect bring in ice-carriage as the cause. hope
to stay two hours only at Danemora. My point now is to
examine several places where marks were made in the rocks

Iabout fourteen years ago by Bruncrona. One of these is
near the port of Oregrund.  had a famous elementary

lesson in trilobites from Marklin, and wish you had been
there. All the recent animals most analogous were put
before me, and the principles on which the fossils have been

Iclassified explained. At Ulfva found recent Baltic shells
Iin clay.
           visited on the way home Gama Upsala (Old U.),
where there is a church, in which Marklin says the
Catholic worship was for some time performed in one part
of the ancient temple, while the heathens sacrificed human
victims to Thor and Odin in the other. Near the church
are three immense tumuli, in which those two idols, and

1834.        THE EARTH MOVES,                    433

Frigga, Odin's wife, were buried. It is the custom to drink

Ia glass of mead (honey and wine, or spirit from barley,

believe) on the top of Thor's tomb, and as the King had

Ilately done so, said the peasant who drove us, he supposed
  should, which accordingly we did. The beverage was not

bad. The tradition of the joint worship is believed. The

priests of Odin and Thor have taken advantage of a natural
ridge of sand and gravel, and by cutting part of it into

gigantic hummocks, have skilfully enough given the appear

ance of a stupendous work. This was a trick worthy of

some of the Catholics who supplanted them. The iron mine

I Iat Danemora is a grand sight, but for want of a good guide,

whom could understand, did not gain much, and there

Iappears to be no interesting geological phenomena to be
seen there.  am beginning to tire of fir woods again,
though now and then varied by birch. It has been rather
monotonous, whereas between the capital and Upsala it was

Imuch the reverse. It is a detour of a day nearly that arn
Imaking to Oregrund, to see a mark in the rock.
                                                 had a

very pleasant walk with Wahlenberg to see a meadow near

Upsala, where several marine plants, as Glaux maritima,

which require salt, still flourish. The sea does not come

nearer now than Stockholm : there is salt in the soil.
    Oregrund : July 1. --A nice little port, with ships lying at

anchor. Just returned with the Lieutenant of the Pilotage

from the first examination of marks in the rocks. Results,

I I Ias far as our observation goes, very decided and satisfactory.
am exceedingly glad came here before Gene.  think of

making a report to the Royal Academy at Stockholm. Went

in a boat about three and a half hours' pull, with four rowers.

IThe place of the mark, and the mode of marking, well
chosen.      had with me the pilot who made the mark
Ifourteen years ago. It seems true, as Galileo said in a
different sense, ' that the earth moves.'  found a Neritina

on the rocks where the mark was, four specimens. We are

just going to set off on our way to Gefle, through more fir

woods. In these woods the quantity of ant-hills at the foot

of the fir trees is quite extraordinary, and of great height,
Ibut scarcely, think, larger on the whole than those in the
INew Forest, only higher.
                           have been determining that in

VOL. 1.                    FF

434  s/A CHARLES LVELL.                        chap, xviii.

I IOctober, while attend Daniell's lectures, shall go on with
Izoology steadily, and we will study together. In a day or

two, my dearest love, shall be again turning towards you,

Iand with the satisfaction of having accomplished the object

of my journey, and with having, am sure, reaped the fruit

of the sacrifice we have both made in the separation, so far

as my scientific career is concerned.

   I IOefle : July 2. -- forget whether told you that at Upsala
I Isaw the famous Liber Argenteus,'2 of which fancy you
I Iread more than could tell you in Clarke and elsewhere.
Ihave found a new locality for Baltic shells.
                                               begin to have
Igreat hopes that shall feel strong enough in original
matter and in decisive results to read my paper to the

IEoyal Society.

    Faldun : July 5. -- had the chief pilot at Gene for a day

and a half, and visited two of the principal marks made in

1820 at Lofgrund and Esjko Sound. A retired sea captain

of Gefle volunteered going with us. He had traded much

with Hull, and has the reputation of knowing English well,

as he was so much in England. Partly not to expose his

great ignorance of the language, and partly to please his

own reserved humour, he hardly uttered a word the whole

time ; but he was so good-humoured and willing to do just
as we liked, and to help to steer, &c, that we were as well

Iwith him as not. The first day it was very cold, with the
wind against us, and slow work.  learnt much about the

action of ice in these seas from the sailors and pilot, and

we landed at Lofgrund, and drank milk in some summer

Ifishing huts, where we found a nice peasant's family.

measured the stone at Lofgrundet, where there was one

mark made in 1731, several feet above the sea. One of the

fisher huts had been broken to pieces by the fall of a fir tree

upon it. We next landed on the island of Edsko klubb, but

Icould not bear news there of a mark which the pilot thought

there was. Then measured the line cut on St. Olaf's stone

in Edsko Sund, and, it being late, determined to sleep there.

IThe accommodation was scanty enough, but we had taken
provisions with us.  slept well for four hours, and then

     a The CodnQ] ArganU-m, containing the four Gospels in silver letters, a MS.
of great antiquity,

1834. AN EARLY CRUISE.                      435

Iwaking, and seeing* the sea quite calm, got up, woke the

pilot, and told him that as he said the evening before that
my observation was incomplete from the state of the wind and

sea, perhaps we now had a good opportunity of rectifying

it. He was a sprightly, good-humoured young man, and
very intelligent. He immediately jumped up, and declared
that the sea was in so favourable a state, just at its mean
level and quite calm, that no time should be lost. With

great despatch all the things and his men were ready, and
the old captain, who was never so happy as when sitting in
the boat, was down among the first. As for Johnson, who

Isleeps hard, a,s he says, he was bundled out of bed, wondering

that c having ordered coffee, should go without it.' A .way
we rowed down the sound, and revisited the huge stone, and

IT found the sea, as the pilot had predicted, several inches
lower.  returned then to Geiie, much pleased, having1 gone

about forty miles by sea in our excellent boat, and which
Isailed very well against wind. Had
                                            taken a common
Ifisher boat, might have been beating about three days or
Imore. Got off the same day towards Fahlun, and penetrated

farther than had ever done before into the interior of

ISweden. A land of goats, none of which had before seen

nearer the coast.

   IJuly (). --Johnson, who gets on in many respects very well,

is so slow at getting up in the morning, that have taken

Iup the thing in earnest, having lost on the whole journey
several days by want of method in posting.  have ordered

the carriage to be greased over night, and have got up some
phrases in Swedish, to order the man myself. He is

Iastonished to see already the difference ; but 1 will show him

yet, when have a few more words, that we can do a stage at

least more in the same day's work, for when the horses come

he has a number of things to do, and the bill is never paid.
We are now stopping at a stage between Fahlun and Sala,
having crossed more than once the Dal Elf ven, one of the

Ilargest rivers in Sweden, of which we have seen much.
Isuppose mentioned that, at Skjerplinge, the falls of that

Igreat river over the granite are very grand.. Niagara in

miniature, suppose ; but the island covered with firs which

divides the waters is beautiful. The people of Dalecarlia*

        FF2

436         SIX CHARLES LYELL.          CHAP. XVIII

which we entered yesterday, are a fine-grown race, and the

cottages of the peasants quite handsome. Wood painted

red, with very large panes of glass in the windows, and good

stoves in the German style in every room. The beds look

Ipoor and not perhaps (except the sheets) very clean ; but

sleep sound, am rarely bitten, and on the whole find the

Iplain diet agree with me.

    6, Evening. -- have just seen the great silver mine. The

metal is in a beautiful rock of crystalline limestone.

   I IStockholm : 7. -- feel now what was very sensible of
Iwhen correcting my last edition, that was not justified in
Iwriting any more until had done all in my power to ascer

tain the truth in regard to c the great northern phenomenon/

as the gradual rise of part of Sweden has been very naturally
called. You will see by-and-by how important a point it
was, and how materially it will modify my mode of treating
the science, and how much it will advance the theory of the

Iagency of existing causes, as a key to explain geological
phenomena.  should much like next year to find Deshayes'

manual just coming out, or just finished. My plan is to

take up by degrees the zoology of geology in all its branch es,

but to make shells the great business.

            To Leonard Horner, Esq.

                                                           Stockholm : July 9, 1834.

IMy dear Horner, -- shall be at Hull, unless some unfore

Iseen obstacle occurs, by the packet which should arrive
there on the 25th of this month.  am longing for Mary's

company again, and hope to join her just within the ten

weeks, or seventy days, which, as Mr. Kennedy told her, was

a generous concession in her to make, by way of leave of

Iabsence. The sacrifice any other way would have been

great, for to do what have, would have required nearly
Iperpetual absences, in boating excursions and others, and

much roughing on the road, which have not felt, because

not only excited, but in the field all day. But the country

inns and poor peasants' houses would have been wretched

Iabodes for a woman, unable to keep up with the geology.
   have seen a glorious country, and have examined many of

1834.  COPPER MINES.                      437

the marks made in 1820, all now some inches above actual

sea-level. The observations may be slighted by some,
because this sea rises and falls two or three feet in the course

of the year, but when the season and other circumstances
are taken fairly into account, it has made on me a strong

impression. My interpreter has enabled me to cross-examine
pilots and merchants and fishermen. Another line of
research has been the huge drift blocks, or Baltic boulders

Ior c erratic blocks/ which cover all Denmark and Sweden.

Their size is often enormous. Some have ascertained have

been placed where they are in times exceedingly modern,
I Igeologically speaking, certainly late in Newer Pliocene period.
believe that ice has brought them.        have questioned the

Ipilots closely about the agency of ice, in which they believe.
  am persuaded that ice can do much for us. The examina
tion of Baltic species of shells above the sea-level at various
Iheights, some at new localities which have found, is a grand
I Ifact.                                  was glad to hear that
       have still to see Uddevalla.

you had been fishing, or lizard catching, with Lord Greenock,
who has that greatest of all merits, loving the subject. The

Swedes seem to me more like the English than either the

Germans or French. They have most of our faults and
merits. Not so many simple characters as in Germany.

IThe heat is now very great here, and Stockholm looks almost
like an Italian city, and feels like it.  have had nearly

constant dry weather, scarcely three days with any rain,

Iwhich, with only three hours of night, has enabled me to do
much in a short time.  think of writing a paper for the

Royal Society on the elevation facts, and for the Geological

I ISociety on Danish chalk.
        have not said in my letters to Mary that have looked
in vain for any tine natural woods : all the large old trees are

cut down, even where the country is fully wooded and a
Icontinuous forest.
                       have visited the greatest copper mine
Iof "Fahlun, of silver at Sala, and of iron at Danemora.

Icannot say that they have edified me much as to the causes

of the metallic phenomena, but was ill prepared to profit by
them. The silver occurs with lead in an enormous mass of

pure   crystalline saccharoid limestone, not got through, at the

depth    of 180 fathoms --the calcareous mass in the midst of

438              S7R CHARLES LYELL.                         chap, xviii.

Igneiss.  am glad to hear Mary is looking better, and
Ihope it will be some years before shall be called to settle- 
Iany other point in the northern regions, for settled it is as

far as my private opinion goes, and that shall make future
tours with her.

     Believe me, your affectionate son-in-law,              Lyell.

                                                   Charles

                 JOUBNAL.

     Stockholm : July 10, 1834. -- An expedition with Colonel

Hallstrom, to see one of the Baltic shell beds of Brankyrka,

never before examined by any geologist, proved remarkably

how much it is necessary to know what to look for in order to
find. Hisinger said, ' As you have seen Sodertelje, and other

Iplaces, what do you expect to find more ? ' answered, ' Either
I shall find the freshwater species which now inhabit the Baltic

Imixed with the marine, or 1 shall begin to think that that sea

of old was more salt than now.' Accordingly found for the

first time at Brankyrka all the marine shells before met with,

Iand in addition, the Neritina and Lymnea had been wanting..
I so wished you had been there. Both the Colonel and Johnson

entered with spirit into the search (seventy feet above the

Isea), and wondered, when the shells turned out, which had
Icomplained of missing elsewhere. 10 p.m. -- have been
with Colonel Blom, walking in the ' deer jmrk/ and seeing*

the site of an intended royal museum for works of art, to

Ibe built after Blom's plans. Berzelius had been requested
by the King to see if the marble was good.                  suppose he

had spoken of me, for when we talked, said Blom, of rapid

travelling, the King said, c There is an English gentleman here

inquiring at what rate the sea is being turned into land ; 9 and

when Blom said he knew me, the King said, < You may learn

then from him how soon England will be joined to Sweden*

and when we may think of a railroad communication.'

     Johnson has just told me a capital anecdote to illustrate
the superstition of the Scanian peasants. A lady he knew

asked one of them whether he would answer for a horse, he-

Iwished to sell her, being not apt to take fright. c That

can,' said the peasant. ' He stood for three weeks in my

1834. RETURN JOURNEY.                                439

Istable, night and day, alone, and never could see that he

showed the slightest symptoms of fear.'

Marklin sent the fossils, such as he had time to pack up,

as he had promised, to Stockholm. He diverted me much

by his originality, and among other things, when lamenting

at Gamla Upsala that the wood had been so cut down,
young and old all cleared away, he remonstrated with a
peasant that they would soon feel it. ' Not in our time,' was
the reply, ' those woods are so near/ ' Well,5 said Marklin,
' it may be you will not in your time Jiere, but have you not
heard that there is another place where the wood will warm

you--when every tree wastefully cut down in this world

is to be burnt over again, for the punishment of those who

felled it?'

    July 12. --We came by Sodertelje, Arboga, Orebro, and
are now within a stage of Marienstad, through a fine sunny

country, where they are carrying hay, which smells very

sweet, and where the rye and wheat have already a yellow,
autumnal colour. So much of Sweden is of granite and

gneiss blocks uncovered with any soil, that it must always

remain mere forest land, and the trees have no smallI it,

Idifficulty in growing, by finding a small rent in the rocks.

At one place remonstrated against a horse who had a
wound in the leg. The ostler said a wolf had bit and had
not the other horses in the field come up to his rescue, he

would have been devoured by the wolves. When asked the

other evening why they blow a horn in the woods at night,
the answer was, for the wolves. They will not come near the

cattle when they know that the herdsman   is  awake. This

horn, which have heard often, sounds savage, and like
I

an alarm for an enemy.                    finely situated on that

    Marienstad: 13. --This town
                             I
inland freshwater sea Malar, and good-sized vessels, such asa
                                    a is
can pass the Trollhatten canal, are here. The dry weather
has made one of the wheels in bad way, and we are con
sulting with a blacksmith about repair. It
                                              is    fortnight
                                                 a

or more since any repair has been called for. We met to

day the diligence from Stockholm to Gotheborg, the first

public conveyance of any sort    have yet seen on any road
in this country.

440  SIR CHARLES LYELL.          chap, xviii.

   ILidlcdping : 14. -- have Lad a grand day on Kinnekulli,

a mountain which rises nobly on the shores of Lake Wener,
to the height of 800 feet above the level of that lake,

composed at the summit of volcanic rock or greenstone, and

below of perfectly horizontal shale and limestone, in which
Iare trilobites, orthoceri, &c.
                                 worked hard, and got a pretty
Igood harvest. After wrote to you at Marienstad, we were
overtaken by the first heavy rain we have had in Sweden,

and arrived very wet, at least some of the things, at a

wretched poor cottage, the post-house at Forhsam, where

Inevertheless slept sound and unbitten. But to-day we
Ihave had splendid weather, and a view should have liked

you to see. We could have got on farther to-day, but at this

Iplace were told we must wait three hours for horses, so

resolved to go to bed very early, and be off at four o'clock

to-morrow morning. It is quite amusing to see how splendid

the maypoles are here, with flower garlands, and egg-shells

blown and gilded, round a tall fir-tree pole.
     15. --Went to see some mountains near Wenersborg,

called Hunneberg and Halleberg. Saw a place, a great
precipice, where devots of old threw themselves down, in

order to go to heaven to Odin. There is a pond below
where the corpses were washed, and urns are dug up, in

which the ashes of the burnt bodies were buried. These
places are called 'attestupa.5 The place is in a defile
between the mountains before mentioned and very romantic
I Iscenery.
     then saw the Falls of Trollhatten, with which

was altogether disappointed. Mere rapids, a succession of

I Ithem to be sure. The canal and locks are well worth seeing.
  was very glad to get safe over the ferry of the Gotha Elf, as
one of the horses liked the look of the rift as little as did.

     Ootheborg : 20. -- Arrived very late last night. This tour

has answered far beyond my expectations. Uddevalla was a

great treat, a perfect Dammerie 3 of the recent period. The
boating to the isles of Orost and Gullholmen, and afterwards
farther south to Marstrand, also enabled me to do much

Igeology, and ascertain about the levels, which think will
Ibe valued by the Eoyal Society. Shells saw and collected,
Iand think understood, in the same places. Four of the

     3 A noted place for the tertiary shells of the Paris Basin.

1834.           SHELLS ON SHORE.                         441

Imost energetically spent days ever remember, a trial for
the carriage, and for Johnson's power of exertion.       IBoth
stood it very tolerably, better than could be expected.     am

surprisingly browned and disfigured with my week's work

Iand boating, &c, but am thankful that without an accident,

or day's ill health, have accomplished my objects.
July 21. -- Got your letter of the 1st of this month the
moment the post office opened this morning. Last night

found the shore of the river covered with Strombus pes-peli-

cani, a Donax, Cardium edwle, Mytilus do., a Tellina, a Cardita,

&c, recent species. Tasted the water, quite fresh; but it
was salt, as the shells speak to that. Asked Vice-Consul
Harrison, and was told that the sea is always retiring.

   IComubio Steam Packet : July 22. --The timbers tremble, so

"that must write a shaking hand. Off the low sandy
coast of Jutland. The steamer too much loaded with

ISwedish iron to sail well, but wind quite in our favour. To re

turn to my tour, found Uddevalla an agreeable, picturesque

place, and accommodation good, because people come there
to some hot springs in the neighbourhood. Hired a coach
man and horses to drive us about to the places where the

shells occur, and got some of the barnacles attached to the
solid rock of gneiss, and some other shells of which you must
tell me the genus. The next morning travelled south to a

ferry, which took us to the island of Orost, which is made of

mica-schist, much barren rock, with heather here and there,

and great mosses, and the soil of the Balentore part of

Catlaw.4 The islanders very active and obliging. The pilot
dead who had made the mark at Gullholmen : unlucky. His

widow petitioned me to get Col. Lunstedt to get her the pen
sion she was promised. Visited rocks which had emerged in

her lifetime.   Hired the services  of a smith to make a mark
at the water's  Ledgtoe :
                C ' 1--81-- "
                18. 7. 34.
July 24.--We have been getting on, with a good wind,

eight miles an hour, and are within one hundred miles now

Iof Hull.

     Edinburgh: 27.-- have got my place outside of the

                4 The Grampian hill near Kinnordy.

442  SIX CHARLES LYELL.                     chap, xviii.

IDefiance coach, so hope it will not rain.  I shall put this

in at once. Send to Glammis.

     Your affectionate  husband,            Lyell.

                          Charles

                          OOEEESPONDENCE.

                           To GL Mast-ell, Esq.

                                                 16 Hart Street, London : October 1, 1834.

   IMy dear Mantell, -- am here again, returned with iny

wife a few days ago from the Edinburgh meeting, which

Iwent off in my opinion very well. After my return from

Sweden passed some weeks at my father's, in Forfarshire,

Iwhere among other visitors, during my father's absence in

Paris, had to entertain Eobert Brown, the botanist, for
several days, who was good company, and had lately returned
from a short excursion with Eitton in Portland, where he
had collected the c cycas,' as he now admits we may call it,

Ifor he has discovered new points of identity in its structure

with the modern cycas. In Sweden satisfied myself that

both on the Baltic and Ocean side, part of that country is

Ireally undergoing a gradual and insensibly slow rise. A sketch

of my observations which gave in Edinburgh to the geo
logical section is already printed by Jamieson, and the

Idetailed paper on the subject mean to read to the Eoyal
ISociety. When in Edinburgh, promised to accompany
IAgassiz to Brighton to see your collection, and expect him
Ihere in a week"; but he will be here some ten days, suppose,

before leaving for you. He has found about a hundred
new species of English ichthyolites, making seven hundred
fossils in all. He made out that all the supposed saurians of
the carboniferous period of Scotland were only sauroidal fish,
and that Hibbert was so far out, but they were very curious
and new forms of fish. His readiness and knowledge are
surprising, and you will find him very skilful in reptiles,
though he does not profess to know anything about them,

Iexcept that he maintains he can prove the pterodactyls to

have been swimming, and not flying, animals ! have been
sketching and making some progress in a single volume

1834. ROYAL SOCIETY MEDAL.                              443

Iwhich two years ago promised Murray, a purely elementary
Iwork for beginners on Geology, and which find more agree
Iable work than expected.

   I have begun fossil ichthyology, and am attending
IDaniell's lectures on chemistry, so have enough to do.

          Believe me, ever faithfully yours,            Lyell.
                                               Charles

          To G. Mantell, Esq.

                                                        16 Hart Street : December 10, 1834.

IMy dear Mantell,-- ought to thank you for the warmth
of your congratulations on my receiving the R. S. medal,

which was sent me through my sisters, and assure you that
the pleasure they received from it was doubled by having you
to talk it over with, and witnessing your ecstasies at the

news. You will be glad to hear that Greenough, who pre

sided at the Geological Committee of the G. S., obtained by

Iletter the suffrages of many absent geologists, how many
know not ; but a letter of Fitton's which was read by him
to the Council had no small influence, and assisted in over
ruling G/s own doubts, which were strong on theoretical

grounds.

The medal was given me distinctly for ' the Principles/
not for my paper on Sweden, which is half read, the re

mainder to be heard on Thursday, 18th.

Sedgwick's prebendal stall is seven hundred a year, two
months' residence, and he is now giving occasional sermons

Iin the Cathedral at Norwich, and very popular with the

Dean, whom saw the other day.

          Ever sincerely yours,                         Lyell.
                            Charles

444  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                 CHAP. XIX.

                        CHAPTER XIX.

                             JANUARY-DECEMBER 1835.

BUCKLAND'S BKIDGEWATER TEEATISE-- CRAG SHELLS OP SUFFOLK --PARIS --
    VON BUCH -- BERZELIUS -- GEOLOGY OF SWITZERLAND -- MEETING OF
    NATURALISTS AT BONN-- AGASSIZ CATASTROPHE SYSTEM --HIS LOVE OF
    NATURAL HISTORY -- DESHAYES' ZEAL FOR CONCHOLOGY.

     [He was elected President of the Geological Society in February
1835, and in the course of this year he made a tour by the Jura into
Switzerland, returning by Bonn on the Phine, where the German
Naturalists' Association met.

    In the summer of 1836 he went to Edinburgh and Kinnordy.]

     COERESPONDENCE.

To Eev. Dr. Fleming, Professor op Natural Philo
                sophy, King's College, Aberdeen.

                             16 Hart Street, Bloomsbury, London : January 7, 1835.

   IMy dear Dr. Fleming, -- was made truly happy by again
Ireceiving a letter from yon, for had been disappointed at

not seeing you at the Edinburgh meeting, where your name

not only occurred in print, but some were ready to declare

they had seen you in town. Sedgwick, in one of the ani

mated discussions in the geological section, happened

incidentally to come upon you, and in his rapid extemporising

Iway said, ' Dr. P., a tough antagonist to deal with, and with

whom never yet had to do in this, or other matters of con

Itroversy, without getting the worst of it ; ' or some words to

that effect. think we were upon the fish scales in Old Ped.
There was something droll as well as candid in what fell

Ifrom him, which made us all laugh at the time, and yet,
when wanted afterwards to recall  iIt,  could neither get

from Buckland nor anyone else the precise point or expressions.

1835. LETTER TO DR. FLEMING.                      445

There was so much done in debate, that one may be excused

for being a bad reporter. The sections answered well. The
evenings badly --too much display to suit with my notions of

what philosophers should do. The platform always reminded

me of the hustings, on which a set of political speakers were
Iholding forth to ladies and gentlemen, and this think was
Ia pretty general feeling.
                            am using my wife's hand in

penning this part of my epistle, for my eyes, which, you re

member, were never of the strongest, although now behaving

better than formerly, have been rather fatigued this week,,

Iby having candles in the daytime during the fog, and have
to read as Secretary at the G. S. to-night, Hamilton having

gone to canvass the Tory voters of the borough of Newport.

IAs you said nothing in your letter of Mrs. Fleming, must

beg you to write soon again, and give me some domestic

news. We are quite well, and thinking of going to Paris
Iand Switzerland next year.
                             am writing an elementary
Ibook on Geology, and wish may disappoint my friends, who
Iall agree that shall make it too deep. It is to be the size
Iof one of my four volumes of the third edition.
                                                  have been

reading Dr. Boase's work on Primary Geology, an attack
upon the Plutonic theory by one who was never out of Corn

wall, and who seems to make light of all but Cornish ob

servers. It is good, however, to read what an antagonist has

to say, who has worked hard at Cornish granitic and
mineral veins. You should read it when you have time to
take in hand the granite veins near Aberdeen, which Dr.

Knight took me to see. Pray make drawings of them when

you can, and anything which makes for or against my
Ihypogene and metamorphic views, or heresies, as suppose
IBoase would have it.  also wish you much to send a paper
Ito be read at the G. S. here, on the great Flish dike. never
saw a more splendid case of the passage from the granitiform

Ito the trappean mixtures. Don't ask me to define what
mean by these terms. De la Beche'slast book, called c Theo
retical Eesearches in Geology,' is by far the best thing heit,
has written, but in his statement of the question as to the
origin of the crystalline or primary schists, he suppresses or
blinks the numerous facts of altered fossiliferous strata in a
sub-crystalline, or, as Werner would call transition state.

446         SIR CHARLES LYELL.     chap. xix.

IThe key to their origin ought, think, to be sought in such
Ipassages.
            mean to go to Glaris this year, the slate of

Iwhich, looking like

to Agassiz, chalk
            Itprimary roofing slate, contains, according
            fish.  has been said srieeringly that

fossils may prove that black is white, and white black, but

have no objection. to these black slates having once been

mud of the chalk epoch. Buckland's Bridgewater Treatise

Iis only promised to us at Easter. We are curious to know

what he will do about his diluvial theory, and if hear true
he has more than once changed his plan. He told me, how

ever, that his mode of reconciling Geology and Genesis in his

IB. Treatise had been approved of by the Oxford Professors

of Divinity and Hebrew ! Mantell, whom visited lately at
Brighton, has made a bold professional stroke in removing

there, which you will be glad to hear is likely to succeed, in

Ispite of the misgivings of many of his friends, who had not

the confidence which always had in his genius. He is, in

fact, a man of great medical skill, and tact so great, as to

triumph over the drawback of his having so fine a museum

and so much fame in certain branches of geology. You will

rejoice to hear of an anatomical triumph which he lately

obtained.

     Amongst the very numerous species of large saurians

found in the Wealden beds, there were many bones without

owners, some of which he claimed for his Iguanodon, rejecting

others, and on several points Buckland presumed to take the

opposite side. A large block of limestone was lately found,

in which a great number of bones were together, accompanied

by the tooth of the Iguanodon. They consisted exclusively

of those which he had referred to that animal, vertebrae,

femur, &c, and not one of those which he had refused to admit

as belonging to it. The position of these bones is geologically

very singular. They occur above the freshwater beds of the
Wealden in the inferior part of the Lower Green Sand, thus

Iconnecting the fossils of the Wealden and cretaceous groups.
       hope you will see Mr. Horner when he is next in Aber
deen. With my kindest remembrances to your family,

believe me ever most truly yours,  Charles Lyell.

1835. GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY DINNER.                      447

                To G. Mantell, Esq.

                                       February 1S35.

My dear Mantell, -- The dinner 1 went off famously, more

than a hundred present. After the toasts had been given of

I Ithe Xing, Royal Family, Geological Society, late President,
and President, gave yon.  send yon a copy of my speech

almost word for word as delivered, and on looking over my
I Inotes, fonnd had not omitted any of the material points
I I Iwhich had intended to speak of.
                          assure you had the
feeling of the meeting with me, and in some respects it pro

Iduced a better effect than if you had been there. It was by

far the longest toast given, but am sure they were not
Itired. Lord Lansdowne, who was on my left hand, asked
all about you.       got him to give Oxford and Buckland.

Pitton gave Cambridge, answered by Sedgwick ; Sedgwick

the Eoyal Society, answered by Lubbock; Buckland the

Linnaean; I, the Astronomical, answered by Baily; Green-

ough the Geographical, answered by Murchison. We then

drank Burnes, the traveller, who made a good speech.
IWarburton also held forth as Vice-President, and wound
Iup by an eulogium on Lonsdale, which
                                       did con amove,
and it was received with enthusiasm. We adjourned late to

hear Greenough's address, a matter-of-fact abstract of the
Iproceedings of last year. On my right hand at the dinner
   had the Belgian minister, Van de Weyer. Among others,
there were Hallam, Stokes, Lord Cole, Sir Charles Lemon,
Duncan of Oxford, Sir A. Crichton, Ingham, M.P., Drink-
Iwater, &c. &c.
       received a paper in the morning from Greenough con
Itaining the award in your favour, as also a new 20Z. note
and two sovereigns.  cannot tell you how soon the medal,

which is of the value of ten guineas, will be ready.
Believe me, ever most truly yours,

                                  Charles Lyell.

                        To G. Mantell, Esq.

                     I April 13, 1S35.

    My dear Mantell, -- have been getting Dinkel to figure
for me some fossil eggs of a turtle, found in the island of

     1 Anniversary dinner at the Geological Society, when the Wollaston medal
was awarded to Mr. Mantell.

448  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xix.

Ascension, imbedded in a hard rock something like that of

Guadaloupe which contains the human skeleton. It is clear

that the eggs were nearly hatched at the time when they
 perished, for the bones of the yonng turtle are seen in the
 interior with their shape fully developed, the interstices be
tween the bones being filled with grains of sand, which ara
 cemented together, so that when the egg-shells are removed
 perfect casts of their forms remain in stone. On my show

 ing the specimen containing seven eggs to Owen, of the
 College of Surgeons, he remarked to me that they were
 hollow, whereas the bones of reptiles want the mednllary
 cavity. Struck with this remark, and with the extreme
hollowness of the bones, only to be compared to that of

Isome Tilgate specimens which yon have often shown me,

got Owen this morning to dissect for me a yonng turtle, not
a foetus, but so young that the mark of the attachment of
the yolk was still a large opening. He immediately showed
me that the bones were not hollow, thongh we both re
marked that the ontside looked harder than the interior.

After we had discnssed the matter for about a quarter of an
hour, we found, to our great snrprise, that the matter in the

interior of a small humerus, clavicle, scapnlar, and coracoid,

which had been taken out, had dried up and become as

hollow as the fossils, or as some of your supposed birds*

Ibones, which may perhaps be the foetal bones of gigantic

turtles, for the dried bones which have saved for yon are
more empty than those of birds ; and when the ball-joint of
the humerus shrunk away to nothing, on the evaporation of
the spirits of wine, it was marvellous to see how a bone,
previously so dissimilar in form, became the facsimile of
one of my small fossil humeri. Owen has promised to get

Ime a set of very young turtle's bones from the Zoological

Gardens, and am persuaded it will clear up a number of

your difficulties.
                    Believe me, ever most truly yours,

                                                 Charles Ltell.

1835.    ANECDOTE OF OERSTED.    449

         To Sir John Herschel.

                                    16 Hart Street, Bloomsbmy : July 6, 1835.

IMy dear Sir, -- heard some months ago from Whewell

Ithat you had, in one of your letters to him, expressed much

pleasure at some parts of my book, which think you read
Itwhen on your way to the Cape.
                                 has been so much altered,
Ienlarged, illustrated, abridged, and hope improved since
Ithe first edition, that am anxious, if you ever refer to it
again, that you should see it in its amended state. Some of

Imy friends have read letters of yours which they had re

ceived, to me, and rejoice to find that your grand scheme

of visiting the Southern Hemisphere has answered so well.

     When at Copenhagen last year Oersted, who was reading
your paper on double stars, was talking of it continually,

and trying to make me understand the poetry of some specu
lations, which only amused me, from seeing tha.t it was deep
mathematics with which he was delighted, as with a ro

mance.

   IMurray has sold 1,750 copies of my book in the last ten

months, so that have the satisfaction of being much read.
You will see by my paper hi the Eoyal Society Transactions,

Iand by a new chapter in Book IY. last edition, that have

recanted about Sweden.2

     Hoping to have one day the pleasure of seeing you again
in England, and that before two years have passed away,

                  Believe me, ever most truly yours,

                                             Chaeles Ltell.

    P.S. -- Some chapters in your astronomy, on the theory of

the earth's motion, for example, and on parallax, appear to
me very successful, in the object of making such subjects
intelligible to persons ignorant of mathematics.

     2 In early editions of the Princijjles, he expressed his doubts as to the
validity of the proofs of a gradual rise of land in Sweden, while his visit to
that country in the summer of 1831 convinced him that the evidence adduced
in favour of the change of level was full and satisfactory. -- See fourth edition
of Principles.

VOL. I.                  Ga

450             SIR CHARLES LYELL.                     chap. xix.

                To the Eev. Adam Sedgwick.

                                                                            Paris : July 23, 1835.

     IMy dear Sedgwick, -- hope you will receive tliis wlien

you are at the meeting at Dublin, and shall be obliged to

you if you would give me some account of the manner in

which it went off, and send your letter to Poste Bestante,

Bonn.

     We shall get to Bonn by September 18. Many thanks

Ifor the letter of friendly counsel which received from you
I Ijust before left London, and by which profited.

   I forget whether you were with us in June last, when the
question of the age of the crag was discussed, but you have

probably heard that a great number of very perfect shells

have been procured from a lower bed of the crag in Suffolk,
and it was supposed that this bed which Mr. Charlesworth

called the Coralline Crag, might belong to an older Tertiary

period than the upper or red shelly crag. Phillips leaned to

the opinion that the proportion of recent to fossil shells

Iwould not turn out to be so large as that which was deduced

from the first collection of crag shells which brought some
years ago to Paris. Buckland also dwelt on the fact that
Iall the fish of the crag which Agassiz had seen were extinct
species.  wrote in vain to Mr. Wood of Suffolk, who it

seems was travelling for his health, to try and get informa

Ition from him, as he is said to have collected 400 crag-

shells ; but brought with me to Paris more than sixty
species of shells, in excellent preservation, all collected by
Mr. Charlesworth from the Coralline Crag, some abundant,

others rare, in short a fair sample, and have had them care

fully examined by Deshayes, and have compared them all
myself, with shells in his collection. The result is that the
proportion of recent shells (almost all inhabitants of the

IBritish or Norway seas) is actually greater than that ob

tained from the first set which took to Paris, in short the

proportion of these is actually more than 40 per cent. On
Ithe other hand, the extinct species are not Miocene, or those
of  the Faluns  of Touraine or scarcely  any of them.     think
    may lay it                           in any given  tertiary
we              down as a rule, that if

1835.              PARIS.                         451

deposit, in which we have found a few species of shells only,
of which half or a third, or even less are recent, and those

recent ones inhabit the seas immediately adjoining, the for
mation will he Pliocene, whereas the recent shells of the

IMiocene strata have a more exotic and tropical form.
Ihave been rather diffuse on this point, because think some
Iof our friends will be interested about it at Dublin.
Ishould add that have not yet had the corals examined,

which at first sight look more like the Touraine fossils than

Ithe shells do.
        found here Von Buch, E. de Beaumont, Dufresnoy,
Constant Prevost, Virlet, Boue, Alex. Brogniart, and have
had much talk with all of them, and some warm discussions

Iwith Von Buch and de Beaumont. Of the first, must say
I Ithat find much to like in him. As had handled some of

his opinions very roughly, and as he is too much accustomed

perhaps to have unbounded deference jmid to them by most

Iof his own countiyinen, and by no one more so than by

E. de Beaumont, had no right to expect a very cordial

reception, but he met me with great frankness, and at once

set me at ease by vehemently protesting against my numer

ous and crying heresies, none of which, not even the eleva

tion crater theory, seems to have excited so much honest in

dignation as my recent attempt to convey some of the huge
Scandinavian blocks to their present destination
                                                  by means
Iof ice. If you read my Swedish paper, which      sent you,
Iyou will remember that proved that some of the huge

Swedish blocks near Upsala must have travelled to their

present destination, since the Baltic was a brackish water
sea, so that those who maintain that there was one, and one

only rush of water, which scattered all the blocks of Sweden,

and the Alps, must make out this catastrophe to be as it were

an affair of yesterday. As to the elevation crater business,

Von Buch, de Beaumont, and Dufresnoy, are to write and

prove that Sonima and Etna are elevation craters, and Von

Buch himself has just gone to Auvergne to prove that Mont

Dore is one also.

       Prevost's sketches of Vesuvius and the Lipari volcanoes

I Iare excellent, and some of his objections to Von Buch's
theory which had not made are unanswerable.       will give

                   GG 2

452               SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap. xix.

you one. In Mont Dore and Cantal there is a vast thick-

ness of volcanic matter in the centre, whicli thins off on all

sides towards the base of the cone, so that the granitic

rocks crop out in the one case, the fresh water in the other.

So in Etna do the marine strata ; and in Palma the volcanic

mass is thinnest round the outer margin or base of the

island. But if these masses had been upheaved by eleva

tion, it would be in the centre, not towards the circumfer

ence that the fundamental rocks would rather be seen, and

the volcanic mass would not be thinner towards the middle.
As to marine shells found on the slope of Vesuvius, it is no

Iargument, for there must be many on the slope of Stromboli.

Prevost made a drawing of the four dikes which saw in

the modern cone of Vesuvius, dikes resembling those of

Somma, which are numerous in Stromboli, Etna, Mont

Dore, and other volcanoes, near the great craters of erup

tion, and are comparatively rare in volcanic masses far from
I Ithose centres.
                  much regret that so undescriptive and as

think theoretically false a name, as elevation crater, is to be

given by all Von Buch/s school to every dome-shaped eleva

tion. In the latter, as in the Wealden and others, the
oldest rocks are seen in the middle, while it is just the re

Iverse in Mont Dore, Cantal, Etna, and other volcanoes^

    July 23. --To-day have seen Van Breda of Leyden, and
after him no less a person than Berzelius, just come from
the North, and to the same hotel in which we are. He gave

Ime a warm and hearty greeting, in the German more than

in the French style. have not had time to hear news from
him. The inap of France is now all but finished, and looks
very handsome. To me who know more of French than of
Eno-lish geology it has the effect of a beautiful picture, and
the great granitic boss of Auvergne, &c, forms a grand cen
tral feature, without which there would be a want of unity, as
Icompared to our map.
                       am reading you and Murchison on
Ithe Eastern Alps, as am going so near your section. Your

elaborate joint paper is now quite a treat. Boue has given
me many Gosau fossils. He is going to live four years in
Vienna, and next year to do the Balkan. My wife says,
' Give my kind regards to Mr. Sedgwick, and tell him it is

dreadfully hot.'

1835.  SWISS GEOLOGY.                         453

     Bemernber me to Murehison and all friends, and hoping
to hear from you, believe me, ever most sincerely yours,

                                                    Charles Lyell.

       To Viscount Cole.

                                                              Meyringen : September 6, 1835.

I IMy dear Lord Cole,3-- promised to write to you after
had been at Glaris, but as it will now be impossible for me

Ito go there, shall still let you hear of my proceedings and
Iexplain my change of plans, assuring you that am deter

mined at no distant period to profit by the instructions

which you and Egerton gave me. As my eyes are not

Istrong enough to allow me to write much by candle-light,
Ishall beg my wife to write a little, while dictate.

   I set off for Berne by Vesoul and Porrentrui, having a
good work at the latter place with Thurmann, who has a
collection which you should see, if ever you pass that way, as
Ialso that of M. Thirria at Vesoul.
                                     made an excursion also
Ito Neuchatel, and got some fossils there of which daresay
IAgassiz may have given you some duplicates.
                                              made an

excursion there into the Jura with M.M. de Montmollin and

Coulon, both of whom have collected many fossils from the

Neuchatel chalk. After having examined the museum at

IBerne with Studer, set off to the mouth of your old friend
Ithe Kander, determined that would not be outfathomed
Iby the lake, as you were. took a line about five hundred feet
long, and carried out my soundings in two directions from
Ithe edge of the delta.
                         have not had time yet to calculate
Ithe results of these observations, but believe the slope of

the new deposit under water is not so steep as we made out

Ifrom the soundings which you and Egerton made. When
Iwas thus far on my way, had everything prepared for the

'Glaris campaign, having always meant to take the Jungfrau

where the gneiss overlies the limestone with oolite fossils in

my way, as also the Urbach Thai near this place, where
I Isimilar things were to be seen. But
                                           found when

attempted to understand the geology of the neighbourhood

       3 The present Earl of Enniskillen.

454                     s/R CHARLES LYELL.                                    CHAP. XIX.

of the lake of Tkun, even with Studer's newly published

Ibook and map and sections as he calls them in nry hand,,

that could not at all comprehend nor make out what he
                                                                 I I it,
meant by his numerous formations.                                         therefore determined
to make myself master if possible of the geology of this part
of Switzerland, on which much more has been now written than

on any other part of the Alps, before made an attack upon

less known districts. This have in some measure accom
                        I
                                   it

                                 II
plished but in doing and climbing the Jungfrau and the
II
Urbach Sattel, have spent the time which was to have
             a
been given to Glaris, which hope, however, only postponed.                is
                     ;
must now proceed at once on my way to the Bonn meeting.

have just come down from a chalet at the southern foot of

the Stellihom in the Urbach Thai, where at the height of

nine thousand feet found ammonites, and got some more
                        I

from chamois hunter at whose chalet slept.                                          daresay
                                                                 a

                                                                  aI I
                                                                            it I
you know that the Swiss Alps have a bad name for fossils,

so you must not expect to see me return with many. This

morning got what suppose to be Pentacrinite at Brienz,
     II                 if I
                                a
which bought from boatman, and suppose they might

get other things        they did not waste all their time in

hunting for quartz crystals. long to hear how the Dublin
                                   I

meeting went off, for have not seen word about in any
                        I
                             I
paper. Indeed have only got sight of newspapers about

once in a week or ten days, just enough to see that the ever
lasting Parliament was still sitting, till after the Association

met at Dublin, which am afraid must have interfered with
       it

               I

                     I
                        II
the attendance of some good men.                                 I        cannot sufficiently

congratulate myself that am not in such a position as to

make a duty to take an active part in politics in such

times, but that         can ride my hobby during the whole

summer, without fearing either a call of the House or the

hustings to stop me short.                                       took your hint, and instead of

Interlachen went to Unterseen, where stayed several days
                                                                 II
                                                                       I

                                                                              I
and found the charges very reasonable.                                    hope still shall

get some birds' tongues at Utmarsingen.                                       saw some of
       4I

           Ac
                                         '

                                                              4

                                                a
them in the Berne museum, or at least from that neighbour

hood.                   expect to be back again in town before the end of

September, and shall have pretty good load of rocks to

                        local name for the palatal teeth of certain fossil fishes.

1835.    LEOPOLD VON BUCH.                          455

Itake back, though shall not have much to boast of in the
Iway of organic remains. By-the-bye, got a new light this

morning, touching these remains. The waiter here assured
me that it was only in stones that had been for a long time
in the foundations of houses that such figures of shells and

other things were produced, so that unless one had the luck

to be passing when an old house was being pulled down,

I Ithere was no chance of getting anything.
        must now conclude, as to-morrow must be off early
with horses to cross the Brunig. Mrs. Lyell desires her

remembrances, and

         Believe   me,  ever  most  truly yours,    Lyell.
                                           Charles

         To Gideon Masttell, Esq.

                                                                             London : October 14, 1835.

   IMy dear Mantell, -- made out the greater part of the
Itour which had planned most successfully, first visiting
I IParis, where found Von Buch, whom had never met
Ibefore, and whom liked well, notwithstanding my opposi

tion to many of his opinions, and although there are few

persons who are more noted than he is in geology, for con

ceiving a personal hostility towards those who do not

Iembrace the theoretical doctrines which he has once pub
lished.  took a, collection of crag fossils from those lowest

beds, which have been lately called the Coralline Crag, and

they were carefully named by Deshayes, and compared with

his usual patience with the fossils in his rich collection. It
was a delightful lesson in conchology for me, and the result

was that half cf them were recent species, contrary to the
anticipation of some of the worthies who had collected them
Ior talked about them at our G. S.
                                    entered Switzerland by
IPorrentrui, and there had Thurniann for my guide, who

Igave me in a short time a beautiful insight into the structure

of the Jura, on which he has published, and was glad to
verify his obserrations in the field, and to see his beautiful

collection of Jurassic shells, and his attempt to assimilate

Ithe oolitic series and their fossils of the Swiss Jura with our

English oolitic groups. afterwards had a work in another

456          SIR CHARLES LYELL.     chap. xix.

part of the Jura with some geologists at ISTeuchatel, where
Ithe chalk, as it appears to be by its fossils, fills the bottom of
the valleys of the Jura limestone.  next had a work with

Studer at Berne, and then had a work of about six weeks in

Ithat part of the Swiss Alps which is called the Bernese
Oberland.    there saw alternations of the gneiss with lime

stone of the lias or something newer in the highest regions
Iof the Alps, of which shall give the Society an account
Iduring the next season.
                          also endeavoured to make out

the order and age of the strata between the central granitic

axis of the Alps and the great tertiary valley of Switzerland,
in other words, the country around the lake of Thun and

between the town of Thun and the Jungfrau. We then

came down the Rhine to Bonn, and spent a week there

during the meeting of the German Association, which was

about six hundred strong. They elected four presidents for

the geological section, Yon Buch, Buckland, de Beaumont,

Iand myself, and we presided in turn. For two whole days

Constant Prevost and fought Yon Buch and de Beaumont

Ion the craters of elevation, the discussion being in French,
and with a crowded audience.        am as convinced as ever
Ithat their views are quite erroneous, and if I had to write

over again to-morrow my chapter on that subject, should

have nothing to retract and many new arguments to add.

We had Greenough there, and Omalius d'Halloy, Goldfuss,

Count Mandelslohe, and Professor Walckner, Yon Meyer,

Alexander Brongniart, Adolphe Brongniart, Andouin, Berze-

Ilius, Schmerling of Liege, Hoeminghaus, Yon Oeynhausen,
Noeggerath.  mention some of those who first come to my

Irecollection as having attended our section. On my return

here found that in spite of Lonsdale's exertions and Fitton's
pledge to the Council, that his paper should be concluded in
July, there is still many a green grain of sand yet to fall

through the hour-glass. People seem to be in' high spirits here
on the success of the Dublin meeting. Agassiz looks in good

health, and is satisfied with the great progress he has made,

I Iand looks forward with great pleasure to a first visit to

Brighton. When call, find him sitting in his room with

Ihis two horse power, for he has had the spirit to get over a
second German artist.  have been writing this by candle-

1835. AGASSIZ CATASTROPHE SYSTEM.                457

light, after tlie labours of the day, and as you know my eyes
of old, you will excuse its not being in my own handwriting.

After all our wanderings we hope to be stationary here for the

next nine months, and shall be always delighted to see you

here, even for one of your flying visits, and my wife unites

with me in kind regards,

Believe   me,  my   dear  Mantell,  yours  most sincerely,

                                            Charles Ltell.

               To Professor Sedgwick.

                                    London: October 25, 1335.
IMy dear Sedgwick, -- was very glad to hear your account
Iof the Dublin festivities, which, like those of Bonn, were
Isuspect rather overdone in the way of dinners.
                                                 am per

suaded that such meetings and displays of strength, and

numbers, and convivialities, do much good, but really they

are no small sacrifice to the real good and true workers in

science, out of their summer's vacation, and when they have

Ithought that they escaped from a bout of spring dissipation

in London till the year following. This felt on the Rhine,

and should have done so at Florence- Court, though much

good was done to our friend Lord Cole, who tells me that his

father has been in great good humour ever since he had the

satisfaction 'of seeing Murchison and some other guest
glorious, and Sedgwick comfortable? Depend upon it the
building of the museum, and subsidies for what the old Lord

once condemned as e damned nonsense,' will go on with

good spirit, after his finding that the hammer-bearers are
Isuch a jolly set.
                    had heard nothing about Agassiz' cata
Istrophe system at Dublin, but no sooner did try to get him
Iupon fish when met him here, than he let off upon me, and
I was obliged to compromise half our time day after day
Imost unprofitably in arguing with him. This did the
more zealously from his telling me that he was going to give

some lectures on geology at Neuf chatel. He does not flinch

at trifles, for finding that the whole cretaceous system from

the bottom up to the Maestricht beds has the same fish (so
I Ihe declares), he deposits the whole during one commotion of
the sea.  am in hopes, however, that have made some im

Ipression on him. His knowledge of natural history surprises

me the more know of him, and he has that love of impart

458              SIR CHARLES LYELL,   chap. xix,.

ing it, and that power of doing it with clearness, which
Imakes one feel one is getting on, and that one has caught,
his enthusiasm.  feel this also strongly when in company

with Deshayes, who continues steadily to cultivate his own

branch, and that under somewhat discouraging circum

stances, both pecuniary, and from being in an atmosphere

Iwhere there are not many kindred spirits, who would con

tinue devoted to their science for its own sake (as am sure
he would), and not as a means of living. In this respect

Ihe would be better off in Germany or England, or even in
some of the provinces of France.  assure you that his ex

Iamination of the 80 species of Crag shells was most con

scientious, and went into it thoroughly, and we had no
idea, till we summed up at the end, what result we were

coming to. As to Phillips doubting the identifications,

recollect that many of these Crag sxDecies are the same as
some brought from the North Cape and other parts of the

northern ocean. They have not yet been described nor

named, and whether Mr. Bean of Scarborough happens to-

have found them on the British coast or not, or whether they
are in York Museum, is immaterial.

   It requires a vast series of varieties to make out these

identifications, and mark, the same method leads to consis

tent results, for Deshayes would agree with Phillips & Co.,

that scarcely any of the Eocene shells are recent, that the

living shells of the French and English coasts agree in great

Ipart, while those of India and the Mediterranean differ. As

to the fish of the Crag being extinct, suspect that Phillips

would admit with Lonsdale that Strickland's 25 or 30 species

of freshwater shells were recent British ones, except perhaps

one or two; and yet they occurred with an extinct hippopo

tamus, rhinoceros, &c. The vertebrate must have fluctuated

more rapidly than the testacea, and if this be true of the first
Istep, or newer Pliocene, is it not more consistent that it

should hold on ? Before have done with Deshayes, let me

remark that the School of Mines did homage to his know

ledge lately, by offering him a sum of money to name their

shells. It cost them no small effort, but there was no man

in office, no successor to Lamarck's or any other chair, who

Icould do the work for them. Deshayes declined, for he was
deeply engaged with the booksellers.  tried to persuade

1835.                 DESHAYES.                        459

him to come over to England, but it is impossible. Having

begun without a farthing, and having dared to cut medicine

Ientirely, he must work hard the whole year to preserve his

independence. With all his faults, am persuaded he might
have got on, and might now if he would condescend to be
more of a courtier, for court is too much exacted in Paris by

those who have the good things to give away.

     As it is my wish to propose the Wollaston medal this

Iyear to Deshayes, wish you would have a talk with Agassiz
Iwhen he is with you about the matter, for believe there is
no one in London who has seen so much of Deshayes, and

Iknows so well his acquirements and the difficulties he has
overcome as Agassiz.  am sure that if we could draw Des

hayes over here, he would make a grand reform in our
Museums, like Agassiz, and that he wo^lld discover rich mines-

of hidden treasure.

Did you see that Captain Eitzroy had borne witness in a

court-martial that the late Chilian earthquake had altered

the whole coast? that a north-westerly had become a

southerly current ? that the island of Mocha was upheaved

10 feet ? and this upon oath ! and the captain of the 6 Chal
lenger y acquitted on this evidence ! Give me but a f&iv thou
Isand centuries, and will get contorted and fractured beds
Iabove water in Chili, horizontal ones in Sweden, &c.
                                                       have

got from Denmark a notice by Dr. Pingel, on the gradual sub
Isidence of Greenland. As to erratic blocks, have no positive
Igeneral theory, but after seeing Sweden,
                                              cannot for a
Imoment believe they are due to diluvial action.
                                                  saw none

in Italy, Spain, or Sicily, a few in the Jura and Alps,

hundreds in Denmark, thousands everywhere in Sweden,,

and of stupendous size. It seems to me a northern phe

nomenon when best developed. Ice does annually carry

Ilarge stones on Lake Wener, and in the Gulf of Bothnia, not

so big as cathedrals grant, but tolerable sized pebbles, such

Ias many men could not move.
     But must return to this when we meet, only remember

Ithat icebergs float now much farther south than ih^ Jura.
  have no room left for my Alpine observations, but hope to
give you a paper on them at G. S. Write when you can, or

come here, and believe me ever yours,  Charles Lyell.

460          SIR CHARLES LYELL.      chap. xix.

             To Professor Sedgwick.

                                                                         London : December 6, 1835.

     IMy dear Sedgwick. -- have been drawing up a summary

I Iof your short but pithy paper on slaty cleavage, and trying

how far could reconcile what saw this year in some slate
I Irocks in the Alps with your general rules, which in some

respects find difficult enough, in as much as found the
cleavage or slaty structure of fine drawing slate in the great

quarry of the JNTiesen, on the east side of the lake of Thun,

quite coincided with the dip of the strata ascertained by alter

Inate beds of gre}r wacke. Now Murchison tells me, to whom

showed specimens of this slate, that you would call its
cleavage ' the fine flaggy.5 But as it is the best description

Iof drawing slate, and as divisible almost as mica into thin

plates, cannot make out how to distinguish such a structure

Ifrom any which can be called slaty, and such an attempt

would fear involve the subject in great confusion.
     At the last meeting, Cuming's paper was read, denying

that in 1822 there was an elevation of the land at Valparaiso.

IGreenough had been very anxious that this should come out.
  had already given an abstract of Cuming's evidence in my

4th edition. It is clear and curious, and although it

probably proves, as Basil Hall observed to me last year,
Cuming's want of optics, it is still worth recording, as his
attention was called to the fact of elevation by Mr. Graham's

Ipaper, and he swears that he looked for the phenomena, and
found none.  believe Mr. Graham, my friend Cruikshanks,

and others contra, but it is a blessed thing in this world of

scepticism, that thirteen years only should have passed

away, before another and greater upheaving took place,

I Iauthenticated by Fitzroy, whose papers, which have not yet

reached the Admiralty, am anxiously expecting. remarked

at the last meeting, that if the notion of the rise in 1822 had

been as purely imaginary as Cuming, Woodbine Parish, and
Greenough pretend, that the chances were almost infinite

against nature's having performed a similar operation soon

Iafterwards on the very same coast as if expressly to give

credibility to the previous notion. How long for the

1835. EXPECTED RETURN OF DARWIN,  461

Ireturn of Darwin ! hope you do not mean to monopolise
him at Cambridge.

My wife joins in kind remembrances, and is curious to

know whether her cousin Elizabeth Winthrop, sister of Mrs-

IfEdward Pellew of Yarmouth, was able to come to the deanery
to hear your lectures.  you see her, you will certainly fall

in love with her.

                   Believe me ever, most truly yours,

                                             Charles Ltell.

462  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                      CHAP. XX.

                           CHAPTER XX.

                                FEBRUARY-DECEMBER 1836.

ON MONEY FOR MUSEUMS BEING- FRITTERED AWAY IN BUILDINGS -- LETTER
     TO SIR JOHN HERSCHEL ON THE ORIGINATION OF NEW SPECIES-- KIN-
     NORDY-- DR. FLEMING APPOINTED PROFESSOR IN ABERDEEN-- DR. FITTON
     DECLINES PRESIDENTSHIP OF THE GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY -- LETTER TO
     DARWIN AGAINST HIS UNDERTAKING OFFICIAL WORK.

     CORRESPONDENCE.

     To G. Maxell, Esq.

                                                                                            February 10, 1836.

   IMy dear Mantell, -- shall of course mention your Tilgate
Ibirds with, due honour, but as have written my speech ex
Iclusively on the proceedings of last year, would rather

defer till my second address your Swanage Gavial, and hope
Ibefore that time that you will send me a brief notice, how

ever short, for our proceedings on the same, though hold

that no public christening of any new-born fossil is valid

unless a description accompanies the new names sufficient,
Ias Dr. Beck would say, ' for a diagnosis.5
                                             had not time to
Itell you when you were here, how much apprehend that
the architect will run away with whatever money a zeal for

Iscience or friendship and regard for you may raise by sub
scription at Brighton.  remember that when some 8,000£.

had by a great effort been got together at Bristol, for

lectures, and for a collection of books and other useful ali

ment for the mind, as the misguided projectors thought ; in

came the architect, gave them a handsome building,
pocketed the cash, and left them with a room for the news
paper readers, and scarce a farthing to pay their invaluable
curator Millar. So it was with the London Literary

1836. MONEY SWALLOWED IN BUILDINGS.                                                                   463

Institute in Moorfields --about thirty or forty thousand
pounds sunk, and a hundred other cases. Yet unwarned by

experience, the planners of the London University followed

in the same track, and spent several hundred thousand

pounds in erecting a huge and never- to-be-finished edifice

with a splendid portico, costing alone 30,000Z. or 40,00(K,

and leaving nothing for professors but debt. Then came

the King's College, and another splendid subscription, for
there is no end to the gullibility of John Bull. Might not

-anyone have told the poor parsons, who with an honest zeal

for their cause, put down their 51. or 50Z., that it was not

science, nor learning, nor religion, nor anything but architec

ture that is encouraged by such munificent donations in

England. Had they hired a set of the ugliest houses in the
Strand, and bribed, with their two or three hundred

thousand pounds, the first teachers in Great Britain, they

would have carried everything before them. But what did

they do ? Reared a huge wing of a building which swallowed
up all the money, and is now unfinished inside, although
         it,

                        I

                                                       a is
                                                                   is
part of  contrary to the original plan,                                fitted up for

students5 private chambers. There  no hope for natural

history or science, or literature, until they precede, instead of

following, the architect.  sat next pupil of the late Gr.

Eennie at dinner the other da}', and he attributed the success

and large fortune of that engineer, not so much to his civil
·engineering, though of course he was eminent in that, as to

his knowledge of men and of human nature. He told his
pupil that to ivor~k the original plans or designs was a small
affair comparatively -- the great business was to work the
committee.' So some skilful architect at Brighton will be
found, who will have tact enough to work your sub
a

  it
                                                                                         <
                                                                          '
                                                                                                   '
committee, with your friend Horace Smith at the head of it.
He will not frighten them with too large an estimate at first,
but let be at least some hundreds under the subscription,
for he knows that so many gentlemen of taste and leisure
will see improvements that may be made as the work pro
ceeds, and to these he, who has the working of them, will
after decent show of resistance accede, and then he may

lay to the charge of their departure from the first plan all

excess above the estimate. Having spent all the money and

464              SIR CHARLES LYELL.       chap. xx.

mortgaged the handsome edifice, there will be nothing left

Ifor the Mantellian collection, and still less for lectures.
Try and preach against this, though       have but a faint
hope. The ' Challenger ' frigate, when wrecked in Chili,

and in the midst of danger and distress, fired a gun to warn.
I Ia Swedish vessel off the breakers, and she was saved : it was
a generous act.  am reading their diary.  wish some of

our bankrupt scientific institutions would fire guns of

distress.

                 Yours ever most truly,

                                   Charles Ltell.

                     To Sir J. W. Herschel.

                                                                           London : June 1, 1836.

    My dear Sir John Herschel, --If anything could have

made your letter of February 20 last more welcome and

Iuseful to me, it was the time when it reached me, just as

was unexpectedly called upon by my publisher to interrupt
my other scientific occupations by preparing a new or fifth
edition of the ' Principles of Geology,' the fourth edition of
two thousand copies having been nearly all sold in one year.
The continued sale of the work is a sufficient earnest of its

I Ihaving been written in a popular style, in attempting to

accomplish which devoted so much time, that have some
times thought it was scarcely justifiable, arid might have-
been better employed, but the interest you have expressed,
and the fact of your having read the book three times, and
your approbation of one of the newest parts of the treatise,
' the climate theory/ is a much better test to me than the
sale, being something solid and substantial in my labours.

I may truly say that when the Royal Society voted me a
Imedal for my book, was not more gratified nor more en

couraged than by your full and interesting comments which
have given me a feeling of strength and confidence in

Imyself, which will assist me in my future studies. First
   shall take this opportunity of thanking you for the manner
in which when writing long ago in the ' Transactions
of the Geological Society/ on the effects on climate which
variations in the earth's eccentricity might have produced,

1836.    LETTER TO HERSCHEL.                             465

you alluded to my notice of the variable quantity of light

and heat received by the two hemispheres during the preces

sion of the equinoxes. You contrived so to set me right in
a great blunder, as to make it appear as a compliment, and
I Iwas able to correct it in after editions as you see.
                                                         went

over this subject and your paper with Mr. James Bowstead, of

Corpus Christi College, Cambridge, who made me understand

with tolerable clearness the mathematical part of the reason

I Iing, which appeared to me most beautiful, and made me regret

that had not given some of the years which devoted to
Greek plays and Aristotle at Oxford, and afterwards to law

and other desultory pursuits, to mathematics. The life of a

geologist is too short to repair that deficiency, and in this

Iand other matters we must borrow of others. With this
Isend a copy of my first President's speech, in which have
dwelt somewhat at length on the controverted point of the

elevation of land by earthquakes. Perhaps in my next

Iaddress shall limit myself less to the papers read at our
Imeetings in the year, but as a rule rather grudge the

devotion of time to such reviews, and to official duties, which

some people like, but which are not to my taste, and fritter

away one's time and thought ; and certainly if workino- men

Iof science must perform such duties, no Presidentship ought
to be more than biennial.  sometimes make some of my

friends here very angry, by congratulating them as friends to
science that we failed in making you perpetual President of
the Eoyal Society. Just now the society's chair may be said
to be in abeyance, but it continues to be a good and rapid pub
lishing machine, and at all events it has not to answer for the
Isin of annihilating part of your time in choosing officers, writ

ing eloges, attending councils, &c. &c, which think a man of
good fortune and tolerable abilities, without genius, or great
acquirements, may perform very well. What we most suffer
by now, is the too great facility of admission, which nothing"

Ican effectually check but the President's tact and firmness.

       shall send you my fifth edition as soon as it is printed,
Iand you will see that your information about the boilino- of
seeds has been useful, and that  have attended to other

corrections. Tour very interesting volcanic theory was too
much for me to attempt to grapple with, as an intercalation
vol. 1.
                           HH

466                           SIR CHARLES LYELL.      chap. xx.

Iinto my book, at least this time ; but mean to liave a work
Iat it this summer as soon as have got through the reprint.

It struck me on first reading as singularly like a speculation
of Babbage's, which he appended to a paper of his on the

Temple of Serapis             ; and   of which    an abstract appeared in
the ' Proceedings '           of the  Geological
                                                   Society which I suppose
Iyon have, although in case you should not, will send you a
I Icopy if can procure it.
                                      have just seen an c Observer5
Sunday paper, in which you are made to ' set at rest ' some

curious points in the planet which received Astolfo's brains.

IMrs. Calcott (Maria Graham) promised me a letter which
Ithink would be useful at Rio de Janeiro, but have not yet

received probably because she has been so ill.I       am glad
     I                                             I
to hear that your thoughts are bent homeward. What you    II
             it,

                           a
say of the basaltic and granitic dikes very interesting.
                                      I
                                               is
am so busy with my printer, that shall not digest all that

till get into the country, our geological session being just

over.  go to my father's in Scotland with my wife for two

months, and afterwards away to the west of Scotland, and

hope Arran for month, and return by the end of September.

We dine to-day (June with the Somervilles, and in the4)
evening Babbage gives one of his evening meetings which

  are very brilliantly attended by fashionable ladies, as well as

  literary and scientific gents, and where one meets with

  persons high in all professions, and with distinguished
  foreigners. You remember Fitton's Philosopher Turnstile,5
       a

                                                               ''

                                             I
  but we must take men as they are, and Babbage must be

  admitted to have really succeeded in commanding the

  respect and admiration of persons not only of the first

  talent, but not little even of fashion and beauty, and

  maintain that he has done good, and acquired influence for

  science by his parties, and the manner in which he has firmly

  and successfully asserted the rank in society due to science.

6Ibelieve he works hard now in spite of the time he must give

  to the arrangement of his parties, and to society.  think
       '

                'I

                                                   it

                                       cI

                                                           it
  WhewelPs report on mineralogy very good in British

  Association Reports/ which have just read. Murchison's

  book will scarcely be out this year, and as for Buckland's

  Bridgewater/ we are tired of waiting for it, as has been
  reviewed in the Quarterly two months. He says wil]

1836. ORIGIN OF NEW SPECIES.                                      467

be out in six weeks. Babbage has promised a ninth <Bridge-

water/ in which 'the Devil is to have his due/ and he has
actually written a part of it. Sedgwick has been giving
very useful and popular lectures in geology at Norwich,
where he is now Prebendary. Fitton is at last, we believe, at

the point of being delivered of the Green Sand paper, on
which occasion we trust that the shock of an earthquake

may not throw down our museum. 3 always made up my

mind it would be a posthumous production. He is as ami
able as ever, and if he was not such a procrastinator would

Ihave done much for us -- as being so good a writer.
     When was at Copenhagen the year before last, Oersted,
who had just received your nebula paper in the ' Philosophical

Transactions,' expressed the greatest admiration of            it,   and

                                                                    c
endeavoured to make me comprehend what he thought the

poetry of some of the speculations, but was far beyondit
niy depth in mathematics. You have not in Europe more
I                                                              a
             ?
sincere admirer than he.

              shall now conclude, and add in another hand1 some

other remarks, and perhaps send the whole before get the
introduction to Eio, which shall follow.    I
                                                     I
                                            hope some day to

have the pleasure of introducing my wife to Lady Herschel.
In the meantime believe me, ever
                                            faithfully yours,  Lyell.
                                                      Charles

P.S. In regard to the origination of new species, am
                                            it
                                                             it

                                                                   it

                                                               I
very glad to find that you think probable that                 may be

carried on through the intervention of intermediate causes.

left this rather to be inferred, not thinking worth while
I

                     a
                                         a
to offend certain class of persons by embodying in words

what would only be speculation. But the German critics

have attacked me vigorously, saying that by the impugning

of the doctrine of spontaneous generation, and substituting

nothing in its pla.ce, have left them nothing but the direct
and miraculous intervention of the First Cause, as often as
1                                           2

                is                              I

               II                                                a
                                                                                              a
new species introduced, and hence have overthrown my

own doctrine of revolutions, carried on by regular system

of secondary causes.                        have not wasted time in any contro

       Mr. Lyell had frequently to employ an amanuensis to save his weak

eyes.
                                                                   HH

p 468  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  chap, xx,

versies witli them or others, except so far as modifying in

Inew editions some opinions or expressions, and fortifying

others, and by this means have spared a great deal of ink-

I Ished, and have upon the whole been very fairly treated by

the critics. When first came to the notion, which never
saw expressed elsewhere, though T have no doubt it had all
been thought out before, of a succession of extinction of

species, and creation of new ones, going on perpetually now,
and through an indefinite period of the past, and to continue
for ages to come, all in accommodation to the changes which

Imust continue in the inanimate and habitable earth, the

idea struck me as the grandest which had ever conceived,
so far as regards the attributes of the Presiding Mind. For

one can in imagination summon before us a small past at

least of the circumstances that must be contemplated and
foreknown, before it can be decided what powers and
qualities a new species must have in order to enable it to
endure for a given time, and to play its part in due relation
to all other beings destined to coexist with it, before it dies

out. It might be necessary, perhaps, to be able to know the

number by which each species would be represented in a
given region 10,000 years hence, as much as for Babbage to
find what would be the place of every wheel in his new

calculating machine at each movement.

    It may be seen that unless some slight additional pre
caution be taken, the species about to be born would at a

certain era be reduced to too low a number. There may be
a thousand modes of ensuring its duration beyond that time ;
one, for example, may be the rendering it more prolific,
but this would perhaps make it press too hard upon other

species at other times. Now if it be an insect it may be

made in one of its transformations to resemble a dead stick,

or a leaf, or a lichen, or a stone, so as to be somewhat less

easily found by its enemies ; or if this would make it too

strong, an occasional variety of the species may have this

advantage conferred on it ; or if this would be still too much,

one sex of a certain variety. Probably there is scarcely a

dash of colour on the wing or body of which the choice would
Ibe quite arbitrary, or which might not affect its duration for
thousands of years.  have been told that the leaf-like ex

1836. TEMPERATURE OF HOT SPRINGS.         469

paiisions of the abdomen and thighs of a certain Brazilian

Mantis turn from green to yellow as autumn advances,
together with the leaves of the plants among which it seeks

for its prey. Now if species come in in succession, such con

trivances must sometimes be made, and such relations pre

determined between species, as the Mantis, for example, and
plants not then existing, but which it was foreseen would exist

Itogether with some particular climate at a given time. But
  cannot do justice to this train of speculation in a letter,
and will only say that it seems to me to offer a more beauti

ful subject for reasoning and reflecting on, than the notion

of great batches of new species all coming in, and afterwards

Igoing out at once. Your facts about the boiling of seeds

are very curious, and have availed myself of them most

Igladly in my fifth edition.
        wish much you could measure exactly the temperature

of the great hot springs which you mention in the Brand

valley, or get some one to take their temperature at different

seasons. The observations will perhaps only become ot

importance like some of those which you have made in

astronomy, many generations or centuries hence, when a

comparison would show ail increase or decrease of heat. It

would be well to point out to the Literary and Philosophical

ISociety which you have founded at the Cape (as heard

from Major Cloete), the remarks which Forbes has made on

the light which such observations may throw on the heat of

the interior of the earth, when comparisons are made after

considerable intervals of time. (See Forbes, ' Proceedings of

IEoyal Society/ No. 24, p. 382.)
       forgot to remark on what you say of the argument of

Ithe originally limited distribution of plants being capable of

being inverted. You will at least find that have precisely

anticipated the necessary occurrence of such ambiguous

Ifphenomena at vol. iii. p. 165, in the paragraph beginning c
Ithe views.5 But anticipate that geology will hereafter

enable us to determine in many cases which of the recent

species, now having a confined range, are the last survivors of

species once more flourishing, and which are the newly in

troduced and infant colony destined to become a great nation

in future.                         0. L.

470              S/£ CHARLES LYELL.             CHAP. XX.

                 To Sir John Herschel.

                 16 Hart Street, Bloonisbury : June 7, 1836.
     IMy dear Sir John Herschel, --A few days ago sent to
ICaptain Beaufort a long letter which had written to you,
Iin which hoped to enclose some letters of introduction to
Ipersons at Bio, as you wished.
                                 now enclose them, to
Igether with the abstract of Babbage's paper to which
alluded. Pray if you have time to look out any marginal

criticisms on parts of my book, send them to me. Yester

Iday sat next Babbage at Miss Rogers' at dinner, and asked
Ifor the abstract which now send. Mr. Rogers, the poet,
was talking of your astronomy which he had read, as well

as the introduction to c Natural Philosophy,5 and with both of

which he had been much delighted ; and among other things,

with the manner in which you had alluded to certain papers

of Dr. Young's on light and colour, which Brougham had so
presumptuously and unmercifully cut up in the ' Edinburgh

IReview,' as Arago has remarked in his eloge of Young.

  think it was Sydney Smith who said of Brougham that
he had made two great discoveries in the 6 Edinburgh Review y
-- the first was that Byron was no poet, the second that
Young was no philosopher -- for Jeffrey had nothing to do

either with the attack on Young or with that on Byron.

     Hoping you will receive this and my former letter at one

time,            Believe me, ever sincerely yours,

                                         Charles Ltell.

                 To G. Maktell, Esq.

                                          Kimiordy, Kirriemuir, N.B. : July 6, 1836.

     IMy dear Mantell, --Here am rusticating in a very beau

Itiful country, not too hot, but with weather much like a fine
English spring.  am now and then devoting some stray

Ihours to my c Elements,' like Buckland's 'Bridgewater,' long
promised --but not yet reviewed, thank heaven.  have re

ceived a very pleasant letter from Alexander Burnes, who has

returned to Cut eh and re-examined the delta of the Indus.

He reports that the submerged tract which sank in 1819 is

in, statu quo. He has sent me off some Cutch secondary

fossils, ammonites, beleuinites, &c. His letter came in nine

1836.  rn. FLEMING.                                  471

Iweeks per steamer from Cutcli !  am glad to escape awhile
Ifrom the excitement of London, and wish could hear of
jour doing so from Brighton, but fear from jour last letter

that there is no immediate prospect of that.
    A letter from Dr. Silliman informs me that mj 'Princi

ples i are being reprinted at Philadelphia, and nearly ready.

John Murray was in hopes he had reduced the price so as to

prevent this happening.

    I shall be here for more than a month, then go with my

Ifwife to geologise in Arran, then return here, and afterwards
in September, or perhaps October, to London.         you send
a letter to 16 Hart Street, it will be forwarded to me, and

do give me a full account.

       To G. Mantell, Esq.

                IKinnordy, Kirriemiur, KB. : September 19, 1S36.

My dear Man tell, -- have written to invite Dr. Fleming
to puj us a visit here, and he has accepted for to-morrow,
I Iso when we meet, or when next write, will tell you how
I Ihe looks.
       am sorry to say he has had much ill health.
suppose you know that he got his living of Elisk -- the smallest

in emolument in the East of Scotland, and where he had
been for most of his life, ' like a pony tethered on a highland

moor '-- exchanged for a much better living in Eife, where he

was quite adored by his parishioners, but so great was the
duty that it left not a moment for a conscientious man to

devote to science or literature, and was almost too fatiguing

for his health. It was therefore most natural that he should

have sighed for a professorship in a Scotch University,
which gives a six months' vacation every year. After several
applications in vain for chairs more consistent with his

Izoological and botanical acquirements, he accepted one in

Aberdeen, of Natural Philosophy think it was called,

which no doubt has given him much fag to get up arrears

of mathematical knowledge. But unfortunately, something
worse than the lectures fell to his hard fate. Several Uni

versity bills and a Eoyal Visitation caused tremendous secre-
tarian or clerk's labour to fall on the Junior Professor, who

is obliged to serve as secretary to the University.

You. will see by this that you, my good friend, are not

472            SIR CHARLES LYELL.                                     chap. xx.

singular in finding it difficult to gratify your liberal thirst

for science, without interfering with professional profits.                               is if,
Keally, as Milman says, it would be well for the country
instead of abolishing prebendal stalls, they were given to

clerical and lay cultivators of literature and science, who

had shown that they would devote energy and superior

talents to those departments. When Babbage was taunted

one day by a Conservative with What do you mean to be
                         ?
                           '
                                        c
                                                 '
when the revolution comes he said, Lay Archbishop of

Winchester.' A few comfortable scientific sinecures would

be good things, but fear they might become useless like
               !
University fellowships.
                 I
     Did you read those lines in the Morning Chronicle about
                         is                                        ''
                                 c
                                           c                        ?I
the Aristocratodon,' and the Episcopus Yorax                                  'wonder
it
who wrote them There an attack in the St. James's
  I'
Chronicle on Buckland, for having said at Bristol that the'

world was millions of years old. Mr. Horner tells me that

Lonsdale looking better, but thinking himself still ill-- he
             is

               II
                                                  Q
                                                               ';
                                                          is
has worked like yourself too hard half what either of you

have done would have finished me.

        hear that Fitton's Greensand                               printed, but still he

polishing it.  trust that for his and our sakes shall find
                                                                   I

done when get to town.

                         Ever most truly yours,

                                             Charles Ltell.

                         To His Father.

                         16 Hart Street, London October 1836.
        II

                        I

                                                                            '
                                                                                        a:

                                                                                             a

                                                         4,I
                                                                                                                                                             ;
     My dear Father, -- hope my mother received a letter

which put into the General Post Office on Friday, on our

arrival here. We called, after church on Sunday, upon

Dr. and Mrs. Fitton in Portland Place, and saw them both

he very well, and she wonderfully recovered from severe

illness.     had much talk with him about the Presidentship,

which he would on no account accept, having the weight of

eight children upon him.' He was glad to hear that had
offered the chair to Lord Northampton, which he said would

not have occurred to him, and which was proper compli

ment, and one of which Lord N. would feel the value, know

ing that our Presidentship had not been conferred on rank.

1836.             DR. FITTON.                                 473

I asked if lie had thought of Broderip. He said yes^ of
Icourse, and had felt, as probably had, that he ought not to
Iaccept it, as knowing nothing of geology ; agreed to this,

and wondered that it should be so. Fitton said, e It is truly

marvellous, with his love of natural history and deep know
ledge, that he should not even have made any progress in
fossils, that he should have served three entire years as

Iwyhseaoavcutreererts,ea"erdcyioatnendddofvaroetvlhmuoemalueinmGeoesoof lo"oigfgPnitrcohianrealcnip"tSleoToscr/afi5entthsyeaa, nc"tdaionEBndluesc/m5ksoelanngtwdsoe'nsle"l,----"tBhinrsrihodduoegugeelhdd-,

he rather prides himself, think, on the inaptitude of his mind

for geological reasoning, and most dexterously has he cleared

all  the hoops    of geology.5 On  hamsyitlasuoghiningtheat"  his simile,
he                know that Pope                              Dunciad,55
     said, ' You

        ' Never by tumbler through the hoops was shown
         Such skill in passing all, and touching none.'

Upon this we told Fitton that we had guessed him to be the
author o£ the verses in the ' Morning Chronicle,' on c Aristo-

cratodon,5 &c. c Oh no, you give me a great deal too much

credit for powers of versification ; they were by Tom Moore.5
' But how came he by so much geology ? 5 c Why, he got it

up partly at Bristol, and partly from Babbage, who was much
with him there.5 He then told us, what Gardner the map-
seller has since confirmed, that Buckland's edition of 5,000
of the ' Bridge water 5 is all sold, and 5,000 more printing,
each of which editions, Fitton     says, will produce the pro
                                    am truly glad to hear, for
Ifessor 2,000£. --a piece of news
I Ifrom what have read of the book, think it will do much
good in spreading correct notions of the science, and pro
bably popularise it much. Murchison calls it ' Bridge-over-
the- water ; 5 and really that part which is to carry us over the
Iabyss of cosmogony is better constructed than
                                                              expected,
Ithough should have been sorry to have had to trust myself
upon it. Fitton thinks the moral of it to be, that words
may mean anything we like, or that science may require a
dangerous rule in its general application. However, the
splendid sale shows that you were right in thinking that the
Inewspaper attacks of the Nolans would prove mere flea-
bites.  have seen Stokes, who was delighted with the first

474                SIR CHARLES LYELL.             chap xx.

batch of ferns, and has the BotrycJiium lunaria still alive, and

thriving under a glass case, together with exotic ferns and

New Holland orchidse in full flower.
    September 5. --Murchison drank tea here yesterday even

ing, and gave us an account of the Bristol doings, and his
Iown tour with Sedgwick, and other geological news.
                                                         told
Ihim thought of proffering the President's chair to Whewell,
Iwhich he thought a capital hit, and have accordingly sent
a strong letter to Whewell to-day.

Every one is quite struck with the improvement in Mary's
health and appearance, especially Mr. Murchison.

Mr. Stokes dines with us to-day, quite alone, and is to

look over the ferns. We hear that Babbage is in town,

among others, in this emptiest of seasons. Murray is look

Iing well and prosperous, and asked politely after you. The

Honourable Mrs. Norton came out of Murray's as went
in, and had been showing him the MS. of a publication

of her own. She told him she was living with her mother
--he had been much struck with the quiet and modest ap

pearance of the authoress.

Mary desires her kindest love, and believe me7 ever your

affectionate son,                        Charles Ltell.

                   To Charles Darwin, Esq.

                                    16 Hart Street, Bloornsbury : December 26, 1836.

IMy dear Sir, -- have read your paper with the greatest

pleasure, and should like to point out several passages which

Irequire explanation, and must have a word or two altered,
but it would be impossible in a letter.  have made notes

on them, and hope you will call here before you read the
paper. Will you come up on Monday, January 2, and come

Iand dine with us at half-past five o'clock, or come at five,

and will go over the paper before dinner ? No one dines
with us but Mr. and Mrs. Horner and one daughter, and Mr.

Horner will be glad to renew his acquaintance with you.

     We dine early, because we have one of our small early

Itea parties, and one or two are to be here, to whom should

like to introduce you, besides a few whom you know already.

1836. LETTER TO DARWIN,                                                     475

If you cannot get here to dinner, you must if possible join

the evening party.

The idea of the Pampas going up, at the rate of an inch

in a century, while the Western Coast and Andes rise many
feet and unequally, has long been a dream of mine. What

Ia splendid field you have to write upon !
        have spent the last week entirely in comparing recent

shells with fossil Eocene species, identified by Deshayes.

IWhen some great principle is at stake, all the dryness of

minute specific comparisons vanishes, but heartily long for
some one here with a collection of shells, and leisure to talk

on these matters with. Lonsdale is overpowered with work.

IDon't accept any official scientific place, if you can avoid it,

and tell no one that gave you this advice, as they would
all cry out against me as the preacher of anti-patriotic prin
Iciples.
          fought against the calamity of being President as
Ilong as could. All bas gone on smoothly, and it has not
Icost me more time than anticipated ; but my question is,

whether the time annihilated by learned bodies ('par les

affaires administratives 3) is balanced by any good they do.
Fancy exchanging Herschel at the Cape, for Herschel as Presi

dent of the Royal Society, which he so narrowly escaped being,

I Iand voting for him too ! hope to be forgiven for that. At
Ileast, work as did, exclusively for yourself and for science

for many years, and do not prematurely incur the honour or

penalty of official dignities. There are people who may be

profitably employed in such duties, because they would not

work if not so engaged.

     Whenever you come up, you must be here on Wednesday,

and if you like to dine at the club do so. There is no

vacancy, but you stand the first of those who are knocking

at the door for admission.

                            Yours very truly,                       Lyell.
                                           Charles

          end of the first volume.

          Sjpottiswoode & Co. Printers, New-street Square, London.

LIFE

      LETTEES AND JOUENALS

SIR CHARLES LYELL, BART

                            AUTHOR OF ' PRINCIPLBS OF GEOLOGY ' liC.

         EDITED BY HIS SISTER-IN-LAW, MRS. LYELL

                             IN TWO VOLUMES -- VOL. II.

                                                   ©Utb

JOHN                    LONDON                                     STREET

      MURRAY, ALBEMARLE

                                   1881

                                             All rights reserved

:

 ·


    .
  ..

 x

   *.

5 CONTENTS
   i

3 OP
                THE SECOND VOLUME.

                          CHAPTER XXI.

                           MARCH --NOVEMBER 1837.

                                                                                                                                                          PAQB

ootrine of Uniformity -- Dinner at Miss Rogers' -- Babbage's Ninth Bridg-
  water Treatise -- Letter to Herschel on Coral Islands -- Copenhagen --
  Invention of Electric Telegraph -- Visit to Sorgen-fri -- Norway --
  Geology -- Paris -- Von Bach -- Mademoiselle Mars -- New railroad --

....Barriere de 1'Ktoile -- Return to London -- Parties

CHAPTER XXII.

JANUARY 183S^OCTOBER 1841.

' Elements of Geology '-- Sedgwick's Lecture -- Whewell's · Inductive        35
     Sciences '--Anniversary at the Geological Society-- Darwin on Volcanic
     Phenomena --Visit to Norwich and Yarmouth --Newcastle Meeting--
     Darwin's Journal -- Coral Reefs-- Athemeum Club -- Dr. Fitton's Review
     -- Hutton's claims-- British Association at Birmingham -- Visit to Sir
      Robert Peel -- Travelling in the United States -- Rapid growth of the
      country -- Niagara geology

CHAPTER XXIII.

JUNE 1S42 -- DECEMBER 1843.

Niagara -- Nova Scotia-- Subterranean Forest -- Unfair statements on the
United States -- Return to Kngland-- Contemplates writing a Journal
of his impressions of America -- Much geological work in prospect --
Giant's Causeway -- Lord Rosse's Telescope -- Prescott's Mexico
                                                                 .           60

vi CONTENTS OF THE SECOND VOLUME

                    CHAPTER XXIV.

           JANUARY 1844 -- DECEMBER 1846.

.....Letter to Mr. Ticknor on America -Fossil Botany-- Goes with Faraday on    PAOE
    a Commission of Inquiry on Accidents in Collieries -- Blanco White's
     Biography -- Newfoundland -- Politics in Maine -- Vegetation in Georgia   83
     -- Slavery -- Cheirotherium-- Icebergs-- Letter to Edward Forbes, and
    reply -- Dinner at Milman's -- Visit to Bowood

                             CHAPTER XXV.

                         FEBRUARY 1847 -- SEPTEMBER 1848.

Anniversary at Geological Society -- Editorship of the ' Edinburgh Review '
    -- Call on Rogers-- His remarks on Historians -- Breakfast with him --
    Chapter on Universities in ' Second Travels '-- Rare Books -- British
    Association, Oxford -- Linnrea Borealis -- Decay of the Drama -- Hugh
    Miller's ' First Impressions of England '-- Visit to Bowood --Party at
    Sir Robert Peel's -- Meeting at Royal Society -- Knighthood -- Dinner
    with the Archbishop of Dublin . . . . . . . . 120

                    CHAPTER XXVI.

                    JANUARY 1849 --JULY 1851.

Dr. Hooker in India-- Macaulay's 'History of England' -- Tour on Dee-
.....side -- Visit to Sir James Clark -- Balmoral -- Ticknor's ' History of
                                                                               152
Spanish Literature '-- Visit to Germany -- Botany of the Hartz -- Geology
of Saxony-- Letters of Ignatius -- Prejudice against Science-- Tracta-
rianism -- Lecture at Ipswich -- Exhibition in Hyde Park -- Raffael's
Cartoons.  ....     ..

                 CHAPTER XXVII.

           FEBRUARY 1852-- NOVEMBER 1854.

Departure for America -- Electric Cable -- Geology in Nova Scotiaand New
    Brunswick --Visit to Sir Edmund and Lady Head-- Expedition to
    Vermont -- New York Exhibition -- Visit to Osborne -- Madeira --Geology

--Wonderful Orchid                                                             176

                      CHAPTER XXVIll

                            JANUARY 1855 -- AUGUST 1856.

Death of Edward Forbes-- Berlin-- Dr, Hooker's Introduction to ' Flora ,
    Indica' -- Hugh Miller -- Entomology -- Macaulay and Prescott's Histories

   CONTENTS OF 7 HE SECOND VOLUME.                                               vii

                                                                                              MM

   -- Fossil Botany -- On the Doctrine of Species -- Siberia -- Uiesengebirge
   -- Botany -- Geology of Saxon Switzerland -- Barrande's ' colony ' of

   Upper Silurian fossils                                                        201

                           CHAPTER XXIX.

               SEPTEMBEB 1856--AUGUST 1857.

   Geology of the neighbourhood of Vienna -- Styria -- Salzburg -- Discussion
   with Heer at Ziirich-- Fossiliferous quarry at Swanage -- Visit to
   Switzerland -- Fossil Plants -- Elie de Beaumont's frank opposition
                                                                                . 227

                     CHAPTER XXX.
               AUGUST 1857 -- SEPTEMBER 1857.

   Leaves Zurich to see the Limestone Quarries at Soleure -- Glacial phe
       nomena in Switzerland -- The Rhone Glacier -- Zermatt -- Viesch -- The

   Matteihora                                                                    248

                     CHAPTER XXXL

               SEPTEMBER 1857 --DECEMBER 1857.

   Turin -- Geology of the neighbourhood -- Evidence of Glacial action -- Vege
   tation of the Eiviera -- Zwerglethurm near Viesch -- Visit to Leghorn
   -- Tomb of Francis Horner -- Mrs. Somerville at Florence -- Naples --
   Rome -- The Campagna
                                                                                 263

                           CHAPTER XXXII.

               JANUARY 1858 -- SEPTEMBER 1858.

   Indian Mutiny -- Dinner at Milman's -- Sir Henry Holland -- Rajah Brooke --
       Buckle's ' History of Civilisation '-- Death of Dr. Fleming-- Meeting at
   the Geological Society -- Death of Robert Brown -- Lac de Bourget--
   Politics with Signer Bezzi -- Naples -- Expedition to Vesuvius-- Festa
   -- Messina -- Catania
                                                                                 278

r

                           CHAPTER XXXIII.

               SEPTEMBER 1858--OCTOBER 1858.

   Aderno--Procession of Monks -- Casa Inglese on Etna -- Bough quarters--
       Val del Bove -- Descent of the Balzo di Trifoglietto-- Comet-- Fine

   Climate compensates for the drawbacks in Sicily                               302

   VOL. ii.                a

viii CONTENTS OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

         CHAPTER XXXIV.

         FEBRUARY 1859-- NOVEMBER 1860.

Agassiz Museum-- Owen on the Gorilla -- Death of Mr. William Prescott     TAOR

-- Lord Lyndhurst -- Mansel's Hampton Lectures -- British Association,
Aberdeen -- Darwin's ' Origin of Species '--Birthday Party -- Death of
Macaulay -- Dawson's ' Archaia' -- Flint implements in the Valley of the
Somme -- Death of Chevalier Bunsen
                                                                             318

            CHAPTER XXXV.

         APRIL 1861 --DECEMBER 1862.

Excursion to Bedford where Flint implements had been found -- Offer of
Candidature of M.P. for University of London -- Kreuznach -- Fossil
Botany -- Meeting at Philosophical Club-- Death of Prince Albert --
Letter on the Prince Consort-- Anniversary dinner at Geological Society
-- Curtis the Entomologist
                                                                             343

          CHAPTER XXXVI.

         MARCH 1863-- AUGUST 1863.

On Transmutation of Species -- Lamarck -- Visit to Osborne -- Museum of
    the young Princes -- Interesting Conversation with the Queen --
   ,' Antiquity of Man' -- Welwitschia -- Expedition to Wales -- Moel

Tryfaen                                                                      361

         CHAPTER XXXVII.

         FEBRUARY 1864-- NOVEMBER 1865.

Scheme for Cave explorations in Borneo-- Duke of Argyll on Variation of
     Species -- Berlin -- The Crown Princess-- Croll on change of Climate
    during geological epochs -- Earth-pyramids at Botzen -- Heer's ' Urwelt
    der Schweiz '-- Letter to Mr. Spedding on the American War -- Sir

John Herschel's drawings of the Earth-pillars                                381

         CHAPTER XXXVIII.

         JANUARY I860 -- APRIL 1868.

On geological changes of Climate -- Ticknor's ' Spanish Literature '-- The
Inquisition bearing on Natural Selection -- Duke of Argyll's ' Reign of
Law' -- Mr. Darwin on 'Variation of Animals and Plants under
Domestication '-- Keminiscences of Faraday
                                                                             406

CONTENTS OF THE SECOND VOLUME.                                                 ix

                 CHAPTER XXXIX.

         APRIL It 68-- NOVEMBER 1868.

                                                                                                                                                              PAOK

Anniversary Meeting at Greenwich Observatory-- Mr. Dawson's ' Acadia '

--Buckle and Motley-- Visit to Tenby-- On Natural Selection, and the
meaning of colour in birds -- Visit to St. David's -- Submerged forest

near Tenby-- On the Law of Continuity                                          423

                    CHAPTER XL.

         APRIL 1669-- FEBRUARY 1875.

Geology on the coast of Norfolk -- Mr. Wallace's review on Natural Selec
    tion -- Glaciers scooping out Lake Basins -- Fossil Flora of Alaska --
    Life of Daniel Webster -- Death of Lady Lyell -- Forfarshire geology--
    Mr. Judd on Geology of Mull -- Death of Sir Charles Lyell -- Dr. Hooker's

Letter-- Funeral-- Westminster Abbey-- Tribute                                 438

                    APPENDIX.

A. Letter from Captain Basil Hall, R.N., to Leonard Horner, Esq., on the
' Principles of Geology,' vol. i. p. 376
                                                                               465

B. Tribute to the Memory of Lady Lyell, by George S. Hillard, Esq.
..........D. Bequest to the Geological Society .
vol. ii. p. 451                                                                467

.E. Geological Papers and Works by Sir Charles Lyell
C. Tributes to Sir Charles Lyell, vol. ii. p. 463                              470

                                                                               477

                                                                               479

INDEX .          .                                                             . 483

                         LIST OF PLATES.

Portrait of Sir Charles Lyell, after a Photograph by Maull and Polyblank
                                                                                                        Frontispiece.

Portrait of Lady Lyell, after a Crayon Drawing by George Richmond, K.A.
                                                                                                  To face page 285.


        LETTERS AND JOURNALS

                                                                               OF

SIB CHARLES LYELL, BAET.

                        CHAPTER XXI.

MARCH-NOVEMBER 1837.

DOCTRINE OP UNIFORMITY -- DINNER AT HISS ROGERS' -- BABBAGE'S NINTH
     BRIDGEWATER TREATISE -- LETTERS TO HER8CHEL ON CORAL ISLANDS
    -- COPENHAGEN -- INVENTION OF ELECTRIC TELEGRAPH -- VISIT TO SOR-
    GENFRI -- NORWAY -- GEOLOGY -- PARIS-- VON BUCH-- MDLLE. MARS -- NEW
     RAILROAD-- BARRIEBE DE L'ETOILE-- RETURN TO LONDON-- PARTIES.

     [Mr. and Mrs. Lyell went to Denmark and Norway in 1837, re
turning home by Brussels and Paris. The ' Elements of Geology '

was published in the following year 1838, and he attended the British

Association at Newcastle, presiding over the Geological Section. In

1839 he visited Norfolk and Suffolk, and went to Birmingham to the

British Association.

    In 1840 he made a tour in Normandy and Touraine, and was at

the British Association at Glasgow, presiding over the Geological

Section. In the following year 1841 he was invited to give a course

of twelve lectures at the Lowell Institution, in Boston, Massachusetts,

and he travelled through much of the United States and Canada,

collecting materials for memoirs which were afterwards published in

the Geological Society's Journal.

    In August 1843 he went to Bristol to examine the coal mines in

that district, and he and his wife proceeded to Cork, where the British

Association was held.]  B

     VOL. II.

SIR CHARLES LYhLL.       CHAP. XXI.

CORRESPONDENCE.

To the REV. W. WHEWELL.

                                   16 Hart Street, Bloomsbury Square : March 7, 1837.

    My dear Whewell, --As we had some conversation the

Iother day touching the extent to which carried my doctrine
Iof ' Uniformity,' in the ' Principles of Geology,' wish to

refer you to the first edition of that work (with which you, as
the historian of the science, are of course principally con

cerned), in order to show you that certain passages were

somewhat unfairly seized upon by the critics, and not duly

considered with and interpreted by others, and by the con

text generally of the first volume.
    You know much more of geology now than when you

first read my book, or Sedgwick's comments upon it ; judge

me, therefore, by your present knowledge, rather than by

the first impression.

   IAny reader of Sedgwick's Anniversary Address to the

Geological Society of 1831, would suppose that had con
tended for ' an indefinite succession of similar phenomena,'

and coupling what is said about my hypothesis of a 'uniform
order of physical events ' with what Sedgwick afterwards
says of the recent appearance of man, it might naturally be

Iimagined that had not made due allowance for this ' devi
I Iation,' as myself styled the creation of man.
                                                  brought

forward this 'innovation' prominently as a new cause,
' differing in kind and energy from any before in operation,*
and mentioned it as an unanswerable objection against any
Ione who was contending for absolute uniformity.
                                                  stated
Ithe sense in which believed the system of terrestrial change
Ito be uniform, and that the modifications produced by man

had been exaggerated, but in the following page admitted
that they are ' a real departure from the antecedent course

Iof physical events.'   think, for anyone to read my work,

    It was impossible,

and not to perceive that my notion of uniformity in the

existing causes of change always implied that they must for
ever produce an endless variety of effects, both in the

i837. DOCTRINE OF UNIFORMITY.                               3

Ianimate and inanimate world.       expressly contrasted my
Ifsystem with that of ' recurring cycles of similar events.'

certain passages could easily be selected in which the theory
of uniformity was, perhaps, stated too broadly as an abstract

proposition, and the most striking of these Sedgwick has

cited in his address, still the great point of difference between

me and most of my predecessors, and between me and

ISedgwick, then and now, is not one which implied on my
part any unphilosophical solecism.  never drew a parallel

Ibetween a geological and an astronomical series or cycle of
occurrences.   did not lay it down as an axiom that there

cannot have been a succession of paroxysms and crises, on

I Iwhich ' a priori reasoning ' was accused of proceeding, but
argued that other geologists have usually proceeded on an

arbitrary hypothesis of paroxysms and the intensity of geo

logical forces, without feeling that by this assumption they

pledged themselves to the opinion that ordinary forces and

Itime could never explain geological phenomena. The reitera

tion of minor convulsions and changes, is, contend, a vera

causa, a force and mode of operation which we know to he

true. The former intensity of the same or other terrestrial
Iforces may be true ; never denied its possibility ; but it is
Iconjectural.
               complained that in attempting to explain

geological phenomena, the bias has always been on the wrong

side ; there has always been a disposition to reason a priori

on the extraordinary violence and suddenness of changes,

both in the inorganic crust of the earth, and in organic types,

instead of attempting strenuously to frame theories in

accordance with the ordinary operations of nature.

    Read also, if you desire to be a fair arbiter between the

philosophical spirit and practical results of the two different

methods of theorising in geology, what Sedgwick says in his
Address for 1831 of De Beaumont's system of parallel eleva

tions, and my chapter on the same subject, or on the relative

antiquity of mountain chains. De Beaumont's system was

Itproperly selected by him as directly opposed to my funda
mental principles.  was well selected, because it not only

assumed returning periods of intense activity, or, as Sedg
wick termed them, ' feverish spasmodic energy,' which tore

asunder the framework of the globe, but also violent and

                    B2

4  SIA CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP, xxu

concomitant transitions from one set of species to another.

It also assumed the parallel direction of mountain chains

contemporaneously elevated, whereas we know that the

modern lines of active volcanos and earthquakes are not

parallel in our own times. It was a theory invented not

only without any respect to the reconciling geological events

with the ordinary course of changes now in progress, but it

evinced at every step that partial leaning to a belief in the

difference of the ancient causes and operations which charac

terise the system of my opponents. The astonishing eager

ness with which Sedgwick caught up and embraced the whole

of what he termed De Beaumont's 'noble generalisation,*
his declaration that De Beaumont's theory was ' little short

of physical demonstration,' and that it had given him (Sedg
wick) ' a new geological sense, a new faculty of induction ; *
his assertion that he was ' using no terms of exaggeration *

in saying all this ; was all prompted by the same theoretical

bias which assumes the discordance between the former and

existing course of terrestrial change. Before Sedgwick
Ipublished his Address, had fully explained to Lonsdale my
Iobjections to De Beaumont's theory, the same which have
Isince published.  know not how much of De Beaumont's

I Itheory Sedgwick now believes, probably but a small part of

it. can only say that could not find in Switzerland

any one of those who had studied its application in reference
to the Alps and Jura, as for example, Studer, Necker, and
Thurmann, who believed in it. Conybeare could not recon
cile it to England. Sedgwick considered that my mode of
explaining geological phenomena, or my bias towards a lead

ing doctrine of the Huttonian hypothesis, had served like a
false horizon in astronomy to vitiate the results of my
observations. But has he not himself been unconsciously
Iwarped by his own method of philosophising, which he has
truly stated to be directly at variance with mine ?  am

willing to test the relative value of our modes of dealing with
these subjects by all the examples which he has himself
chosen in his review of my book.

    In the review in the ' British Critic,' in which more
justice was done to the real points of originality to which my
work could lay claim, than in any subsequent article upon it

1837. REVIEW IN 4 BRITISH CRITIC:                           5

I(although most of them are much more eulogistic), you

stated three formidable theses which had undertaken to

defend, in order to bear out my theoretical views ; how much

less formidable must they now appear to yourself when you

Iand the science have made seven years' progress, than they
did in 1830 !  am sure that none of the propositions can

Inow seem to you extravagant or visionary, although you may
not wholly agree with all my views.  allude to, first, the

adequacy of known causes as parts of one continuous pro

gression to produce mechanical effects resembling in kind

and magnitude those which we have to account for ; secondly,

the changes of climate ; thirdly, the changes from one set of

animal and vegetable species to another.

    In regard to this last subject, as well as to the change of

If Iclimate, you remember what Herschel said in his letter to

me. had stated as plainly as he has done the possibility

-of the introduction or origination of fresh species being a

Inatural, in contradistinction to a miraculous process, should

have raised a host of prejudices against me, which are un

fortunately opposed at every step to any philosopher who

attempts to address the public on these mysterious subjects.

IPerhaps you would understand the difference which con

Iceive to exist between me, as a Uniformitarian, and my

opponent the Catastrophist, if put an imaginary case in
jour own department of the tides. Suppose it was recorded,

on authority which you did not question, that at a certain

period of the past, say 10,000 years ago, a remarkable

inequality, or an unusual rise or fall of the tides took place,

or a long suspension of tidal oscillations. You are asked to

explain it. After much thought, you declare that every

hypothesis has failed, and that you give it up as inexplicable.

Some one proposes a theory founded on a supposed periodical

increase or diminution in the quantity of matter contained

in the sun or moon, or in both of those heavenly bodies.

You object that it is unphilosophical to resort to any such

guesses, especially until we have laboured for a much longer

time in making and recording observations on the tides, and

in speculating on all the possible combinations of astronomical

and terrestrial circumstances, which in the course of thou

sands of ages may affect the tides.

6  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                            CHAP. xxi.

   Your antagonist replies : ' Why is it unphilosophical ?

What right have you to assume that the power of the sun

and moon to attract the earth is uniform, or why may there
not have been two satellites formerly to the earth instead of

one? The same power which created man, and gave him

the dominion over the earth, may at any time create and

Ithen annihilate a heavenly body, or change the volume or

density of those which now exist.' You might reply : '
Iadmit the possibility of these changes in the system, but
they are mere arbitrary conjectures.  feel much more con

fidence in the probable uniformity in the condition of the

heavenly bodies for an indefinite period of time, whether
I If Ipast or future, than feel in my own knowledge.
                                                      was
Isure that could see at a glance the effects of every possible
combination of existing causes -- such as variations in the

eccentricity of the earth's orbit, fluctuations in the shape of

Ithe bed of the ocean, or in the position of continents, and
many others --then perhaps, all others failing,  should

I Iventure upon some such theories as you have proposed. But
  hesitate now, more especially when recollect that several
problems in the former state of the tides, once referred to

violations in the ordinary conditions of our solar system, can
now be explained without resorting to such expedients, and

are, in fact, found to be the consequences of known and

regular causes.'

   I Ifind that cannot draw the above parallel as closely as
I Icould wish, because cannot fancy in reference to the tides
any stumbling block to arise out of prejudices in regard to
time. The difficulty which men have of conceiving the

aggregate effects of causes which have operated throughout
millions of years, far exceeds all other sources of prejudice

Iin geology, and is yet the most unphilosophical of all. On

this have said much in my work, and people are now

much better prepared to believe Darwin, when he advances-

proofs of the slow rise of the Andes, than they were in 1830,
Iwhen first startled them with that doctrine.
   I will only add that Sedgwick was wrong if he imagined
Ithat began with a priori reasoning on any assumed
Iuniformity of physical events.
                                 was taught by Buckland the
Icatastrophical or paroxysmal theory, but before wrote my

                                                                                   >

i837- DINNER AT MISS ROGERS'.                                                 7

Ifirst volume, had come round, after considerable observation

and reading, to the belief that a bias towards the opposite

system was more philosophical.
     Believe me, dear Whewell, ever faithfully yours,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

To His SISTER.

                  I London : March 19, 1837.

My dear Sophy, -- shall trust to Mary giving you the

regular journal of our proceedings, and shall indulge myself

in recalling to my recollection what passed at our last dinner

Ion Friday at Miss Rogers'. Much was said which should

be sorry to forget, and the guests were some of them remark

able and new to me. The party were twelve in number :

Miss Rogers and her brother, Lord and Lady Holland, Mr.

and Mrs. Milman, Mr. Allen, Mr. Luttrell, Mr. Empson, Sir
David Wilkie, and ourselves. The table, so arranged as

that everyone could hear and be heard by others, two sitting

at the top, Lord Holland and Miss Rogers, and two at the

bottom, Mr. Rogers and Mr. Milman. No epergne or other

interference in the centre of the table ; lamp from the ceiling ;

table just wide enough, and no more. Mr. Allen has been for

thirty years physician to the Holland family ; lives with them

'oEndianbvuerrgyhinRdeevpieewnde' nont   footing  ; wrote much in the early
                                        Spanish   literature and other subjects ;
an agreeable man of Lord Holland's age. All we know of

Luttrell is that he is a diner-out, and much in a literary set.

Empson you have heard us speak of before, as a writer and

professor of law at Haileybury. Mary was well placed be

tween him and Lord Holland ; the latter has a cheerful, good-

humoured expression, talking in a lively way, but never too

much, of literary rather than political subjects, and of anec

dotes of political men rather than politics. Mr. Allen was

saying how strange a contrast Erskine ' used to be in and out
of his lawyer's wig and gown. Out of it he talked in a most
gauche and foolish way, in it so that you would trust your

life and fortune in his hands. Lord Holland, among other

    1 Younger son of the tenth Earl of Buchan, an eminent lawyer, and became
Lord Chancellor.

8      SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxi.

stories to confirm this, said that one day when he and Lord

Erskine were in council in the Cabinet, and Lord Erskine's

opinion on a measure was asked, he said in a hasty manner,

' Oh, yes, depend upon
       ;
                      ;

                      it,
                       it

                             I

                                                              it
                        must be, for remember was

in an old Presbyterian book of prophecies which my mother

had.' When Erskine first came to the bar, he spoke very

broad Scotch he had never read more than the Bible,

Shakespeare, Milton and in three years he spoke eloquent

English, and was quite a gentleman in manners.

    A discussion arose as to whether the Iliad and Odyssey

were both written by the same poet. Lord Holland said he

felt satisfied they were not. Milman agreed, but contended

for the unity of the Iliad, and said that the arguments

against founded on the difficulty of transmitting so long a
   it

poem without printing, were answered by a greater wonder
of the same kind being achieved, in the handing down of

much longer Sanskrit poems. He said that Asia Minor was

never once mentioned in the Odyssey, which was probably

the work of an inhabitant of the Peloponnese, whereas the

allusions in the Iliad are so much confined to Asia Minor.

On the Etruscan tombs being talked of, towards the ex

hibition of which Mr. Rogers had liberally contributed, we

got upon the old Etruscans, and Niebuhr and his Roman

History. Lord Holland said that he never would give up

the real existence of such men as Romulus and Numa, how

ever much fable might be mixed up with them. Milnian

thought Niebuhr more successful in pulling down than in

building up. After the ladies were gone, Lord Holland

asked me about Buckland's book, and whether he knew

much of geology. He seemed not to have formed high
                        I

                                            a
                                                             a
estimate of the said Bridgewater, so spoke up in favour of

the body of the work, on fossils. This led to talk on new
species, and that mystery of mysteries, the creation of man.

Lord Holland said that we were no further on that point than

Lucretius, out of whom he could take mottoes which would

have done for each of my volumes. And now, Sophy, youif
think that am voting you too blue by administering all
   I

this Greek, Sanskrit, Etruscan, and Latin to you, hand

over the dose to Papa, and he may retaliate whatever he

pleases with some lucubrations equally learned from his den.

i837. NINTH BRIDGEWATER TREATISE.

IBut have said nothing of Lady Holland, who took her

share in the talk. She asked me about the Danes and

Swedes, knew the names, at least, of many of them distin

guished in science, said how much energy and love of truth

there was in the Northern men of letters, as compared to

Iher favourites the French and Italians, yet the French could
be deep and persevering.     spoke of La Place and Cuvier.

She said that the latter once wished her to compliment him

on his promotion to a higher political place, but she gave

him fairly to understand how much she lamented his having

abandoned the line in which ho was so great, to meddle with

politics (in which  he played so inferior and, in her opinion,
unworthy a part) .
                     It is impossible to say in a letter anything
which will give an idea of the singularity of Lady Holland's
way of questioning people, like a royal personage. It is

I Iimpossible not to be sometimes amused, and sometimes a
little indignant, with her.  cannot say that formed so

high an estimate of her talent and power as to explain to

me how she has righted herself to such an extent, and got on
in society after all that happened more than thirty years ago.

No doubt she has been in the interval prudent, and more

strict in the choice of her society than others who had in

finitely more right to be so. She had wealth and beauty, of

which hist there are still some remains yet, with an ex

pression of temper. But then she had a husband who had

not only talent, rank, and political station, but an infinite

fund both of wit and good humour.
    With love to all at Kinnordy, believe me, my dear Sophy,

                             Your affectionate brother,

                             CHARLES LYELL.

                           To CHARLES BABBAGE, ESQ.

                      I May, 1837.

     My dear Babbage, -- have read the ' Fragment ' 2 with
great interest, and think very favourably of it and its origi

Inality. As the machine must come in so much unavoidably,
   think one apology at the beginning would do, or rather an
explanation that the work is founded on it. The argument

       2 The Ninth Bridgeitatcr Treatite, a Fragment, by Charles Babbage.

10                  5/7? CHARLES LYELL.     CHAP. XXI.

of changes of laws comes home to some of my geological

speculations. No doubt some people would not like any

reasoning which made miracles more reconcilable with pos
sibilities in the ordinary course of the universe and its laws ;

but you do not write to please them.

    They are shocked at the idea of an eruption of a volcano-

being foreknown, which was to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah,

Ibut your break in the sequence is more of a miracle than a
volcanic eruption.  think your estimate of the Creator's

attributes much higher than theirs, and that everyone may

follow so far.

                    Ever faithfully yours,

                                      CHARLES LYELL.

                    To His SISTER.

                                       London : May 3, 1837.

    IMy dear Caroline, --Many thanks for your letter, which
Mary tells me she has answered.       rather envy her the
Idinner to-day, though if Mr. Whitmore had not known that
  was engaged at the Geological Society Club, neither of us

would have been asked, as he wanted one place, and filled by

a lady. His parties are excellently arranged. Jacquemont's
letters have made us both curious to see Lord William Ben-

tin ck, and indeed his lady also. The Bishop of London

Italked of Sedgwick having narrowly escaped, according to
report, being made Bishop of Norwich.    told him how

popular Whewell had told me that Sedgwick had become at

Norwich, which interested Dr. Blomfield, and he ended by
saying, ' Though he is so popular, with the ladies in parti

Icular, hardly think he will ever marry now.'
   I have at last struck out a plan for the future splitting of

Ithe ' Principles ' into a ' Principles ' and ' Elements,' as two

separate works, which pleases me very much, so now shall

get on rapidly. The latest news is, that two fossil monkeys
have at last been found, one in India contemporary with ex
tinct quadrupeds, but not very ancient -- Pliocene perhaps --

another in the south of France, Miocene and contemporary

with Paleotherium. So that, according to Lamarck's view,

there may have been a great many thousand centuries for

1837- HERSCHEL ON ORIGIN OF VOLCANOS.  11

their tails to wear off, and the transformation to men to take

place.

                                Your affectionate brother,
                                                               CHARLES LYELL.

                    To SIE JOHN F. W. HEESCHEL.

                                      16 Hart Street, Bloomsbury, London : May 24, 1837.

   IMy dear Sir John Herschel, -- shall shortly set out with

my wife on a tour to Copenhagen, Christiania, and Berlin,

Iand will not quit London without writing to explain to you

some steps which have taken in regard to the publica
tion of extracts from your letter to me of February 1836.
You had given Murchison permission to read, when occasion
offered, a note of yours on the subject of the Origin of Vol-
canos, and the outward movement of the internal isothermal

Ilines on the superposition of new deposits, or 'additional

clothing.' You seemed to think that had confounded this
notion with Mitscherlich's expansion of stone by heat, attri
buted by me to Babbage ; but in fact Babbage's theory, which

I had alluded to, was different, and in substance the same
Ias yours, and agreed with Murchison, that as Babbage was

going to republish it in his ' Ninth Bridgewater,' it would
be well to allow him to print, as he desired, both the extract
from your first letter to me on the point, and your note to
Murchison especially, as in both you had stated that you had
not had time to reason out or state with minute accuracy
the whole question. Whewell had both letters read at the
Geological Society, which produced a most animated dis
cussion in which Whewell took part. But now for another

Ipoint. Babbage was very desirous that would allow him
Ito print another short extract from your letter to me.
Iobjected at first, but he showed me that need not be

alarmed, because he introduced it as a counterpart of a
passage from Bishop Butler, and that in such company no

Ione could be otherwise than correct and orthodox.
         hope my willingness to be persuaded to have a passage

Iprinted, in which incidentally you had paid me a compliment

(one which certainly prized highly), has not led me to

12                SIR CHARLES LYELL.                  CHAP xxi.

·what you would in any way think an indiscretion. Whewell,

in his excellent treatise on the Inductive Sciences, appears

to me to go nearly as far as to contemplate the possibility
at least of the introduction of fresh species being governed

by general laws.

    Your volcanic speculations have at least set our wits to

I·work, and will produce something.
        am very full of Darwin's new theory of Coral Islands,
Iand have urged Whewell to make him read it at our next
meeting.  must give up my volcanic crater theory for ever,

though it costs me a pang at first, for it accounted for so
much --the annular form, the central lagoon, the sudden

rising of an isolated mountain in a deep sea, all went so well

with the notion of submerged, crateriform, and conical vol

canos, of the shape of South Shetland, and with an opening

into which a ship could sail ; and then we had volcanos

inside some circular reefs, as in Dampier's island, and then
we knew that it was not the corals which had any inclina

tion of their own to build in a ring, like mushrooms and

funguses in fairy circles on the green, for the very same
species of corals will form a long barrier reef, or grow in any

shape the ground permits : and then the fact that in the

Pacific we had scarcely any rocks in the regions of coral

islands, save two kinds, coral limestone and volcanic ! Yet

spite of all this, the whole theory is knocked on the head,

and the annular shape and central lagoon have nothing to

do with volcanos, nor even with a crateriform bottom. Per

haps Darwin told you when at the Cape what he considers

the true cause ? Let any mountain be submerged gradually,
and coral grow in the sea in which it is sinking, and there
will be a ring of coral, and finally only a lagoon in the centre.
Why? For the same reason that a barrier reef of coral

grows along certain coasts, Australia, &c. Coral islands are

the last efforts of drowning continents to lift their heads

Iabove water. Regions of elevation and subsidence in the
ocean may be traced by the state of the coral reefs.  hope
a good abstract of this theory will soon be published. In
the meantime, tell all sea-captains and other navigators to

Ilook to the facts which may test this new doctrine.

suppose that according to the above theory, if a volcanic

i837. ELECTRIC TELEGRAPH.                                 1$

 crater should sink, there would be two rings of coral, one
on the rim of the crater, and one without.

     May 26. -- Since writing the above, Babbage has given
 me a copy of his ' Fragment ' for you, so you will see how far

 we have published your letter.

     At Babbage's yesterday, there was much talk of Wheat-

 stone's new plan for telegraphing information by five wires
conducting electricity, and carried through an india-rubber

Itube, or rather rope, each wire representing a letter of the

alphabet, or several letters, believe by different intensities

of the charge. The wires isolated by the india-rubber. The

erperiment Mr. J. Taylor said had, according to Wheatstone,

conveyed information through a rope five miles long, and

of course instantaneously. These ropes it is said can be
laid underground at small expense, under a railroad for in
stance, and news communicated with the speed of light.

      Brewster is full of some new proof derived from the-
optical properties of the diamond in favour of its vegetable
origin ; some argument from anomaly or disagreement with
any arrangement known to arise from mere mineral and in

organic structure.
     Hoping that you and your family are quite well, believe

me, dear Sir J. Herschel. yours ever faithfully,

                                                               CHARLES LYELL.

To His SISTEB.

                             Copenhagen : June 13, 1837.

My dear Carry,--It is only a week to-day since we left

I ILondon, and having already had two whole days with Dr.

Beck, feel as if had been here an age. We went through
Holstein from Hamburgh and its Danish suburb Altona, to-

Kiel, on a beautiful bay of the Baltic. In the morning we

saw the sun rise in the principal Place, the Jungfernstieg^

in Hamburgh, where the river Alster is dammed up so as

to form a beautiful lake in the middle ; in the evening we
saw it set in the Baltic when Kiel was long out of sight.

IWe came to this capital on Sunday before sunset, and saw
the beautiful harbour well.  was rather glad to find Prince

Christian absent, in Funen, of which he is Governor, and

Dr. Beck at leisure all day. We set to work at once at con

14               SIR CHARLES LYELL.            CHAP. xxi.

chology and the Prince's Museum, and the critical examina

tion of those points of recent and fossil conchology in which

Dr. Beck and Deshayes are at variance, and on which some

of my geological conclusions have been based.
    IJune 21. --We were very glad to find on our table the
day before yesterday your excellent journal.   was able to

comply with a request of Mr. Loch's to introduce him to

Prof. Wheatstone, and to get the latter to promise him a

sight of the grand experiment about to be made of the

electric telegraph. By-the-bye, have you heard of this

wonderful invention ? It has made a large figure in iny

Iwaking dreams ever since first heard of it at Babbage's,

Iand shall be disappointed if it fail to work a mighty

Ichange in the ' march of intellect,' at least of civilisation.
Imust tell you what have seen. Wheatstone has had for a

year at King's College, in the crypts, a copper wire with silk
turned round it, four miles in length, carried backwards and

forwards, and finds that he can transmit instantaneously

through this distance a feeble current of electricity such as

two plates, four inches diameter, of copper and zinc, can pro

duce. Now you probably know that some fifteen years ago

the famous Oersted, of this Copenhagen University, dis

covered that a current of common voltaic electricity caused

the magnetic needle to move and place itself always at right

angles to the current, so that you may move a needle at the
end of the four miles of wire instantaneously, i.e. the

current goes with the velocity of light, 200,000 miles in a
second. Now you will ask whether it does not grow very
feeble in passing four miles, and it does so, as it is always
escaping ; but then it only takes twice the power to send it
four miles which it required for two, and it has long been
known that if you coil the wire which has the electricity
                 it,say fifty times, this multiplies the effect
passing through
                              ;
on the needle by fifty. Now with four wires and four

needles you can make sixty distinct signs, and so commu

nicate any news by all the letters of the alphabet, instanta

neously, any distance and at all the intermediate places,

coiled wires, called electrometers, being fixed to the main

one which takes off but little of the force. It has been

found that by employing small ropes steeped in india-rubber

1 837.             COPENHAGEN.                     15

gum, you may isolate the wires much cheaper than by silk,
and thus each wire shall only cost between 31. and 51. per
mile, or for the four wires under 201. Now they had been
obliged on the Birmingham and Liverpool railroad to use a

very much more expensive telegraph, to give notice of trains

coming to tunnels or places where they cross, by means of

long iron tubes through which a blast of air is sent which

blows a whistle at the end. So when this new rope with the

four copper wires is substituted, we shall have not only rail
way news but all others sent out with the speed of lightning,

Iciphers being used for private confab. A few days after
left, a tarred rope was to be continued from the end of the

four miles of wire, and thrown into the Thames, and then

carried to the shot tower on the other side, and the rapidity
of conveying intelligence through about five miles was to be

tried. So perhaps a rope in the sea may carry news from

Dublin to Holyhead,'but at least under every railroad we
Ican have it. After seeing the experiment for four miles of

wire, shall be surprised if it fails, and then it will be sin
gular that as one revolution in human affairs was produced

by observing how the earth's magnetism affected the needle
or compass, so a second will follow the detection of the

Ilaw by which common or voltaic electricity affects this same

needle. But did not mean to write so much London news

from Copenhagen.   Your affectionate brother,

                                   CHARLES LYELL.

                   To His SISTEE.

                                   Copenhagen : July 2, 1837.
IMy dear Eleanor, -- shall begin with telling you some
Iof my Danish news which think Mary is least likely to
Igive you. Perhaps when you hear that should like to stay
Ihere longer than  can afford to do, after our return
from Christiania, you will wish to know what geology the
streets here and this flat country of gravel and boulders

Iafford me. This can easily explain, as you have read my
Ibook, and know how much have alluded in it to the
comparison of fossil and living species of shells. In the

time of Linnaeus this city contained finer collections of

16               SIX CHARLES LYELL,  CHAI'. xxi.

shells, and finer works were published here by Chemnitz

(12 vols.), and others, than in any country of Europe. It is

not wonderful, therefore, that even now some of the Danes

should be far ahead, and that as Prince Christian had a

taste for natural history, he should have a splendid private
collection, and that the curator of his museum (containing
above 8,000 species of living shells), Dr. Beck, should be

one of the two or three best conchologists in the world.

But besides this, Copenhagen possesses in its different

museums most of the identical shells which Linnaeus de
scribed in the editions of his ' Systema Naturae,' published
during his life ; and here therefore alone, we can verify in-

contestably the species which he really described and named.
As Lamarck and others have in very many cases mis

taken the shells which Linnaeus meant, great confusion

has arisen, and it is here alone that this confusion can most

Ireadily be cleared up.
        am going over with Beck an examination of all the
fossil species identified by Desbayes with living shells, and
it will probably lead to many modifications of my views, at

Ileast of many of my details, also to many new views, which
Ishall perhaps have to test at Paris before return. But my

plans must be governed by circumstances not wholly in my

Ipower.          went early to Sorgenfri with Beck, a fine
     On Tuesday

morning, not too hot, and we discussed all the way points

which had occupied us in the museum. He is an excellent

botanist and entomologist. Soon after 8 o'clock we reached

Sorgenfri, and after a walk in the flower garden, the Prince

joined us. A landau and four nice horses was in waiting, and

away we drove over a very fair macadamised road, through

woods as wild and natural as any part of the New Forest,

having at our left a remarkable chain of small lakes far below

us ; that is to say, we looked down a precipice covered with
wood upon the lakes. We discussed the probable origin of
the lakes, the Prince not forgetting here and there to stop the

carriage and take me to points slightly elevated, where beau

tiful views are seen. In one of them we saw the towers of

Copenhagen, about eight miles off to the south, and from an

other point the ancient Abbey Church of Roskilde. We then

!837.               VISIT TO SORGENFRI.  17

passed between Lake Fiire and a smaller lake to the village of

Farum, and some miles beyond this, came to where the soil

is composed to a great depth of innumerable rolled blocks of

Ichalk with a few of granite intermixed. Fossils were very

numerous in the chalk, and hammered out many, and Beck

found a finer fossil fish than had ever been found before in

Denmark. Prince Christian set four men to work, while

Ithe horses were baiting, to clear away the talus and make a

section for me, by which saw that the boulders of chalk

were in fact in beds, with occasional layers of sand between.

I IA. gamekeeper came to show an eagle which he had shot, a
large osprey, believe.  took two of his large quills, and
mean some day to write a letter with it ; of course it must

be, as Count Bliicher said, in a very lofty style. On our
return to the opposite side of Lake Fiire, which is twenty

miles round, we drove down to the shore, and found a large

sailing boat of the Prince's, and some men waiting for us.

IBefore embarking, Beck and collected a bottle full of shells
Iinhabiting the borders of the lake, and got some information

which throws much light on the origin of the indusial lime

stone of Auvergne.

There was much wind, and we scudded about at the

rate of ten miles an hour from one fishing ground to another,

I Iwhere everybody but caught carp and pike. At least

learnt some ichthyology from Beck. We then found, at the

further end of the lake, the carriage in attendance, with a

second one to take such things as might have crowded us, and

Iso we drove home. The Prince was very agreeable, and was

glad to find that his lady had been equally so to my princess,

who has given you already an account of an entertainment

Ion that and the following day, which was exceedingly amus

ing. had no opportunity when here before of seeing more
than that the princess was ladylike, handsome, and gracious;
but from her conversation when alone with Mary, and during

Ithe walk with me from the boat in the evening, am sure

she is a very superior person, and one who has thought

much, and formed her own opinions for herself on things

and people, manners, religion, and politics. It was curious

to see how much the Danes, both men and women, looked

like English, and how much their accent resembles ours,
VOL. II.
                        C

18  SIR CHARLES LYELL.               CHAP. xxi.

but the women, though almost fairer than the English, were
not so handsome as in a fashionable party in London.

      With love to all, believe me your affectionate brother,

                                                             CHARLES LYELL.

    To His SISTEE.

                                     Copenhagen : July 29, 1837.

    My dear Eleanor, --Mary has given you a diary of our
proceedings up to our return to this place, and you will see

that we were often separated when at Christiania, making

independent expeditions. In my tour with Professor Keil-

Ihau to Hakkedal, we went about twenty-five miles north of

Christiania, and had a pretty good specimen of a Nor

wegian forest of fir-wood, and steep hills of granite, and

other such rocks, with here and there a deserted iron or copper

mine opened in the middle of the wilderness, and some

tractas by which the woodmen draw out the fir trees which
they fell, leaving enough to supply a natural growth in

Isuccession. The ground under the trees was often thickly
covered with the I/inncea borealis.  was not aware that it

smelt so sweet. On the marshy ground there was great

Iabundance of the Rubus chameemorus, which the natives call

moltk-bcer, which was red when picked it, but which is

yellow when ripe. We afterwards had some for dessert at
Sorby. The Norwegians seem to prize it more than any of their
wild fruits. They told me it had been much destroyed this

year by the hard frosts, which continued during the nights

even of the beginning of July this year, for, as in England,

they had an unusually long winter. Even when we were there,

Ithough the weather was very hot, they said it was not equal
to their usual summers.  heard the cuckoo in these woods.

There were a great many farm houses scattered through

Ithose valleys where the granite was covered with clay,

which, as a geologist, must tell you is a marine deposit
containing recent species of shells such as now inhabit the

fiords of Norway, and as this clay rises sometimes more
than 600 feet high, it fertilises a large district. There has
been a good, brisk trade in wood of late years, which had
thinned some of the forests we went through, but though

i 837.                   NORWAY.                     19

they do not sell as much as formerly, since we have favoured

Canada by our duties, obliging ourselves to get dearer wood

from thence, still a new market has opened in the north of

France, where the French peasants are flooring their houses

with wood, a new luxury to them. Upon the whole, all those

we spoke with agree that Norway has increased wonderfully
in prosperity since she was severed from Denmark, although

the same natives are unanimous in extolling the Danes as a

people above the Swedes. The fact is that Norway is ex

tremely independent of Sweden, and pays nothing to andis
                                              a
being no longer drained for the sake of Denmark, the Stor  it,
                                                                    is
thing has been able to diminish, and last year even to take

off all the direct taxes, and they have put their money

system on so good a footing, that their paper money

worth as much as the metallic, instead of being at a great

discount, as in Sweden and Denmark. We were sorry,

however, to hear some of the natural effects of democratical

system pushed so far as                  at present, so that the repre
        is
                          is

                            it

                                     is
sentation virtually in the hands of the peasants or small

yeomen, among whom almost all the land divided in small

lairdships. For example, the cathedral at Drontheim, said

to be 800 years old, falling into ruins, unless repaired,

one of the finest monuments of the early days of Christianity
in the North, but the Storthing will not vote a small sum for

its repair. Several persons assured me that Mr. Laing, in

his book on Norway, was unpardonably erroneous in what

he says about the succession of land, for instead of law
                                             a

like that of France, all the land goes now, and always did,

to the eldest, and though he has to pay nominally a share

in money to each of his brothers equal to his own, and half

a brother's share to each sister, yet the customary mode

of valuation has always been such as to give in fact a con

siderable majorat, and to keep properties as long in the

same hands as in England. Norway was always too poor in

the feudal times to be worth invading, so was never con
                                         it

quered, nor shared out by a feudal lord amongst his vassals,

as happened in other parts of Europe. On the other hand,

the Danes supplied ministers, judges, governors, &c., who if

they made fortunes, retired with them to Denmark, instead

of founding great Norwegian families. Many substantial

20  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxr

small proprietors emigrate annually to the United States,

chiefly to Illinois, near the Canadian lakes, and they are
excellently fitted to settle there, in a better climate, cut
ting down the wood, and building houses like those in

the mother country, and, as there, each having great
resources in himself when far from neighbours. Upon the

Iwhole we liked much what we saw of the Norwegians, but

have no doubt they would be better off, and especially be
more likely to remain permanently independent of Swedish

influence, intrigue, and domination, if they had more than

one single nobleman of fortune and independence like Count

Wedel Jarlsberg, who is much liked and a very intelligent
man, but with whom dies out the last remnant of Norsk

nobility, the Storthing having provided by law that no other

uoble should be created. It is curious how many English and

especially Scotch faces and figures one sees in the tall and
fair men and women of Christiania. The rate at which they

Ibowled us down the hills, exceedingly steep, without drags to-

the wheels, was such as never witnessed elsewhere.

    With love to all, believe me your affectionate brother,
                                                            CHARLES LYELL.

                       To CHARLES DARWIN, ESQ.

                                                           Wesel-on-the-Rhine : August 29, 1837.

   I IMy dear Darwin, -- write this to you, at least am

beginning it, in a steamboat on the Rhine, so make allow
ance for the tremulous motion. We came in a steamer from
Copenhagen to Liibeck, then in a hired carriage to Ham
burgh, across the sand and boulder formation of the Baltic,
which for the most part we have been on ever since, although
we have crossed the Weser, and Ems, and Lippe. The

Iblocks of red syenitic granite, which hammered away at in
INorway, and which saw there in situ, sending its veins

into the trilobite and orthoceratite schist, have been carried
with small gravel of the same, by ice of course, over the south
of Norway, and thence down the south-west of Sweden,
and all over Jutland and Holstein down to the Elbe, from
whence they come to the Weser, and so to this or near this.
But it is curious that about Miinster and Osnabruck, the low

1 837.         GEOLOGY.                                   21

secondary mountains have stopped them ; hills of chalk,

Muschelkalk, old coal &c., which rise a few hundred feet in

general above the great plain of north and north-west

Germany, effectually arrest their passage.

This then was already dry land when Holstein, and all

Ifrom the Baltic as far as Osnabruck or the Tentobarger Wald

hills, was submerged. At Bremen saw Olbers, aged seventy-
two, the astronomer who discovered Pallas and Vesta, and

Ithere and at Osnabruck and Miinster met a warm and
I·Oerman reception from men of whom had never heard,

Ibut who had read my paper on Sweden or something else.
   mean by German, that kind of frank expression of enthu

siasm for science, or of any emotion, which a well-bred

Englishman tries to suppress, at least all outward expression

of it, from the dread of being thought ridiculous, or of affect

Ifing to feel more than he does, or from mauvaise honte.

you ever get sick of that fashionable nonchalance which

would blush to admire anything, or at least to confess
I

         it

                         is

                      I

                                                     it

                                                it iIt,
advise you to plunge into Germany, and you will be soon re

freshed, and brought back to a right tone again, whether

be literature, science, or any other pursuit you are following.

        hope to write to Horner a full account of my surprise
to find that there no truth in overlying granite in Norway --
no exception to the rule, as will tell you presently --that he

may read at the British Association. Be known then to you

and others who have read what Von Buch wrote on Norway
in the days of his youth, and of his Wernerianism and Nep-

tunianism, that his notion of the granite overlying the

transition rock arose from this, that whenever he found

schist dipping towards granite regularly up to the point of

contact, he assumed that went under. The granite may
          a

            it
                                it
lean over little here and there, but this accidental, and
                                            I is
in general  sends veins only into the transition beds,

changing the limestone into marble near the junction, and

the shale into micaceous schist, and other metamorphosis, the

fossils often escaping in the white marble, and some traces

in some crystalline schists.

Now what have seen in several places, take Keilhau's
            I

word to be the universal fact. Had Von Buch believed as he

afterwards did in the igneous origin of granite, he would

22  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxi.

have found the veins, but without this, somehow or other,

he came by false reasoning to the true conclusion, that the
granite is newer than the Silurian beds. This is lucky for
him. What struck me forcibly was this : after seeing proofs
innumerable and beautifully clear of the order of age being
first gneiss, then secondly, unconformable transition beds,

Ithen granite, and after seeing that the granite was the

newest, then found that the granite not only sent veins into

both transition and gneiss, but actually sometimes passed by
imperceptible gradation into gneiss. This gneiss, so ancient
that it had been crystallised and then thrown into vertical

and curved stratification even before the triloites flourished,

this most ancient rock is so beautifully soldered on to the

granite, so nicely threaded by veins large and small, or in
other cases so shades into the granite, that had you not
known the immense difference of age, you would be half
staggered with the suspicion that all was made at one batch !

     Paris, September 5. -- Last year when Charlesworth spoke
at Bristol about Crag, and the numerical percentage of

Irecent tertiary shells, Sedgwick and Buckland gave some

useful impromptu replies, stating that was aware some

modifications would be required, &c., but they would not

Iaffect this classification in the main. Now if he should

again, as expect, speak on this subject, and if he should
again cite Beck, will you state that you happen to know from

Icorrespondence which you have had with me this summer,

that have been engaged with Dr. Beck in a careful exami

nation of the species of fossil shells of the Crag and other
tertiary formations which have been identified with recent
species ; that you have learnt from my letters that Dr. Beck
by no means denies the absolute identity of a certain number
of Crag species, though he thinks a large proportion of those

Iidentified by Deshayes to be distinguishable. Also that

consider that Dr. Beck's views of the conchological fauna of

the Crag, drawn from the consideration of 260 species, tend
to confirm the classification which places the Crag as older
Pliocene and on a parallel with the Sub-Apennine beds, and

Idistinct from and more modern than the Touraine, Bordeaux,

and other Miocene deposits. Also, that am convinced that
independently of the relative percentage of recent shells,

i837.  TERTIARY CLASSIFICATION.                                                  23

about which naturalists may differ according to their notions
of what constitutes a specific difference, there are other

characters in the entire assemblage of forms of shells belong

ing to each great tertiary epoch, which will enable us to

classify the deposits according to the approach which they

make to the type of organisation now existing in the neigh

bouring seas ; and that this approach will serve as a chrono

Ilogical test of the eras to which tertiary deposits may
respectively belong.  mean the degree of approach to or

departure from the assemblage of living shells in the neigh

Ibouring seas will be a test of the relative newness or anti

quity of the several deposits ; also that consider the terms

Eocene, Miocene, and Pliocene to be as convenient and                            (iIf

the inventor may say so) happy, in reference to this view, as

when they were made to refer more exclusively to the pro

portion of fossil species identified with recent. For the

Pliocene and Miocene will always express greater and less

degrees of approximation to the existing fauna, and the

Eocene that first dawn of resemblance which characterises

the oldest tertiary shells when compared with those of the

newest secondary formations. As have not yet finished my
                      is

                           I
                               I
                                   ;I
                                       I
examination of disputed points, and not even begun to hear

the pleadings on one side, will not risk any statement as

to how far the identification of fossil with recent shells may

have been pushed too far, for certainly suspect that the

error has been chiefly on this side but wish you to know

that my conviction    stronger than ever, that rules may be

given for measuring the approximation of different groups of

tertiary shells, and that the degree of this approximation

may be used as a test of age, and may lead to the same

classification as that which have adopted in the Principles.'
                      I

                                                  is
                                                               '
I  am fully prepared to defend all that essential in my

system of tertiary classification as founded on fossil shells.

                      Believe me ever most truly yours,

                      CHARLES LYELL.

                           To LEONARD HOENEE, ESQ.

                                                                              Paris September 23, 1837.

    My dear Horner, -- was glad to receive your report of
the meeting at Liverpool, and to hear the Association was
                      I
                                                                              :

24          SIR CHARLES LYELL.                        CHAP. xxi.

I Iso well supported.
             must try to be at the next.                                  saw a
Ivery blundering account of my letter in the ' Athenaeum.'
Iam anxious that when printed by the Association,3 it should

be given as sent and this principally because have
             I it,                              I
                    I                               I
carefully avoided bringing prominen tly forward any collision

with Von Buch, whom like too well not to be sorry that

he should fancy, as he has done before now, that am always

seeking to run against him.  only mentioned him as hav

ing been the first to announce the posteriority of the granite

to the transition beds, which was a grand step at that time,

and true though perhaps he did not come at by a strictly
    ;                                           I it

         II
logical course. know how he drew his inferences, which

were quite natural twenty-six years ago, before he had

adopted the true theory of granite, but had brought for

ward his errors, should also have dwelt on his praises.

Chancellor Brougham said of Serjeant Wilde, that was
                                                      it

rather hard to visit on the barrister the sins which he

committed in the flesh as an attorney, and should also
                                                I

think hard to show up the mistakes which Von Buch
    it

the Huttonian fell into, in the youthful days of his Wer-

nerianism.

    With love to all, believe me yours most affectionately,

                                CHARLES LYELL.

             To His SISTER.

                             Paris September 23, 1837.
             if

                                   '

                           I:
                                                   a
    My dear Sophy, --We were glad to hear such good account

of the party at Kinnordy and your visitors in your last letter,

and hope you still feel as you could jump over the moon,'

which we nearly do at our (or perhaps should say my)
mature age, at the thoughts of flying across the Channel once

more after a longer absence than usual. We mean to steam

it all the way, land and water, for the benefit of my fossil

shells and our bones, not the fossil ones, and for the novelty

of the thing, for both of us are heartily sick of the everlast

ing pav& between this and Calais. We go to St. Germain

by steam carriage, by the Chemin-de-fer, which                            adver
            ·

                                                                      is
tised in a pamphlet beginning 'Paris vient de s'enrichir

d'une gloire nouvelle,' and then by steamboat to Havre and

             British Association at Liverpool.

                MADEMOISELLE MARS.      25

Iby another from thence to London.      have bought you a

dozen small shuttlecocks, and went to the Quai Voltaire to
ask for Grangier's Dante.4 A complete copy had been sold

I Ia few weeks before for the very small price of fifteen francs,

and was told should probably not get one, but Merlin on
the Quai des Augustins might have it. Merlin had only

Ione volume, ' H Paradiso,' which got, well thumbed, for
Ifour francs, and took at a venture Montonnet's translation
of the ' Inferno,' though Merlin said he believed it was not
Iworth much; but it was only five francs, 1776. The same

bibliopolist asked if was going to London, ' because it
was there that the French send for old French books, and

there, if anywhere, Grangier might be bought entire.' A

Ipropos to the ' new glory ' which Paris has gained, have

had a compliment to-day myself in the same style in a note

presenting me a fossil shell. The donor, a stranger, tells

me he had been requested to give duplicates away to geo

logists, and it was impossible for him 'd'adresser a une

meilleure illustration geologique.' But a more delicate piece
of flattery has been administered in my new passport. Even

two years ago my 'nez petit' was changed to 'uez moyen,'
but now it is ' nez long.'

     After several days of heat, we have now so cool an even
ing that we have ordered a wood fire. The De Beaumonts,

Iwhom we mentioned last spring, have been calling, but we
were out, as they were when we called.  mean Gustave and

his wife (Mdlle. Lafayette) ; they sent a polite note of
regret at missing us. They are only just returned two days.

"We had such a treat on Wednesday at the Theatre Frai^ais ;
two best places in the balcon to hear Mdlle. Mars and

Mdlle. Noblet in several pieces. The principal one, an
old play, ' Le Jeu d'amour et du hasard.' Mdlle. Mars

is not in the least gone off at sixty, and her voice very

sweet, and looks like a pretty woman of thirty. Mary has

had a pleasant letter from Lord Cockburn, who tells us that

the new tower at Bonaly by Playfair is picturesque, and
pronounced by Sir T. Lauder to be like the ' peel tower of a

Border chief.'

     i His father being desirous of obtaining every edition of Dante, of which
he formed a fine collection.

26         SIff CHARLES LYELL.              CHAP. xxi.

    Maison, on the Seine : September 24. --Here we are, after

reaching St. Germain by railroad, and thence to this place

by a fiacre over a road which we thought would have upset

us. Certainly it was worth while paying some five francs

extra  to  see the Parisians enjoying themselves on a fete
day.       was a very gay scene. We had to wait three-
       It
Iquarters of an hour in a fine newly built salle, in which
suppose a thousand persons were waiting as if in a theatre,
divided into compartments according to the price of tickets,

you had taken out. They made us take nine places, seven

Ibeing for the luggage, which am told was a great imposi
Ition, but took only one-franc places. Though there was no

cause for hurry, when the bell rang, there was such a bustle

and rush, and the agent himself lost his head and was

quite nervous. Fortunately, every one of the engineers as

well as engines are English, and not one accident has hap

pened, though as many as 10,000 a day have travelled for

four weeks since it has been opened. To-day 17,000 have

gone by it ; allowing that a great many have gone both

ways, perhaps some 10,000 persons. Our train contained

1,200 persons, each carriage forty, and many being filled with

well-dressed ladies and beaux, was a very gay sight. It was

twelve miles and a half, performed in about half an hour.

Twice we crossed the Seine. The motion we thought

pleasanter even than the Greenwich railroad. All nearly

are travelling for pleasure ; an exchange for the Montagues

Russes, Tivoli, or a jaunt to Versailles. The shareholders

are quite surprised at their success and profits, and as the

machines are tried and strained by the overweight, they

have sent to England for more locomotives and more men.

What a good thing for our own machinery-makers to supply

Ithe Continent ! All the steamboats, am told, in the Medi
Iterranean, have English men and machinery, and so found
it in the Baltic and in Norway.

    The Byrnes 5 came to the railroad to see us off, and just

before we left our hotel, Clara Tourguenef (formerly Viaris)
came to see Mary. She is a beautiful young woman, and very

Ipleasant. The most singular part, perhaps, of the railroad

sight was the length of way, several miles should think out

           5 Uncle and aunt to Mrs. Lycll.

i837- RETURN TO LONDON.                             27

of Paris, of an unbroken line of lookers-on, on each side of

the road to see the carriages pass.

    Normandy : September 25. --We are on our way in a swift

steamer which flies down the Seine at an average rate of

fifteen miles an hour. Have passed Chateau Gaillard, built

by Richard Cceur de Lion, and what interested me most,

from historical recollections, Sully's country house, Rosny.

It is a picturesque chateau, one side coming very close to

the river, and all kept up in fine habitable order, having

belonged to the Duchess of Berri lately. We fancied Sully

walking on his favourite terrace. The scenery is always

Iagreeable on this river, and sometimes striking, and our
rapid pace gives it great variety.  have heard a discussion

on Louis Philippe having married a son and daughter to

Protestants, and being about to give two other daughters to
Protestants --one to the Prince of Wurtemburg, the other to

the reigning Duke of Saxe Coburg. This they say is popular

with a large number of the Liberals in France, who, though
Catholics, have been always fearing the return of the Jesuits,
who were put down when Charles X. was banished. As far

as a visitor can judge, Louis Philippe seems as quietly

established on the throne as any king in Europe.
     Havre : September 27. -- We have to wait till the evening

tide, having arrived last night at this port, now the Liverpool

of France, and veryflourishing. The Seine below Rouen, though

not so beautiful and grand as above, was still very picturesque.

The view back towards Rouen. some villages on the way to
Honfleur, and the beautiful chateau of La Meillerie, where

Mdlle. La Valliere was brought up, was an interesting

object. We passed the old Castle of Robert le Diable,
William the Conqueror's father. How full of antiquities

Normandy is!
    London : September 29. --We arrived last night, and found

all well here.

With love. Believe me your affectionate brother,

                                    CHARLES LYELL.

28              SIK CHARLES LYELL.                                              CHAP. xxi.

                To His FATHEE.

                                                                                London : October 3, 1837.

   IMy dear Father,-- send you three of the last medals
·which have been struck at the Mint of Paris, and which I

hope you will add to your collection as memorials of the

time of our last visit to that place. We went to see the

Itriumphal arch of the Barriere de 1'Etoile which is now
finished, and has cost half a million sterling.  had no idea

it was so colossal till we came up to and certainly
                                      it,
                                                      is

                                                             it

                                                                      is
very beautiful. Although the list of victories                                  too long

to be marked on the medal, the first two which meet your

eye on the side facing the Tuileries, are Gemappe and

Valmy.  thought almost ludicrous on the reverse of
    I
         it I

                  it

                          is
                                a

                               it
some of the medals of the arch to see two heads looking

.at each other, Napoleon and Louis Philippe, so chose the
                                   I
one send, though less characteristic of 1887.iIf
                                              it I
    As to the obelisk, you will see, think, by the medal,

that in itself  beautiful thing, but             mistake not, you

will wish back in Egypt again when you see it. The fact

is, hardly any monument could be placed where stands, in
the centre of the Place Louis XV., without being in the way.

But this is, to my eyes, as out of place as a huge sphinx
would have been just before Westminster Hall or Abbey.

The first view got of was on entering the Tuileries
                I

                               it

                                                                             is
Garden close to the Palace, and looking down the centre aisle,

or rather avenue of wood, where the great fountain at some

distance. The end of this avenue, far off, should have been

terminated simply by the great Arc de 1'Etoile, and would

have been so softened by the red light of the setting sun

seen through    and round it. But one saw black line
                it

                                                                             a

much sharper than could be formed by any round column,

standing before and cutting right in two, from top to

bottom, this distant arch. Still worse, when you go to the

Faubourg St. Honore" or Madeleine, and wish to look on the

bridge at the front of the Chambre des De"putes, you see the

portico cut in two by the Theban intruder, and imagine
                                                 I

the effect must be equally fatal to the beautiful facade of the

Madeleine itself when seen from the Chamber of Deputies.

    We did not see the Muse"e de Versailles. Some told me

i837- LOUIS PHILIPPE.                                2£

it was a ' grand collection of rubbish,' others that it was of
Igreat historical interest.
                             suspect it was one of Louis
IPhilippe's good hits, of which heard many. Among the rest
Byrne told me this : --In Napoleon's time all the army
became acquainted with the Emperor in the field ; but Louis

Philippe, seeing that he could never have this advantage in
times of peace, changed the system of having certain regiments

Iof guards always attached to the Palace, and had three at a

time (each believe is nearly 2,000 strong), to guard the
Tuileries, of regiments of the line. They are changed after

a year and a half or so, and all the officers dine in their

tnrn as they mount guard, either with the King (those of
higher rank) or with the Princes. He has already got
through nearly two-thirds of the entire regular army, and

they take pains to get personally acquainted with all the
Iofficers.
            send the two shabby-looking old volumes of
IDante spoke of.

                  Believe me your affectionate son,

                                  CHARLES LYELL.

                  To His FATHER.

                                                                       London : October 21, 1837.

IMy dear Father,--As Mary is sending off a frank,
have been thinking whether our party on Thursday will afford
Iany literary gossip worthy of being Boswellised, which be
Ilieve it would if my memory served me.
                                         was amused with

an anecdote of Calcott's, who said that some one was praising

the waterfall at Bowood as by far the most beautiful artificial
one in the world. Rogers, on being appealed to, asked if they
would except Terni ? When the Milmans were at Bowood

the other day, one of Lord Lansdowne's horses ran away with
Milman in sight of Mrs. Milman and his children ; carried

him under the trees, and then charged a high invisible fence of
wire, which was thrown down, the poet rolling on the ground.
But he was not stunned, and, being immediately bled, soon re

covered. Mrs. Milman had time to be frightened terribly.

    The subject of the bill for a general registration of
mortgages, as in Scotland, was discussed, and declared to be

only delayed by the attorneys. Milman cited some one who

30  SIR CHARLES LYELL,  CHAP. xxi.

said we were governed by three powers : the power of steam,
the power of the press, and the power of attorney. Babbage,
on our talking of what books might be stereotyped, said that
a great part of his ' Economy of Manufactures ' had been, but

it would scarcely do for his Bridgewater treatise. Milman

suggested that he might safely stereotype the blank chapter
--a joke which Babbage took well. The question was
started whether it was best for an author not to read the
reviews against himself, as Sydney Smith declared was his
system. Milman said it never answered, for when Sydney
Smith was so cut up lately in the ' Quarterly Review ' for his
sermon on the Queen, he could not help trying to get from
Milman what they had said of him.

     Babbage had bound up in a volume all the violent attacks
against him for his ' Bridgewater. ' 6 Van de Weyer told us
that he collected all the things which the Dutch wrote
against him, and sent them to his mother, begging her to
see what a son she had. One of these compared him to
Robespierre, declaring the only difference to be 'that he
(Van de Weyer) was the most bloody.' There was much joking
from Van de Weyer and others about Sydney Smith having
made the experiment last spring, in full season, of a trip to
the Rhine, of which he got soon tired, and hastened back to
London dinners and routs. Milman pronounced it to be
a pure piece of coquetry, to fay how they would miss him,
though against his own rule, for he says ' that in London as
in law, de non apparentibus et non existentibus eadem
est lex.' We had much talk about Sir Walter Scott's Life,

Iour summer tours, and so forth ; but Mary has got her bonnet

on, so must conclude.

                        Believe me ever your affectionate son,

                                                               CHARLES LYELL.

   IP.S. Having a few minutes more, must add an observa

tion of Van de Weyer, that he knew many merchants whose
families had had galleries of pictures (in Holland and Ant
werp) for 200 years, and who added to them the best modern
works of their artists. Babbage said that English merchants'
families never outlasted two centuries. Milman said the

                · The Xinth Bridgenater Treaibe, by Charles Babbage.

1837. PARTY AT MILMAN'S.                81

reason is that here they are never stationary, and before two
centuries go by they are above or below merchants -- part of
the aristocracy, or bankrupts, and forgotten.

                        To His FATHER.

                                        London : November, 1837.

IMy dear Father, --Many thanks for your letter of congratu
lation on my birthday.      will begin by way of answer to put

down a few recollections of an agreeable party which we had

yesterday at the Milmans.'

A note from Sydney Smith excusing himself, with a joke

even on the envelope. To Mrs. Heart Milman (instead of

IHart) the seal having a 9? on it with the motto. ' H tuo

nome non e la ventura,' if caught the words rightly.
Milman observed it was strange, for surely Sydney Smith

could not have a premeditated joke purposely engraved on a

seal. Presently Mr. and Mrs. Milman, Mr. and Mrs. Senior,
Mr. Lockhart, Mr. Whewell, Mr. Rogers, Rev. W. Harness,
Mr. Rich, M.P., and ourselves. When Mr. Rogers heard that

Mary had been to Norway without seeing any waterfall, he
said, ' That comes of having a man with a hammer for a

fellow-traveller. What would you have thought when a girl,
Iif a fortune-teller had predicted that you would marry a man
who lived by his hammer ?   was asking Lady Mary Fox

(Rogers had just come from a visit to Colonel and Lady Mary
Fox in Windsor Palace) what she would have thought if,
when playing as a child in Bushey Park, she had been told

that she would one day be a housekeeper ; aye, and after
your marriage, and such will be your situation that your
Mends will all congratulate you on getting the place of

housekeeper.'

      Rogers mentioned having known three persons who had
known Pope. One was Lord Lyttelton, another a boatman
who rowed Rogers over the Thames at Twickenham. ' Pray, as

you have been here so long, did you know Mr. Pope ? ' ' Mr.
Alexander Pope, you mean, sir ; we called him Mr. Alexander

I IPope. Yes ; when a boy often rowed him over, and my

father, and he came to the river side in a sedan chair.' This

led to much conversation about Pope, the subject having

32  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxt.

 first been brought on by Milman alluding to a new German
 book by one Waagen on paintings in Great Britain, in which

 IRogers' collection was praised, and an original clay bust or

 model by Eoubilliac of Pope, think. Whewell thought
 Pope by far the most influential literary man of his day.
 Lockhart thought that Dean Swift was superior, and, on our
 exclaiming at this, said that the Dean would have been too-

 much for Pope had you met them together. Whewell re

joined that doubtless he would have been more than a match

 for Pope had they come to blows, but he (Whewell) was not
 thinking of a fight, but of mental qualities higher than he
thought Swift possessed. Milman had been amused with an
opinion of Goethe, showing his estimate of the relative

dignity of poets and peers ; he said, if Byron had spoken now

and then in the House of Lords, his bad feelings would have

found a vent, his spleen would have evaporated, to the great
purification of his poetry. Whewell said, good-humouredly
alluding to an attack on him by Brewster in a late ' Edinburgh,
Review,' that perhaps that was the meaning of the proposal to
give peerages to scientific men, in which case science also
might be purified of its grosser qualities.

     Milman asked Mr. Rich (groom of the chambers to the
Queen) whether it was true that the Queen had complained

Ithat they would not give her a diamond necklace. ' Not a-

word of truth in it, assure you ; she has several splendid
diamond necklaces, but chose to wear a pearl one.'

     Is it true that King Ernest has pressed for the restora
tion of the Hanoverian Crown jewels ? ' Undoubtedly; they
were joined to those of England at the union with Hanover,

and ought, he says, to be separated again now that the

Icrowns are disunited, but they are so mixed together they

cannot tell which are which, and suppose that the Queen,
thinks that the Salic law was never meant to apply to dia
monds.' Senior remarked that she played her part remark
ably well in the pageant the other day; that nature had
intended her for such performances.

     On Mr. Harness dwelling on the risk that a young person
ran of being corrupted by flattery and power, Whewell said she

would at any rate escape Henry VIII.'s trials, for he (Whe

well) could see nothing in the spirit of the present times

i837. MACAULAY ON BACON.                           33

which made him apprehend that Victoria would he corrupted

by the possession of exaggerated power. Mr. Rich had been

with her to the Theatre the night before, and said that her
Ireception had been most enthusiastic.
                                        asked him after

wards whether she had read much ; he said, not much of

works of imagination, none of Scott's novels, many of Miss

Martineau's politico-economical tales ! ! and she is now read
ing O'Driscol's ' History of Ireland.' When we were in the

Idrawing-room saw Mr. Whewell and Mary talking together,

Ifirst, as learnt afterwards, about Bonn, where he had been

lately, and then about all the novels they had read, in which

Rogers afterwards joined, showing a perfect recollection even
of the tales written for children ; Miss Edgeworth's ' Simple

Susan' for example, to which Rogers objected that there

never was a man so bad as Attorney Case, and said that in

all her novels there were some characters overdrawn, in

which Whewell would not agree. On Rogers joining Mil-

man and me, we talked of Sir David Brewster's article in the
' Edinburgh Review ' on Whewell, and Whewell's pamphlet

in reply, and Rogers then remarked that such striking

articles as that of Macaulay on Bacon did no good to the

Review, but made the dulness of the rest more apparent ;
he regretted much in that article, and said Macaulay would

Irepent having done anything to lower the name of a great
teacher.  argued against Macaulay's view of the Utili

tarianism of Bacon, and his comparing Bacon's inductive
method to a simple piece of machinery like Aristotle's ' Logic.'

Rogers said that even in the historical part, in which Macau-

lay was much stronger, he frequently sacrificed truth, because

he had written for effect, and Bacon was not so bad as he

had painted him. Milman complained that Seneca had been

selected as representing the science of the ancients, and that
even his ' Quaestiones Naturales ' had not been mentioned, his
best work in that line. They then expressed their admira

tion of the merits of the article, and among other eloquent
passages Rogers repeated the following : ' It is a philosophy

which never rests. Its law is progress ; a point which was

Iinvisible yesterday is its goal to-day, and will be the starting-
post to-morrow.'  have since thought of having this
passage as a motto for my ' Elements of Geology.'

VOL. u.           D

34                           SIR CHARLES LYELL.      CHAP. XXL

     Talking of the popularity of Wordsworth's Poems, Senior

asked Rogers if he thought Wordsworth had made fifteen

thousand pounds. Rogers said he never made anything at
all till last year, and then he received one thousand pounds

Ifor a new edition.
       was not sorry that Sydney Smith happened to be en

gaged, for though such a party would have drawn out some

of his best fun, he would have overpowered Rogers with his

boisterous laugh and sonorous voice, and it is a great pleasure

to enjoy quietly some rays of Rogers' sunset ; everything he
says has a remarkably fine finish in but he very mild
                             it,

                                  I
                                              is
and indulgent, and no remains of the epigram matical sarcasm

for which he seems to have been famous.              was amused

with the abrupt ending of his confab in the drawing-room

with Milman and me above mentioned. Milman's eldest

boy came up, and, looking Rogers in the face, said, 'Mr.

Rogers, do you like sugar    There was a pause.         was
                             9'

                                                     I

thinking of the acidity formerly imputed to Rogers' con-,

versation. Milman laughed, and Rogers said in an emphatic

tone, Indeed do,' and walked away to the tea-table.

       must not fill another sheet with discussions for and
'

   I
            '
                          ;

            I
against Scott's partnership with Bannatyne (after Lockhart
was gone) Mr. Trollope's new novel Harriet Martineau's
                             ;

America,' and whether she was the plainest woman in the

world, or almost handsome, especially on her first return

from the New World.

    Believe me, with love to all at Kinnordy,

                             Your affectionate son,

                                CHARLES LYELL.

1838. ' ELEMENTS OF GEOLOGY:                      35

                       CHAPTER XXII.

                           JANUARY 1838-OCTOBER 1841.

' ELEMENTS OP GEOLOGY '-- SEDGWICK'S LECTURE-- WHEWELL'S ' INDUCTIVE
     SCIENCES '--ANNIVERSARY AT THE GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY-- DARWIN ON
     VOLCANIC PHENOMENA -- VISIT TO NORWICH AND YARMOUTH -- NHW-
     CASTLE MEETING -- DARWIN'S JOURNAL -- CORAL REEFS -- ATHENAEUM
     CLUB -- DR. FITTON'8 REVIEW -- HUTTON'8 CLAIMS -- BRITISH ASSOCIATION,
     BIRMINGHAM-- VISIT TO SIR ROBERT PEEL -- TRAVELLING IN UNITED
     STATES-- RAPID GROWTH OP THE COUNTRY-- NIAGARA GEOLOGY.

                To PROFESSOR SEDGWICK.

                                                                             January 20, 1838.

IMy dear Sedgwick, -- have been very busy since my

return from Denmark with my ' Elements of Geology,' which

I hope to get out before the summer, and have just finished
Iabstracting from Murchison's sheets, which have read with

no small pleasure, a short account of the Silurian rocks and
I Itheir fossils.
                am now upon your Cambrians, and as give
Ia few woodcuts of fossils in each group should have liked to
give a few of the earliest ones if possible. Phillips, in his new

treatise in Lardner, has given us a few Snowdonian fossils of his
Iown collecting in 1836, and would of course select others,
Ithat might not interfere with his, and might give as much
Ias possible original information to the public.
                                                  should,
however, be content if there were any figures published of

what you consider true Cambrian organic remains of any
order of animals, to copy them in my small reduced wood

Icuts, just to give novices an idea of the generic forms, if
Ican do no more.
                  believe there are some specimens, from

Snowdon and elsewhere, of Cambrian fossils in the Geolo

gical Society's Museum, but if you can put me in the way of
furnishing a page of woodcut figures, it will be doing me a

great service.

                  D2

36                         SIR CHARLES LYELL.                 CHAP. xxii.

     Our cousin Miss Winthrop ' gave us an account of your

Isecond lecture, and of your manner of controverting one of

my theories, with which was well satisfied. But when Sir

W. Parish put into my hands the report of the same lecture

I Iin the ' Norfolk Chronicle ' of January 13, confess
was out of patience with the reporter. He makes you say,
' Various false theories have been adopted by infidel natu
ralists,' &c. He goes on, ' One of these,' &c., one sentence;
then ' another was Lamarck's theory,' three sentences ; then
' Mr. Lyell's theory, that the creation of new species is

going on at the present day, was also condemned as rash and

Iunphilosophical.' Had not known more about the lecture
I Iand about you, should have thought that had been
Iclassed with the infidels. Now touching my opinion, have
Ino right to object, as really entertain to your contro
                                                      is it,
verting              at the same time you will see, on reading my
    it
chapter on the subject, that have studiously avoided layingit
                           is I
                  ;               I
the doctrine down dogmatically as capable of proof.           it I I have

admitted that we have only data for extinction, and have

left rather to be inferred instead of enunciating even as

my opinion, that the place of lost species filled up (as              ?I it
was of old) from time to time by new species.                 have only
                                                              I
                                                                iIf
ventured to say, that had new mammalia come in, we could

hardly have hoped to verify the fact. Indeed,                        were

asked, where your new mammiferous species, which has
is
                       is
filled up the great vacancy caused by so many removals

might perhaps say, this just my strongest case, for there

   man, a mammifer of yesterday, which has been spreading
by millions over the globe. But certainly wish to be
                                                              it

inferred from my book, that in the ocean, beyond the sphere

of man's interference, and in the desert, and in the wilder

ness, and among the infusoria and insects, the extinction has

been going on in the last 6,000 years, and that the substi

tution of species to supply the vacancies, which must al ways

be occurring, has also been going on though how,                                                                 a
is

                       '

                                           i

                            I
                                                                                                              ;
                                                                                             is
point we are as ignorant of as of the manner of God's creat

ing the first man. You will, hope, allow that to assume

that there have been no new creations since man appeared,

    at least as rash and unphilosophical,' as modestly to hint

                           Now Mrs. C. Baring Young.

r838.  SEDGWICK'S LECTURE.                              37

I Ithe possibility of such occurrences, which is all you will find
  have done. Whewell, think, has put this well in his

'Inductive Sciences.' He has brought up the subject of

extinction and new creations to that point which science

has reached, or where our present ignorance begins, without

·discouraging those investigations which may lead to our

discovering what laws may still govern this mysterious part

of nature's operations, the coming in of new beings. To

me it appears that the line you are represented to have
Itaken is to hazard a far bolder hypothesis than
                                                  should

have dared to do, viz. that no new creatures have begun to

exist for the last 6,000 years, or for such time as man has

existed, although geology has now brought to light the

proofs of an indefinite series of antecedent changes, such

repeated failures of species of animals and plants, and their

replacement by others. The burden of proof rests on him
who ventures to affirm that Nature has, at length, stopped

short in her operations, and that while the causes of destruc
tion are in full activity, even where man cannot interfere,

she has suspended her powers of repair and renovation.

       Believe me ever most truly yours,

       CHARLES LYELL.

                          To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

                                                                            London : February 24, 1838.

    My dear Horner, --Mary is going to send you a journal,
but, as she did not attend the anniversary,2 1 will send you a
short account of that meeting. Not so full as usual, and most
of the M.P.s absent on the Irish Poor Law question ; never
theless, a grand display of talent. Whewell in the chair,
Sedgwick, Buckland, Sir P. Egerton, Darwin, Owen (who is
wonderfully pleased at receiving the Wollaston medal),
Fitton, Greenough, Hallam, Milman, Murchison, Lord
Burlington, Prof. Jones, Lubbock, Bayley, Clift, Hamilton,
and on the whole the great horseshoe table tolerably well

I Ifilled. A short time before the meeting, Whewell told me

that should have nothing to do, unless would propose the

                                         1 Of the Geological Society.

88  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                             CHAP. xxn.

IPresident, which as ex-President fell naturally to me. So

began the speaking, and said it would be impossible for them

Ito appreciate Whewell's services in the chair, unless

reminded them in what an eventful year of his career as

author and scientific workman he had rendered those

services. T therefore enumerated his doings in the year,

Ibeginning with three volumes on the Inductive Sciences.

Imentioned that on my return from Norway and Denmark,

mentioned to Lodge, fellow of Cambridge, how good a com

panion Whewell's last work had been to me, but soon found
myself at cross purposes, as he had to tell me of two other
works published since my absence, viz. the ' Mechanical

Euclid,' which had already come to a second edition, and

Isecondly, the ' Studies of the University of Cambridge.' On

my return home, found his paper (eighth series), ' Experi

ments and Observations on the Tides' in 'Philosophical Trans

actions,' for which the Royal Society soon after gave him the

royal medal. On my expressing to my friend Mr. Jones (who
sat opposite me) my wonder that Mr. Whewell, entering so
much into literary and scientific society, could possibly, with

all his Cambridge professional duties, find time even to pass

through the press so much matter, supposing he did not write

a word, what was my astonishment when Prof. Jones told me

that his friend Whewell, then staying with him in town, was

actually then passing through the press four other works, viz.
two new editions in different forms of his ' Bridgewater
Treatise,' and thirdly, a long article in the ' Medical Gazette,'

on Physiology of Nerves of Sensation and Volition, relatively

to the Bell and Mayo controversy and claims, and fourthly

Ithose four sermons preached at Cambridge in November last,

which had read with much pleasure, in which he has treated

of Butler's and Paley's views of morals, moral philosophy, &c.

IThere may be other writings, and certainly a controversial

letter to the ' Edinburgh Review; ' but asked, if these alone

were considered, not as the monument of one year, but of a
lifetime, would it not be thought sufficient for the zeal and

Iindustry of one man, and yet in this year Whewell had made
an efficient President of the Geological Society?  would

not dwell on that labour of love, the eloquent address they
had heard the opening of that morning, but his sacrifices

i838. WHEIVELL'S INDUSTRY.                             39

in attending our meetings, and the time given to details of

management, of getting a new secretary and other internal

rearrangements of the Society's official business, for doing

this in so busy a year, called for their acknowledgments.

This address was well received, and Whewell replied modestly,

fearing that most of them would think when they heard of

so many works, that he had done too much to do any well.

In proposing Owen, he put very well his being a fellow
townsman and schoolfellow of his own. In proposing the

Idifferent Societies, he made a beautiful allusion to Terence,

saying, ' am a man ; homo sum, human! nihil a me alienum
puto,' and parodied it well, ' We are geologists, and we regard

nothing in physics and natural history as foreign to our pur

pose.' Sedgwick was uncommonly splendid in replying for

Cambridge, and pointing out the connection between abstract

science cultivated there, and all general reasoning on particular

facts, geological and others ; such reasoning alone raised us
above the dregs of matter, &c. Whewell drank the ' Strangers,'

and Prof. Jones last, who made a truly eloquent speech, and

very extemporaneous, on the similarity of the prospects of the

two new sciences, different as they are in their subjects, geo

logy and political economy. After the anniversary evening,

ILord Cole pressed me so hard to go and eat pterodactyl (alias
woodcock) pie at his rooms, that  went, with Whewell,

Buckland, Owen, Clift, Egerton, Broderip, Hamilton, Major

Clerk, Lord Adair ; and there we were till two o'clock, fines
inflicted of bumpers of cognac on all who talked any ' ology.'
ICigar smoke so strong as half to turn one's stomach.
                                                       lost

the enjoyment of Murchison's dinner next day, and for five
                                           It is a serious
Idays only did half a day's work or less.

warning to me how careful must be.

Yours affectionately,

                                  CHARLES LYELL.

                           To LEONARD HORNEE, ESQ.

                                                                                London : March 12, 1838.

    My dear Horner, --At the last meeting of the Geological
Society, Darwin read a paper on the Connection of Volcanic
Phenomena, and Elevation of Mountain Chains, in support of

40  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxn.

 my heretical doctrines ; lie opened upon De la Beche, Phillips,
 and others (for Greenough was absent) his whole battery of
the earthquakes and volcanos of the Andes, and argued
 that spaces at least a thousand miles long were simulta

 neously subject to earthquakes and volcanic eruptions, and
 that the elevation of the Pampas, Patagonia, &c., all

depended on a common cause ; also that the greater the
contortions of strata in a mountain chain, the smaller must

have been each separate and individual movement of that
 long series which was necessary to upheave the chain.

 Had they been more violent, he contended that the sub

 terraneous fluid matter would have gushed out and over

flowed, and the strata would have been blown up and
 annihilated. He therefore introduces a cooling of one small

underground injection, and then the pumping in of other
lava, or porphyry, or granite, into the previously consoli
 dated and first- formed mass of igneous rock. When he had
done his description of the reiterated strokes of his volcanic
pump, De la Beche gave us a long oration about the impossi
bility of strata in the Alps, &c., remaining flexible for such

a time as they must have done, if they were to be tilted,

convoluted, or overturned by gradual or small shoves. He

Inever, however, explained his theory of original flexibility,

and therefore am as unable as ever to comprehend why
flexibility is a quality so limited in time. Phillips then got
up and pronounced a panegyric upon the ' Principles of
Geology,' and although he still differed, thought the actual
cause doctrine had been so well put, that it had advanced

the science and formed a date or era, and that for centuries

the two opposite doctrines would divide geologists, some
contending for greater pristine forces, others satisfied like

Lyell and Darwin with the same intensity as nature now
employs. Fitton quizzed Phillips a little for the warmth of

his eulogy, saying that he and others who had Mr. Lyell
always with them, were in the habit of admiring and
quarrelling with him every day, as one might do with a
sister or cousin whom one would only kiss and embrace fer
vently after a long absence. This seemed to be Mr. Phillips'
case, coming up occasionally from the provinces. Fitton

then finished this drollery by charging me with not having

1838.            NORFOLK CRAG.                     41

done justice to Button, who he said was for gradual eleva

tion.

   I replied, that most of the critics had attacked me for
Ioverrating Hutton, and that Playfair understood him as
did. Whewell concluded by considering Hopkins' mathe

matical calculations, to which Darwin had often referred.

He also said that we ought not to try and make out what
IHutton would have taught and thought, if he had known
the facts which we now know.  was much struck with the

different tone in which my gradual causes was treated by all,
even including De la Beche, from that which they expe
rienced in the same room four years ago, when Buckland,

De la Beche (?), Sedgwick, Whewell, and some others treated

them with as much ridicule as was consistent with politeness

in my presence.             Yours affectionately,

                                CHARLES LYELL.

                 To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

                                                          Kinnordy : September 1, 1838.

My dear Horner, --This our second day at Kinnordy has

Ibeen, they tell us, the most like summer of any they have

had this year. The place looks beautiful, and have at last

some leisure to give you an account of our British Associa

Ition Meeting at Newcastle. Mary, however, has just come
into the library, and reminded me that             must begin

Ifurther back, and go to the banks of the Yare, from which
she sent her last journal.  ascertained during my tour in

ISuffolk and Norfolk two points respecting the Crag, which
  had never made out before, at least to my own satisfaction.

First, that the mammalia, such as mastodon, elephant, &c.,

were really coeval with the true Crag shells. Secondly,

that the Crag of Norfolk was not, as some have supposed,

of a newer date than that of Suffolk. This and several

Iother minor points, besides the acquisition of specimens of

shells, would have satisfied me, even if had not met with

certain vertical lines of flint, or paramondra, which supplied

Ime with the materials of a small notice which read at

Newcastle, and of which you will see a good abstract by-and-
by in the ' Athenaeum.'

42  SIA CHARLES LYELL.      CHAP. xxii.

    We avoided all but collectors at Norwich ; but on the last

day there (Sunday), we went to the Cathedral, where the
Bishop spied us out from his throne, and sent the verger to ask

Mary and me to come to the Palace to luncheon, which we
did, and saw Mrs. and Miss Stanley, and walked round the

garden. We had to hurry away, as we had to set off in the

IYarmouth steamer at three, and had a pretty sail down the

river. The day after (Monday) took a long walk with Mr.
Pellew along the sea-shore. We went by steam from Yar
mouth to Hull, and thence, after sleeping a night, in another

steamer to North Shields, where we landed at six o'clock
in the morning, and so perfectly refreshed by our night in the
steamboat, that we both enjoyed a good long expedition along
the shore to Tynemouth, walking, and then in a gig to a point

on the coast, Cullercoats, where the ninety-fathom dike is

Ilaid open in the cliffs, the magnesian limestone on one side
and the coal on the other.  then went to see another fine

section of the same dike, or rather fault, cut open by a

railway about a mile inland, and the quarries of magnesian

limestone and marl slate in which the fossil fish are found.

Next day we crossed the Tyne to South Shields and visited

the Marston Rocks, where there are lofty perpendicular

cliffs of magnesian limestone, and small isolated rocks or

needles of the same in the sea. The coast scenery was very
grand, and the brecciated form of the magnesian lime
stone, which is an aggregate of angular masses of itself,

as if broken up and reconsolidated in situ. The same even

Iing we got to Newcastle. As soon as saw Murchison, he
Itold me it was arranged that should be President of the

Geological Section, which was immediately confirmed at the
meeting of the general committee. The other Presidents

were Herschel, Physical ; Babbage, Mechanical : Whewell,

Chemical ; Sykes, Statistical ; Sir W. Jardine, Zoological j

Dr. Headlam, Medical. Our section was crowded, from

1,000 to 1,500 persons always present ; Sedgwick, Buckland,.

Daubeny, De la Beche, Greenough, Phillips, Griffiths, Sir P.

Egerton, Owen, and many other good men taking part.

IPortlock and Torrie my secretaries.

    All that saw of the government of the Association gave

me a good idea of the spirit, but no wish to consume my time

i838. DARWIWS JOURNAL.                                                        43

I Iin taking a part in it, to which am invited, hear, by being

put on the council. Sedgwick was so eloquent ; his lecture

to 3,000 people on the sea-shore made a great impression.
                                   Ever affectionately yours,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

              To CHARLES DARWIN, ESQ.

                  Kinnordy : September 6, 1838.
IMy dear Darwin, -- must first read your letter again
I Iwhich answered in a great hurry at Newcastle.
                                                    should

Ilike to have a talk over Salisbury Craigs with you, especially
on the spot.  do hope some day that we shall be able to

examine together some of the volcanic rocks on the coast

Inear the Red Head, within a day's ride of this place. It is

a splendid exhibition, and think we should make out several

points of eruption and sections of the feeders of the old

volcanic islands of the Old Red Sandstone period. The vaiiety
Iof porphyries and amygdaloids is quite splendid.
                                                    assure

you my father is quite enthusiastic about your journal, which
he is reading, and he agrees with me that it would have had
a great sale if separately published. The other day he told
me that he wished to get a copy bound the moment it was
out, and send it as a present to Sir William Hooker, who

more than any one would be delighted with yours. He was dis
appointed at hearing that it was to be fettered by the other

                  I
                          it I it,

                               I
volumes, for although he should equally buy he feared so

many of the public would be checked from doing so.  hope

you mean to sell a portion of those copies which think you

told me you were to have separate, as think was a large

number.

    When do you think the book on Coral Reefs and Vol-
canos will be out? In recasting the 'Principles,' have
                                       I

thrown the chapter on De Beaumont's contemporaneous

elevation of parallel mountain chains into one of the Pre

liminary Essays, where am arguing against the supposition
              II
that nature was formerly parsimonious of time and prodigal
of violence. You will, am sure, find the discussion of that

question much more naturally placed bj- this new arrange

ment.  I  should like to know, when you next write to me,.

44              SIR CHARLES LVELL.  CHAP. xxn.

how far you consider your gradual risings and sinkings of

the spaces occupied by coralline and volcanic islands in the

Pacific as leaning in favour of the doctrine that many

If Iparallel lines of upheaval or depression are formed contem
poraneously.         remember right, some of your lines are
Iby no means parallel to others, although many are so. In

one point of view, your grand discovery proves, think, in the

most striking manner, the weight of my principal objection

Ito the argument of De Beaumont. You remember that

denied that he had proved that the Pyrenees were elevated

after the cretaceous period, although it is true that the

·chalk has been carried up to their summits, and lies in in

clined beds upon their flanks ; for who shall say that the

movement was not going on during the cretaceous period ?
Now in your lines of elevation, there will doubtless be coral

line limestone carried upwards, belonging to the same period

as the present, so far as the species of corals are concerned.

Similar reefs are now growing to those which are upraised,

or are rising.
    ISeptember 8. --Many thanks for the 'Spectator' which
·came this morning.  really find, when bringing up my

IPreliminary Essays in 'Principles' to the science of the

present day, so far as know it, that the great outline, and

even most of the details, stand so uninjured, and in many

cases they are so much strengthened by new discoveries,

especially by yours, that we may begin to hope that the
Igreat principles there insisted on will stand the test of new
discoveries.    am pleased to think of the improved form in

which this part of the work will come before the French for

Ithe first time. You hope that the ' Elements ' may send many

to the ' Principles,' but am not yet so sanguine as to be free

from apprehension lest they should stand in the way of the
' Principles.' This, however, cannot be known yet.
    I Iam very glad to hear you like the Athenaeum.
                                                     used
Ito make one mistake when first went there. When anxious
Ito push on with my book, after a ' two hours' spell,' went

there by way of a lounge, and instead of that, worked my

head very hard, being excited by meeting with clever people,

I Iwho would often talk to me, very much to my profit, on the

very subject on which was writing, or fell in with a Re

i838. BRITISH ASSOCIATION.                     45

view or Magazine relating to geology. Now this was all

Ivery well, but used to forget that this ought to count for
Iwork although nothing had been written, and that ought
Iconsequently to give up my second ' two hours' spell.' By

not doing so was often brought to a dead stop, so that at

Ilast, for fear even of meeting with anybody in the streets who

would also talk geology, was sometimes driven for a walk
into Gray's Inn Gardens. But then you will say comes the

difficulty, how to avoid theorising, for nothing substantial ia

gained by dwelling on the subject when there is no pen, ink,,

or paper before one. After lying two hours fallow the mind

is refreshed, and then in five minutes your fancy will frame
speculations which it will take you the two hours to realise

Ion paper. As your eyes are strong, you can afford to read

the light articles and newspaper gossip, which could never
indulge in much with impunity.

My father has been more and more taken up and de

lighted with your journal, and begged me this morning to

invite you to come here any day this or the next month,

when we shall be here, for as long or short a time as you

like. Steamboats every Wednesday to Dundee, passage from

thirty-six to forty hours ; railroad four times a day from

Dundee to Glamis, where the carriage meets you, and brings,

you in half an hour to Kinnordy --an easy trip for one who

was never sea-sick except in sailing vessels. Do come, if
you want some fresh air, and if you choose to bring MS.

I Ihere and write, as do whenever choose, four or five hours
Iquietly every day, promise you the means of doing so ; or

if you prefer a geological excursion, remember that an au

tumn on this East coast may be almost always reckoned upon

for fine weather.
IWill you be so good, after reading the enclosed note to
Dr. Richardson, to send it post-paid to him ?  was glad to
see him at Newcastle. Do not let Broderip, or the ' Times/
or the ' Age,' or 'John Bull,' nor any papers, whether of sainta

or sinners, induce you to join in running down the British

IAssociation. do not mean to insinuate that you ever did
Iso, but have myself often seen its faults in a strong light,

Iand am aware of what may be urged against philosophers

turning public orators, &c. But am convinced, although

46      SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. XXII.

 Iit is not the way love to spend my own time, that in thisif'
          P is,
 country no importance is attached to any body of men who
        I
 do not make occasional demonstrations of their strength in
                                                                             ;
 public meetings. It is a country where, as Tom Moore
                 I
.justly complained, a most exaggerated importance is attached
 to the faculty of thinking on your legs, and where, as Dan

 O'Connell well knows, nothing is to be got in the way of
 homage or influence, or even a fair share of power, without

 agitation. The local committee at Newcastle were quite
 amused at the eager press for tickets, after the meeting
 began, on the part of those who had most sneered against

Ithe whole thing down to a few weeks before its commence

 ment. can also assure you, as the strongest commendation,

 that the illiberal party cannot conceal their dislike, and in

 some degree their fear, of the growing strength of the Asso

 ciation, in which circumstance as geologists we are particu
 larly interested. We must take care not to hint this last
 argument to the Tories, many of whom are helping forward

 the cause gallantly at present, and, Heaven be praised, we

Iseemed in no danger of splitting on the rock of politics,

which always fear much more than any occasional squabbles

amongst ourselves, which can never come to anything like
lasting feuds in a body collected from so many different
quarters. The moral of all this Go next year to Birming
ham you can, although your adviser has been only to two
out of eight meetings. Did you really manage to drink
nothing but water at old Jones

     Pray write and gossip at full when lounging at the Athe-

naeum to me, and never imagine you can say enough.
     As to the Glen Roy case, saw, in Orust in Sweden,

great beds of stratified gravel and sand like those which

cover our Scotch hypogene rocks entirely destitute of shells
yet there were beds of shells like those of Uddevalla, and sea
beaches at still higher levels. Mind tell you about the
absence of shells in some of my Norwegian Newer Pliocene

beds.

     Believe me, my dear Darwin, ever most truly yours,
                                                             CHARLES LYELL.

1 839-          DR. FITTOJVS REVIEW.                     47

                       To DR. FITTON.

                                                               Kinnordy: August 1, 1889.

My dear Dr. Fitton, --Although we are not far north of

IEdinburgh, your review only reached my father's house

last night, and hare this morning read it through without
stopping, and with very great pleasure and profit, for it con

Itains much that is new to me, as well as much that is grati
fying. Indeed   suspect you must have left out those
passages of an ' excoriating ' character which you hinted at

Iwhen we last met, or must have thought me one of the most
sensitive of authors.  have certainly reason to be more

than satisfied, for it is a piece of good fortune which happens

to few even once in their lives, to be criticised by a reviewer

who has read and thought over all they have written, as well

Ias what others have done and said, and to still fewer who
have that luck, to come off with so much praise.      am very

glad that you have dwelt so clearly, in your ample analysis
of my ' Elements,' on those points in which it differs from the
I I* Principles.'
                do not remember a single point in which

Ithink you have misunderstood me, geologically speaking.

The first note think of a slight mistake is where you
Iascribe to Scrope a section which is my own of the lava of the
Coupe d'Aysac.  made it on the spot, and to the best of my
recollection you will find nothing like it in Scrope, whose

Iwork is not at hand. But have borrowed so many illustra
Itions from Scrope (though not, trust, either in his or any
Iother case, without acknowledgment), that am the last who
Ishould grudge him the appropriation of one of mine.
         am pleased to see you have been able to draw out

Lonsdale's just claims to original views in regard to the
Devonian and other subjects, and assert for him what he will
never do for himself. Your application of the lines 'The

times have been,' is admirable, and the whole article runs off

fluently and in entertaining style, and varied until you get

into your elaborate disquisition on Hutton, which to all the
IIsgoemneerwahl arteahdeearsv,y.andIttohamsanbyeeonf
                       the initiated, will,           fear, be
                       useful to me, as
                                                      found it
Idifficult to read and remember Hutton, and though tried,

48  S7R CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxn.

II doubt whether  ever fairly read more than half hi*

writings, and skimmed the rest. Considering at how late a-

period, as compared to Steno, Hook, Leibnitz, and Mora, he

Icame into the field, and consequently how much greater

were his opportunities, think his knowledge and his original

views were confined to too small a range of the vast science

Ifof geology, to entitle him to such marked and almost exclu
sive pre-eminence as you contend for in his behalf.  you

had not felt some natural indignation at the unpardonable

Ineglect with which the French and Germans have treated

him, you would not, think, on reading downwards from the
theories of the older writers, have considered his merits on
the whole as so transcendant. Your citation (immediately fol

lowing the woodcut) is a more perfect enunciation of the gra
dual acquisition of the metamorphic character by successive

Imodification than had remembered to exist in his writings.
   I remember on one occasion Boue, in reference to my
citations of Macculloch, apologised for having pretended to

such complete originality in regard to the change of strata by
Plutonic action, and Von Buch told me on my citing Playfair

for the elevation of Sweden, that neither he nor any German

Ihad had access to Hutton's and Playfair's works during the

war, &c. feel, however, by no means disposed to defend the

Continental writers from your charge, and you might have

included Macculloch, who so ably filled up Hutton's rough

sketch of the metiimorphic theory, but with scanty reference

as usual to the merits of a great predecessor.

    In distinctly alleging that my defective appreciation of

Hutton's claims was the ground of the pages which you

write in his defence and eulogy, a point again enforced in

the last sentence, you should have been careful to distinguish

between the total neglect of Cuvier, Von Buch, Humboldt,

IBoue, Brongniart, and others, and the inadequate rank in the

relative scale which in your judgment have assigned, as the

simple reader of your review must confound me with all the

rest. As you do not complain that my historical sketch was
disproportionate in length to the general plan of my ' Princi

Iples,' must assume that you think Hutton occupies too

Ismall a space ; yet in my first chapter gave Hutton credit

for first separating geology from other sciences, and declaring

1839. MUTTON'S CLAIMS ADVOCATED.                                 49

it to have no concern with the origin of things, and after

Irapidly discussing a great number of celebrated writers,

pause to give, comparatively speaking, full-length portraits of

Werner and Hutton, giving to the latter the decided palm of

theoretical excellence, and alluding to the two grand points

in which he advanced the science. First, the igneous origin

Iof granite, secondly that the so-called primitive rocks were

altered strata. dwelt emphatically on the complete revolu

tion brought about by his new views respecting granite, and

entered fully on Playfair's illustrations and defence of

Hutton, and he is again put prominently forward in the
' Elements,' where no other but Lehman and Werner are

mentioned. The mottos of my first two volumes were

Iespecially selected from Playfair's Huttonian Theory, because

although was brought round slowly, against some of my

eI awrlayspdreejsuidroicuess,totoaacdknoopwt lPeldagyefaihri'ss  doctrines to the full extent,
                                                                 and Button's priority, and
I have a letter of Basil Hall's in which after speaking of
points in which Hutton approached nearer to my doctrines
than his father, Sir James Hall, he comments on the

manner in which my very title-page did homage to the

Huttonians, and complimented me for thus disavowing all

pretensions to be the originator of the theory of the ade

quacy of modern causes.
    Yet, to how many of your readers, who will never see my

Iwork, will your elaborate advocacy of Hutton seem to imply

that overlooked, or have been unwilling to acknowledge

even in a moderate degree, his just pretensions ! It was my

business, in tracing the progress of our science to its present

state, to estimate the importance of each writer, and adjust
the quantity of space due to him in my historical sketch, not

Isimply according to his originality and genius, but partly at

least in proportion to his influence ; and still think that

Werner's eloquence, popularity, enthusiasm, and position at

IFreyberg, placed him in this point of view as much above

Hutton as have represented him to fall below him in refer

Ience to the truth of his theories. Yet as an admirer of

Hutton all could have wished is, that your panegyric on

Hutton had appeared as aiding and seconding my efforts,

VOL. II.  E

50  SIR CHARLES LYELL.          CHAP. XXII.

Isince trust that no book has made the claims of Hutton

better known on the Continent of late years than mine.
     As the ' Edinburgh Review ' has been so long in noticing

any of my writings, it is really a great point to have at last

Ibeen honoured by so very long an article, though doubt
I Inot have lost much by Napier's cashiering. But have

Ino more room to thank you now for having taken so much

pains to write what regard, in spite of the Huttonian
episode, so very favourable a critique on my productions.

    With our joint remembrances to Mrs. Fitton,

                       Believe me ever most sincerely yours,

                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

    To His SISTES.

                                                                      Dudmaston : September 1, 1839.

    My dear Sophy, --After the business of the Section (at

Ithe British Association at Birmingham) on Tuesday in which
  took a part, as you will see by the ' Athenaum,' a party of

us set off by railway to Tamworth, to go twenty-seven miles

before reaching Sir Robert Peel's, whereas the direct road is

only fourteen north of Birmingham. We first went about

fifteen miles on the road to Coventry, and then turning off

on a new railway lately opened to Derby, we were taken to

Tamworth, where three of Sir Robert's carriages were in

attendance to convey us and our bags about three miles to

his place, which we reached after eight o'clock, having

been rather more than two hours on the road. When in

motion we went always at the rate of twenty-two miles per
hour, but time had been lost in starting, and when we turned

off from the great London road, we had to wait sixteen

minutes to see whether there were any passengers in the

train from London booked for Derby. During this stop we

had a fine view of the great luggage train, in which there

were no passengers, but forty-eight waggons laden with
Itbaggage covered with canvas.
                                seemed of interminable

length, was preceded by two locomotives, and passed us at
full speed, having to keep clear of a train only ten minutes
behind it. To prevent this train from running into theit,

last carriage contained a huge red lamp which looked like a

i839. VISIT TO SIR ROBERT PEEL.  51

conflagration. It was a marvellous sight to see it shoot by.
At Tamworth there is a fine viaduct, and Tamworth Castle is

a fine and very ancient building. We found Lady Peel in
the drawing-room, who is tall, handsome, and ladylike, but

rather grave. Sir Robert received us very pleasantly, and we

should have sat down soon after eight if Whewell had been
dressed, but it was nearly nine before the dinner began.

Whewell and Lord Northampton sat on each side of Lady
Peel, Murchison, Mr. Lloyd, son of the Principal of Dublin

University, Comte de Cambour, a French mathematician, who

has published the best work on the theory of steam engines,

Fox Talbot (photogenic), John Taylor, Treasurer of British

Association, Mr. Yates, Honorary Secretary of ditto, Major

ISabine, late Mathematical Secretary to the Royal Society,
and myself.  sat on Sir Robert's right hand, and during a

conversation of three hours we talked of a great variety of

subjects ; antiquities of Tamworth, railways, paintings,
sculpture, chartists of Kirriemuir, Birmingham, &c., British

Association, bearing of geology on Scripture, Wordsworth's

Poems, Chantrey's busts. Some of the party said next day

I-that Peel never gave an opinion for or against any point from

«xtra caution, but really thought that he expressed himself

as freely, even on subjects bordering on the political, as a well-

bred man could do when talking with another with whose

opinions he was unacquainted. He was very curious to

know what Vernon Harcourt had said on the connection of

religion and science. I told him of it and my own ideas, and in

I Ithe middle of my strictures on the Dean of York's pamphlet
  exclaimed, ' By-the-bye, have only just remembered that
he is your brother-in-law.' He said, ' Yes, he is a clever

man and a good writer, but if men will not read any one book

written by scientific men on such a subject, they must take the

Iconsequences.' After he had explained to me how railways

were taxed, pointed out to him Lord Carnegie's proof that

such a method acted as a bonus towards the imposition of

Ihigh fares. This he saw, and admitted as an evil. If had
Inot known Sir Robert's extensive acquirements, should

only have thought him an intelligent, well-informed country

gentleman, not slow, but without any quickness, free from

that kind of party feeling which prevents men from fairly

             e2

52             i'/A' CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxn.

appreciating those who differ from them, taking pleasure in

improvements, without enthusiasm, not capable of joining

in a hearty laugh at a good joke, but cheerful, and not pre

venting Lord Northampton, Whewell, and others from

making merry. He is without a tincture of science, and in
terested in it only so far as knowing its importance in the

arts and as a subject with which a large body of persons of

talent are occupied. He told me he was one of the early

members of the British Association, and that he was glad that

Iwe had persevered in holding our meeting at Birmingham

under discouraging circumstances ; yet learnt afterwards
from the Birmingham Committee of Management, that when

some of them, being personal friends of Sir Robert, asked his

opinion only three weeks before, he could not venture any

opinion at all. Being pressed to come in to the grand dinner

on Thursday, he said he was so unpopular in Birming

ham that he would only be an element of discord where all

was harmony as far as the British Association was concerned.

His refusal was a disappointment to the leading members of

the British Association and to his political friends in Birming

ham, where he would have been well received. There are

many beautiful pictures and statues, of which he was very
happy to give us a full account. He pressed us most politely

not to hurry back to our business next morning, but to stay
and breakfast with the family, which some did ; but most of
Ius returned early, and was reading a paper at eleven
Io'clock, but
               contrived besides breakfasting to see the

garden, which, although not a fine one, pleased me from

having each kind of flower in large masses. In the dining-

room is a single picture by Haydon of Napoleon in St.

Helena. It was very striking. Sir Robert told me that
there is an ode on it by Wordsworth which is given in the
' Quarterly Review ' in a late article on Waagen's Tour in

England. It represents Napoleon with his back turned

towards you, looking from a height on the boundless ocean.

Among the pieces of sculpture are some remarkable statues

by Gibson of Liverpool P artist. But the most striking is a
bust which Roubilliac made for Lord Bolingbroke. Chantrey
Imade Sir Robert a present of his own bust of Sir Walter
Scott as a pendant for this.  might meet Sir Kobert

1840. GEOLOGY OF SEINE VALLEY.                                    53

Peel in society and visit him for years without having

as much talk with him as from having thus by accident sat

Inext him for three hours. He is looking in wonderfully

better health and spirits than when met him at the Royal
Society with Sir H. Davy ten years or more ago. He is

much taken up with his boys, and had been showing Liver

pool to them.  Ever affectionately yours,

                             CHARLES LYELL.

               To CHARLES BABBAGE, ESQ.

                                                                               London : August 11, 1840.

   IDear Babbage, -- send you two guidebooks for the steam

trip on the Seine, and you will not be whirled by the geo

logy, and old Sully's chateau and Cceur de Lion's Castle,

&c., as we were. at fifteen miles an hour. Pray read the

accompanying geological notes, and inquire about that

Istrange coating of salt, and write to me about it. Address to

Hart Street from Paris, for am writing on and would
                             I
                                                  I it,
give much to be able to go and hammer with you at those

fine old inland sea-cliffs.  wish you could land and send

me notes enough for a joint paper on the subject. The salt

at Andelys was liberally laid on the surface. As once saw

a raised beach with recent marine shells thirty feet high

near the base of the cliff under the lighthouse at Cap la Heve,

there has been an elevation there in geologically modern

times, but still perhaps twenty thousand years ago, and that

cannot explain the inland cliffs having their incrustation of

salt. But bear in mind how little would make the valley of

the Seine once more a deep bay bounded by chalk cliffs. As
                             'I

                                        is

                                        I

                                                               '

                                                          II
only found out the salt when got home, unluckily cannot

say whether any part of the roches d'Orival (the first,
believe, which you will see of the grand old cliffs) has a
saline incrustation. The surface decomposing these and

pulverising.                 Ever faithfully yours,
                                                  CHARLES LVELL.

    [In the autumn of 1841, Mr. Lyell paid his first visit to the
United States, and lectured at the Lowell Institution, Boston. He
was thirteen months absent, and made tours in Canada and Nova

Scotia.]

54              s//? CHARLES LYELL.      CHAP. xxn.

                To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

                      I Lockport [near Niagara] : August 26, 1841.

    My dear Horuer, -- am much obliged to you for your
news of the British Association at Devonport, and the Geo

logical Society Section, and glad that Phillips has come out

with his Devonian fossils. Mr. James Hall, State Geologist of
INew York, who is now travelling with me, wishes much to
have the book.  have been getting up the details of their

Silurian system with great pleasure, comparing the supposed
ancient boundaries of Lake Ontario, when it was 150 feet

higher, with its present shore, the phenomena of drift and er

Iratics, and other features of the geology here, with which as

well as with their working scientific men have been much

pleased. The signs everywhere of rapid progress and sudden

conversion of the wilderness into a region covered with

populous cities and communicating with each other by rail

ways, canals, and river steamboats, which go through still

Iwaters at the rate of fifteen miles an hour, is quite exhilara
ting to me.     was warned by an English officer not to be

misled by so dazzling a spectacle, for that so much was due

to borrowed capital, and has ended and will end in countless

bankruptcies. But the real wealth of this country in cities,

steamboats, &c., must soon, like its population, equal that of

the land from which it draws so much borrowed money.
Colonel Coulson told me in the ' Acadia,' that he and other

officers could not help being annoyed in Canada, at witness

ing the superior rate at which each new American city

founded on the shores of the great lakes, surpassed in a few

years in population, wealth, steamers, churches, and build

Iings, its British neighbour, enjoying all the same natural
advantages.     remember asking Mr. Mallet,3 who rarely

fails to clear up my difficulties in political economy, to ex

plain this, and he admitted that although the French Seig-

neuries, and other remains of feudal tenures, as well as a

colder climate, would account for some part of the contrast,

yet it would not do for large tracts in Upper Canada. Colonel

Coulson told me, that when he expressed wonder during the

rebellion, that land sold so high on the borders, he was

    ' John Lewis Mallet, Esq., son of the celebrated Mallet du Pan, for many-

years Secretary of the Audit Board.

i 841. TRAVELLING IN UNITED STATES.                                      55

answered by a purchaser, that should Canada change hands,
I Iits selling price would immediately be doubled.
                                                     think

have found a complete explanation of this enigma.

The population in the United States is now increasing in

the enormous ratio of 800,000 a year, of which about 100,000
only come from Europe. The great movement of colonisa

tion westward is supplied mainly by New Englanders, all,

whether Ldcofocos (Radicals) or Whigs (that is Conservatives),
devotedly attached to their own institutions, and mostly

anti-slavery politicians.

     An estate in Ohio is worth double one of equally good
land across the river in Kentucky, because the New Eng

landers will not colonise the slave state. So will they avoid
British or foreign institutions in Canada, and people densely

inferior land on their own side the border.

There is not so much drought here as farther east.

Among the trees we are much struck with a fir tree called a

hemlock, and with several kinds of walnuts, such as the

Ibutternut and hickory, and various kinds of oaks, and the
sugar maple.  have seen one tree frog, and last night

heard several catydids or grasshoppers, which croak as loud
as frogs. There is a yellow flower --a tolidago, which is as

vulgar a weed as our Scotch weebow,4 but to my eyes more

elegant; a knotweed, which looks just like ours, is most

abundant. Heaths are unknown, so is furze, and we miss

our wee crimson-tipped daisy. The wild roses are past, but

we have seen a few. We do not meet with many people of

Icolour so far north, but without being an anti-abolitionist,
   am sometimes half inclined to believe, that when the geolo
gical time arrives according to the system of progressive

development for a being as much transcending the white

man in intellect as the Caucasian race excels the chim
panzee, he will be puzzled in his work on natural history,

when he comes to the order Primates, and has to decide

whether the projecting os calcis and elongated ulna, and the

more moderate share of intellectual endowment, must not

force him to admit of two species, in spite of the innumer

able crosses which we meet with here at every step.

Believe me ever your affectionate son-in-law,
                                                         CHARLES LYELL.

              4 Scni-'.-in Jacobiea.

56      SIIf CHARLES LYELL.       CHAP. XXII.

        To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

                                                                       Albany : September 21, 1841.

    IMy dear Horner, -- Mary has mentioned how much was

pleased with the Blossburg coal-field, which is the only for

Imation except Silurian, Old Red, and Post Pliocene, that

have yet seen. Its analogy in fossils, white quartzose sand

stones, bituminous shales, carbonate of iron, &c., with Eng

lish coal-fields, is truly surprising. Dr. Saynisch5 was an

excellent guide. When Prince Maximilian of Neuwied was

here, he travelled with him to the prairies, and the genuine
descendants of John Bull were very intrusive in their desire

to see a Prince, and used to march in without ceremony and
ask the Doctor whether they could see the Prince. ' Yes,

if you will pay twenty-five cents.' ' Nay, but I wish to see

Ihim.' Upon which the good-natured Max came out and said,
' Here  am,' and they went away disappointed to see a

shortish man, in ordinary attire, instead of a magnificent

hero in purple and gold. Dr. Saynisch practises gratui

tously on the homoeopathic system, and we saw him measure

Iout some powders of infinitesimal quantities to a tall stout

miner, adding injunctions about diet, in which suspect lay

the real force of the panacea. He likes the people, but told

me some anecdotes in explanation of his not being in love

with their institutions. He came with a strong predilection

for the democratic party, but says they have cured him, not

Iby homoeopathic, but allopathic doses. He says it is the
same with most German Liberals whom he knows.  have
just been calling on the Governor of this State -- his Excel
Ilency Mr. Seward -- and expected to see a man of venerable

age, but found him, as do almost all men who are in active

employment in this stirring country, a good deal younger

than myself. He said he had already written to me, and he

heard me very attentively on the subject of the Survey, and

the best manner of getting out the final report with illustra

tions. General Dix, formerly Secretary of State, and origi

nator of the Geological Survey, called on me, a gentleman

I Ilike man of my own age, and talked on the same subject.
  was glad to tell him how well thought upon the whole

        s President of the mine.

i84i. HKLDERBERG WAR.  57

the plan had worked, especially in creating a set of practical
and scientific hammer-bearers. You see in many books on

the United States that the people are very good humoured
and full of jokes. The fact seems to be, that the great
throng of them are from fifteen to twenty years younger
than those you meet with playing the same active part in

IEurope. Yesterday, as Stood in the bar-room of a wayside

tavern, on our return from Scholarie, the young proprietor
of a large pedlar's waggon marches up to the bar-keeper and
says, ' Can we have dinner ? ' ' Yes, for how many ? ' ' Eight
remarkably handsome young men.' 'Very well; in ten

minutes.' All day this sort of thing goes on as a matter of

Icourse between perfect strangers.
         am very glad to hear that you have a geological paper
on trap dikes on the stocks; the width of some dikes in

Connecticut, and the manner in which they turned from

intrusive walls into intercalated and nearly horizontal sheets,
has interested me much, but the subdivisions of their Silurian

Isystem have chiefly occupied me.

     Philadelphia: September 27. --Here am, working away in
quarries of greensand, and picking up belemnites and other

Icretaceous fossils, with Conrad for my guide, whom am

happy to find quite at my service, and the best-informed
paleontologist on this side the Atlantic.

     You probably never heard of the Helderberg war, but as

Iit was the great talk while we were geologising among the

hills of that name in Albany County, New York, must in
form all you who live out of the world, that this is now the
third year's campaign. When old Van Renssalaor died, the
last nobleman in the United States, his vast landed estate
was divided among three sons. A population of about
40,000 inhabited the share which fell to the eldest, who

endeavoured to get regular payment of his rent, besides
arrears, which his indulgent predecessor had allowed to
accumulate. Now the payment of rent being most unusual
in the United States, where every man farms his own land,
or what he calls his own, for it is often deeply mortgaged,
was voted quite, an abuse of the old feudal times. They
thought they had paid long enough, and said with some
truth, that they had cleared a wilderness and created the

58  SIf! CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. XXII.

property themselves. So they would pay nothing. The
laird appealed to the Sheriff, but they laughed at law pro
cesses, and at constables, till finally the Sheriff asked for

troops from the Governor, who called on the Volunteers,.
who, as with us, proved, however constitutional a force, to be
a most unfit one to interfere with temper and discipline.
The farmers and peasantry turned out, erected barricades,.

and mounted some brass cannons, and have set the Govern

ment for three years at defiance, not one farthing of rent
paid the while, and a party disguised as Indians maltreated
a constable while we were there, and it was feared for a

time that he was murdered. It is allowed that the landlord

has mismanaged matters, and been far too uncompromising,

Ibut must say, that after what the New Yorkers did in the
ICanada War, and since in Macleod's affair, think there is

a want either of energy in those who should enforce law, or
of respect for it in the minds of the majority.6

     With my love to all, believe me yours affectionately,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

                                To DE. MANTELL.

                                                                               Boston : October 29, 1841.

   IMy dear Mantell, -- was glad to hear of you from Dr.

Silliman, who has probably told you of a visit which we
paid to him and his very agreeable family at Newhaven.
After staying two days with them we went by New York and

Ithe Hudson to Albany, where began my explorings in the
ISilurian strata, and from thence examined the valley of

the Mohawk, in company with Mr. James Hall, who has
been employed by the Government with four others, to survey

Ithe State of New York, which is about the size of our island.

The Falls of Niagara were as beautiful as expected, per
haps scarcely so grand, but in geological interest far beyond

Imy most sanguine hopes. As shall send a paper on the
Iproofs of their recession to the Geological Society, will not
Idwell on them now. After spending some time there,

examined seriatim all the Silurian groups in_the Old Red and
Coal on the borders of Pennsylvania. Returning to Albany

           · See Travelt iti Xvrth Amerira, by Charles Lyell, vol. i. p. 68.

i84i.  MISSOURIUM.                               59

I went south to Philadelphia, and spent four days in collect

ing in the different divisions of the Green sand in New

Jersey, having Conrad as my guide. The analogy of the

Igenera, and even of the species to the European chalk, is

most striking. went with Dr. Harlan 7 to see the great
skeleton brought by a German, Koch, from the Missouri ; a
very large Mastodon which he calls the Missourium. He
has turned the wonderfully huge tusks the wrong way--
horizontally --has made the first pair of ribs into clavicles,

and has intercalated several spurious dorsal and caudal

vertebrae, and has placed the toe-bones wrong, to prove, what

he really believes, that it was web-footed. 1 think he is a

mixture of an enthusiast and an impostor, but more of the
former, and amusingly ignorant. His mode of advertising
is a thousand dollars reward for any one who will prove that

the bones of his Missourium are made of wood. He is soon
to take them to London, when you will have a great treat,

and see a larger femur than that of the Iguanodon. Harlan
is lost in admiration at the bones of this and other indivi

duals, all belonging to the old Ohio Mastodon of Cuvier,

from very young to very old individuals. He has also other
fossils. Of my tour into the anthracite regions of Pennsyl
Ivania you will hear the results when the paper sent Fitton
Ion the Stigmaria clays is read.
                                  like the people here very

much, and have a most attentive class of about 2,000 both
at my morning and evening lectures.

     My lectures here will take me four weeks more, and my

plan is then to run away from the winter so far south as to

enable me to keep the field, examining especially the creta

ceous and tertiary formations, and not to go northwards till

the spring has fairly opened this fine country.
     Believe me, my dear Mantell, ever most truly yours,
                                                               CHARLES LYELL.

       ' An eminent osteologist ; died in 1843.

60  SIR CHARLES LYELL.       CHAP. XXI II.

                      CHAPTER XXIII.

                             JUNE 1842-DECEMBER 1843.

NIAGARA-- NOVA SCOTIA-- SUBTERRANEAN FOREST-- UNFAIR STATEMENTS
    ON THE UNITED STATES -- RETURN TO ENGLAND -- CONTEMPLATES
     WRITING A JOURNAL OK HIS IMPRESSIONS OF AMERICA-- MUCH GEOLO
     GICAL WORK IN PROSPECT-- GIANT'S CAUSEWAY -- LORD ROSSE'S TELE
     SCOPE-- TRESCOTT'S 'MEXICO.'

    CORRESPONDENCE.

    To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

    Lewiston, Canada: June 13, 1842.

    My dear Horner, -- We have come to this place from the

Great Falls to-day, having by the way enjoyed some ex

Icursions to the top and foot of the great precipice which

bounds the river, and have found some additional evidence
of value to my mind, in favour of the recession of the Falls,

Ihaving traced the freshwater formation three miles and a half
down on the summit of the cliff, the old river bed.  was

occupied a week in active exploration of the Niagara district,
and understood it much better. The raised beaches of Lake

Erie are more difficult to explain than the Niagara ravine,

Iand hope in descending the St. Lawrence to get some new
Ilights on these matters. To-morrow we sail for Toronto.

shall now look back a little into my journal. The contrast

of the disturbed and bent Coal, Devonian, and Silurian in the

Alleghanies, with the vast expanse of horizontal beds of the

same formations west of the immediate base of those moun

tains as far as we went in Ohio and borders of Kentucky,

is very interesting, and the magnitude of the coal-fields is

prodigious. The new aspect worn by the same subdivisions
of the rocks below the coal in Ohio, as compared with what

i842. NIAGARA.                                            61

I had previously seen of the same in New York, was very
Iinstructive.
               continue to be struck with the general

analogy of American and European geology, as regards the
fossiliferous groups, which surprises me, it seems so much
Igreater than between North and South Europe.
                                               shall have

a great stock of communications to make to the Geological

Society on my return. We have been having remarkably

cool weather at Niagara* There was even ice two nights

during our stay there, but this was favourable to health and

work. It has a strange effect when you have succeeded in

obtaining some view of the Falls in which nothing appears

but sky, wood, and water, and, when you are listening to the
sound of the Falls, to be suddenly wakened out of your reverie

by the loud whistle of a locomotive drawing a load of

tourists and of merchants trafficking between the east and

west, who discuss the Falls in three hours between two trains.

Goat Island is the most perfect fairyland that I know. The

views of the two Falls from it, and of the rapids which sur

round it, are delightful, and in the walks through its natural

and aboriginal forest, you catch no view of the houses and

mills which rise in the village on the United States side,

Ibearing the ominous name of Manchester, and which may,
fear, ere ten years are past, extend some of its factories into

Ithe beautiful island. We purchased, on coming away, a

daguerreotype of the Falls, and think you will be surprised

Ito see how well the sun has overcome the difficulty of

the moving waters. What would give for a daguerreotype

of the scene as it was 4,000, and again 40,000 years ago ! even

four centuries would have been very important.

   I am glad to have seen Ohio, as the finest example of
rapid colonisation on record. The passage of manufactured

goods and of the plough was at first from the Ohio north

wards ; but no sooner were steamers introduced into the lakes,

than wealth and emigrants were landed on the northern

shore from Lake Erie, and the central forests are now alone

uncleared. It is supposed it might easily support a popula

tion equal to that of England and Scotland, but the move

ment westward prevents the filling up after the first occupa

tion. The annual addition of people now made to the United

States is justequal tothatof the most flourishing State,Massa-

62  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                            CHAP. XXIII.

Ichusetts, exceeding 700,000, of which a small part, only a

seventh am told, comes from Europe. It is a curious fact,

with which Mr. Ticknor surprised Lord Holland some years

ago, that the number of white persons now living in the United

States exceeds the total number of all who have been buried in

Ithe United States from the landing of the Pilgrim Fathers,
and this may probably be true fifty years hence.  leave you

to work out the enigma. So long as the Pennsylvanian Ger

mans and settlers coming from the Rhine predominated in

Ohio, no money could be obtained for public education, nor

for roads; but the moment the New Englanders had the

majority, a liberal tax for these purposes was assessed.

About a fifth of the whole population of Ohio is said to

speak German, but a much greater number are of German
origin. We found at Columbus, in the centre of the State

and the seat of Legislature, that there was a church with a

congregation of 300 to whom sermons are preached in the

IWelsh language. In the Legislature of New Orleans,
learn that speeches are made indifferently in French and
English. Is it not singular that the whole body of German

farmers, all proprietors of land, those anti-innovation men,

who would vote nothing for any improvements, are the most

ultra democrats, or rather they are blind tools in the hands

of demagogues ? One principle avowed by their leaders is,

that schools and colleges naturally breed aristocrats, and

they therefore seize every opportunity of permanently voting
away those lands and funds which were originally set apart

by the central government for popular and university educa

tion. In various other States the same mischief has been

done, and a war waged against all corporation property and

State lands. In Georgia they have lately put the whole

State lands into a lottery, and every one drew for prizes,

Ifand they could not give the usual grant to the Medical
College at Augusta.  some of the State debts are re

pudiated, it will be the fruit of universal suffrage, for they

Imight all pay easily if they would tax themselves moderately.

Although have been too busy with geology to have learnt
much in proportion to our tour respecting the politics and

institutions of the United States, I am already surprised at

the little that is known in England about matters here, where

if42. POLITICS OF UNITED STATES.  63

there is so much worth imitating as well as avoiding. Part
of Ohio is called the Indian Reservation, and it is singular
that there is more wild game there than anywhere else, for
they will let no wild animals be disturbed except they want
them. You often see written up on the high road ' Mover's
House,' an empty wood building, in which emigrants may
pass the night. Another common inscription is 'Cash
Store,' which does not mean a bank, but that you cannot
buy in that shop for barter. The terms bakery and book-

bindery seem useful Teutonicisms. They have many mules

Iin Ohio, which heard commended for their longevity, an
Iadvantage never thought of before. Ask Darwin if he is

aware of the hybrid having borrowed a portion of the ass's

length of days. What a perfectly intermediate creature !

   IKingston, Upper Canada: January 19. --In looking over

part of this letter see some inconsistency, and you might
ask how could the annulling of universal suffrage bring

matters right in Ohio, if nearly half the landed proprietors

are most ultra democrats. The fact is, that had the votes

of the low Irish and German Catholic emigrants who can

vote after five years, by a law which was an innovation on

the original charter of Washington and his colleagues ;

 had these votes of the merest breakers of stone and hewers

of wood been cancelled at the last election, the returns

would have been entirely opposite, as these uneducated new

comers, except a minority of Protestants, all go en masse
with the demagogues ; yet in spite of this and other evils,

I Ihave not been in any country, where, if was so unfor

Itunate as to live out of my own, could so well settle as in the

United States ; even in Ohio, as at Cincinnati. You would

find ample sympathy among the vast mass of more intelligent
Americans in your disapproval of all the more glaring faults

in their institutions ; nine-tenths of those with whom we

are thrown feel keenly the disgrace of any repudiation of
State debts, and had the New Englanders been left to

people the new States, without the influx of the dregs of
Europe, bringing with them violent anti-aristocratic and
Chartist feelings, great want of education, Irish sectarian

ICatholicism, and other prejudices, their credit would now

believe have stood as high as it does in the New England.

64  ^/^? CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. XXIII.

 States, where they are so thriving, in spite of universal
 suffrage. When once Americans see that you have a
 thorough respect for them and their country, they at once
 throw aside their optimism. For example, on my remarking
to a merchant of Cincinnati that their Presidential elections

gave rise to so much intrigue, bribery, and corruption, as to
reconcile any one to monarchy where it was established,
' You are right, sir, and our Presidents have more power in the
way of patronage and vetos than your kings ever had. The
worst pages in English history are the wars of a disputed
succession, but ours is one continued civil war of the same

kind, and if the contending parties do not kill each other in

Ithe body, they do all they can with bribes and threats to do-

injury to their morals and principles.' You and would hear
more in good society here (in Canada) in one week, which we
should consider narrow-minded and prejudiced and ungene
rous to foreigners, in matters of politics, religion, and political
economy, than we heard in nine months in the United States,
for they have here all the Kleinstadterei of a colony and the
enmity of the borderer, added to everything that you might
disapprove of which they bring from home. They know very
little of the United States, and do not wish to know more ;

but of course there are many exceptions, and allowance

must be made for the abominable interference of the uncon

trolled American mobs in the late rebellion here, where the

United States sympathisers brought cannon from the State
arsenals, and the collision of the violent democratic party, of
those born and bred in the new clearings, with the aristocratic

Ifeelings of capitalists and officials who come straight from

Europe. But must conclude, and with love to all,

               Believe me ever most affectionately yours,

                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

                               To His SISTER.

                                                     Tntro, Nova Scotia : July 30, 1842.

     My dear Marianne,--We have just returned from an

Iexpedition of three days to the Strait which divides Nova

Scotia from New Brunswick, whither went to see a forest
of fossil coal-trees --the most wonderful phenomenon perhaps

1842. SUBTERRANEAN FOREST.  65

Ithat have seen, so upright do the trees stand, or so perpen

dicular to the strata, in the ever-wasting cliffs, every year a

new crop being brought into view, as the violent tides of the

Bay of Fundy, and the intense frost of the winters here,
combine to destroy, undermine, and sweep away the old one --

trees twenty-five feet high, and some have been seen of forty
feet, piercing the beds of sandstone and terminating down
wards in the same beds, usually coal. This subterranean

forest exceeds in extent and quantity of timber all that have

been discovered in Europe put together. The new deposit
of red mud of the numerous estuaries here affords me end
less instruction. At this place, Truro, the tide is said to

rise seventy-five feet. So we see the bottom of a deep salt

water sea, its rippled sands, shells, the holes of Mya and

Tellina and their tracks, footmarks of birds and worms, the

manner in which the clays crack and are marked by rain,

Iand sometimes shells enclosed recently in solid nodules of
claystone.  have also learnt more about the geological

effects of drifting ice in the last ten days than in all the

  Canadian tour. The people here are quite loyal and mon
  archical, but their manners just as in the States. Mr. Lowell

  remarked to me one day, that nothing so much surprises the
 American readers of the ' Quarterly Review ' as to see so

 much which they know to be purely the result of circum

 stances, not political in the United States, attributed exclu
 sively to the difference of their institutions from ours. There
 is so strong a conservative party among the rich and literary
 class in the United States, that the constant bitterness of
the ' Quarterly Review,' ' Blackwood,' and other journals on
the same side, and newspapers, against their country, which

they resent from patriotic feelings, works precisely in the way
which an ultra democrat, and still more a person opposed to
an established church, would wish. When one reflects
how short a time, a time which even the present generation

will live to see, the population of the United States will

exceed ours, how short-sighted all this for the ideas of the

United States must soon react much more powerfully on the
English part of the Old World than they have done yet.

      "We have seen great many woods, in which the low

Kalmia angustifolia in flower purpled the ground almost as

     VOL. n.
            a
                             F

                              is

                                                                     !

                                                                                              in,

66  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. XXIH.

much as the large heath in Hampshire, and reminded us of
the entire absence of heaths. The variety of wood here is very
great, but the trees not so large. The quantity of birch and
fir is the most novel feature. The quantity of rich marsh
land gained from the sea forms the chief wealth of the
region we have seen. You can no more let land here than
in the United States, for anyone may obtain acres of his
own nearly as cheap. This circumstance alone, besides the

absence of any hereditary aristocracy, and a well-endowed
established church, would assimilate this or any other genuine
English colony to one of the States of the Union.

                                         Your affectionate brother,

                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

                           To GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

                                                                   Kinnordy: October 12, 1842.

   IMy dear Mr. Ticknor, --When wrote a few words to
Iyou last week was busy with the preparation of my paper
Ion the Niagara district. On reconsidering my journal, find

a good many subjects of general interest to the naturalist as
well as to the geologist, which would not easily enter into any
of the twelve or more distinct subjects, such as Niagara,
fossil Mastodons, AUeghany Coal, Nova Scotia Coal, Martha's
Vineyard, &c., some of which have been, and others are to

be, read at our Geological Society, abstracts appearing in

their proceedings.

   It struck me that in a journal of my tour a place could

be found for these matters, and a few of my impressions of
the country and people, omitting names of persons, except
my scientific fellow-labourers, and generally all things not
scientific. On making notes this last week, for this journal,

Ior ' personal narrative,' soon found that there would be
Idanger of its growing to a book, which, as gave all my

thoughts in the United States to my own science, would do
me no credit, though a bookseller would prefer it to the
scientific ballast which might be overcome by the specific
levity of the first part of the performance, and so float up

Ithe vessel. Yet, cannot bear not to take the opportunity,

Inot only of telling my scientific friends what route took,

i842. REPUDIATION.                                      67

Iand how long tarried, that they may test my opportunities
I Iof observation --but also of saying how liked and what
Ithought of the people and country, as ran through it on
I Ithe railway, or the deck of the steamer. It may be said in

a few words, thought ; so made a few notes of my voyage
and tour to Niagara, Blossburg, and Boston, with quotations

from my journal, on the exhilarating effect of viewing the

signs of such rapid progress in population, and the railways,

Ichurches, and school-houses among the stumps, &c. But

Icnow by experience the remark which this would provoke

here. ' It is very easy to go ahead with other people's

money.' The answer is, that all the States of New England

and New York, traversed in that first excursion, have either

no debts, or have paid the interest of their debts, or have

made railways with their own money, and their credit in

Itrying times has stood high ; yet their form of government

is as popular as anywhere. But must not shirk the
' Helderberg War,' but allude honestly to the only shady

side of the picture forced on my sight in the first six weeks.
The New York people admitted it was a disgrace, just as

we do when in Ireland the sheriff and soldiers fail year after

year in distraining for rent, and ejectments are defied by the

physical force of a mob, and are often permanently defeated.

There are only two or three other difficult points which have yet

Istruck me as requiring to be entered into, in order that may
not be addressed by the critics in the words with which Lord

I ILovelace met me soon after came back : ' So, Lyell, un

derstand you have returned ipsis Americanis Americanior ! '
First, as to Repudiation : your letter on Sydney Smith

only expressed what persons of opposite parties, and all

whom we lived with, had said. As to gambling speculations,

not guaranteed by States, they are like our bubbles of 1826,
our late Australian bankruptcies, &c. ; but the suspension of

Iinterest by Pennsylvania and other States, attribute to
Iuniversal suffrage and the votes of aliens. But may add

the similar extension of franchise would immediately cause

the non-payment of the interest of our debt ; therefore, the

wonder    is that with these institutions   any States  pay, and
that the   Central Government can still                 seems to
                                           borrow. It

imply a higher standard of education or morality, or less

68                SIR CHARLES LYELL.         CHAP. xxm-

Ipoverty.  would enter on this subject a propos to the great
Idistress witnessed in Philadelphia, partly from the alarm

of the stoppage of the State dividends, partly the United

States bank. On this side of the water the sufferers think

Ithat Brother Jonathan has come off a winner by their losses,.

and they are surprised and softened when tell them how

If^reat has been the calamity on the other side of the Atlantic.

Perhaps may say that, in proportion to the small capital

which the Americans have to invest permanently for incomes,.

the ruin was as severe with them as with us. But then

comes the hardest task of all-- the Southern States. No part

of my tour was more agreeable and instructive, geologically r
than that south of the Potomac, and it has much changed
Imy feelings towards the planters, however much
                                                 may
Ithink of slavery as did before. The domestic and farm

slaves whom we saw were a cheerful, often merry and light-

hearted set ; childlike, conceited, boastful, but not a suffer

ing class, when compared with what may be witnessed in

IEurope, and at home. They are uneducated, and not in the
way of being improved or raised in station.  had them
often with me for days, and neither saw nor heard of ill-

Itreatment. It is anything but an economical system, unless

where rice-grounds, sugar, or cotton, and crops which did
not see, may make it desirable to have an animal that can

stand the climate. The evils to the whites are innumerable.

If poor, there is no place for them ; if rich, they have to

submit to the indolence and inefficiency of their slaves, to
doctor them when ill, support them when bedridden, guard

against their being excited by Abolitionists, &c. Their

If Ichildren are corrupted by them, being made vain by flattery,
spoilt by power.  give the favourable part of such a

picture, and enumerate the difficulty and danger of attempt

Iing any reform, because convinced that foreign and American

interference has been hitherto injudicious, might throw my

mite into the wrong scale. When with the planters, seeing

Itheir kindness to the slaves, and feeling that had inherited
I Itheir estates, should not well know what to do ; could not

but feel that a London emancipation meeting, or a list of

advertisements by Dickens, raked out of newspapers from

all parts, would irritate and indispose me to exert myself

i842. PROJECTS A WORK ON AMERICA.     69

in forwarding the cause of emancipation. Sydney Smith
Isaid to me one day: ' But you should hold up the system to
the reprobation of mankind.'  replied that it must be a

work of time, sacrifices must be made, and the philanthro

pists ought to share them with the planters. Then comes

the objection that an indemnity to purchase the liberty of

all the slaves would exceed the means of the whole Union.

This only proves that the Abolitionists ought to have con

fined their efforts within practicable limits. Might they not

have begun attending to a few northern slave States, most

ripe for a change to the better ? As to our English meddling,
it is like repeal meetings in America ; and Lord Lansdowne

said very well, when Lord Ashley's expose of the collieries

was made, they had better have been looking nearer home

than speechifying about the miseries of the American blacks.

A candid anti-slavery philanthropist from England in the

ciidst of a black population, and asked by a planter what he

Iwould do if his British ancestors had bequeathed to him such

an inheritance, would generally, suspect, feel taken aback.

     Perhaps by this time you are beginning to feel the same

Isort of surprise and alarm about my journal that might
Ifeel were to receive by next post a letter from you,

announcing a project of a work on the literature, arts, and

manners of Spain, Italy, &c., with your first impressions on

Ithe geology of those countries. But beg you to consider
Ithat am now setting before you all the most doubtful and

difficult topics, which will only come in incidentally, if at all,

in the journal devoted chiefly to remarks and speculations on

natural history and science.

When they are placed in their niches in a large building,
Ithey will shrink, hope, into their due proportions, or may
Ibe omitted many of them altogether.
                                      should be glad to

give vent to the sensation of freshness, cheerfulness, hope,

and delight on first visiting America, and seeing such a

Iglorious prospect of rapid progress in knowledge and civilisa

tion, a feeling which retained to the last ; and my work will

Inot be the worse received here, from my being able to

declare how much found of a kindred spirit in the state of

if I Isociety and institutions of our Queen's most loyal subjects in
ova Scotia.  could wish that what draw up by-and-by,

70  SIR CHARLES LYELL.             CHAP. xxm.

Iwhen have heard from you, should be shown to some can
Idid Southern man.
                        do not think that these points of

difficulty would come once in twenty pages in that fourth or

Ififth part of my volume which is not made up of purely
scientific memoirs.  shall have to talk of the sea-shells in

Boston harbour being in great part like European species, of

forest trees, humming birds, the absence of heaths, azaleas,

Idistinctness of plants and animals, tortoises, alligators, &c.

After all, was so much in cities, with men who were not

mere naturalists, and have had since my return to talk right

or wrong on United States affairs, with those who know less of

Ithem than me, that should like to have my say. A man
Iager of the Maryland Iron-works, when stood up against the
Itariff and for free trade, said : ' grant all your political
Ieconomy, and you may be right, if to increase wealth and popu

lation was the only good ; but ask you, as a literary and

scientific man, whether you want to have all the United
States property represented by farmers? You have seen

them in New York, in Connecticut, in Pennsylvania. By a

protection to manufacturers you get a higher class into the

country. Iron rails will cost somewhat more, but do you wish

for that dull monotony of a nation of small landed proprie

tors ? Here, in Maryland, if anyone does by chance accumu

Ilate a little capital, his luxury is litigation, and it soon evapo

rates.' A propot to this was told that if a Connecticut
farmer sold off, and invested all his money at six per cent.,

Ifhis average income would be no more than SQL to 1201. a
year in English money.  so, they are below the average

Ifarmers with us, who, though not proprietors, are worth

more. Mr. Jared Sparks told me, think, that Philadelphia

would have been the capital of the United States, vice Wash

ington, if the revolutionary soldiers in arrear of pay had not

been alarming to the Legislature.

    Nothing astonishes me more in reading most books on the
United States, and hearing people talk, than to see how they

attribute to democracy and your institutions both the evil
Ifand the good which existed under the monarchy.
                                                  in
Ideference to your judgment, or that of any other in whom
I Iplace equal reliance, were to say nothing of these topics,
should at least be able in conversation to talk with more

i842. BALRUDDERY LOBSTER.                                71

effect on the United States affairs. So many people besides

ISydney Smith have said that ought to give them a book on
Iwhat saw and thought de omnibus rebus, that the presumption

of saying a little in the course of the journal on moral and
political matters seems less than it did. But, on the other

I Ihand, feel that ought to have seen schools, and attended
Ilegislative assemblies, and so forth, and that might say,
Iwhat is the truth, that avoided giving any time to collect
I Ifacts and observations on these heads, and therefore feel that

  am not entitled to speak on them. Meanwhile, shall try
my hand at the ' Journal of a Naturalist and Geologist,' and
see how it promises.

                             Believe me, ever most truly yours,

                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

To the REY. DE. FLEMING.

                                                             Kinnordy: October 17, 1842.

My dear Dr. Fleming,--We returned after a delightful

tour in the United States in August last, in nine days and a

half from Halifax, after a month's tour in Nova Scotia.
In all we were absent thirteen months, less than one of

these being spent on the ocean, nearly ten in active geological

Ifield work, and a little more than two in cities, during which
   gave by invitation some geological lectures to large and

most patient audiences.

We leave this for London on the 25th instant, but shall be
here till then, and, my father and mother desire me to say, shall

all be most happy to see you and Mrs. Fleming at Kinnordy,
Iif on such short notice you will do us the friendly act of
accepting the invitation.  shall then be able to tell you
I Ivivd voce what it would be in vain to attempt on a sheet of

paper, of what saw in the other world.
         shall also have some news to tell you of the Balruddery

Ilobster, alias cherubim.1 Suppose the ' blackberries ' which

accompany it are the said lobster's eggs ? But must not in

dulge in these matters, but pray you to come, and with my

wife's regards, believe me, ever most truly yours,

                           CHARLES LYELL.

    i This lobster was the crustacean Pterygotut, and the ' blackberries ' called
Parka are believed to be its eggs.

72        SIR CHARLES LYELL.                CHAP. xxiu.

          To PROFESSOR SEDGWICK.

          Kinnordy, Kirriemuir : October 18, 1842.

    My dear Sedgwick, --As we so rarely have the privilege

Iof seeing you now in town, as of old, shall not trust to
Imeeting you in November, though hope we may, but write

to ask some news of your proceedings and your health. We

had a very good muster of working geologists in May last,

at the anniversary of the Geological Association at Boston,

and they have many excellent men, as both the Brothers
Rogers, Hitchcock, Vanuxem, Hall, Emmons, Conrad, and
Iothers.
          have brought home three dozen boxes of speci
Imens, the fruits of nearly ten months' field work, and shall

open my budget in November, with a paper on the lake

ridges, as they are called, and the elevated beaches of the

Canadian lakes, with new facts obtained during a second

survey of the Niagara district, and bearing on the recession

of the Falls, and on the drift of the valley of the St. Law
Irence. shall afterwards have to open ground on the ter
Itiary, cretaceous, coal, and older rocks.  was very glad that

you joined my friend John Carrick Moore in Galloway, and

we heard sundry reports of certain fair ladies having re

joiced in the bad weather, which kept the philosopher in

doors. So you see how these scientific news travel across

the Atlantic. Your announcement of coal plants in the

IRothliegendes at Whitehaven interested me much, and

should like to talk to you of the zoological fossils, if any,
in the same beds. A lady sent us the important intelli

gence last week that Professor Sedgwick had found organic

remains in granite, which her reverend informant had told

her was very satisfactory, as overturning all received

geological theories respecting the antiquity of the earth.

This story has perhaps some foundation, and you have really

hit upon some novelty in the old rocks this summer ?

We are here till the 24th instant, and hope on the 28th

to be in Hart Street, at the old family mansion. Let us

hear from you there or see you. My father and other

members of the family here desire to be remembered to

i 843. FOSSIL FISH TEETH.                          73

you, and with  my wife's  kind regards, believe me, my dear
Sedgwick,
                          Ever most truly yours,
                                                 CHARLES LYELL.

     P.S. --Remember us to the Master of Trinity College

when you see him.

               To SIR PHILIP EGERTON, BART.

                                          December 21, 1842.

My dear Sir Philip,--We should have been very glad to

pay you a visit, which we have really long looked forward to

with pleasure, but must wait, and be a little stationary after

such wanderings. To have examined the fish teeth with you

Iwould have been most improving, and just what want, but
I must really work in my cabinet to subdue my great mass
of arrears. Lord Enniskillen will tell you that on Wednes

Iday last gave out nearly two hours of my American budget,
Iand return to the charge next time, but shall not open
Iupon Big Bone Lick till after you are here. send more
Ithan three hundred separate squaloids, but beg you will not
bother yourself if you find the task tedious.     should be
Imost glad if you would look at the Martha's Vineyard, marked

' M. V.,' because am clear for this formation being post-

eocene, whereas the geologists over the water have been dis

puting whether it was cretaceous or eocene. Most of the

teeth are lettered.

Lonsdale writes in better spirits, and is collecting and

observing the living polyparia.

                          Ever most truly yours,

                                   CHARLES LYELL.

                     To His WIPE.

                                                                         Bristol : August 13, 1843.

IMy dearest Mary, --My journey answered very well, as
Ihad my back to the engine, and therefore escaped the air in
my face, and the weather was delightful.       had some in

telligent companions : one of them, a Bristol solicitor, told

me that the twelve miles of rail from Bath to Bristol cost

74  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxin.

80,000?. per mile, near a million sterling. It is a fine speci

men of Brunei's stylish way of engineering --such viaducts
over the river and tunnels ! We went fifty miles an hour for

Iseveral miles, and once for two miles more than fifty. Soon

after my arrival was with Mr. Stutchbury, seeing coal
plants in the museum, then with him to Durdham Down,
where the ' Permian ' saurians 2 were found, &c., then home

by the Hotwells, Clifton. Next day with Stutchbury to
Bath on the rail, and then eight miles south to Radstock
coal-mines. Went down some hundred fathoms in an

iron bucket, and spent five and a half hours underground,

going miles in coal galleries ; much delighted, as the mines
were dry and in a good state-- upright trees, roofs full of

Iferns, &c.
         hope to meet Ramsay at Bath, and may catch your

Itrain at Bath, or more likely midway between Bath and

Bristol. am grateful to think my eyes are keeping well in
spite of fossilising.

    With love to all of you,
                               Your affectionate husband,

                                                               CHARLES LYELL.

                               To His SISTER.

                                                           Giant's Causeway : September 4, 1843.

     My dear Marianne, -- We have just returned from a walk
over the grand pavement, the effect of which was as pic
turesque as the evening sun and some white breakers

Irolling and foaming over the black rocks could make it.

Much as have been pleased with the sight, it strikes me
that there are parts of Staffa away trom Fingal's cave, and
which travellers have seldom leisure to visit, which are even
finer in precisely the same style.

     The geology of Antrim is very interesting, so many
formations, such as chalk, green sand, lias, new red, and the
coal being each represented by such distinctly characterised
and yet such thin sets of strata compared to the same groups
elsewhere, and then the grand trap or basaltic mass covering
and cutting through all. The people of this more northern

      1 These conglomerate beds and their remains are now considered at the
base of the new red sandstone.

i843- HOPEFUL VIEW OF THE IRISH.   75.

region, like the heather-covered hills, are wonderfully more
like the Scotch than those of the southern counties --less hand

some and to us less interesting. They are (I speak of the
humbler classes only) not so foreign, bat like Scotch who
ought to be more thriving, who are content to be in rags

when you perceive that their circumstances ought to make

them above it. But we have been for the last two days very

Imuch among a Catholic set, and whether these are more

degraded know not. The begging continues in spite of

Igreat poor-houses, wliich, by the way, are far better in an

architectural point of view than those in England. think
the sordid penury of the Irish which Von Raumer described

must have been exaggerated, for he had only time to take a

superficial view, as we do. All agree, however, that the

Ihabits of the people in regard to temperance have worked
wonders even since Raumer's time.  have much more

hopes of them after having seen the country. How fortunate
are we that we have not a black slave population to turn into

true and quiet subjects, instead of the quick, obliging, and

Ifine-looking natives of this green island, properly so called,

for the verdure is very remarkable ! got a new light about

repeal from Lord Rosse. The farmers in Connaught had

become so annoyed at the exactions of the priests that a

strong feeling of resistance was gaining ground, which would

soon have spread, as the same spirit was manifested else

where, at Parsonstown for instance. O'Connell was able

much more easily to get the priests to join in the repeal

agitation, in order that by that greater excitement they

might be led to forget the other grievance. This has
answered for the time, but it shows that had Government

paid the Catholic priests, as they do the Irish Presbyterians,.

the farmers would not have tolerated their Romanist church

dues, and the priests would have been forced to receive

support from the State, and would then probably have been

no longer rebellious. In short, until they are raised in the

Iscale there is no hope of their flocks improving, all which

presume Sir R. Peel and the Duke have long known, but

they would never have carried any measures. One cannot

help fearing that the anti-English spirit has sunk deep into

the hearts of the millions here, for they read nothing but

76  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                  CHAP. xxm.

O'Connell's newspapers, from which he artfully excludes, with

out appearing to them to do so, every other foreign or domestic
topic of interest except repeal and Irish grievances, a great
proportion of them now bygone. You will be glad to hear
that even if the gigantic telescope of Lord Rosse should not
succeed -- of which, however, there seems no apprehension --

the great one which we looked through has achieved grand

results, not only reducing nebulae into clusters of distinct

stars, but showing that many of the regular geometric figures

in which they presented themselves to Herschel, when viewed

with a glass of less power, disappear and become very much

like parts of the Milky Way. Lord Rosse showed me a

Imodel which he had made of one of the mountains in the

moon, which thought not so much like a volcano as one of

the largest atolls, its sides being externally so steep and

lofty and its crater sixty miles in diameter ; but you must
suppose the lagoon of enormous depth, and the ocean, of

course, to be removed. During our call on the Archbishop

of Dublin he said, among other things, that he thought that

brutes used language for communicating ideas as we do, but

never, like us, as an instrument of thought. "We were much

diverted with a story told us of one of his eccentric ways of

taking exercise. He used to go to the seashore with Dr.

Dickinson, the late Bishop of Meath, and they would go on

Ifor three hours together throwing up pebbles into the air,
each trying to hit the other's pebble.  have no doubt that

Whately was sometimes speculating on the doctrine of

chances, and calculating how many misses went to one hit ;

but his chaplains were in several cases obliged to interfere,

and succeeded in representing to him that some of his

gymnastics were not in Dublin thought quite dignified
enough in an archbishop. Our scientific meeting at Cork

went off pleasantly and very well as far as concerns the

muster of scientific men, but the money received was not
near half the usual sum, owing entirely to the gentry of the

neighbourhood and county holding off, except the Lord

Lieutenant and a few others who had originally joined the

town in inviting us. The reason of this was that the towns

people, comprising many rich merchants and most of the

tradesmen, were repealers, and the agitation having occurred

i843- WITCHES' BRIDGE AT ALLOW AY.                          77

since we were invited, the opposite parties could never in

Ireland act or pull together. In addition to this, however,

the gentry in Ireland, at least in the south, seem very much
behind those in England in interest for any scientific

matters. We are struck with the similarity of the common

flowers and plants here to those of England, Scotland, and

France. Certainly the naturalist has a great additional

pleasure in touring through Canada or the United States in
the surprising novelty of all the wild plants and animals. We

had an amusing scene in starting from Limerick, the coach

Ibeing already full, and a petitioner addressing the guard

very eagerly with, ' Will come up ? that's the proposition.*

To which the reply was, ' Where can you sit ? that's the

query.' The other saying he would go on the baggage at

the top, he was told to lie flat, or his head would be taken

off going under the arch, and by way of comfort he was
asked, when in a great fright, if his life was insured. ' No.*
'                                        '  All this passed as quick
   So  much  the  worse for your  wife
                                        !

as thought. We have seen many remarkable round towers, as

at Kildare, like the Brechin tower but taller : also many ruina
of monasteries. The school-houses, often very neat, pretty
buildings, put us in mind of the United States, and we are

told that the Catholics and Protestants get on well together
in these schools, and are each allowed their own version of

the Scriptures.

   ISince began this we have seen more of the Causeway in
Idelightful weather, but shall leave Mary to tell you of this.

With love to all at Kinnordy,

             Believe me, your affectionate brother,

                                            CHARLES LYELL.

  To JOHN CARRIOK MOORE, ESQ., CORSWALL, STRANRAER.

                                                              Kinnordy : September 17, 1843.

    My dear Moore, --We made out our tour very success
fully, seeing the Ballantrae section, and going the old road by
Alloway, so as to see the witches' bridge and the ruined church
where they danced, and Burns' monument, and the cottage
where he was born, and still just reached the five o'clock
Glasgow railway train, so that we got a good long night's

78                            SIR CHARLES LYELL.                      CHAP. XXIII.

rest before starting the next morning by six o'clock. We
found the two parcels had come safe by the ' Maid of Gallo

way,' and were already in the hotel. Had we not been free

of these incumbrances, and had not the cars ordered by you

been all ready, we could not have accomplished all this by

five o'clock at Ayr. The geology at Ballantrae 3 was quite
what you had given me to expect--a small dike of serpen-

tinous trap about one foot broad, and running magnetic N.

Iand S., being the only fact which you seem to have missed.
certainly think the red sandstone is newer, as your white

and variously coloured sandstones of Sloughnagarry are

older, than the conglomerate with fragments of graywacke.

IAs to the said conglomerate and the red sandstone, we can
say nothing more of its age.     saw ripple marks and casts

of cracks, and perhaps fucoids as you did. As to crustacea
                                 is

                                         (?)
                                                                   a
could not detect any good markings to confirm that idea.
I
But saw distinct rain drops. Study the recent ones onII

                           athe shores of Lough Ryan in all states, after short shower

and a hard one, and after hail, and when half effaced by tide,

&c. In short, that Lough a grand magazine of geological
analogies --tidal, littoral, conchological, sedimentary, &c.--

which envy you having at your door. My father saw here

a splendid meteor, and other neighbours did at the same

moment, as large as a man's head, more splendid than the

moon, on Wednesday the 6th, at quarter past eleven o'clock
                                 a

                                    it
P.M. One person thought he saw divide. The Milmans

arrived here few hours after us yesterday, all well, and in

fine weather, their three sons with them.

     My wife joins in kind remembrances to your whole party,
and we are glad to have finished our tour with the recollec

tion of so agreeable a visit.

    Pray tell Mrs. Moore they have had the good taste to put

the sculptured Tam o'Shanter and Sutor Johnnie in an apart

ment separate from the monument to Burns.

                                 Yours very sincerely,

                                        CHARLES LYELL.

                              3  On the coast of Ayrshire.

1 843.           RETURNS FROM IRELAND.           79

        To SIR PHILIP EGERTON, BART.

               IKinnordy, Kirriemuir, N.B. : September 22, 1843.

My dear Sir Philip,-- was in hopes of learning from

the Milmans, who have just left us after a visit of five days,
in what part of the world you and Lady Egerton might be

Iat present, whether to the north or south of us, but as

Icould get no intelligence shall send this to Cheshire to be

forwarded if you are in the Highlands. We are only a

week returned from Ireland, having gone from Killarney

to the Giant's Causeway after the Cork meeting, visited

Lord Rosse on the way, and seen his telescope, besides see

Iing other Irish friends. My Auvergne tour was also very
successful, and  shall be glad to talk with you on the

wonderful collection of mammalia, of one hundred and sixty

five extinct species of all periods from the eocene to the

pliocene, which the Abbe" Croizet and Bravard have disin

Iterred from the old fresh-water marks and the volcanic

alluviums, &c., of all ages. But have only time in this

letter to beg you to let me know whether you shall be

returning from the Highlands to the south before the first

Iweek of November, or going northwards from England, as

in that case should like to send you a special invitation

Ifrom my father to stay here some days on your way. The

only visit we have to pay is to Aberdeen, and might

regulate the time of that by your movements, if you would

write immediately. We are enjoying delightful summer

weather here, after having had already two summers, one in

France and one in Ireland.

                 Ever most truly yours,

                                 CHARLES LYELL.

                 To His SISTER.

                                        December 7, 1843.
        My dear Marianne,--We went yesterday to Mr. Curtis,
who named for me my i\ American insects. The fire-fly is a
ILampyris, very like the Italian one which saw in 1818 in
Ithe rice-fields near Padua.
                              am going to-day to visit poor
IMan tell, who is very ill. am getting on very steadily with

80                  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                CHAP, xxi i r.

my geological travels in North America, and am particularly
working at the fossils, which can only be done by getting
the assistance of many others in different branches. Edward

IForbes has helped me for my chalk fossils of New Jersey, and
  have packed up some twenty packages of American corals

from different rocks, and sent them off by Lonsdale's invita
tion to Falmouth. Having seen in the United States that

Ithere was no one who understood the corals, and only two men

in France, willingly let these specimens run the risk of
another 600 miles of travelling, though T wish my naturalist

Iwas nearer. To class and pack them was no small work for me

and my new aid, young Sowerby ; miss Hall 4 in a hundred

little arrangements. Three Institutions at Manchester

clubbed together, to invite me to give twelve lectures at each,

Irepeating the same. Mr. James Heywood was deputed to
negotiate with me.  told him that, had my occupations per

Imitted it, the average sum per lecture was about one-fifth of

the fee for which alone could think of lecturing anywhere,
or had done so, in the last three years. The fact is that

there, as everywhere in England, magnificent subscription*

which might have endowed lectures equal to the Lowell

Institute, have been all spent in building, and it is the same

whether 501. or 150,000Z. are subscribed in this country ;
and as in the case of the London University and King's

IfCollege here, the buildings, which cripple them with debt,
remain unfinished.  anyone should have the wisdom

of Mr. Lowell, and forbid a farthing to be spent on building,

an institution with half the funds of the K. C. or L. U.

would have the pick of all the first teachers, and leave the

rest behind.

              Believe me, your affectionate brother,

                                  CHARLES LYELL.

                   To GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

    dear      Mr.  Ticknor, --We       London : December 27, 1843.
    IMy
'Mexico' with great delight.      are reading Mr. Prescott's

                                  have not seen Milman's

     4 His clerk, who had been eighteen years with him, and who died of con
sumption the previous month.

i843- PRESCOTTS 'MEXICO.'                     81

review in the 'Quarterly,' but he has been so much over

Iworked lately with parochial and other professional duties,

by which his health has suffered, that shall be relieved

to find the review worthy of Milman and the subject;

at least the reviewer was much pleased with his task. The
parts on which Mr. Hallam, when he talked of it to me the

other day, dwelt with high commendations, were the essays

Iin the beginning, and the appendix on the Aztecs, the abori
gines, &c. Everybody seems to be reading it.  was much

pleased with the comparison between the human sacrifices of

the Spanish Inquisition and the Mexican priests, and the

justice done to Montezuma for not becoming an apostate.

I am very much obliged to you for your information, and that
Isent by Mr. Sparks, and had not been very busy in pre

Iparing for the Geological Society papers on the plumbago of

Worcester and the green sand of New Jersey, should have

digested the matter you sent me, and read up to it by aid of

your references. It strikes me that it may do good to

remind our ultras here (who could forgive the Americans

more easily for dispensing with a King than for doing with

out a church establishment) that in the monarchical times
of the States all sects were, as now, on an equality.

   If I can state this broadly it would astonish many. It
Iwas new to me, and people are amazed when tell them that

now, in Nova Scotia, all sects are equal by the charter.

What struck me was the advantage in a country open to

colonisation of finding no other sect dominant, and one's

own politically and socially inferior.

    It is not ungenteel to be a Baptist or Unitarian. One may

know that the orthodox of other creeds believe that one has

no hope of salvation in the next world, but one is not irritated

by the thought of being despised and thought to hold a low

position in this. But was there not once in some part of
New England a general provision, afterwards abandoned, for

all religious sects, a tax levied equally from all, and paid, as in

France, to different religious communities, according to their

numbers ? Was there nothing of this kind anywhere in the

United States ? It is my beau ideal of a mezzo termine between

Ithe Establishment and the voluntary system, and believe
Iwe have lately begun this in Australia, but must inquire.

VOL. H.  o

82                 SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. XXIII.

More than half a million have lately seceded in Scotland from
the Establishment, and as it is very possible that the leaders
of the Catholics and Protestant dissenters may in some
future election bury their religious animosities, and make

common cause, the time may be nearer than some think when

Iwe shall have all sects endowed, which trust will happen,
Iinstead of none being so. But, at all events, abhor the

political disaffection created in Ireland, Scotland, and

England by the exclusive privileges of Church of England

ascendency.

   IIt is really the power which is oppressive here, and not

the monarchy, nor the aristocracy. Perhaps feel it too
sensitively as a scientific man, since our Puseyites have ex
cluded physical science from Oxford. They are wise in then-
generation. The abject deference to authority advocated

conscientiously by them can never survive a sound philoso

phical education.

                   Ever most faithfully yours,
                                               CHARLES LYELL.

i844. SECOND VISIT TO THE UNITED STATES.  83

                         CHAPTER XXIV.

                      JANUARY, 1844 -- DECEMBER, 1846.

  LETTER TO ME. TICKNOR ON AMERICA -- FOSSIL BOTANY-- GOES WITH
       FARADAY ON A COMMISSION OF INQUIRY ON ACCIDENTS IN THE COL
      LIERIES -- BLANCO WHITE'S BIOGRAPHY -- NEWFOUNDLAND -- ICEBERG --
        POLITICS IN MAINE -- VEGETATION IN GEORGIA-- SLAVERY -- CHEIRO-
       THEHIUM-- ICEBERGS-- LETTER TO EDWARD FORBES, AND REPLY-- DINNER
        AT MILMAN'S-- VISIT TO BOWOOD.

      [In the autumn of 1844, a disastrous explosion took place at
 Haswell Colliery, Durham ; on which the Government instituted an
 inquiry, and at the request of Sir Robert Peel, Mr. Lyell and Mr.
 Faraday went as Commissioners, and prepared a report on the causes
 of the accident.

      He attended the British Association at York this year, and in
 1 845 he published his ' Travels in North America, with Geological
 Observations.' In September he returned to the United States, and
 had a still more extensive tour in the countries mentioned afterwards
 in his ' Second Visit,' some of the geological fruits of which have also
 appeared in separate scientific memoirs. He was nine months ab
sent from England, returning in June, 1846. He attended the British
 Association at Southampton, and in September moved to 1 1 Harley
 Street, after spending fourteen happy years in Hart Street, Blooms-
bury, but his collections demanded more space.

      His travels in 1847 were confined to England and Scotland, and
he attended the British Association at Oxford.

     In 1848 he visited Southampton and other places in England, and

went to Scotland. Prom Kinnordy he rode over the hills by Clova
.and Loch-na-gar to Balmoral, when he had the honour of being

                by the Queen, in September.]

                                                               o2

84  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                        CHAK xxiv.

                     CORRESPONDENCE.

    To GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

                          16 Hart Street, Bloomsbury, London : January 7, 1844.

    IMy dear Mr. Ticknor, -- found your letter on our return
Ifrom Cornwall. Your information respecting the slaves, and
your speculations, were most interesting to me.  had

arrived at the notion, from reading Gurney's book on the

West Indies, that in the most Southern states, and wherever

rice and sugar are cultivated, the emancipated negro might

stand the competition of the white labourer.

    But in all the higher parts, and many of the low grounds

Iof Virginia, Maryland, the Carolinas, and Georgia which we

saw, should expect the free black to give place, like the
Indian, before the white immigrant.

   IYou mention Massachusetts having refused magistrates

and use of prisons to those who followed runaway slaves.
should have thought it good policy to give some indemnifica

tion in those cases, not the whole value perhaps, and to aim

always at sharing the sacrifice required by humanity with

the planters, and ultimately forcing the Central Government

to incur a debt to set free one state and then another. Mr.

Everett told me that black men did vote for the governor of

Massachusetts. De Tocqueville says that the free blacks

Ifdo not dare to vote. He also says that they die out much
faster than slaves.  so, must it not be for want of an

Iadequate poor-law system ?
         thank you much for the admirable pamphlet ' The

IState Debts,' which it is painful to read, and reminds me of

the state of indignation which was in at Naples, when
associating with a set of proscribed literary and scientific
men, who seemed to me very moderate in their political
opinions, but who were so far in advance of their own

countrymen and government as to be martyrs to their

patriotism.
     There was an absolute power over which they had no

control, and which had no sympathies in common with them.

1844. UNITED STATES POLITICS.             85

I should do injustice no doubt to the legislature at Harrisburg

Iwere I to compare them to the corrupt government of Naples ;

still could not help feeling that the men of finer intellects
in Philadelphia were under the control of men of coarser

clay, delegates of the Pennsylvanian rural population. On
Ithem cannot help fearing that the manly and spirited and
Itouching appeal of your friend will be thrown away, yet
I Ihope most sincerely that am mistaken.
                                          had an argu

Iment the other day with one of Lord Ashburton's suite (in

1842) about the cause of repudiation, attributing it to the
ignorance of the lowest and most numerous class of voters,

especially those newly arrived, or who do not advance with

the rest, because of a different language, &c., he maintain
ing that it was simply the sharing of the shame among so

many which alone prevents communities from dishonesty,

and which no ministry or moderate-sized constituency could
endure or brave. Surely it is not a question whether popular

governments can be virtuous and honourable, but whether

the democratic principle has not been carried out so far as to

subject the educated to the uneducated, those who have in

dependence of fortune and leisure to those who have neither.

Is it Utopian to try to raise the franchise and exclude those

not born in the United States ? When were settlers of five

years' standing first admitted to vote? When that passed, they
should all have been received into colleges and educated for

the first five years, and not allowed to clear the forest, &c.,
till afterwards.

   As an admirer and well-wisher of the United States I

look upon this particular breach of faith, with all the loss and
misery occasioned by it on both sides of the water, as a

trifling matter compared to the symptoms of some inherent

Ifdisorder in the general constitution of the body politic. the

opinion of the more highly-educated, wealthier, and middle

classes can have so little control, or act so tardidly on the

vast majority below, an impolitic or absurd war, or some

measure as serious as the disunion of the States, or any

other mischief, might as readily occur, in direct opposition

to the almost unanimous sense of those who, for the good of

I Ithe whole, ought to govern.

      am getting as prosy as if were upon our Anti-Corn

86       SIR CHARLES LYELL.       CHAP. xxiv.

Ilaw League, or the Irish state trials. But hope you will in

dulge me with a like ' expectoration,' as a German scholar
said to our great botanist Robert Brown, meaning that he

should unbosom himself.
                                  Ever most sincerely yours,

                                                         CHARLES LYELL.

         To GEOEGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

                 London : April 2, 1844.

    My dear Mr. Ticknor, -- Have you seen Godley's book?

He agrees so entirely with the opinions we formed on almost

Iall points when his Catholic Church notions do not interfere,

that am much pleased with the work. It is a great con

trast in its tone of feeling to the ordinary English portraits

of America and the Americans, and even his Puseyism will

be a bait to precisely that class of readers who from their

anti-democratic, high church principles, are the most pre

Ijudiced against the United States.
        have heard some of this school say of late that there

is one and one only redeeming point about the United States
-- the recent progress of the Episcopal Church. How far is

it true that the German professorial system is almost uni

Iversal instead of our tutorial system, which, for my part,
think a very bad one in the universities, as it does not inspire

Ithe pupils nor the teacher with a love of what they learn or
teach ?  hope it is true that the physical sciences have as

large a share of attention in the United States colleges and

schools as this thorough Oxonian complains of their en

joying. He says that the Americans will admit any sect to

be Christian and Protestant which receives the Christian

scriptures, and any doctrinal scheme which it thinks may be
deduced therefrom, so long as it allows all others to be

equally right who do the same ; also, that the American

mind has a natural repugnance to anything which affects an

exclusive or dogmatic character. This is his heaviest charge
I Iagainst you.
         wish felt as sure as he does of its truth.
IOne great evil which complain of in our system of educa
tion, both in schools and colleges, is the monopoly of all pro

fessorial and tutorial places, masterships and usherships in.

i844- ON TEACHING IN UNIVERSITIES.                      87

schools, &c., by the clergy. Their Catholic propensities have

led them to seize upon professorships of astronomy (Armagh),

geology (Cambridge and Oxford), botany (Cambridge), mine

ralogy (Oxford and Cambridge), natural philosophy (King's

ICollege, London), engineering (ditto), political economy

(ditto, Prof. Jones), and could give you a long list of others.

In divinity, church history, Hebrew, and many others we would

not grudge them exclusive possession, but the evil now is,

that they not only regard the sciences they teach as subor

dinate to professional duties, but are liable, if eminent in

science, to be rewarded by church preferment, and immedi
Iately stopped in one career of usefulness.
                                             was told of a
Icollege in Albany, think, newly established on Oxford prin

ciples, in which all the teachers seem to be Episcopalian

divines, and no physical science or natural history to be

taught. We are struck with the fact that amongst the
many families we visited at Boston, New York, Philadelphia,
and other places in south and west, altogether more than a

hundred, not one was residing in a boarding-house, and yet

this is represented as the American mode of living.

Ever most truly yours,

                                        CHARLES LYELL.

To GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

                          16 Hart Street, Bloomsbury, London : June 12, 1844.

IMy dear Mr. Ticknor, -- have two of your letters before

me unanswered, and we are just stepping into a steamer,

Iwhich in forty hours is to carry us nearly five hundred miles

northward, so must thank you first for what you told me

of your universities and toleration, on the excess of which
IMr. Godley had been so eloquent.
                                   was very glad to see by
Iyour letter to your French friend, which read and for

Iwarded immediately, that you had such hopes of the country,

about which am sufficiently sanguine myself, if time be
allowed. For what is fifty years in the history of a nation, or

Ifany great experiment in politics, and the art of governing
men under entirely new circumstances ?  the institutions

Iare in arrear of the point of civilisation, morals, and know

ledge to which the people have advanced, doubt not that

88         SIR CHARLES I. YELL.    CHAP. xxiv.

they will rally and put things right ; but as it is a costly

machinery which requires such a stir as you are now making,

Iin order to remedy abuses, hope some improvements will be

Imade to cheapen and simplify it, all which will come, and
hope in our time. Your public men ought to be more

upright and independent than ours, because, owing to the

wider distribution of the means of living, and of education

Ifand other causes, people whom they govern are as a whole
superior.  the constituencies or voters as a whole are not

better than ours, this must be and will be in time improved,

Ifirst by excluding foreigners, and then by a property test.

cannot imagine that universal suffrage can ever be good for

any community, and where it is so easy to acquire some pro

perty, and implies such a want of industry to be penniless,
it must be still less unjust than here to exclude all who are

not tolerably well off. As the suffrage has undergone so

many modifications, surely the idea of restricting it within

less wide bounds is not Utopian.

           Ever most truly yours,

                                  CHARLES LYELL.

                           To CHARLES BUNBURY, ESQ.

                                                                                                                                   1844.

   IMy dear Bunbury, -- was very glad to hear from you,
Ithough have not time to say half the things which your

letter has set me thinking upon. When my friend Babbage
heard you were upon fossil plants, he said it was a good

Ithing, as in such cases ' two and two made more than four,'

and hope together we shall strike out some improved view
of the carboniferous era so far as relates to its chief feature,

the flora of its strata. The identity of the Pteris aquilina
with some impressions of coal plants so far as leaves are

concerned was new to me, though to a superficial eye the
resemblance is striking. May we be led by this to doubt

whether the European and American coal-ferns, which seem

Iequally identical, may really have been distinct in species ?

think not. Some of the genera of shells and corals of the
carboniferous period are the same as living ones, but not the
species in any instance. The Virginian morasses allow,
under a hot summer sun, great accumulations of black vege

i&44-       GOES TO HASWELL COLLIERY.                89

table matter, nearly like peat, and which might make coal.
The shade of Cupreesus distichi, Thuya, and water-oaks, &c.,
shut out the sun, and ferns and mosses grew in the damp air

beneath, while the heat causes evaporation, and evaporation

I«old. One swamp is forty miles long by twenty, which
Isaw. Thousands of prostrate trees in the peat. hold Ad.

Brongniart's atmosphere of carbonic acid in the coal period to

be apocryphal, and if you can relieve us from intense heat,

so much the better. The corals and shells of the then exist
ing seas in northern latitudes show a warm state of things
far from the line.

                   Believe me, ever affectionately yours,
                                                               CHARLES LYELL.

            To CHARLES BABBAGE, ESQ.

                                          October 7, 1844.

My dear Babbage, --Mr. Phillipps called here to-day, and

told me he had felt at liberty to lay your letter before Sir
Robert Peel, Sir James Graham not having come up ; and

that Sir Robert had asked him, Mr. P., to go and ask

Ime if would go down with some chemist, Faraday, if pos
I I Isible.
            told him that thought should not carry down

the sort of knowledge most appropriate ; that a lawyer, or one

like you, of general scientific knowledge, and special in

mechanical affairs, and to whom he, P., had first applied,

would be better. He replied that Sir R., having seen me

mentioned in your letter as being in town, and thinking that

a geologist who had had to do with coal-mines would, com

I Ibined with a chemist, do best for them, had asked him to
invite me.  said was very busy with my American book.
IHe, P., said ' it would be fully as inconvenient or worse for
Mr. Babbage just now, as he assured me.'  said, ' A coal-
viewer and Faraday would do better.' He replied, ' No ; the

Government will empower you in your credentials to employ

any coal surveyor you like, but they want scientific men
Iknown in your and Mr. Faraday's line to be there.'
                                                     accor
Idingly agreed, and Faraday has done so too, as hear from
IPhillipps since.
                   observe that in all the Parliamentary
reports of ' children in collieries,' ' accidents in collieries,' &c.,

90               SIR CHARLES LYELL.                                                                                  CHAP. xxiv.

1835 and 1841, the geology of the district and position of

the coal seams is laid down with minuteness, maps and
Isections.
              therefore perceive that there is a geological side
I Ito the commission, and if get knowledge or credit have

to thank your letter for and only regret we do not go
           I
                                       it,

                                                 I if
together.     hope still to be back so as to see you, dis

engaged, with Sir David Brewster on Sunday evening next,

when, at all events, my wife will be at home.                                                                           hope

Phillipps will write to you, as he said he should, about our

long conference, and acknowledgments for your prompt aid

to the Government.

                              Sincerely yours,
                                          CHARLES LYELL.

                 To SIR PHILIP EGERTON.

                    16 Hart Street, Bloomsbury October 22, 1844.
    I
             II

                       I
                                                                                                                  :
     My dear Sir Philip, -- should have answered your kind

letter sooner if had not been veiy unexpectedly, and just

when thought was settled in for the winter, and at my
American book, induced by a direct invitation from Sir R.

Peel to go with Faraday and attend the Has well inquest,

and see into the cause of the accident and suggest a remedy

in future. We have only just drawn up our report to Sir J.

Graham, in which the geology  a is  small part, the chemistry
                                 a
a large, and        mistake not, most valuable one, practi
II
cally speaking. is
          iIf
    am very much obliged to you for offering to compare

the fish, and will send them soon, and wish my engagements

would have allowed of our accompanying them, but regret
                                                                                                                     I

to say this not the case.

    shall write again soon, when send the fish, and reply
                              I

to you a little more fully.

                             Ever most truly yours,
                                                 CHARLES LYELL.

i845.  AGASSTZ.                                                      91

       To GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

                      I London : March 1, 1845.

My dear Mr. Ticknor, -- am trying to negotiate with

Mr. Lowell for a course of lectures from the celebrated

Agassiz, the ichthyologist and Swiss naturalist and writer on

glaciers, for 1845-46, but, perhaps, all are filled up. Ch.

Buonaparte, Prince of Canino, has offered to take him to the
IUnited States, as he visits it with his son this year.
                                                          am
Isure Mr. Lowell will do it if he can, as have answered for

his English being passable. You will be much pleased with
Agassiz, and his visit will be most useful, as it always is to

us when he comes here. The British Association has thrice

voted him sums of money to describe our fossils.

The marriage of Ward, the Oxford Puseyite martyr, is

delightful, as illustrating their Romanist zeal for the celibacy

of the clergy. Milman wonders if he will sign the marriage

articles, as well as the thirty-nine, in a ' non-natural ' sense,

and has always maintained that the ladies and the rich

endowments of the Anglican Church will keep the majority

from Rome. He was joking in this way with an intimate

Puseyite friend, a very thin man, Mr. Manning, the other
day, and said how fortunate it was there were so many sleek

incumbents of livings, and looking at Manning, he said :

       Yon Cassius has a lean and hungry look,
       He thinks too much-- such men are dangerous.

       Believe me, ever most truly yours,
                                                     CHARLES LYELL.

       To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

                                                          Kinnordy : July 27, 1845.

IMy dear Horner, -- was vexed to hear you had so much
Iwork thrown on you at the Geological Society.       regret it
Ithe more as am much struck with the value of the first and

second numbers of the Journal, and wish it was generally

Iknown how much we owe them to you. But next year the
machine will work better.  forgot to thank you for having

92  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                               CHAP. xxiv.

I Isent the ' Spectator,' the first critique         mean to
                                              saw.1

send them to Mr. Ticknor, or take them to him, because
Ithey all show how willingly our press welcomes anything

favourable to the United States, though suppose some of
the bitter anti- American magazines will act otherwise.

     Blanco White's book keeps up its interest to me, and
certainly it should teach every scientific man to modify his

opinions, and never to contend for doctrines, because he may

have once favoured them, as soon as new discoveries, facts,

and reasonings, require their modification or abandonment.

The little suffering or annoyance that he, or his self-love,

have to endure, is so insignificant in amount in comparison

to the penalty which the theological professor must pay for

relinquishing a little of any one of the numerous dogmas or

forms of interpreting scripture, which he has pledged himself

to adopt for life, that he must feel ashamed if he hesitates

for a moment to recant, after reading the confessions of

ISaint Blanco the Martyr. For the sake of this moral, which
hope many a philosopher will draw from
    I                                                am glad that
                  I iIt,
all his sufferings are given in full length.

    Dr. Falconer showed me the Dinotherium tooth from

Perrin Island, just like one saw from the marine faluns of
Touraine, and confirming me in the view had previously

expressed and printed in the Asiatic Society's proceedings,

that the formation was Miocene.

    Yours affectionately,

                                              CHARLES LYELL.

                           To CHARLES BUNBURY, ESQ.

                                                                 Kinnordy July 28, 1845.

     My dear Bunbury,-- have been re-reading your letter to
me on fossil botany with no small interest, as well as your
excellent abstracts of Ad. Brongniart on Sigillaria, Stigmaria,
&c. Now, pray give me the benefit of your last ideas on the
climate cf the carboniferous period, as deduced from the
plants, and refer to the last edition of my Principles about
the minimum of light, and criticise this. The near resem

                                       On his travels in North America.
    i

         I

                                                        '

                                                                                      :

                                                                       '

i845-                 FOSSIL BOTANY.                  93

blance of the pteroid ferns is, as you say, a warning not to

assume extraordinary heat, and you ask if in old formations

we find some genera of animals very like living ones, mixed

with very anomalous and unknown forms. Certainly we do.

In regard to shells we have carboniferous Orthocerata, with

Inncula and many other shells very like living ones, and
might accumulate cases in other classes, so here the flora

and fauna yield analogous results. In one letter you allude

to the idea of a continuation of Lindley and Button's ' Fossil
Flora,' but probably you will think better of the plan, and

either give us first a carboniferous fossil flora, to be followed,

as circumstances may lead you, by other floras, or some other

independent work. The fact is, that the science will have

got so far beyond the point where Lindley left off, that even

in treating to an English reader of the very species and

genera which Lindley spoke of, you would be able to write

articles sufficiently original, and if you give your time gratis,

and do not make money, or very little by such a work, you

would do wrong, both for your own sake and that of science,

not to have a work quite distinct from any other, and with

out any associate, for there is great disadvantage in joint

authorships, partly because no one knows who is answerable.

To make your knowledge useful your name must acquire

authority, so that independently of laudable ambition, you

should take care to get known by the title of the book.
Probably a ' British Carboniferous Flora,' like Owen's ' Mam

malia,' would sell best, and whatever foreign knowledge you

obtained of American, or other carboniferous plants, would
Istill tell upon it.
                      would not have you delay more than a.
Iyear from this time in organising some plan.
                                                     persuaded

Owen to change from monthly to every two months, which

he rejoices in, but the frequent coming out of new parts

keeps the public interest alive, and leave of absence for a

foreign tour can be obtained by getting a few parts ahead.

       With love to all, ever affectionately yours,

                                      CHARLES LYELL.

94            S7R CHARLES LYELL.                  CHAP. xxiv.

              To GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

                     Kinnordy, Kirriemuir, N.B. : August, 1845.
    IMy dear Mr. Ticknor, -- have been finishing the auto
Ibiography of St. Blanco the Martyr.
                                      wish he had said

more about Ferdinand and Isabella. You remember my
argument with you, that our friend (Prescott) would have
done well if he had pointed the moral differently, or more

strongly, to show how the result of the energy and talents
of his heroine, considered as a monarch, was to place the

force of an established monarchy and a great standing army
at the command of that new church inquisition, which was

to crush the free spirit both in political and ecclesiastical

matters of Aragon. In short, her superstition, combined

with her virtues, was laying the foundation of the future

degradation of her country. The historian might have liked

the woman more, for trusting with so much faith to her

father confessor, and yet dwelt with pain on the degree in
which it unfitted her most fatally to be the founder of the

I Ipolitical constitution of a great country.
        told you what had heard of certain letters in Blanco
IWhite's biography.
                     admired those of Channing very much ;

and that concluding passage, vol. iii., p. 312, where he com

pares the undertone of truth, in spite of the occasional false

ness of particular views, to that general solemn roar of the

sea which is quite distinct from the dashing of the separate
waves, is as just and well applied as it is poetic. Mr. Norton's

letters also are excellent, and the whole work is painfully

interesting.

    Remember me most kindly to Mrs. Ticknor and your

daughters.

              Believe me, ever most truly yours,

                     CHARLES LYELL.

                               To His SISTER.

                               Off Trepassey Bay, Newfoundland : September 15, 1845.

    My dear Marianne,--Here we are within three and a
half miles of the coast of Newfoundland, which, although it
lies in a direct line to Halifax from Cape Clear, we did not

1 845-  ICEBERGS.  95

approach in the ' Acadia ' in 1 841. The first three days after
taking leave of Mr. Horner at Liverpool, from which we
sailed on September 4, we had delightful weather and fair
wind, making, though heavy with our full freight of coal, 220

Ito 240 miles a day. Then came our adverse winds and two

regular equinoctial gales, which am glad now they are over

to have seen, but they made us both ill. Yet I have had

much pleasant and instructive conversation with Mr. Everett,

also with Mr. Ward, the American agent of the Barings'
house in Boston, well acquainted with all United States

affairs. The first equinoctial lasted twelve hours, the second

on the 14th, when we were nearing the Great Bank, lasted

twenty-three hours, and part of the time a perfect hurricane.
But the engineer never missed a stroke, and they have a
very full and well-disciplined crew.

     When we were near the Great Bank, and the day before
our grand gale, we saw an iceberg 200 feet high eight

miles south of us. It was too far off to be a distinct object

to my eye, though white and visible with a glass. They are
very rare this month. This was the day before our heavy
squall, and when the wind struck us in the night we thought

we were running against an iceberg.
                             Your affectionate brother,

                                                               CHARLES LYELL.

                               To His SISTER.

                                                Portland, Maine, U.S.A. : September 27, 1845.

    My dear Marianne, --We have just returned from a visit
to two of the most eminent medical men of this town, the
largest in Maine, 15,000 inhabitants. Dr. Mighels showed
us a fine collection of recent American shells, and some

Ifossils, from a formation which interests me, as being a con

tinuation of that of which have spoken so much in my
travels in Canada, which appears here under some new

Iaspects. It is the old Uddevalla affair, with recent Arctic

shells ; but was pleased at recognising among the novelties
the tusk of a walrus, which my discovery of one in Martha's
Vineyard, figured in my book, enabled me to make out. We

little dreamt when we left Boston that we should go full

96  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                               CHAP. xxiv.

200 miles in a north-easterly direction to Augusta, in Maine,,
Ito which was taken by Squire Allen, as our driver termed
Ithe lawyer who was our host.
                               went to the State house, a

Ihandsome building of granite, and saw their collection, made
during the geological survey.  was introduced to the
Governor of the State, and when you think of ' those wild

people of Maine,' of whom Lord Palmerston spoke in those

terms during the border feud (an expressionthey will never
forget), and learn that this chief magistrate, a Unitarian, has

been re-elected several successive years by the democratic

Iparty, you might imagine that no great satisfaction was to be

derived from the interview ; but found him a quiet, sensible,

well-mannered man, who told me he was very desirous

to resume the geological survey, which the legislature had

suspended from economical grounds, and he drew from me

all the utilitarian arguments he could which my travels in

the States could furnish, in enabling him to talk over the

party who might be averse to the outlay. He was once a

Senator at Washington. One of their late governors was a

Roman Catholic,--a proof that these New Englanders do>

not mix up religion with their political divisions.

    We have now been in all the six New England states.

The constitution of Maine is singularly democratic, mem

bers of both houses being elected by universal suffrage, and

re-elected annually, and precisely the same qualifications in

both for the electors and the elected. The judges, however,

Iare appointed by the governor and council ; the extreme in
some states is where they are elective.  asked Mr. Allen

whether Mr. Gardiner (a rich relation, and one of the most
cultivated men in the country, who lives in a handsome house

in a park in the English style) had ever been in the legis
lature or political life. He answered, ' Oh, no ; his landed

property is much too large : besides that, he derives much
Iwealth from other sources.'
                               remarked that in Massa
Ichusetts had understood that the reason the electors

objected to rich men was that they were inaccessible to

them, too much above them, could not be troubled to listen
to all their wants. He answered that this motive really
operated strongly, for in regard to envy and jealousy, they

often felt that as keenly or more so, when they made one of

1845- POLITICS IN MAINE.  97

their equals their representative. Lately, in choosing

railway directors at Portland, they objected to the first

list because they were too rich and aristocratic, and the

numerous petty shareholders wanted to confer with them
on equal and familiar terms. Mr. Allen admits that the ex

tent to which the democratic spirit throughout the United

States succeeds in making wealth a disqualification for

political influence is annoying to many of the richer

citizens, but he says that their rights and property are per

fectly safe, and all the interests in the country were never so

flourishing as at this moment. After all, I suspect that

property, especially land, governs here as elsewhere, but

ninety-nine hundredths of the land is divided into a countless

number of small fractions, and the large proprietors, who

own the remaining hundredth, may very naturally go for no

thing in the balance. That the acquisition of large estates

and fortunes has had the same charm as with us, appears

from the eagerness with which they toil to obtain them. A

grand railway is planned from this town (Portland) to Mon
treal, and they hope to get the English steamers to land

here, where there is a very fine harbour, and will shorten

the road to the British provinces very much. It would be

natural, too, that the English mail and passengers should

land here, and go 110 miles by railroad to Boston by a rail

which carried us at the rate of thirty miles an hour, instead

of having so much more sea. All the money, more than

two millions sterling, is subscribed, and the road surveyed

and the Acts passed both in Canada and Maine. The

Kennebec is navigable for some forty miles from its mouth

to Augnsta, to which the tide goes up. At Bath we saw

numerous ships building, destined to carry cotton from the

Southern States to England. Streets of new houses rising

there, as at Gardiner, Hallowell, and Augusta. New large

cotton factories with steam-mills in progress at all these

places, new saw-mills for the timber which is floated down

the river in rafts, three or four huge steamboats carrying

300 to 400 passengers each going up and down, brigs and

schooners laden with hay for Alabama and Louisiana, that

the horses in New Orleans and Mobile may enjoy the sweet
herbage of Maine, so much better for them than the rank
VOL. II.
          H

98  SIR CHARLES LYELL.       CHAP. xxiv.

grass of the rich soil of the western prairies. They are to
return with cotton in exchange for the hay. What an

advantage to have all this free trade between such distant
regions in the same country ! On our way here we passed

the Wenham Pond, or rather lake, for it is nine miles

round, with its pure sandy bottom and fed by clear springs

Iwhich when frozen over in winter yields the ice sent to

London. And now, dearest Marny, must finish, and before

Istarting for the White Mountains, which they say are already

tipped with snow, will put this into the post at once,
though my tale is half told, especially our Portsmouth visit
to Mr. Hayes, who drove me in a gig through some green
lanes in a delightful forest where the Coleas were swarming.
Under the trees a kind of gale smelling like our bog myrtle

(Myrica cerifera) was abundant, and a beautiful Gerrardia

Iquite new to me. We collected fossils in this wood. But

must end, with our love to all, and hopes to receive good

news at Albany.
                       Ever your affectionate brother,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

    To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

                                    Hopetown, near Darien, Georgia: January 9, 1846.

    IMy dear Horner, -- have been visiting the site of three

IMegatheriums near Savannah, and the places where four or
five others, some entire skeletons, were dug up here.  can

prove them by their position relatively to beds of marine

shells, to be a shade more modern than the elephant and

rhinoceros of the valley of the Thames. They co-existed

here with our Elephas primigenius, the American Mastodon,

&c. The modern or Post Pliocene series of changes before

Iand after the Megatherium in this low country are very

interesting. Tell Darwin have quite a counterpart to his

Patagonian steps, or successive cliffs cut out of the Tertiary.
The botany here, in spite of the season, which is now free

at last from frost, and sunshiny, is very striking. The
three palmettos -- Chamcerops one of them --a tree actually

forty feet high at Savannah, and having all the aspect of a
palm tree --are very abundant. The tall cabbage palm in

i846. VEGETATION IN GEORGIA.  99

the seaboard islands, requiring the salt sea-air, the saw

palmetto abounding under the long-leaved pines, and blue

palmetto in the clay swamps. There is a common bay that

grows very high, Laurus Caroliniensis, with large leaves,

having the odour of our bog myrtle. Magnolias in abun

dance, and three kinds of holly with red berries. Nothing

has pleased me more than to witness the improvement that

is going on in the condition and education of the slaves,

both in the rice plantations and in the small farms, Sunday

Schools being general, oral instruction, though reading

feared, lest they get hold of exciting pamphlets. Many,

Ihowever, do learn to read, and receive presents of Bibles, &u.,
from their masters.  have seen a large steam engine

which has been entirely trusted for fifteen years to a

thorough black ; all the carpenters here, blacksmiths, &c.,
are Africans or mulattos. Their masters talk to them as

much as we should to Irish labourers, and they of the

new generation of blacks calling themselves country born,

feel and talk of their superiority to the preceding genera

tion their parents, whom they style Africanians, as the
3'oung Irish educated in the schools at Boston feel towards

their unlettered emigrant sires. Their labour is calcu

lated for eight hours in all the rice, cotton, and sugar
plantations about here. They often finish it in seven or

less, and it is frequently all over by two o'clock, or twelve or

even eleven in the day, after which they usually take some
hours' sleep, because it is their pleasure to sit up half the

Inight, gossiping, singing, or listening to some favourite black
Baptist preacher.    am convinced that people are too apt

to forget the very low platform of civilisation from which

the African starts. One-fourth of the five hundred negroes
now collected round this house were born in Africa, and to

bring them up, or elevate them to the grade of the lowest
Irish, is a step far beyond turning the said Irish into the

Iaverage American labourer's standard. When see how
Imuch has been done in so short a time begin to be more

hopeful than in my last tour, for unless the fanatical party
of the North force on a collision, the next generation will be

just as much beyond the blacks we see as they are above

the Africans, and the treatment of them ia necessarily re^ju

                     B2

100  SIR CHARLES LYELL.               CHAP. xxiv.

lated by the position and intellectual and moral condition

Ito which they have attained. It is too large a subject to

enter now upon, but am glad to find in the South, slave

holders who will speak out upon all the worst evils of the
system and who are convinced that it must wear out, though

it would have done so much faster if the course of improve

ment had not been arrested by interference and insults

which have hurt the temper of many Southerners. Were it

not for this unfortunate question, the free-trade feelings

of these Southern States would be so strong towards Eng

land, that a war would be impossible. They have no love

for the Northern ultra democracy, to which they ally them

selves merely for protection against an apprehended inter

ference for some scheme of speedy emancipation for which

the blacks are not prepared ; because the race cannot yet

be reckoned upon for habits of continuous labour, which

every savage, and his immediate descendants, has so great a

repugnance to. The Northerners would not believe how

attached many families here are to their negroes, and how

Iit prevents them selling estates, when to do so would be
both for their interests and tastes.  have looked into the

statistics of crimes and punishments on this estate for

thirty years, and wish that an average English parish could

return as favourable results. Besides being clothed and

very well fed, they are by nature most peaceful, so that they
hardly ever fight, and the contrast of some Irish labourers

who came here to dig a canal (to which, by the way, we owe
the discovery of the Megatherium), would really be laughable

if it were not such a serious evil. Mr. Hamilton Couper has
written for the 'Geological Journal' from the beginning, and

will be a subscriber for life. Others here will gradually
come in, but it must be the work of time.

     Believe me, my dear Horner, with love to all, ever your

affectionate son-in-law,

                                      CHARLES LYELL.

1 845.                SLAVERY.                             101

                      To His FATHER.

                                                            New Orleans : February 25, 1816.

IMy dear Father, -- have just been sending off a long

letter, or paper, on the geology of Alabama, to the President,

to read to the Geological Society.

   I had to rough it a good deal in Alabama, but was well
Irewarded, both by the Coal-region and the Tertiary.
Inow entering upon a new field, the great v.illey.         am

                                                           find

everywhere much encouragement in the way of fellow-

labourers, most of whom have either been educated in the

more northern universities, or have migrated from the New

Et gland States on account of weak lungs. The unsettled

migratory disposition of the inhabitants of a new country is

quite curious. You meet with men, who with their wives
have lived twenty years on one farm -- improved it, grown
rich on
         ' it,
                        it

                              I
                                            I
             created  out of the wilderness, men without

Ifchildren, who are going to Texas. They have never gone
first to see the promised land.            you enquire where shall

you settle in that vast country, they reply, shall go with

my wife and negroes to Houston or Nachitochus, and then

look out. Who never is, but always to be blest,' should be

Ifthe motto of such landowners.
                                 have seen nothing to alter

my views of the condition of the slaves.       emancipated,

they will suffer very much more than they will gain. They

have separate houses, give parties, at which turkeys and all

sorts of cakes are served up. They marry far more than our
servants --eat pork -- the women exempted from work a full

month after childbirth, corporal punishment excessively

rare they do so much less bodily work than the whites in
the North, that the Southern planters will not believe in the
;

                                       it
stories of the former. The other day an Alabama brick

layer returned from a New England apprenticeship and re

ported at Tuscaloosa that he had earned two and a half dollars

a, day by laying 3,000 bricks daily. As the strongest negroes

are only required to lay 1,000, appeared to the planter

incredible.

             Ever, in haste, your affectionate son,

                                           CHARLES LYELL.

102      SIR CHARLES LYELL.       CHAP. xxiv.

         To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

         Philadelphia : April 27, 1846.

     My dear Horner,--The news which we received yesterday

Ihave given us so much grief on dear Harry's 2 account, and
   feel so miserably our distance from him (which would be
as great, however, if we were in Europe instead of here), that
I have had great difficulty to-day to fix my thoughts on any
Ithing.
         had some thoughts before my arrival here, to draw
Iup a paper on what learnt and observed of the important

geological question respecting the proofs alleged to have

been found of the existence of mammalia, birds, and rep

Itiles in the Pennsylvanian Coal Field. But cannot do this
Inow, and until have in town the slabs of sandstone which

are on their way, and have had more time to make sections

I Iand maps, cannot do the subject justice. Meanwhile,
Ishall not be sorry to give the Geological Society the news in

any way you please. In a few words, have satisfied myself

that Dr. King is right in believing that he has discovered in

the middle of the coal formation, the foot tracks of a large

reptilian quadruped or animal allied to the Cheirotherium.

These occur in one locality, and no others have yet been

Ifound in the same place, nor under similar circumstances

elsewhere. The locality, which visited, of the supposed

Ibird tracks is simply a ledge of white coal-grit or sandstone,

sculptured by the Indians, who have, doubt not, intended

to represent dogs (or wolves), birds, and other animals. Dr.
King was a beginner in geology when he first found, and to

his credit appreciated duly, the importance of the Cheirothe-

rium tracks. He is a man of thirty years of age, and in an

extensive medical practice, who has suffered some persecu

tion, professionally and socially, for believing the world to be

more than 6,000 years old, and avowing this at a Lyceum.

IHe has been held up as an infidel by the President of a
Catholic College, by some German Calvinists, &c.  have

met with other proofs of similar illiberality from persons of

    1 His brother, Captain Henry Lyell, ' wounded severely ' at the battle of

Sobraon.

i846. CHEIROTHERIUM.  103

all sects, lay and clerical, in the United States, where the
subject is much in the same state as in Europe.

     The Cheirotherium tracks occur in pairs, each pair con
sisting of a hind and fore foot. There are two rows of these
which are parallel, or have been formed the one by the right
fore and hind feet, the other by the left, the toes turning
one set to the right and the other to the left, and the dis

tance between the successive footsteps being about the same

throughout.

     Few geologists will now be prepared to believe that this
single species or genus of reptile, or that one class only o(
vertebrated animal, had possession of the islands and conti

nents on which so widely extended and magnificent a vege
tation flourished.

     Tell Dr. Falconer to look out for some splendid teeth of
Texas elephants which are going from New Orleans to

London for sale.

         Believe me, ever your affectionate son-in-law,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

                               To His SISTER.

                                                  8 Steamship ' Britannia': June 11, 1846.

     Dearest Carry, --The Captain declares we were at least
three ships' length off the great iceberg which appeared
suddenly out of the fog in the night of Friday, June 8. As
we were going at the rate of ten miles an hour, the moon
obscured by clouds and a thick fog, you may believe that
Captain Elliot as a naval man, and better able than the rest
of us to estimate the danger, was not a little excited at what
he considers the rashness and inexcusable folly of not slack
ing the ship's speed. All these mails run on in this way,
and will do it till the Admiralty interferes. Going three or
four knots they could always turn in time for their broad
side to hit the ice, and only receive a moderate bumping.
As we passed fifty bergs or more in daylight, the Captain
(one of the most cautious of the whole set) does not doubt
that we were within pistol-shot of many which were not
seen in the fog. They keep a bright look out, officers and

                                  ' Return voyage from America.

104                 SIR CHARLES LYELL.      CHAP. xxiv.

men, and are aware of the risk. But what folly, when they
would only lose six hours of the night at most ! One iceberg,

Ialmost the only one before dark which came close to us when
   was below, had a large rock twelve feet square on the top,
and much gravel and dark sand on its side. They were from
50 to 400 feet in height ; pyramidal, pinnacled, dome-

shaped, single-peaked, double-peaked, flat-topped, and of
every form and most picturesque, and only a quarter of a mile

off us, and numbers more distant.

                                          Ever affectionately yours,

                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

                    To SIR PHILIP EGEETON.

                                            11 Harley Street, London : September 26, 1846.

   IMy dear Sir Philip, -- am very glad to know that Agassiz
Ihas really sailed at last, and when knew of the ' Great
I IBritain ' going ashore, could not help rejoicing that re

fused him even the three or four days' grace he prayed so

hard for in Southampton. The work he did when with you

was really gigantic. All the while he was looking over the

Connecticut fish you had named, he exclaimed how rejoiced

he was to see you had named and separated them as he
would have done, and that ' you will have in England while

IT am away, one to whom you may safely refer.' Of the
homocercal (lias?) fish,  have duplicates, of which you

may depend on having the first sight and pickings. C.

Bunbury is drawing up an account of the accompanying

Ifossil plants (oolitic forms) like those of the Whitby (oolite)
coal in Yorkshire.  hope to get a description of the single

species of fish from you, the only perfect one, and anything

that; you may have to say of his associate, the Tetragonolepis,

of which unfortunately there are only scales in patches.

   IAs to the Durham (Connecticut) fish which you examined,

they have no plants associated, but am very much in

Iterested to hear from Agassiz that the fish resemble most

nearly those of Autun, a place visited in 1848, and got

I Isome plants (psarrolites and ferns) and some few fish, rather

fine ones though few, which will show you. Now begin

most strongly to suspect that the fish called Paleonisci, but

i846.  FOSSIL FISH.                                      105

which Agassiz agrees with you in thinking not of that genus,

belong to a formation almost as old as the coal, if not upper

coal measures, whereas the Richmond coal plants and fish

are triassic. This will be the more interesting as you re
member the bird's footsteps of Hitchcock belong to the same

Iperiod as the so-called Paleouisci and Catopteri. By the way,
   have a duplicate copy of Hitchcock's ' Geology of Massa

Ichusetts,' 2 vols., 4to., with plates of the bird's footsteps,

which could give you if you have room for the same in

your library.

                                Believe me ever very truly yours,
                                                               CHARLES LYELL.

       To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

                                                                                London : October 9, 1846.

   IMy dear Horner, -- mean to refer to your last anni

versary address in my sixth chapter of ' Principles,' for the

best resume of the present state of the facts and theory of
I Ithe coal.
       shall send you copies of letters which am

writing to E. Forbes and Ramsay on their excellent papers.

I think E. Forbes's reply to you about not citing my climatal

Itheory sufficient. But as claim to have first in my ' Prin

ciples ' laid down the foundations of explaining the difficulties

experienced in reconciling the doctrine of specific centres

with the apparent anomalous position of many living plants

and animals, viz. by showing that since the existing species

came into being the land and sea had so changed, chains of

islands disappeared, shallow seas turned into land, or into

deep seas, this might naturally or ought to have been

adverted to. Still more, my proofs referred to by Owen, in

his Introduction, of the isthmus which in the Miocene
Iperiod joined Dover and Calais. But do not suppose
Iam going to enact the character of the ' injured man.'
                                                         am

in great good humour with E. Forbes's beautiful paper, and

Ieven his numerous citations of me, though he has missed my

two most important claims, which shall be glad of the

President of the Geological Society setting right, and so
Iwill Forbes himself.
                       avn very desirous of reading the
IRichmond papers when you are in the chair. What learnt

106               SIf! CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxiv.

Iof the fish from Agassiz will add to its importance very

much --it is oolitic coal --but have also learnt and shall
treat of it in the same paper, that my fine collection of so-
called New Red or Connecticut fish, are not oolitic, but much

older, and they throw new light on the age of the bird's

I Ifootsteps, if not of the true carboniferous reptilian. But
   write enigmas, as cannot enter into details.
                                   Ever your affectionate
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

     To EDWARD FORBES, ESQ.

                                                              11 Harley Street: October 14, 184(5.

     IMy dear Forbes, -- have been reading your beautiful

essay on the glacial epoch, and the origin of the existing

fauna and flora of Great Britain, with the highest interest

and pleasure, and think it one of the most original treatises,

I Iand so far as have yet studied it (for mean to read it
Iagain), one of the soundest as well as boldest that have

ever had the pleasure of perusing. Among many views

which I never ventured to promulgate, from want of suf

ficient knowledge of the Mediterranean and British mollusca

Inow living, but what had nevertheless more than suspected
Ifrom what knew, was the probable contemporaneousness
Iof the newest Sicilian Pliocene, and the drift ; as thought

some of the northern species which were in the Sicilian bed

indicated a chill in the sea there, though no erratics had
Ireached so far.
                  am very glad to see you come out with
Ithat, and many other novelties which am sure are new.
IHorner, I find, had remarked to you, before had read a

Iword of your paper, that he should have liked you to have
made more references to my ' Principles of Geology.'  am

Inot aware that they are mentioned, though you have cited
me for many other papers most fully.   am perfectly aware

that there is no one who is in the habit of doing more

Ijustice to any claim may have in our science than yourself,
Iand therefore attribute to mere accident any omission yon
Imay have made in citing me, especially as have no doubt
you think the publicity of a work which has gone through '

six editions is enough to satisfy any man, and supersede

i846. LETTER TO EDWARD FORBES. 107

Itedious historicul details.  may, however, mention on this
Ihead, that on the Continent  gain no priority for any original
views or facts which have only appeared in my ' Principles '
and ' Elements.' When the Geological Society of France

Ivoted a sum of money to Archiac, to draw up a report on

the progress of geology for ten years (1835 to 1845 believe),
he wrote to me to say that all treatises on geology were

left out of such reports, as they were presumed to be com

pilations, authors taking care to take date for their dis

coveries in scientific journals, but as my book was an

exception to such rules, he wished me to send him an exact

list of all my original theories and facts, and their dates,

which owing to their numerous editions no one could make
Iout, and which he must neglect without such aid.
                                                     have
I Inot yet complied with this requisition, nor do think shall,
but it makes it the more agreeable to me, when any able

writer like Owen (' British Mammals ') cites me, and gives
the date of the earliest editions when my own views first
Iappeared.    will now allude to some parts of my ' Prin
Iciples,' and some of my separate memoirs, to which think
it would have been natural for you to refer, that you may
take an opportunity on some future occasion, if you think

fit, to acknowledge my labours.

     To say nothing of my theory of the cause of fluctuation
in climate, which although no eminent men have contro

Iverted it, none except Darwin have avowed their belief in,
   will come at once to a grand truth of which your paper is
a splendid illustration, viz. that ' zoologists and botanists

were unable to refer the distribution of species to any deter

minate principles because they have usually speculated on the

phenomena on the assumption that the physical geography
of the globe has undergone no alteration since the introduc

Ition of species now living,' &c. (' Principles,' 1st Edition, vol.
ii. Ch. II.)  explained De Candolle's difficulty of mountain

Ichains sometimes being barriers to the migration of plants
and sometimes not.  insisted on the fact that in Sicily the

species of plants, shells, &c., the whole flora and fauna, were

older than their stations, that they existed before the seas,
Ihills, rivers, lakes, mountains, &c., were formed.
                                                     need

not remind you of the entire chapters devoted to this kind

108                 SIR CHARLES LYELL,  CHAP. xxiv.

Iof argument, which so far as Darwin's and my reading
goes, was new.  it  certainly did not borrow it, and no one
had dealt with
                    systematically. As I assumed ' specific

centres,' as you do, and endeavoured to remove many

anomalies which beset the subject and explained how species

Imay have migrated ' where islands since destroyed and sub

merged existed,' &c., and as had so recently opened up

Ithis new line of research connecting geology and natural

history, think some brief notice, in a prefatory sentence, of

Imy treatise would have formed a natural beginning to your

grand working out of the problem. But will now come to

some of my papers which enter more specially into your
Iown arena.
                will first take one of my papers on Touraine,
I Iout of the order of date believe, for am writing this, as
Iyou will perceive, off-hand, in which have endeavoured to
prove, after carefully studying on the spot the fossil shells of

the Norfolk and Suffolk Crag, and those of the Faluns, and

compared them with each other, that a tract of land must

have intervened in the Miocene period, between the regions

of the Loire, &c., on the south, and the Orwell, Yare, &c., on

the north. Owen has referred to this paper in his Introduc

tion, when speculating on the isthmus between Dover and
Calais. Murchison in an anniversary address alluded with

wonder to my identifying the groups of fossil shells in

INorfolk and Touraine as contemporaneous, when nearly
every species was distinct.  had accounted for this differ

ence in the species, not only by a geographical barrier like the

isthmus of Suez, but also by the meeting of two different

marine faunas in the same sea, one from higher and the

other from lower latitudes, as Darwin had shown in South
America. (See my paper, ' Magazine of Natural History,'

July 1839.) In that paper the comparative northern aspect

of the Crag shells is reasoned upon. But this subject is

taken up more fully in my comparison of the Faluns and

Crag, published in 1841 (' Geological Proceedings,' vol. iii.

Ip. 437), in which memoir there are many passages which
think called for some acknowledgment, and among others,

my proof from the terrestrial mammalia of adjacent land
in the neighbourhood of the Faluns. The geologist might

wish to know whether you doubted my Miocene east and

i846. LETTER TO EDWARD FORBES.  109

west barrier, or if not, whether plants would not have

migrated by it into the south of England at an earlier period
than that of your West of Ireland flora, No. 1. You may

Ireply that such land may have had no connection with
Spain, &c.   had made, as you know, the finest collection

of Touraine shells, and had been aided by Searles Wood, as
well as yourself and George Sowerby, in regard to my

IMiocene shells, besides getting the corals and fish, teeth, &c.,
determined.  traced the real Suffolk Crag to its southern

limit in Normandy (' Geological Proceedings,' vol. iii. p. 438).

    In my paper, read 1840 (' Geological Proceedings,' vol. iii.

Ip. 171), on the Norfolk drift, refer the disturbed stratifi
Ication of the drift to the agency of ice, and identify in age

certain freshwater beds with part of the drift period,, giving

Iinsects and fish and plants of that age. The fish are after

wards described, and state that we must look northward

for analogous types. Some allusion might have been made to
these attempts to work out some of the dates of the modern

Ifauna contemporary with recent shells.

    In my ' Elements of Geology ' entered copiously on the

phenomena of the glacial period, and insisted on the arctic

Icharacter of the fauna, in which may have been anticipated
Iby Smith of Jordan Hill, though had drawn the inference

from Canada and Sweden before he published. In the list

you give of the shells of the glacial epoch, you have forgotten
my list of Canada shells (Quebec) given in my American
Travels ; thus, for example, Mya arenaria, Saxicava rugosa,

Cardium Groenlandicum, Scalaria Groenlandica, Littorina

palliata, are shells common at Quebec, and given in my list,

Ito which you have not appended Canada as a good drift
locality.    well know, however, how difficult it is to re

collect all the scattered notices of any author, and quite im
Ipossible to find them in time for reference, even if you do

remember them, and imagine that none of us ever publish

without giving some one the power of pointing out such

omissions.

     You speak in your paper of the mingling of deep and
shallow water species of shells, a fact to which Dr. Fleming
had often called my attention, as the effect of what he calls a
ground swell, throwing up both kinds of testacea, littoral and

110  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxiv.

pelagic, on one shore. You hint at icebergs and northern
waves. The former has no doubt had its influence, and when

icebergs turn over, or fall to pieces, huge waves are caused
not merely from the north. But it has always seemed to me
that much more influence ought to be attributed to simple
denudation where beds of loose sand, gravel, or mud were

upheaved, and sometimes alternately depressed and upraised
in an open sea. The exposure of such destructible materials

must have led to the confusion you allude to, but much less
so where the beds were protected in fiords, &c. The broken

Ifossils found in these strata would agree with my denudation

hypothesis, which is think strengthened by the frequent
regular re-stratification of the beds containing the deep and

Ishallow .water species.
        think your paper and Owen's Introduction have come
out at a peculiarly opportune period, when Agassiz, Alcide
D'Orbigny, and their followers, are trying to make out
sudden revolutions inorganic life in support of equally hypo

Ithetical catastrophes in the physical geography of the globe.

Do not imagine that shall in my new edition of the ' Prin
ciples,' or elsewhere in print, ever allude to the slightest
regret on my part about any of the omissions of reference in

Iyour book which have here enumerated. On the contrary,
I shall take every opportunity of expressing the real admi
Iration feel for your paper, and of citing it in my first,

second, and third books.

                       Believe me ever most truly yours,

                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

From EDWARD FORBES, ESQ. --Reply to the foregoing Letter.

                                                            Bala, North Wales : October 18, 1846.

    My dear Sir,--Many thanks for your letter of the 14th,
with your remarks on my essay in the Survey Reports. The

Ikind spirit in which you have written assures me that you

cannot consider have sent forth that essay with any in
tention of being unjust, or of overlooking your great claims
in any part of it.

     My paper was written under very disadvantageous cif-

cumstances. It had to be prepared for the press by a certain

i846. REPLY FROM EDWARD FORBES.                  Ill

Itime, and no sooner had commenced the preparation of it

than the severe illness which laid me up last winter came on,
and two months, January and February, were thus entirely

lost. Daring those months T was confined to my bed.

March only remained for the composition, and during that

Imonth, whilst very weak and by no means fit for work of

any kind, had not only to write the paper as printed, but

also to prepare my course of lectures on Distribution for the

London Institution, and to get my botanical lectures in

order, for their commencement in April. The superin

tendence of Spratt's and my Travels in Lycia, now at length

ready to come out, was also on my hands. Under such cir
Icumstances many references should have liked to quote
Iwere lost sight of and omitted.
                                   could not go about to

libraries, and my own books are mostly still lying packed up

Iin various places, as it is useless taking them out until find
myself in some more settled position. My only course under

such circumstances was to write out my argument in my

Iown way, and to back it by such references as were at hand,

or as had already taken notes of, when backing seemed to

me absolutely necessary. The plan of my essay was purely

Iinductive, and consequently did not admit of more citation
than was absolutely necessary for my purpose.  had pro

posed to myself a special problem (the origin of the British
fauna and flora), and in the working of it out had neither
Itime nor space to draw up an exhaustive essay.
                                                 had to
Itcompress my argument into as small a space as possible.

was my wish to have appended notes and extracts in an

appendix, and to have given a bibliography of the scientific

Iliterature bearing upon the subjects treated of. In this way
  could have done the fullest justice to everyone who had

touched upon them ; but illness and the printers prevented

Ithe fulfilment of the intention. As yon were away when
Iwas at work, have thought it necessary to offer these pre

Iliminary statements before replying to the special points in
your letter.  shall now take them seriatim.
1st. You lemark on my not alluding to the ' Principles.'

There cannot be a warmer admirer or more grateful pupil of
Iyour ' Principles ' than myself.
                                   have read every edition,
Iand most often over ; and much that have done has grown

112  SSR CHARLES LYELL.                            CHAP. xxiv.

up from the seed sown by yon. My not quoting them
Iof tener, however, is not an accident, but because did not
Iconsider allusions to them necessary.
                                        wrote for naturalists
and geologists --who are, or ought to be, as familiar with
them as myself. In all such essays as mine, it is impossible

to refer except in very special cases or when the book or

paper is supposed not to be familiar to the readers. What

you say respecting the French does not affect this. It is

part and parcel of the conceit of that nation to assume they

have a right to put admitted truths, or sources of truth,

aside. The idea of leaving out references to treatises on

geology in a report on its progress is preposterous. In

geology, as in the other natural history sciences, the last

general treatise of acknowledged authority must always be

the starting point in special essays, and its contents taken

for granted, or else citations would be endless. At the same
time the references you quote from the ' Principles,' especially

that respecting the age of the plants and animals of Sicily,
might have been most advantageously (to me) noticed -- and
I·would have been, had they not escaped my memory.
                                                    have
Inot the book by me here, but when get back will refer to
Ithem most carefully.
                       still look forward to (and am pre
paring) an Essay on the Origin of the Flora of the Levant, in

which the history of the whole Mediterranean flora will have

to be commented on. This will give me an opportunity of

Ishowing the value of your views on these points.  On this

subject should like to have much conversation.
     Now as to the more special papers. Your references to

the Touraine and Crag papers are of the greatest conse

quence, and the quoting of them would have been strong

supports to my argument. It would have made all those

parts of my essay relating to the Crags much clearer and

more satisfactory. But that part of the subject was kept as

brief as possible, subservient to the main questions about the

Idrift, &c. had neither time nor sufficient practical know

Iledge of the Crags to warrant my adventuring farther than
have done, but look forward to future work in that direction.
IThe same may be said with respect to your Norfolk drift

papers. could not have entered critically on them or the
Touraine papers without doing so in the case of many other

i?46- REPLY FROM EDWARD FORBES. 113

valuable essays, by various authors, British and foreign -- too
many to cite consistent with my plan. This was also the

case with respect to questions about action of ice, &c. As

to the mingling of deep and shallow water species of shells,

IDr. Fleming's explanation does not appear to me to apply in

the cases referred to. When we meet, will explain why.

The references to the Canada list of Pleistocene fossils

were omitted in the table at page 380 by an oversight, but
you will find them all inserted in the full list forming the

appendix, and at the end of the appendix your name given

as my authority.
IOne important point have omitted to allude to, viz.
Iyour climatal views.
                       look on my paper in a great measure

as a contribution towards this confirmation. But to have

expressed a positive opinion on my part would have been of
too little weight in the discussion.

     You are pleased to compliment my paper on its originality.

Any praise from you must ever be among the greatest grati

I Ifications to me, and to any honest labourer in the great field

of nature. But had rather hear the views have set for

ward be proved not original than the contrary. It seems to

Ime that the surest proof of the truth of such conclusions as
   have summed up at the end of my essay is the fact of their
not being original so far as one person is concerned} and of
their having become manifest to more than one mind, either

about the same time, or successively, without communication.
I believe laws discover themselves to individuals, and not
Ifthat individuals discover laws.  a law have truth in it,

many will see it about the same time. Hence to me an

nouncements of anticipations are confirmations of the truth
of one's opinions, and welcome accordingly. In this spirit

I have gladly perused your letter, and in the same spirit
I Ifeel sure you will regard whatever haye written or may
·write, worthy to interest you.

Ever, dear Mr. Lyell, most sincerely yours,

                                   EDWARD FORBES.

VOL. II.

114  S/tf CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP, xxiv.

                              To His FATHER.

                                                            11 Harley Street : November 26, 1846.

   IMy dear Father, -- have got through half, and by far the

most difficult half, of my new edition, and it gives me an
interest in reading up my arrears of new geological papers
which reconciles me to the deferring of my American second
Travels. We went this morning to buy a dozen of knives

Ifor our dinner party on Monday. The old cutler in Oxford

Street said, 'No. 11 Harley Street; remember well the

Ihouse, eleven doors on the right hand from Cavendish

Square, for went therewith knives to the Duke of Welling
ton, then Sir Arthur Wellesley (thirty eight years ago), for he
lived there.' Old Mr. Rogers, who with the Milmans dine

Iwith us on Monday, to meet Charles Bunbury and Frances,

will, daresay, be able to tell us of Sir Arthur in this
quarter. Macaulay was most entertaining at Milman's last
dinner, giving and taking, and not overpowering. He is hard

Iat work with his ' History of England.' asked him if he had

read 'Constantinople,' in the last 'Quarterly Review.' He

Isaid, ' No, but all about St. Chrysostom is got out of the

edition of his works, which read at Calcutta, and ended by
liking the old saint, which is more than one can say of most
of the old Fathers.' Milman remarked, that at Oxford such
high prices are no longer obtained for editions of the Fathers
or Puseyite mediaeval books, but they are selling at Cam

bridge. A few days before, Herman Merivale told me he

had heard the same, and that there was an extraordinary

spread of scepticism and rationalism at Oxford. In large

parties, men holding forth that as a high admiration of the
beauty of form was the characteristic of the Greeks as a
nation, so the Jews had the religious instinct very largely
developed, and hence they developed Judaism, Christianity,
&c. To get back to Dean's Yard, Mihnan was talking of the

fortune he could have made if he had had the gift of pro

phecy for five years, as, when he came to Westminster, whole
streets of houses were offered him for a fifth of what they
let for, when railway companies were bidding for offices near
the Houses of Parliament, &c. On which Macaulay, recurring

to the former talk about Chrysostom said, ' But think if one

i846. DIMXER AT AtlLMAN'S.                            115

could have bought up the Fathers at their value in 1800

(when they were fairly appreciated), and sold them at the
Oxford price of 1840 ! ' Some one at the other end of the
table, where there was a dish of larks, was talking of the

destruction of life, such small birds, when Macaulay said,
' On that principle you ought to feed on blubber.' Would

not old Dr. Johnson have just said that, if Boz had been

sentimental ? Lord Lansdowne was in good spirits, but the
great affair of the Education Bill being put on him, evidently

makes him feel as the old man. Kay Shuttleworth, who

Idined with us, is his right-hand man in that, and to him wo

shall be, hope, indebted for some good plan of national

education. George Lewis, the much-abused poor-law com

Imissioner, was very agreeable. Ever since his article on

serfdom in the ' Edinburgh,' last spring, have thought

more highly of his talents, which we always knew to be

great. Lewis was talking of the ancient Britons not trying

to convert the Anglo-Saxons because they despised them so

much, and thought they might as well go to the devil their
own way. Macaulay said, ' Would the Saxons have gained

much, being such respectable Pagans, and the Welsh such

superstitious Christians?' Henry Drummond (the saint),

when Cunningham      (of Harrow)   tried  to convert  Byron, said,
                    be an infidel  such   as Byron,   than such a
' It was better to

churchman as Cunningham.' Milman talked of Talfourd's
dismay when his ' Ion ' was published entire in a Calcutta
newspaper, and called 'John.' Alison's 'History' was
Ispoken of, and his blunder of calling the French ' impot des
timbres,' the timber duties.       wish. the accounts from

Kinnordy could make me feel more cheerful about my

mother.

With our joint love, believe me, my dear father, your

affectionate son,

                                          CHARLES LYELL.

                             To His FATHER.

                                                            11 Harley Street: December 16, 1848.

    My dear Father,-- Eleanor's letter to Mary, and yours to

Ime, arrived at very unusual hours of the day, and suppose the

                                                            i -i

116  SIK CHARLES LYELL.                                    CHAP. xxiv.

Irailway punctuality has been disturbed by the snow.

Iassure you expected no answers to my letters, and if they

ever give any amusement to the party at Kinnordy, it is a

pleasure to us, and a very poor contribution towards our

share of cheering the winter there,4 where    so many are
                                                 can hardly
Iproving themselves such excellent nurses.
Iremember enough of Mary's letter to be sure  may not ma.ke

Isome repetitions of our three very agreeable days at Bowood,

but will add a few of my remembrances. Nothing made

'the whole visit more agreeable than the perfectly equal part

that most of the guests played in conversation, which was

lively and well worth listening to. It is too often the case

in such society, that some one gets an undue monopoly, not

so much from a desire to shine, as from exuberance of ideas

Iand spirits, as was remarkably the case with Sydney Smith,

and even Rogers in his better days when first knew him,

and is now with Macaulay and Lord Jeffrey, and occasionally

even with Hadlam, but never with Milman, though his talk

is of the very best. One day Lord Lansdowne asked Lord
Clarendon what the Pope was originally. He answered, ' He

wanted to go into the imperial guard and be a soldier, but

they would not have him because he had been epileptic.'
' Then,' said Milman, ' he may make, perhaps, the fourth

great epileptic hero; 'Julius Caesar, Mahomet, and Napoleon

being the three others. They were talking of Sydney Smith,

and how he never talked of his mother, whereas his brother,

Bobus Smith, was so fond of dilating on the excellences and

extraordinary beauty of their mother. On this Lord Lans

downe said one day, he (Bobus) bored Talleyrand so much
with that theme in London, that Talleyrand said, ' C'etoit

done monsieur votre pere qui etoit si laid.'

     Mr. Greville had learnt from Harness about my reptilian

footsteps from the Pennsylvaniancoal, and as his brother-in-

law, Lord Ellesmere (late Lord F. Gower), had been recently
taking up slabs of Cheirotherium footsteps in the New Red

Ion his property, he (Mr. Greville) was curious about them,

and wanted to know the antiquity ascribed to them as

Icompared to the Megatherium. After the ladies had retired

they fell to in earnest on the whole subject, and after had

     i Ilia mother and sister being laid up with illness.

i846. I'ISIT TO BO WOOD. 117

given my views, Milman explained how writers of research

and reputed orthodoxy in the English church, had adopted,

some the Hebrew, others the Septuagint, others the Sama

ritan chronology, and how that of St. Paul differed from' that

of Moses, and on the whole, how they varied 2,000 years

Ifrom each other. After his very clear exposition of the case,

Lord Clarendon, who had never, think, read or thought

much on the point before, observed, ' It seems then, that the

geologists are blamed for not making their notions of the

world's age agree exactly with a chronology (supposed to be

IScriptural), which we really know nothing about.'

    One day at dinner was telling Milman that Pius IX.

had not only encouraged the scientific professors of the

IRoman States to attend this year's congress of ' savans ' in

Italy, but another (the next believe) was to be held at
Kome. ' Yes,' he said, ' and the British Association is to

meet at Oxford with Sir R. Inglis as president. Inglis and

the Pope ; no wonder people are fearing that Oxford and

Rome are approximating too nearly. And both of them, after

Iopposing railways, are adopting them.' Lord Clarendon

told a good story of the last papal election, but cannot
remember the names. Cardinal A., who was ambitious of

mounting the papal chair, asked Cardinal B. who he thought
Iwould succeed. B. replied, ' If, as we are given to understand,

the Holy Ghost directs our decisions, think it will be

either Cardinal Chigi or Ferretti (the present Pope), but
as some think, the Devil meddles with the election, shall
                                               I
                                                         if,

not be surprised  the choice should fall to your Eminence
;
or. me.' Within five or six miles from Chippenham, through
           ifCalne or Bowood Park, to the summit xif the chalk downs,

which are visible from Bowood, there a beautiful geological
                             is
series of formations exposed, ranging from the Bath Oolite
                              I
to the chalk. By going one way and returning another,
                                               a

                                                   I
was able in a few hours to give a good field lesson to party

of three they were apt scholars, and was very glad to

explore the country myself.

                  Ever your affectionate son,

                             CHARLES LYELL.

118  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                  CHAP, xxiv

     To GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

                                              11 Harley Street, London : December 26, 1846.

   IMy dear Ticknor, -- shall begin this letter some days
Ibefore the next mail, that may thank you for your last,
"which interested us much, especially your account of the

inhaling the ether, of which many successful experiments

Irnve already been made in the hospitals here, and about

Avhich everyone was anxious to know, and knew not how

much to believe. Sir J. Clark and Dr. Boott learnt from

your statement, which Mary gave them when she met them

one day, the first precise account of the longest time (seven
                                         prolonged without
teen minutes) that  the effect had been  ' Two Years before
injury. We have     been reading Dana's

the Mast,' a delightful book; it is so rare to get a clear in

sight from an educated mind of what life really is in a
humbler grade among the working classes. Is he getting

on as a lawyer, and has his health never suffered from his

Ivoyage? When you introduced him to me he seemed quite

well. I believe mentioned to you in my last letter that we

were going to pay a visit at Bowood, at Lord Lansdowne's, in

the country (Wiltshire) of a few days. It turned out a very

agreeable holiday. The party were Mr. and Mrs. Milman,

and Mr. Harness, Lord and Lady Clarendon (he is now
President of the Board of Trade), the Chancellor of the

Exchequer, Mr. Wood and Lady Mary Wood (she is a daughter
of Lord Grey, and a very pleasant person), Mr. Charles

IGreville, author of an excellent work on ' Ireland,' Loid

Devon. had much talk with the President of the Board of

Trade on American affairs, on which he is well informed,

Iand has liberal and statesmanlike notions, without prejudice.

Indeed the freedom from that upon this subject is, think,

singularly in proportion to the more elevated station in

society which men occupy here, which is more than some

would have expected between a democracy and aristocracy.

     Mary showed the daguerreotype of Mr. Prescott's bust to

Lord Lansdowne, and they think that none have been as well
executed here, and Lord Lansdowne wished Mr. Prescott
would make haste and come to England, in which the others
joined. The Milmans were in good health and spirits. Tom

i846. FIELD LECTURE ON THE BATH OOLITE. 119

IMoore was asked, but did not come. One day Lady Lansdowne

gave me an Irish car to myself, and gave Milman, Lord

Clarendon, and the Chancellor of Exchequer a regular field
lecture, taking them from ' the oolite to the chalk downs,'

iti to which they entered with great spirit, especially the two

ministers, who wanted to forget the state of Ireland, growing
I Ias it does every day worse and worse.
send you a letter
Iwas induced to send to the ' Times ' 5 (the first time was
ever guilty of such familiar intercourse with the public press)

in answer to innumerable inquiries on the subject, some of
Ithem from your side of the water. Dr. Gould will, think,
Ibe glad to see it when you have read it.
                                           am glad to hear

that Agassiz saw so much of Gould, and appreciated, as he

could not fail to do, his profound knowledge of zoology.

Believe me, dear Ticknor, ever most truly yours,

CHARLES LYELL.

· On the alleged co-existence of man and the Megatherium.

120  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxv.

                          CHAPTER XXV.

                     FEBRUARY 1847 -- SEPTEMBER 1848.

ANNIVERSARY OP GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY -- EDITORSHIP OP «EDINBURGH
    REVIEW '-- CALL ON ROGERS -- HIS REMARKS ON HISTORIANS-- BREAKFAST
     WIT 3 HIM -- CHAPTER ON UNIVERSITIES IN SECOND TRAVELS -- RARE
    BOOKS -- BRITISH ASSOCIATION, OXFORD -- I.IV. l.s BOREALIS -- DECAY
     OP THE DRAMA-- HUGH MILLER'S ' FIRST IMPRESSIONS OF ENGLAND'
    --VISIT TO BOWOOD -- PARTY AT SIR ROBERT PEEL'S -- MEETING AT
     ROYAL SOCIETY-- KNIGHTHOOD-- DINNER WITH THE ARCHBISHOP OP
     DUBLIN.

                              To His FATHER.

                                                             11 Harley Street: February 21, 1847.

   I IMy dear Father, -- have been so much occupied since
Igot my book off my hands with arrears which had accumu

lated, that have not given you any account of our scientific
anniversary of the Geological Society when the first, and
only copy yet out of the book, was laid on the table as a
present to the Geological Society, and really looks better
than you might expect a condensation of three into one to

Ido, the print being respectably large. Horner, to whom as

President of the Geological Society have dedicated my
seventh edition, got great credit, as he deserved, for his two
years' services to the Geological Society. Sir H. De la Beche,
the new President, was supported by Lord Morpeth, who
spoke with his usual eloquence, and after him Bancroft made

Ia very good speech, ending with saying he had obtained

leave to give my health. So was called up very early, and
told them my last news from De Verneuil and Agassiz, both

Iforeign members of the Geological Society, and who having

both visited the United States since returned from America
last spring, had given us as flattering an account of their

I Ireception, and the number of congenial enthusiastic minds

they had been in contact with, as could have done. amused

 1847- PROGRESS IN AMERICA. 121

Ithem by narrating what De Verneuil had said to me, when

 asked him if he was not struck with the reigning idea which

 cheered one in travelling in that country : progress, progress.
 'Yes,' he said, 'your information is quite antiquated ; it is six
 months old. You have only seen the railroad penetrating

westward 300 miles, through forests and morasses, but I

 have seen the electric telegraph extending beyond the termi
 nation of the railway ; the wires attached to the trunks of
 trees from which the boughs had just been lopped off, and
 the news carried with the speed of lightning to villages and
towns which have never yet seen a locomotive engine.' The
 Bishop of Norwich spoke well, though some might have
been less pleased than we geologists to hear him wish that
 ' they who differ but in a little in theological matters, would
only live in as great harmony with each other as he saw
 scientific men do, who differed so widely in their theoretical
opinions on many points, which they could discuss, as we did,
 without quarrelling, and cherishing, as became Christians,
the unity of spirit and the bond of peace.' Poor man ! he

Ihas enough of it in his diocese, although he has not, believe,

been of late personally embroiled in the ecclesiastical disputes
that divide many of his clergy. We are glad to have the
Bunburys with us. ' The fresh woods and pastures new,'
which you congratulated me upon now enjoying, consist of
my joint paper with Charles Bunbury, on the more modem
or Oolitic Coal and Coal Plants of Chesterfield County, near
Richmond, Virginia.

                             Ever your affectionate son,
                                                               CHAELES LYELL.

                             To GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

                                                               11 Harley Street : February 23, 1847.

     My dear Ticknor, -- We were glad to receive your kind
letters from Park Street, with one, long looked for, from the
Hamilton Coupers from Georgia, and others from Mac-
Ilvaine, Miss Wadsworth, and other friends, which took us
back very pleasantly to many of the points where we spent

our time most agreeably a year ago. At a dinner at

Hallam's the great subject was the vacant editorship of the

122               SIR CHARLES LYELL.                CHAP. xxv.

' Edinburgh Review.' Macvey Napier having died, Hallam

and Milman had for years thought they had better bring the
' Edinburgh ' up to London, as most of the contributors in

these days live south of the Tweed. Longman the bookseller

had been closeted with Macaulay for hours, consulting what

could be done, the pecuniary and political stake being con

Isiderable. They had at first thought seriously of a Mr.
Rogers (no relation of   the poet, and believe a clergyman),
a contributor to the '  Review ' of many able articles of late,
on ' Puseyism,' ' Leibnitz,' and in the last, ' Pascal.' Lord
Jeffrey was much opposed to the editorship leaving ' Auld
          '
Reekie  ;    but  yet they  talk now of his son-in-law  Empson

being editor, who has a professorship of law in the East

India College, near London. He wrote the long article on
' David Hume ' in the last. The article on ' Ragged Schools '
in the ' Quarterly Review,' of which you inquire, is by Lord

Afhley, who has gone practically and personally into the

Iinvestigation. Milman wrote the other, on 'Popular Educa

tion,' which am glad you approve of as much as we do.
IThe article on ' Centralisation ' in the ' Edinburgh ' is by
John Austin : they tell me it is ' good, but dry.'  remember

when Lord Melbourne was considering the best way of dis

persing a mob which they were anticipating, Sydney Smith

recommended him to get John Austin to go and read them
a chapter out of his ' Jurisprudence,' then just published.

    We were discussing the other day the effect which it

would have here in modifying religious intolerance, if the

social and educational equality of the different sects were

greater, which made me wish to know from you, as a matter

of fact, whether any literary man or woman in Boston,

whether of the Episcopal, Presbyterian (Calvinist), Romanist

(if any there), Methodist, &c. &c., lived through the days of
Channing's greatest celebrity as a preacher and writer, with

Iout, once in a way, and many of them oftener, going to hear
him preach.       apprehend that the effect of such occasional

interchange of churches, even where rare, is not only to

make part of a congregation see that there is some good in
the leading men of other sects (at all events that they have
not horns and cloven feet), but that the controversialists

who teach a flock, who have access to their opponents' argu

i 847. MACAULAY.  123

ments orally delivered, are more cautious and exact in what

they say themselves. Bancroft made a good speech at our
geological anniversary.

     The education scheme here is crippled by the bottomless
pit of Ireland, but is ripening and expanding the teaching
of schoolmasters, more and more determined on as indis
pensable. But they are deplorably behind Boston.

                              Believe me ever most truly yours,
                                                            CHABLES LYELL.

                              To His FATHEE.

                                                                    11 Harley Street : March 5, 1847.

   IMy dear Father, -- hope you will get this letter on your
birthday, of which Mary and I wish you many happy returns ;

and beg you to accept from us a print of Paris, which recalled
to our memory in a bird's-eye view all the leading features,
and streets and gardens and boulevards, of that beautiful

Icity most vividly.

       am busy writing a paper on the more modern Coal Field
near Richmond in Virginia, and spent a good day yesterday
in my museums here with Sir Philip Egerton, who has

named my fossil fish for me, on which subject he is quite
an authority, founding new genera and species which are
generally adopted in Europe. We had a pleasant call at
Mr. Rogers', whose sister is recovering from her fall. We

found on the old man's table a speech of Charles II. to his

Parliament, printed in 1661, in bad English, which he ob
served could never have been shown to Clarendon. Alluding
to Macaulay, he said ' he had found him once writing a re
view with five folios open, each on separate chairs, but un
fortunately, though conscious that the article would be known
to be his, he was writing with that confidence and rapidity

which if he had had to sign his name at length to the pages,

he would not have presumed to do. Such was the unfortu

Inate tendency of anonymous historical literature.' He then

repeated, what had often heard him declare, that Hallam
wrote history as a judge and Macaulay as an advocate, and
he blamed the latter for giving a set-down to Charles Fox's

'Life of James II.,' for which Samuel Rogers stood up man

124  SfR CHARLES LYELL.                    CHAP. xxv.

fully, taking the book down from his shelf, and, without
spectacles, pointed to three or four of his favourite passages.

     Mary sends her love and best wishes ; and with love to all

the family, believe me, my dear father,
                                        Your affectionate son,
                                                            CHARLES LYELL.

     To GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

                                                                         London : April 2, 1847.

     My dear Ticknor, --We had a very agreeable breakfast the

other morning with Mr. Rogers, in his eighty-fifth year, and

Ithough he is now often tired at dinner after the society of the

morning, never knew his mind more vigorous than it was.

The party, besides ourselves, were the Bishop of Norwich

and his wife Mrs. Stanley, both original and pleasant people,

and the Bancrofts. The old poet took pains, as the Bancrofts

Iwere there for the first time, to do the honours of the house

and pictures well, and often as have heard him, it was
most of it new to me. He has a very spirited reduced

picture by Haydon, of Napoleon on the rock overhanging
Ithe ocean at St. Helena, the back turned towards you.
Ilike it better than the one which
                                    have seen at Peel's,

at Tamworth (Drayton), which is as large as life ; too large.

This gives us all the sentiment, which was much heightened

to us by Rogers, who you know is an excellent reciter, re

peating some lines of a poem by Lyte, a Devonshire clergy

man, written when the French first asked leave to remove

the ashes of the Emperor from St. Helena.

                        Disturb him not, he slumbers well
                            On his rock 'mid the western deep !

                        Where the broad blue waters round him swell,
                            And the tempests o'er him sweep.

                        Disturb him not, though bleak and bare,
                            That spot is all his own,

                        And greater homage was paid him there
                            Than on his hard-won throne.

                        Earth's mightiest monarchs there at bay
                            The caged lion kept,

                      For they knew with dread that his iron tread
                            Waked earthquakes where he stept.

On my asking if he could show me the whole poem of Ly te's,

he took an album from a drawer, where it was pasted in,

i847. BREAKFAST AT MR. ROGERS'. 125

Icut out of a newspaper, and as he gave it me, he said some

thing in his caustic way which cannot report correctly.
' When men have hit on a dozen good lines, they must

Ialways dilute them with a hundred weak ones.' In fact
found a long set of verses, from which, not all from one place,

he had skilfully culled the best. After he had told the story

of Chantrey having come as a workman at five shillings a

day to receive orders for the ornamented woodwork of the

table in the middle of the drawing-room, Mary happened to

say she had never seen Addison's table, on which he wrote

the ' Spectator.' S. R. went for it, for it is too plain and

simple to accord with the rest of the furniture. Opening a

drawer, he took out Addison's works, and read his dedica

tion to Craggs, where he speaks of his desire that the

memory of his writings should not outlive that of their

friendship. 'A compliment,' said Rogers, ' which is the more

pleasing when we recollect, which few do, that three days

after he penned the dedication Addison died.' S. E. was

Idescribing some picture to Mr. Bancroft and Mary, while
Bancroft was still at Addison's table with the book.  asked

him, as he had been so often at the Abbey lately, and in

IPoets' Corner, if he could help me to the last two verses of

Pope's Epitaph on Craggs. It is nearly thus, said :

                         He missed no public, served no private end,
                         He gained no title, and he lost no friend.

IBut ' missed ' is certainly not the word. Afterwards, when at

home, had turned up Pope, and read 'He broke no promise,'
&c. There was some talk of duelling in the United States,
and the usual explanation that the North is not the South,
and that John Bull must try and learn to draw a line between
the New Englander and the Southern chivalry. Upon which

Rogers told a story which was the more laughed at because

Ithe ladies hardly knew whether they ought to laugh, and

which think the old gentleman told expressly to Mrs. Ban
croft to try whether she had any of the reputed prudery of
the Northern lady. He remembered an acquaintance going
out to fight one Dr. Humphrey Howard, and seeing that his
antagonist had no garments on, sent his second for an ex
planation. H. H. replied, that being a surgeon he well

126       SIR CHARLES LYELL.                            CHAP. xxv.

knew that a bit of cloth carried into the flesh by a bullet

Iwould make it fester. The other declined shooting at a naked

man, and so it ended. ' And if ever,' said S. R., ' am called

Iout, am determined to adopt the same costume.' There

was some talk of prose translations of poetry ; Rogers in

Ifavour of them, wishing the ' Iliad ' had been well done into

prose, ' though provoked Miltnan by saying so, and he de

clared he had made a vow never again to read any prose

version of anypoem.' 'You make no exception? ' said T. ' None

whatever.' ' Then we shall never hear you again read the

Book of Job, or the Psalms of David, in our ordinary version,'

said I. Empson has undertaken the ' Edinburgh Review '
after all. They talked of Rogers. ' Is he not a dissenting
                            '  ' Yes, and evidently a man of
miniater  at Birmingham
                          9

first-rate talent ; but how do you know that they did not
                                                            ' ' You
'Amean me, when they talked of       Rogers as editor   "?  Dante,"
have written reviews ? '       few.     One on Carey's
Iand Moxon the publisher said caused the sale of 2,000
Icopies

called
     immediately.      Another  "onand"Jo"ahninma "  Baillie," when  of
     her several   times " he                         in the course

the article.'

   I am much obliged to you for what you told me in your

letter about Channing's works, and their sale, and Dewey's
' History,' and we read in consequence with still greater in

terest Channing's powerful discourse on the occasion of Jared

Sparkes' ordination. There is nothing which people here
so overrate as the relative proportion of the Unitarians as

compared to the population of all other sects in Boston, and

Istill more in New England, while they equally underrate,

suspect, the influence which the writings of the American
Unitarians have exerted and do exert both in the United

States and in this country.

     As to Mexico, one cannot but feel what Madame de Stael
said about nations, ' that nations always deserve their fate,
whatever that fate may be,' although it is no apology for
those who think it is ' our destiny ' to be conquerors and the

instruments of fate. Few here have any idea how much
colonisation will be promoted in California, and what great

results must come of this movement.
     My University chapter in my ' Travels ' has been much

i847. CHAPTER ON UNIVERSITIES.                                127

read here the last few weeks, and cited as authority in pam

phlets, there being a stir for reform in higher as well as lower

Idepartments. Whewell has prepared a scheme for Cam

bridge reform which have not seen yet. The other day

Baron Stockmar, who is so much about the Prince (now
Chancellor of Cambridge by a small majority on the poll !
              a
                            '

                                                             I !),
told me at party that        Bunsen had set him       to read ihy
temperate and manly article                           by which he
                             on the " Universities,"

and Bunsen had learnt with surprise that abuses which they

had attributed to Romanist times dated chiefly from Pro

testant ages, and were therefore less excusable.' Nothing,

find, surprises our University men themselves so much as to

learn, inter alia, that whereas under Roman Catholic rule

the principal teachers of academical youth married and

settled at Oxford and Cambridge, all those who now really

and efficiently engross the educational function are enjoined

to celibacy.

       am making  matter of conscience to get out what
I                 it
   II
                      'a

                          I
Lockhart calls my Greywacke,' and which he and the

public generally skip, before indulge in other matters but

if you can tell me anything about the pay and station of your
                                       I
                                                           ;
schoolmasters of schools for the many, by which can com

pare them to ours, shall be glad.      know how many com
                  I
                                    I

plaints there are in New England of teachers being under

paid, yet fancy they are in affluence when contrasted with

ours.  should also be glad to know about the foundation

and endowment of the new chairs lately founded, or accord

ing to Gould about to be created, for science in Harvard

University. Whewell has replied to my chapter on our

University system, and he has also written me a private

letter of remonstrance the other day. am going to take a
day or two to write a reply in full, of which will send you
       is

           ;I

                                 I

                                 I

                                                            is
                                                                      a

                                         I

                                                                                   is

                                                                            it
a copy, which shall be glad that Everett should read, as
some of the statements by Whewell had made some impres

sion on him; but he will see that was right. Indeed public

opinion rapidly strengthening. There   move now in the

right direction but the clerical influence arrayed against all

progressive sciences, whether physical or literary,           too

powerful to be easily overcome. My University chapter has

been praised of late in quarters where three years ago

128           SIR CHARLES LYELL.                   CHAP. xxv.

would have acted a,s an exclusion from society or good

Ifellowship.     mentioned to Hallam, some weeks or a
     The moment
month ago, that England was the only country that had not
conferred some public honour on Prescott, he said they
usually waited till some friend took it up. Shortly after he
told me, that he and Lord Mahon had immediately proposed
              Antiquaries, the oldest body, after   the Royal,
him at the    ' natural knowledge ' exclusively.
which is for                                       In due time

he will be elected, and will have the privilege, as explained
in one of the old farces, of appending A.S.S. to his name as
being of the Antiquarian Society a Socius.
     Dr. Gould's letter of enthusiasm about Agassiz is very
refreshing, and shows that Channing need not have been so
severe on the atmosphere of Boston, as repressing all such
feelings, or the expression of them.
   IAs to A^assiz saying the negro's brain is like a child's

fourteen or sixteen years old, if am not greatly in error,
Owen says the same of   the   adult male stolid and uneducated
agricultural labourer.  Tell
                              Agassiz this, and see if it is new

to him. On our recent fast day, the charity children, the
youngest down to four years old, had to go to church, in many
parishes three times; service two hours, and an hour and a
half. Is there any persecution of the young perpetrated in

INew England on Sundays or other days of this kind?
   But must conclude. Believe me, dear Ticknor,
                                                  Ever most truly yours,

                                      CHARLES LYELL.

                           To GEORGE TICKNOB, ESQ.

                                                                                      London: May 3, 1847.

     My dear Ticknor,-- Nothing which you have told me
gives me greater hopes of the future than your account of
Mr. Hillard's lectures, and his class. Pray tell me all such
news. Mr. Hallam, when we breakfasted with him, was
giving Mr. Winthrop an account of the sums paid for rare
books by the Americans, one of whom bought at a sale the
Mazarine Bible for 500Z. (sterling) the other day. Sir
Thomas Phillips told this to Hallam, who remarked that

i847- BRITISH ASSOCIATION, OXFORD.                   129

according to the old proverb, there must have been two fools

I Iat that auction. ' Yes,' said Sir Thomas, ' was the other ;

bid against him.' Milman said that Sir Thomas could not
have paid, so perhaps he was not such a fool after all. You
see that Sir Walter Scott is dead. So ends that title, which

one would have liked to have seen hereditary, if any. Lock-
hart looks ill.

     Read Hugh Miller's ' First Impressions of England,' &c.

I hope to send you a copy of my letter to Whewell by this
Ipost. Beg Mr. Everett to read it, and tell him have a.n

answer from Whewell which is quite a knock-under as to

every disputed fact, and extremely pacific.

     With my love to Mrs. Tlcknor and her daughters,

                                        Believe me most truly yours,

                                                                 CHARGES LYELL.

          To His FATHER.

                                         11 Harley Street, London : June 25, 1847.

IMy dear Father,-- went down on Wednesday mornirg
by the 10.0 express train to Oxford,1 most of the time at

the rate of a mile a minute, and our party, consisting of

Milman, Bancroft, Grove, and myself, conversed easily, and
Iit was certainly a magical transfer from place to place. It
seemed strange to find Richards rector.  first encountered

my old Swedish friend, of Lund in Scania, Professor Nilsson,
who told me ' he was very unhappy, having lost his coffer '

I(alias portmanteau), which with his broken English. he could

not recover. So made a stir, and found it at an inn. He

then showed me what he considers conclusive evidence of

man having co-existed with Ursus spelceus and other extinct

Imammalia in Scania. Though not quite satisfactory to me,

it is the best proof have seen; he had his fossil teeth,

bones, arrow-heads, &c., with him. I then met in the Theatre

Whewell, Peacock, Conybeare, Buckland, Adams, Faraday,

Owen, C. Darwin, Bishop of Norwich, Chevalier Bunsen,
Sir R. Inglis, Murchison, De la Beche, Sedgwick, Sir J.
IRichardson, Wheatstone, and many others with whom
Ispoke.
         called on Mr. Gary, but found him overwhelmed

VOL. II.  i Wheie the British Association was held.

                                   K

130       SIR CHARLES LYELL.              CHAP. XxV.

with law business in the Vice-Chancellor's Court. He spoke

iof your present of your ' Dante,' &c. As Darwin was lodging

with the Jacobsons, called with him, knowing Mr. Jacob-

Ison, who is Vice-Principal, think, of Magdalen Hall. After
I was gone, Darwin, seeing my ' Travels ' on Jacobson's shelf,

asked him how my University chapter had been taken at
Oxford. He said, ' Extremely well ; much read, and consi

dered very temperate, and full of proofs of my having

Ithought deeply on their system, and that he had heard many
who differed from it in toto praise it.'  found on my

Iiable many cards of Exeter men, now become fellows, &c.

The first day dined with Baden Powell, who has married

Imy friend Captain W. H. Smyth's daughter, to meet Sir

John Herschel and Sir James and Lady Ross. learnt much

of the Antarctic expedition ; some very wonderful new facts

about the temperature of the very deep parts of the sea.

IIn the evening we had an immense party at the Botanic

Garden, at Dr. Daubeny's, where was introduced by Sir

Thomas Acland to his son, now Professor of Comparative

Anatomy, and who takes all my views of the reform required

in their system. Trevelyan, who was there with his wife,

tells me he is one of the cleverest of the scientific Oxonians,

and will be very distinguished. Young Buckland had a

young bear, dressed up as a student of Christ Church, with cup

and gown, whom he formally introduced to me, and succes

sively to the Prince of Canino (Charles Buonaparte), Milne-
Edwards, member of the French Institute, and Sir T. Acland.

The bear sucked all our hands, and was very caressing. Amid

our shouts of laughter in the garden by moonlight, it was

diverting to see two or three of the dons, who were very shy,

not knowing how far their dignity was compromised. Next
Imorning
          breakfasted at New College with Mr. Philip
IDuncan, a large party in Hall, most of whom knew. The
IDean of Winchester and some had seen at Southampton
Iin September were there.
                           then went and spoke at some
Ilength at the Geological Section, on what had seen of
' raised beaches ' in North America, on the Canadian Lakes,

and in the valley of the Seine, subjects on which Robert
Chambers (author of the ' Vestiges ') read a paper. Sedg-
wick spoke well, and Professor James Forbes of Edinburgh,

i847-  RUSKIN.                                      131

and Darwin. Dalby was with us in the omnibus for a stage,

and he and the sub-rector and my friends Darwin and Major

Clarke had had a luncheon dinner together in the Common

IRoom at Exeter before starting.

       left at six o'clock. With me in the coach was Dr.

Twiss, who had been active on Cardwell's committee, and

whose indignation at the conduct of even the more moderate

Iparty at Oxford was at the boiling-point. How extremes

meet ! really might have thought that some one of my New

England Whig friends was complaining of the ultra demo

crats reducing them to mere delegates, and destroying all

free agency by requiring so many pledges as to future

votes. It was not enough to go into all pending questions,

but they put several hypothetical queries as to possible

measures of future Government ; as to educating or endowing

Roman Catholics ; and declared the answers not specific

enough, and so drove him to retire ; and now Round is said
to have the best chance, and Maynooth and the Corn Bill,

which the Card well party had hoped were dead and buried,

and in the tomb of the Capulets, are to make the University,
as Milman says, ' totus teres atque rotundus.' Inglis (who is
quite a star in the House compared to Round) being so sleek,
fat, and good-humoured, and on such good terms personally

with all, even those who regard him as the parliamentary

representative of the prejudices of the age, is truly the totus

teres. Out of twenty-four heads of houses, only four at
Oxford to receive the Associaiion ! But it will go off the

Ibetter by the absence of the lukewarm or the hostile.
spoke to Hallam, Ehrenberg, and a great many others.
IMary will tell you, hope, of the Lansdowne House party ;
Imy eyes are so much better now that enjoyed it much.
I was glad at Oxford to see more of Ruskin, who was secre
I Jftary of our Geological Section.
                like him very much.
you have not seen his book on ' Painting,' you will be able to

do so at Kinnordy. I have borrowed it of Susan.

Believe me, my dear father, your affectionate son,

                CHARLES LYELL.

132  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                               CHAP. xxv.

     To CHARLES BUNBURY, ESQ.

     Kinnordy : July 27, 1847.

     IMy dear Bunbury, -- The prospect of the Cape Journal
coming to light is to me a great source of pleasure.  found

your Linncea borealis with more than a hundred flowers in
full blow in the first week of this month. Some shoots,

I Ieight inches further from the centre of the patch than last

year, and think have reckoned backwards that thirty
years ago it might have been sown by a bird, but is probably

older. Under a hot sun, the almondy scent of the flowers is

very strong and delicious ; after rain there is no odour at all.

I IThe day last wrote to you was going up the Clare Hill.
I saw there, and took, the northern butterfly Polyommatus
I IArtaxerxes, which had never seen (Lepidopterist as am)

on the wing before. Our fairy ring is of larger diameter

annually.

    In haste, and with love to Frances, believe me, my dear

Bunbury, ever affectionately yours,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

                             To GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

                                                                   Kinnordy : August 25, 1847.

   IMy dear Ticknor, -- am now fairly through my prin

cipal geological papers, one of which, of some length, on the

ICoal Field near Richmond, is just printed, with illustrations of

the fossils procured there. In looking over my notes nothing

surprises me so much as the activity and progress, and the

Iintellectual excitement and promise for the future, which

saw in so many parts of the Union, and of which there is
here such an inadequate appreciation, and a kind of dogged
incredulity which nothing but an array of statistics will

disturb, coupled with the evidence of an eye-witness. In

spite of the multiplication of steamboats and newspapers,
and complimentary speeches to Winthrop and Bancroft at
public and private dinners, John Bull is in general in a state
of wili'ul blindness as to what is doing on the west side of

i847- ON THEATRES IN A MERICA.         133

the Atlantic, and he will wake up some fine morning, and

hardly believe his eyes when he beholds the white popula

Ition equalling his own, and the number of those who can
and do read and write twice as great.  remember when

first the French Chambers began to discuss the first prin

ciples of a representative government, the English were

astonished to see liow many things even the highest Tories

had been accustomed to take for granted, and how much

they had inherited as a prejudice which they of the old

regime in France deemed revolutionary. Pray let me have

letters from you on the evidence of the advance of the

Ieducational and literary and scientific cause when the spirit

moves you. When was first at Boston all theatres were

shut up ; now you have several. Are any steps taken to

render them less objectionable in the eyes of those people

who in England regard them as corrupting and loose in their

morality, from the bad selection of pieces acted and the

character of the performances ? 1 fear that circumstances
do not favour in New England what one would wish to see --

the converting the theatre into a place of refined intellectual

culture, holding the same rank in that line which a philo

sophical lecture-room does in science, or a church in matters

Ifof religion. Is not this decay of the drama a strange ano
maly ?  the mere music and show, and costly scenery of

our modern melodrama, to which crowds go, had been me
diaeval, and the acting of 'Macbeth,' and the writing of it had

belonged to this age, would not this have seemed to you

Imore in the natural order of things ? Song charms the sense,

&o. De Verneuil told me, and repeated it at a public
dinner in London, much to the edification of my scientific

friends, that when they had extended the electric telegraph

to the extent of the railroad, they carried it on from one tree

to another in the aboriginal forest on trees from which the

boughs had been lopped oft'. It gives a lively image of going

ahead, which no Frenchman could have invented, least of all

our quiet friend de Verneuil. Could you learn from one of

your Boston law friends, whether in old colonial times the
business of baiTister and attorney was separated in New
England, as it has always been in this country, or whether

the union of the two grades was made to suit a more demo

134  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                CHAP. xxv.

cratic constitution. We suffer, in my opinion, from this
marked line of demarcation.

     Ever, my dear Ticknor, yours most truly,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

     To GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

     11 Harley Street, London : September 26, 1847.

    My dear Ticknor, -- Perhaps you have seen some notices
in the ' Athenaeum ' of a book by Hugh Miller called ' First

Impressions of England and its People.' Do read it, as we
have been doing. He is the editor of the ' Witness,' Free
IfKirk newspaper, has risen from being a common quarryman
to be one of our best writers.         you are now and then

startled at the inconsistency of his highly philosophical

views on the connection of science and religion being held

in the same mind with ultra-covenantic views on other points,

Iyou must remember that he is a sincere enthusiast in the

Free Kirk line. have been re-reading with care your letters

Ion educational matters. It is clear that you have reached

what can never live to see accomplished in England -- a suc

cessful raising up of a body of secular or lay teachers as

schoolmasters and mistresses, having on an average the same

scale of pay, and a similar position in society to the clergy.

IThe average pay of the latter in New England it would,

suppose, be more difficult to ascertain, as there are so many

sects ; and as they get presents, and have fees for marriages,

Ifburials, and christenings apart from their fixed salaries.

the most eminent lay teacher in England could hope to equal

in salary the Archbishop of Canterbury, or if the latter could
be levelled down to the standard, if something could be done

to place secular and clerical teachers on the same social

footing, we might get on and be emancipated from our

Iftrammels, and education proceed and move on with the spirit
of the age, which it now lags behind.  it were equally gen

tlemanlike, men would take less and be lay teachers, so man y

of the best have scruples in undertaking the clerical office, such

as it is with us. Making the Bible a school-book here, and

setting poor children to read Deuteronomy, is a proof that our

Church teaching is not meant to open their minds. People

i848. DANTES LYRICAL POEMS.                      135

will have education, so they manage thus by sham instruction

Ito evade what they dread, i.e. the making them capable of
thinking and reasoning.  believe the Bible is not a school-

book with you. The success of the 'ragged schools' in

Edinburgh has been lamentably checked by the Presbyterians

and their clergy insisting on the Bible, and this making the

ICatholic priests object to the Romanist children attending,
to whom it would have been of peculiar use.  am afraid
Ithat our clergy think they should lose influence if lay
teachers were raised in schools.  imagine, on the contrary,

that all the higher minds at least would gain. Here it

is notorious that if you have three sons, and determine that

they shall belong to the legal, medical, and clerical profes

Isions, you would select the least talented as the safest for the
Church.  hope the progress of popular education may one

day change this.

                         Ever most truly yours,

                                  CHARLES LYELL.

                               To His FATHER.

                                                                               Bowood : January 13, 1848.

    IMy dear Father, -- presented your ' Dante's Lyrics,' 2 as

you suggested, to Lord Lansdowne as from yourself this
morning, and gave him also a nicely bound copy with the
Italian on one side which is always much liked.

     Lord L. remembered your essay, not only because he
reads and remembers all that comes out, but because Mr.

Davenport used to talk for ever to him of Rossetti's views,
and Lord L. had thought that Rossetti had gone too far.
Lord L. also asked me what you thought of Ugo Foscolo's
performance, which he had read and commented on. He
skimmed through your last edition, and said the analysis
prefixed to the Sonnets was most useful and necessary. He
thought there was so much in what is now going on in Italy
like the old contests of Guelphs and Grhibellines, that it
was calculated to keep alive the interest of Dante's writ
ings. He begged me particularly to send his thanks for the
books.

     8 TJie Canzonitre of Dante Alighieri, and the Vita Tfitova and Conrito,
trarslated by Charles Lyell, Senior, of Kinnordy, N.B.

136                   SIR CHARLES LYELL.                        CHAP. xxv.

     We found, what is always most pleasant, a small party,
Lord Auckland and Macaulay having left to attend a Privy
or Cabinet Council, the number at dinner being ten-- our host

and hostess, the Milmans, Mrs. Norton and her boy, a gentle

manlike young Etonian, Mr. Charles Austin, famed for having
made more money in four years at the law than anyone

ever did before, some say 40,000£. a year, by railways, and
Mr. Charles Buller. M.P., who has now undertaken the poor

law, and to be chief of the department. The conversation

was very agreeable and without effort; Milman in good

spirits though not strong, Buller and Austin both very

original and literary. Fielding's novels were discussed con

amore, Dickens and Thackeray rather run down too much,

till young Norton said he was ' boiling ; ' Chaucer and

Dryden ; and then Mrs. Norton, who is really almost as

handsome as ever, very ladylike and clever, had an argu

ment with Milman, who maintained that translations of
poems should be in verse and not ' stilted prose ' as he called

all prose translations.
    Our party at Mr. Rogers' on Monday was brilliant, and

no one engrossed too much. Mr. Empson, now editor of the

'Edinburgh Review,' and Mrs. Empson (Miss Jeffrey), Hallam,
Babbage, Eastlake, and Mr. Luttrell ; the latter, though

oldish now, came in now and then with his witty sayings.
Lord Campbell's ' Chancellors,' in which a letter of Lady
Philip Francis, acknowledging her husband to be Junius, is

given, brought up that old controversy, and Rogers confessed
the truth of the tale, that when he was set on at Holland

House to ask Sir Philip Francis if he might put a question to

Ifhim, Sir Philip replied 'At your peril ! ' in so forbidding a tone,

that Rogers retreated to the rest, and said ' he is Junius,

it is Junius Brutus' On some one calling in question the

great superiority of Junius, Rogers cited in support of it an

able passage on the difference between injuries and insults ;
but Hallam said, 'After all, there is nothing in Juuius so

p"otwheartfusl omase  the comment of    Dr.   Johnson   on it,  when   he said
                        people mistake   the           of the   shaft  for the
                                               venom

vigour of the bow." ' When Luttrell complained of cold,
Hallam said, ' Don't let Rogers hear you, for his maxim is

that no man can be cold except he be a fool or a beggar.'

i848.  FOSSIL BIRDS.                     137

   IThe party are all going for a walk, so must join them.

Perhaps Mary will write to-morrow.

Believe me, my dear father, your affectionate son,
                                                         CHARLES LYELL.

To CHARLES BUNRUEY, ESQ. (who was travelling in Italy).

       Bowood : January 14, 1848.

My dear Bunbury, --Your letter was most agreeable to

me,3 especially as knowing something of that region of

calcareous rocks in the south, and remembering the general
aspect of the vegetation without having made out why it
looked as it does, which your description of the part played

I Iby the different species of trees, shrubs, and plants, many of
which well remember, so well explains.   believe most of

the limestone which we used to consider as part of the

cretaceous series, with its nummulites, is now voted by many
Ito be intermediate between Cretaceous and Eocene, but
Ishould like to know more about that.
Ithat Susan's drawing-book was lost, as    am very sorry
Itained many valuable memoranda.4
                                        am sure it con

                                        am much pleased

with her picture of Mary, and think the last touches im

proved it much. EasUake says it is very well painted,

much beyond any former work of hers, and as to likeness

Ihe added, ' Unhappy as have often thought the lot of the
Iportrait painter, yet do not believe that their plight is quite

BO miserable as that people should not be satisfied with such

an excellent resemblance to the original as this.' My father
has read your ' Botany of Southern France ' with much delight.

The chief geological news is the arrival of eight hundred

specimens of bones of fossil birds, in the most perfect state

of preservation, from clefts and caves of New Zealand, buried
in loose volcanic sand. They belong to ten or more species
of Moa, or Dinornis, one ten to twelve feet high. The

skulls and eggs are found. The largest would have made a

      · Treating of the botany of the South of France.
     4 His sister-in-law, Miss Horner, who had been in Rome with Mr. and Mrs.
Banbury, and who suffered shipwreck in the ' Ariel,' off the Vado rocks, near

Leghorn, and lost her drawings among other things.

138  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. ixv.

more gigantic footprint than the biggest of Hitchcock's

IConnecticut marks. Eastlake, whom sat next to at Rogers'
Idinner, was, find, much taken with Owen's article on

' Paleontology ' (on Broderip) in the last ' Quarterly Review.'
Sir John Herschel's, on ' Humboldt's Cosmos,' in the last
' Edinburgh,' is also much thought of.

                            Ever affectionately yours,
                                                            CHARLES LYELL.

                               To His SISTER.

                                                               11 Harley Street : February 7, 1848.

    My dearest Eleanor, --When we read your letter this

morning, and saw how much you and the rest, including
my dear mother, had been thinking of our lecture5 in spite of
so many of you being invalids, we were quite sorry that we
did not some of us send a note on Saturday to say that it came
off much to my satisfaction. The consciousness that no one
else either in Europe or the United States could from actual
observation have given the same account of the nature of

the evidence, and what was genuine and what spurious,
respecting the proofs of the first quadruped or air-breathing

Ireptile ever found in such ancient rocks as the coal-strata,

gave me confidence and spirit, as knew it would be

Iof interest to all the geologists present. It was, as Dr.

Fitton remarked to Mary before began, a glorious audi
ence, and the full benches made me perform with much

more ease to myself. Before lecture, Faraday pleased me

Iby some hints, and showing me his private memoranda for

lectures, and telling me what suspect he hardly ever did

Ito anyone, part of his mechanism for timing the different

parts. It is wonderful how much had come by practice

to the same results. He has given fifty or a hundred lec
tures to my one, and is the chief master of the art in Eng
land, to my mind. The number present, as noted down at
the entrance, was 398, but it may have been more, as Mr.
Barlow does not quite trust the new porter.

     With love to all, ever yoiir affectionate brother,
                                                            CHARLES LYELL.

     · Lecture at the Boyal Institution, on a Reptile in the Coal-formation of the

Alleghames.

i848. PARTY AT SIR ROBERT FEEDS.           139

To His SlSTER.

                                                                              Sunday, February 27, 1848.

   IDearest Marianne, -- must give you a few words on my
Iparty yesterday, as, if lose any time, there is so muck
Igoing on in these eventful times that shall forget what
Ipassed. When got to Sir E. Peel's, Bunsen was the only

Ione arrived, so after making my bow to Lady Peel and her
daughter, and shaking hands with my host,  heard the

Prussian Ambassador give us a full account of a member of

his embassy who had left Paris on the Thursday of the

Revolution passing over barricades and having some hair

breadth escapes. Bunsen told us that there are some 30,000

communists in Paris who are for property in common and no

marriage, and who are much to be feared by those who

have aught to lose. He (Bunsen) blamed Louis Philippe for

not having seen some months ago that a moderate extension

of the suffrage could alone defer some catastrophe. The

party which next came in were Faraday, Sir Stratford

Canning, Buckland, Lord St. Germans, Owen, De la Beche,

Sir Benjamin Brodie, Mi. Hamilton, Hallam, Sir James

Graham, Dr. Mantell ; making with me and a young son of

Sir Robert's seventeen ; the eighteenth or missing one was

I ILord Aberdeen, whose excuse came in after got there.

sat between Buckland and Faraday, F. being next Peel,

on whose other side was Hamilton, and next him Owen, and

Iwe had much pleasant talk, both tete-a-tete and we six all to

gether. After the ladies retired, expected little more than

a continuance of conversation with next neighbours ; but Sir

Robert remaining in the same place, asked Bunsen to tell them

his latest Paris news, which he did from near the top of the

table, all questioning him. Then Sir Robert gave an account

I Iof what the French Ambassador had told him just two hours

before, and do not think ever before remember fifteen

persons exchanging so many ideas, chiefly because most of

them were in different ways public men, and not afraid to

hear the sound of their own voices, and partly from so many

being well acquainted with nearly all the others. Sir S.

Canning was asked what he thought would be the effect on

140               SIR CHARLES LYELL,  CHAP. xxv.

Switzerland, from which he had just returned. Hallam

talked a good deal with Bunsen, Graham, Peel, and Canning

on the merits and demerits of Lamartine'a new book on the

French Revolutionary period, the effect of which some of
Ifthem regard as very mischievous, especially now.
                                                         Louis

Philippe, even at the last hour, had on giving up Guizot

chosen Thiers or some other eminent reformer, Barrot for

example (neither of whom are republicans), instead of a con
Iservative like Mole", his throne might perhaps have been
saved, and if not to him, at least to his dynasty.       was

struck with the little feeling the whole party had for him,

though they were of course hoping he would escape.

Hallam, who was intimate with Guizot when he was in

London, and since at Paris, told me as he took me home in

his carriage, how anxious he was about him and his safety.

He said he could not defend his late career, but he liked him

much.

     Sir Robert told us very clearly, at Brodie's request, two

stories of his having respited two different criminals, con

demned by the Judges on circumstantial evidence, both of

whom, when Secretary for the Home Department, he proved

to be guiltless.

                  Believe me your affectionate brother,

                  CHARLES LYELL.

                               To His SISTER.

                                                                                                March 16, 1848.

    At the Romillys' party yesterday, we had a specimen of
the monetary panic of Paris transferred to London ; not a
few in the room, especially those connected with Geneva,
having considerable investments in the French funds, canal
shares, railroads, and having their political misgivings greatly
heightened by their sensitiveness about the loss of their in
comes. Mr. Strutt, M.P., Mr. Wickham, of the Stamp Office,
and their wives, Mr. Marcet, Dr. Roget, Mr. and Mrs. Kay
Shuttleworth, Mr. Parker, of the Treasury. Shuttleworth
told us that Mr. Jones Loyd, the great banker, had just
informed him that his foreign broker had failed to negotiate
a good bill on Vienna, and told him that at that moment

i848. REVOLUTION IN FRANCE.  141

there were only two important cities in all Europe, Hamburgh

and Amsterdam, on which he wa3 able to negotiate bills. So
general a commercial disturbance was never known. Lord
Normanby had just sent for 500 sovereigns to get on with,
until specie was forthcoming in Paris. The general opinion
seemed to be, that long before the 900 meet, or even before

Ithe elections begin, there will be a collision of parties. The

day dined with Sir R. Peel, when the Republic was just
proclaimed, Sir Robert said there will be a financial crisis.
But many here think that might have been avoided but for
the measures of the Provisional Government, which frightened

capitalists by increasing the burdens by 25,000 additional
troops ; increased rations for sailors in the navy ; a promise
to find work and wages for any one of the 35,000,000 that

might want it ; one pound a day for every one of the 900

until they had made a constitution ; paying one per cent.
more for all money in the savings bank ; and no retrench

ment except of the civil employes. Against which we have to

set the giving up the tax on the newspaper stamps, and a
 promise to give up the octroi of Paris. Mr. Empson, now
 editor of the 'Edinburgh Review,' remarked to me that

 either the whole world, writers on political economy, states
 men and all, have been in their dotage up to this hour, and

 Louis Blanc has made the grandest discovery of the age, or
 they are the most arrant fools for promising to find work
 and wages, to give labourers the profit of capital. There are
 not a few who hope that after some extraordinary changes
 the country will right itself, for they have a plentiful harvest
 in prospect and vast resources, but it is an awful experi
 ment and risk.

                                    Ever affectionately yours,

                                                                CHARLES LYELL.

                               To His SISTER.

                                                                          London: April 2, 1848.

   IWe went yesterday to see the studio of Lough the

sculptor, who is a man, think, of considerable genius, and
has some spacious rooms filled with models, many of them
colossal, such as ' Milton's Satan,' and some which he made
for the House of Lords, but did not succeed in his competi

142     SIR CHARLES LYELL.                      CHAP. xxv.

Ition.  think his model for the Nelson column, which was

nearly chosen, for he missed it only by two votes, would have
been very superior to that which gained the prize. A large

statue of Nelson, without the cocked hat which now disfigures

it, not placed out of sight in the clouds, with four statues of

sailors at the four corners of the pedestal, and on the sides of

this alto-relievos of sea-fights, &c. Among the company

viewing the sculpture was Madame Bunsen, who told me

that her husband had just received the official news of the

fight in the streets of Berlin, and that instead of the news

paper story of 2,000 soldiers killed, there were only 140, and

only four officers instead of forty, and they presume of the

people in the same proportion. She flatters herself that the

Government is now firmly established in Prussia. We

had a pleasant party at Sir Edward Ryan's ; 6 he in good
spirits, and a young friend of his, about thirty, Mr. Gibbs,

Ia lawyer, fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge, well in
formed and lively ; Dr. Fitton in great force.  got him to

refresh my memory with his story of a Dublin professor
who said to his class, ' Gentlemen, the Hon. Mr. Boyle

was a great man ; he was the father of chemistry, and
uncle to the Earl of Cork ; ' from which, says Fitton, his

pupils worked out the conclusion that chemistry and the
Earl of Cork were first cousins. At the Zoological Gardens

to-day, we saw Broadhead, the Secretary of Legation,

who told me there is no doubt that the Duke and Duchess

of Montpensier went off in a huff. They called suddenly

and unexpectedly on the Queen, not incog, but in their

public capacity, when she was in a delicate state of health,

and not knowing exactly what to do, and fearing she

might commit herself, she very naturally sent off to Lord

Palmerston to come directly, but before he got there, they

had waited and waited till they got out of humour, and

set off in about thirty hours afterwards, on tlieir way to

Rotterdam, whence they are said to have talcLMi ship to St.

     · Late Chief Justice in Calcutta, from whence he returned in 1 843. He was
made a member of the Privy Council and Civil Service Commissioner, and for
his sound judgment and sense, his advice was sought by statesmen and others
and his genial nature was a delight to all who had the privilege of knowing
him.

i848. SIR EDWARD RYAN.                                   143

Sebastian, and if Spain be ia the state reported, they will

soon wish themselves back in London. The other daj I had

a short talk with the Bishop of Oxford, who said that Guizot

had the merit not only of writing history, but of making it.

The firat day that news came of the French having proclaimed

Itheir Eepublic, and among other things the Provisional

Government having ordered troops to the frontiers, met the

IBishop of Llandaff at the Athenaeum, and he asked me what
1 thought of the affair.     said it reminded me of the old

cycle of political events, which the ancients were so fond of
believing, upon which he repeated the lines : ' erunt etiam

altera bella; Atque iterum ad Trojam magnus mittetur
IAchilles'                '
    and  he  added,          wonder who will be their great
;
IAchilles this time.'  told him probably some ' petit caporal '

of whom none of us have yet heard. The Swiss consul, John

Prevost, remarked to me to-day, that one result is clear ;

most of the French capitalists and bankers are ruined.

On Sir Edward Ryan's table were several handsome

pieces of plate, after classical models, worked by native

Hindoos, and with inscriptions intimating that they were

given from gratitude to him (Sir Edward) for his exertions
to schools and colleges for the education of the natives. Sir

Edward told us when we were talking of modern orators,

that he heard Lord Lansdowne speak for an hour on the

sending an ambassador to Rome, and although it read well in
the papers, it was far better in the delivery, as he was very
animated and his action and manner so good. A petition is

getting up for a royal commission to go to Oxford and Cam

Ibridge, and the signatures of fellows of colleges, and even
of the clergy, are already most numerous.          have obtained

a good many, and a pamphlet is just come out, quite in
the spirit of my chapter on the ' Universities,' by the Rev.

Mr. Jowett and Mr. Arthur Stanley, son of the Bishop ot

Norwich, which is excellent. A considerable reform at Cam

bridge is much agitated, but a little pressure from without is

desirable, to aid the reformers within. A strong wish to

revive the utility of Professor Smyth's Historical Professor

ship at Cambridge, is showing itself in the University.

                             Ever affectionately,

                             CHARLES LYELL.

144        SIR CHARLES LYELL.       CHAP. xxv.

           To His SISTER.

                                                                                         April, 1848.

     IWhen got to the council-room,7 1 found Sir Robert Tnglis

and his party mustering pretty strong. After De la Beche

Ihad spoken in favour of scientific Presidents and a short

term of office (two years), seconded his motion, and as an

Iargument against going on with aristocratic Presidents, as

we have been doing so long, pointed out that of forty-eight
members of the Upper House who now sign F.E.S. to their

names, and who may be taken as that part of our higher

aristocracy who care most for science, not one ever wrote
a single paper in the ' Philosophical Transactions ' except

IBrougham, thirty-three years before he was made a peer.
then mentioned four or five exceptions, of men who like

I ILord Northampton, then in the chair, had a real feeling for
science.   said admired our peers as a body for their talent,

but that mado their neglect of science the more marked.

It was owing to our University system, which also governed

the great schools ; even Cambridge, while she put a powerful

instrument into the hands of a student, gave him no taste

Ifor its application, and, like Oxford, shunned the progressive
sciences.  have no wish to disparage our aristocracy as a

political body, nor wish them to have less social rank, but

why do homage to a body that care for and know so little

about science? Inglis and Hopkins spoke at full length on
the other side, and it ended in our agreeing not to divide.

We gave up insisting on two years' limitation, while they
agreed not to insist on permanency ; that science should have

its turn at least, which as we have a majority they could not

help ; and finally that Colonel Sabine and Mr. Lyell be ap

pointed a deputation to go down to Sir John Htrschel's, in

Kent, to try and persuade him to be President. Whether
we succeed or not, it is a point gained that it should be

offered to science, and if he declines, we will try some other.
Faraday's health makes him out of the question. A great

many of us are for Robert Brown.

                                    CHARLES LYELL.

           ' Of the Royal Society.

i848.     SISMONDA.                 145

          To CHARLES BUNBURY, ESQ.

If IMy dear Bunbnry, --             May, 1848.

                         have not written to you for
some time, it is because the affairs of the Royal Society, still

in a state of transition, have occupied my leisure moments.

Trying in vain to get Herschel and Faraday to be Presidents,

then to stir up Robert Brown's courage to let us assert a

principle in nominating him, then ending with getting Lord

Rosse to say he would stand, then choosing the fifteen out
of all the candidates for the year, then a new secretary

I(Grove, hope), and various reforms against a set of obstruc
Itives, compared to whom Metternich was, presume, a pro

gressive animal. When Sismonda, who has made a beautiful

map of Sardinia, came here, I immediately asked him if he

would lay before you all the evidence from fossil plants of the
supposed occurrence of carboniferous species in the lias. He
told me he wished much to do so, that it was high time that
Adolphe Brongniart's first dicta thereupon should be recon

sidered, and that he had the only complete collection, and

Iall of them should be submitted to you. He thinks the

problem, as do, the most puzzling and curious of all the
theoretical points yet undecided in Geology, and worth a
journey to Italy by any competent botanist like you, whose
papers he knows, as he takes in our Journal. He is not

Iquite satisfied that Brongniart has gone critically into the

affair, though suspect you found that he had, yet Sismonda

has got together great materials since that.

    You will be glad to hear that Owen, after seeing Gold-
fuss's published account, entirely confirms all that Falconer
told us of the true reptilian character of those fossils in
the coal of Saarbruck, for the age of which V. Decken

vouches.

So now, besides my Pennsylvanian footsteps we have
a.bout three species recognised by their bones, skull vertebra

and all, of an order which according to the theory of progres
sive development came in only with the Permian. But they
will merely shift their starting point, and never take warning.
Owen told me yesterday, that Bunyeep now turns out to be a
VOL. II.  L

146               SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxv.

I Ifoal and not a calf, and believe shall have to make out

the sea-serpent to be a shark.
                           Ever your affectionate brother-in-law,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

          To CHARLES BUNBUBY, ESQ.

                  Kinnordy : August 2, 1848.

     My dear Bunbury,--We have been following you with

Imuch interest iu your journey through Tuscany and the land

of musquitoes and robbers, and was very glad to receive

Ihere your letter to me, in which, among other matters, you

mention an entomological confirmation of a story have often
I Itold, till the wonder it excited began to make me doubt it my

self. took a large dragon-fly (if am not mistaken, CEshna
Ij-nnccea), and having carefully eviscerated it, put a straw, seeun-

dum artem, inside the abdomen to keep it distended. Before

impaled it, the creature, which had been stunned by a blow
I(in the thorax,
Iwindow.          presume), recovered, and flew out of the

          ran out and watched it to the roof of the house,

when the wind taking it, it sailed off in grand style, the
Istraw seeming just to balance the lost weight of viscera.

But admire your cicada much more for doing without a
make-weight. You inquire about Joseph Hooker. The last,

piece of news is enough to make your mouth water. He
had found three new species of Magnolia in the Himalaya
mountains in one day. His father has printed a letter in

the 'Botanical Magazine,' with amusing gossip about the
journey through Egypt with Lord Dalhousie, Aden, and

Madras, where they were received (the Governor-General aud

suite) in state, and a few passing notes on the plants and

Ifossil forest in the desert.
        have -walked with Mary to the site (still the only one)
of the Jiinneca lorealis, which now measures 13 feet 3 inches

Iin a north and south direction, and 19 feet east and west.

By-iuul-by shall compare it with its size in former years,
nnd wo will see if we can calculate back to the day when

Rome* (frouoe or emberiza, driven down by cold from, the
Grampians, and burrowing for blackberries in the snow,
rubbed off one of the minute seeds from their feathers in the

1848. FOSSIL SHARK'S TEETH. 147

spot where you were destined to see it so soon after you had

dismounted from your steed in 1844. It was in full flower

in the end of June, when Katharine 8 paid it a visit, and

picked some of it. At Sir Philip Egerton's we saw a large

Isheet of water entirely covered with the leaves and yellow
flowers of Menyanthea nymphwfolia.   am glad you saw

Targioni, and hope you will have found Sismonda at home.

I Iam glad you saw the Brazilian ferns of Raddi, as have no

doubt you gained new ideas. My father received your letter

from Florence, which we all read with much pleasure. The

Iforaminifera of the Sienna marls are innumerable as am
Iwell aware, and have seen recent marl from the Mediterra
Inean off the delta of the Nile, equally full of recent species.

    August 3.-- have just been reading an extract in the
Review '
' Egypt,'
Iflast ' Edinburgh        (art. on   ' Sharpe's  Egypt ') from
                          certainly  one of the  most eloquent
Miss Martineau's
in the English language.  Harriet should be excommuni

cated for certain doctrines boldly put forth in this the most
able work she has produced, it is certainly better worth

being a martyr for than her mesmerism. Joseph Hooker

Ifwas shown in Malta some of the huge Miocene fossil shark's
teeth as having been those of St. Paul.          the Apostles

had a succession of teeth through life, like the Squalidae,

Iwithout a proportional quantity of toothache, from which
Ihave been suffering for the last week, envy them their
Igifts. shall be glad if you return by the Simplon, as, having
I Iseen it twice, should like to see it often again, whereas
aui quite satisfied with the Mont Cenis, although the Italian

ascent of that pass is very interesting. As we shall be talk

Iing of new ' Quarterlies ' and ' Edinburghs ' when you return,
  may as well mention that Milman wrote the article on ' Pope
Ganganelli ' in the last ' Quarterly Review,' with which my
father is much delighted, and Guizot that on the ' State of

IReligion in France,' translated by Mrs. Austm, with which
have been much interested. Carlyle is said to have written

Ithe entertaining article on ' Goldsmith ' in the ' Edinburgh,'

and know that Francis Newman wrote that on ' Tests,' and
Peacock that on ' Herschel.'

· His sister-in-law, Mrs. H. Lyell.

                             i. 2

148  SIR CHARLES LYELL.             CHAP. xxv.

    With my love to Frances, believe me, my dear Bunbury,
ever your affectionate brother-in-law,

                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

     To LEONAED HORNER, ESQ.

                                    Kinnordy : September 11, 1848.

     My dear Horner, --As there is nothing in this morning's

(Friday's) Gazette, there may be in that of Tuesday. The
Idelay has presume been caused by Lord Lansdowne's having
Ileft town for Bowood.
                        send you an extract from Lord

ILansdowne's letter, that you may understand how the matter

stands : ' have thought it on consideration so fit in the

distinguished situation you occupy, and with your scientific

reputation, that you should receive the distinction of knight

Ihood, that took it upon myself to mention the subject to
Ithe Queen, and have her Majesty's authority to state that
she will most willingly confer it upon you, and she under
Istands that it is without any solicitation on your part. Had

you been near London, should have proposed to you to

attend the Council on Monday for that purpose, but it can be

gazetted without your attendance.'

                        Ever yours affectionately,

                                    CHARLES LYELL.

     To GIDEON MANTELL, ESQ.

     Kinnordy, Kirriemuir, N.B. : September 24, 1848.

My dear Mantell, --Although at the southern extremity

of the island, you are the first person, excepting a member

Iof my own family, who has addressed a letter to me under

my new denomination, and thank you sincerely for your
congratulations. The manner in which the honour was con

ferred, both on the part of the Ministers and the Queen, has

Ibeen such as every scientific friend would approve of, and
had a most agreeable geological exploring on the banks of
the Dee, into which Prince Albert entered with much spirit.

I am sure your lectures in the Isle of Wight will have sown
Ieome good seed, for the Milmans, to whom lent your book,
Ihave been profiting by it in their examinations of Purbeck,
and speak of it most approvingly.   am glad to hear of the

i848. ARCHBISHOP OF DUBLIN.      149

Inew discoveries, and that the two papers for the Royal

Society are getting ready. By staying in town, and a few

others Hatter ourselves we have put at the end of the session

the printing and referring of papers on a better footing for

the future, though we have still much to do. The Royal

Society council work is no sinecure to those who have a re
I Iforming spirit.
              have hitherto missed no meeting since

was elected.

Believe me, with my wife's kind remembrances, ever, my

dear Mantell, yours most truly,

                                 CHARLES LYELL.

                              To His SISTER.

                                                                                                   London, 1848.

     My dear Marianne, --Mary has given you the journal of

I Iour late proceedings, but has not had room for any par

ticulars, and have not time, as should like to have, were
it only to refresh my memory, to tell you of some of the
people we have met and the things they said.

   IFew dinners have pleased me more than that at Dr.

Whately's. Fortunately two M.P.'s, know not who they
were, did not come, but sent their excuses just before we sat
down, it being the second night of the debate on Church
Rates and of the division. This reduced the party to six, a
number who could all talk together, and could not talk party
politics, an excellent representation of France and of
America, and the Archbishop, a strange compound of an
Oxford Churchman grafted on Ireland, and full of informa
tion about all that is going on there, which he views with

Iinterest more as a political economist than in any other light,

as far as could judge.
     Mr. Dewer is a lawyer of considerable practice in New

York, now deputed to arrange some banking concerns be

Itween the United States and England. He wrote the first

good digest of American law. His good temper, would
almost say magnanimity, in talking to De Beaumont on the
tender question of slavery in America, considering what a
satire ' Marie ' contains, struck me much. We talked

of Miss Martineau's book, parts of which must be very

150          SIR CHARLES LYELL.                         CHAP. xxv.

clever. The Archbishop said, that if ·women ever became

invested with political rights here, it might be well to have

two Houses, and let the women speak in one and the men

vote in the other, for since the Irish members have got in, he

saw no other way of economising time. Dr. Whately is a
                                                        he said, ' De
great philologist.  When on    fosruc"hhosmubej.e"ct's  De Beaumont
Beaumont, you have  no word

said, ' No,  perhaps because    we    h"avmeonlescshezofmtohie,"th"insgon  than
you have.     We have said of  late,                                       chez

soi," but that is very clumsy ; and then you have another

word, "job," which we cannot translate; it is a sublime

word that -- God knows we have the thing.' The Archbishop

was philosophising on the cause of their not having the word

'job,' and said that their representative form of govern

ment was so new, and in a pure monarchy there were fewer
true jobs. De Beaumont said, ' Certainly there are no jobs
under an absolute despotism ; because it is all one great job,

and there is no room for small ones.' De Beaumont gave us

an amusing account of his wonder at the aristocratic manners

of society in England as contrasted with France, and its

effects on social intercourse, in which he saw clearly enough

what was absurd and ridiculous. Dr. Whately explained to

him why Englishmen, being in fact socially disposed, were

obliged to be stiff to strangers, because all were trying to

hang upon and be pulled up by the skirts of those above

Ithem. When De Beaumont asked how many grades there

were in society, the Archbishop said, ' cannot say how low

it goes, but the other day some chimney-sweepers presented

a petition to the Lord Mayor against others who had. in
                                          "ofthdaatnccienrgt,ain&cd.,usotn
truded themselves into their   privilege
May day, and in this petition  they said

men and other low fellows, pretending to be chimney-sweepers"

&c., so the degrees of rank probably descend even below the

dustmen.' A very interesting discussion arose about the
effects of the French, American, and English laws of the
division of property as contrasted with each other. De Beau
mont defended the system of division so far as agriculture

Iwas concerned, which Dr. Whately was most afraid of.
then asked De Beaumont whether he did not feel already that
the small fortunes in France enabled a wealthy Government

i848. ON DIVISION OF PROPERTY.                        151

to bribe the majority, not only of the electors, but even of those
elected. He said, ' Yes ; but then we must greatly increase

the number of electors, and we may do that safely when

Imillions become landed proprietors, no matter how small their
estates.'  objected that still the Government could offer

irresistible bribes to the majority of the deputies, which was

Iimpossible when there were so many large fortunes as in

England. When had thus driven him home, he began a

Isort of confession, having previously seemed determined to be

an optimist on French affairs. He said, ' grant you that it
is equality rather than liberty that we are tending to ; the

wide distribution of property is raising the morale of the great
mass of our population above yours, and it is producing a
centralisation force in the Government ; but this must end,

I fear, in the central power being so great there is an end to
Ithat liberty which believe nothing but an aristocracy can

preserve.' The Archbishop brought out a pamphlet to prove
that in one district near Paris the average property of eleven

thousand landed proprietors was the quarter of an English

acre each, and he began imagining, when the division had
gone farther, a question of law arising as to whether a hunts

man had committed a trespass by clearing his neighbour's
estate at one leap. Dewer denied that the equal division in
America was producing small properties, which he sup

posed must arise from the rapidity with which large fortunes
were daily made, and the new lands obtained in the new

settlements.

    At our party at Mr. Whitmore's yesterday, the Arch

bishop told us one of the late Lord Norbury's puns. The two
curates of St. George's Chapel, Dublin, were then, and are
now, Mr. Short and Mr. Bridge -- and very long-winded
preachers. Lord N., on being asked how he liked them,
said ' he could wish that Bridge was shortened, and Short

abridged.'

        With love to all, your affectionate brother,

           CHARLES LYELL.

152  SIR CHARLES LYELL.               CHAP. xxvi.

                        CHAPTEE XXVI.

                             JANUARY 1849-JULY 1851.

DB. HOOKER IN INDIA--MACAULAY'S ' HISTORY OF ENGLAND '--TOUR ON DEB-
     SI DE-- VISIT TO SIR JAMES CLARK-- BALMORAL-- TICKNOB'S 4 HISTORY OF
    SPANISH LITERATURE '--VISIT TO GERMANY-- BOTANY OF THE HABTZ--
     GEOLOGY OF SAXONY -- LETTERS OF IGNATIUS -- PREJUDICE AGAINST
     SCIENCE--TRACTARIANISM-- LECTURE AT IPSWICH -- EXHIBITION IN HYDE
     PARK-- RAFPAEL'S CARTOONS.

     [He was re-elected President of the Geological Society in February
1849, and during his term of office communicated two important
papers, ' On Craters of Denudation, with Observations on the Struc
ture and Growth of Volcanic Cones,' and ' On Fossil Rain-Marks of the
recent Triassic and Carboniferous Periods.' He published his ' Second
Visit to the United States of North America ' this year, and he pre
sided over the Geological Section at the British Association at Bir
mingham.

     In 1850 he became one of the Royal Commissioners for the first
Great Exhibition, which was opened in Hyde Park on May 1, 1851.
Sir Charles Lyell gave several lectures at the Royal Institution and

elsewhere during these years.]

     CORRESPONDENCE.

                      To His FATHER.

                                                             11 Harley Street : January 11, 1849.

     I IMy dear Father, --Mary has, believe, told you that

was clever enough to scald my foot, and was getting well,
Ibut walked so many miles yesterday that am now a
Iprisoner for a day.
                      put a finishing stroke by walking to

St. James' Street to attend a meeting of the Graphic Society,

Ito which a committee of artists had invited me. There
found Ruskin, Eastlake, Boxall, and other artists and ama
teurs, Hallam, Babbage, Sir R. Inglis, Bishop of Oxford,

and saw some very beautiful drawings by Turner, and by one

i 849. DR. HOOKER IN INDIA. 158

Knowles, of the Parthenon, and heard good talk about

Phidias, and how he would be astonished to see the black

stains caused by smoking chimneys of cottages, and red stains

of iron on the columns, instead of his azure and gold ; and

how, if Lord Elgin had not bribed the Pasha, the French

IConsul would, and had both left the sculpture, time would
have destroyed more than half ere this.      am getting on

steadily with my work, and we have finished vol. i. of

Macaulay, though frequently referring back to   it,        to read
                                                       it,
again favourite passages. Longman            stereotyping   en
                    is
                                     is
                                         is
couraged by the rapid sale. There a higher moral tone in

it, and less party feeling, than in any of his reviews, and  it

the result of an amount of reading and of remembering
is
                 a
what he has read, which wonderful to think of.

Sir William Hooker has been corresponding with Charles

Bunbury, and tells him that Joseph Hooker was going under

escort of guard from the Rajah of Nepaul to ascend the

highest mountain, more than 28,000 feet hia'h, and that he

tells him that since he left the plains of India, no less than

four of his (J. H.'s) intimate friends have died, and among

them Mr. Williams the geologist. This intelligence comes

home to me, for when drew up, after several communi
                    aI
cations with Lord Auckland, my address to the East IndiaI

                                                     is

                                           I

                                                                     is ;

                                                        I
Board on sending out geologist to India, pointed out

that every one of five geologists whom they had sent out

had been cut off in the prime of life, for want of aid in

assistants, elephants, steamers, &c., which could alone enable

them safely and effectively to perform their mission and

protested, with De la Beche, against the best of his practical

men (the said Williams) being sent out on a forlorn hope.
He has done his business, poor fellow, well, put them in the

-way of working rich mines of coal, and now left like his

predecessors to die in a ditch. Heaven grant that poor

Joseph Hooker may be spared, but             dread Assam and

Borneo, and would rather have the work on the Antarctic

regions and still unpublished notes than all the magnolias

in the Himalaya. His last paper on fossil botany much
thought of. With love to all at Kinnordy,

Believe me, my dear father, your ever affectionate son,

                                             CHARLES LYELL.

154  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                   CHAP. xxvi.

     To GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

                                                                                             February 7, 1849.

    My dear Ticknor, --Agassiz' lectures on ' Embryology '
interested us much, and the sale of them astonishes our

naturalists. We have read Macaulay with much delight.

It is a great proof of his genius that he makes one feel as if

present at the scenes he describes, and as if one had lived in

Ithose times, almost as much as in reading Pepys' ' Diary.'

There is a want of generosity think in regard to Penn and

some others, not that one wishes to have their delinquencies

concealed, but the characters of such men, and of Marl-

borough, ought to be allowed to unfold themselves, and they

Iought not to be drawn before the events are related for
which they are so unsparingly condemned.  had an argu

ment with Macaulay about the atrocious crimes which he

says God commanded the Israelites to perpetrate. All he

could say was that he was on ' the orthodox ' side, and that

Iaccording to my view ' the God of the Old Testament differed

from the God of the New,' and that if merely thought

that the Israelites believed they were acting under God's

Ispecial command when they hewed Agag in pieces, and that

they were mistaken, should be obliged to renounce their

history and the prophets.

    That he himself believed it he neither said nor the con

trary, but certainly he need not have written that passage
about the Puritans in such strong terms. As Francis New
man, the brother of the great Tractarian who has gone over to
Rome, takes the lead here of our rationalists, so the brother

of the Puseyite saint, Mr. Fronde of Oriel, who died and

left some curious memoirs, has come out with a book called
the ' Nemesis of Faith,' not very short of Theodore Parker's

opinions, and written not without ability. As he IB a
lay fellow of Exeter College, Oxford, it remains to be seen

Iwhether they will or can expel him.
        have been very busy with my inauguration dinner as

President of the Geological Society, and succeeded in

getting the Archbishop of Canterbury (Dr. Sumner, author
of ' Records of Creation,' a geologico-theological work), Sir

1849' NEW HOUSES OF PARLIAMENT,                               155

Robert Peel, Van de Weyer, and a great many M.P.'s and

notabilities to come, so that the speaking is allowed to be

the most brilliant we ever had at any anniversary. Sedg-

wick spoke very eloquently, and Peel ; and the Arch
Ibishop made a straightforward and manly speech.
                                                              have

been returning the Archbishop's call to-day, and was much

struck with the magnificent appearance which the new
houses of the Legislature, or the ' Palace of Westminster,'

make from the Lambeth bank of the river. When will you

come and see the new creation, in the old florid gothic style,

grouping beautifully with the towers of Westminster

Abbey ?  Ever most truly yours,

                                    CHARLES LYELL.

         To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

                      I Kinnordy : July 29, 1849.

    My dear Homer, -- return you Empson's letter with
many thanks. His commendations and Lord Jeffrey's are a

reward for taking pains with the book, and     if,like an

                                                  I

                                                               a
achromatic telescope, has presented objects as they are,
         it

                      is

                     I
without imparting to them any colouring of its own, may

feel gratified by that compliment.  fear, however, that the

strong anti-slavery movement in Now England, from

natural desire at this moment to stop the spread and acces

sion of new Slave territory, causing them so to misre

present the real state of the South, and the negroes, that

they will write against that part of my work.   have just
                                               I

                                                          is
finished reading this morning your first anniversary address,

which excellent. Your criticism of Agassiz where he
is

disputes all identification of recent and fossil species well
put. You ought to have seen him at Southampton on our

dredging expedition. E. Forbes showed him some of the

varieties of common shells, which occur also fossil in the red

crag, and which Agassiz had declared were not varieties,'
but extinct species. When he was convinced that the same
           if
varieties flourished now, he said Lyell would give up half
his percentage doctrines, he would give up half his objections,'
or something to that effect.

         Believe me ever affectionately yours,

                                    CHARLES LYELL.

156  SIR CHARLES LYELL,       CHAP. xxvi.

     To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

                                                                 Birkhall : September 3, 1849.

     IMy dear Horner, -- have been spending my time in a

very enjoyable and by no means vminstructive way here, and
have felt all my visiting at Balmoral, in the whole course of

Iwhich there has not been a single drawback, not only

pleasant, but hope useful, as helping forward that taste for

natural history and science which is intended to form a part

of the education of the young people, and expected to prove
a resource to them. What Van de Weyer said of the steady

Idevelopment of Prince Albert's mind, in a great variety of

directions, had been able more to appreciate. His German

reading on serious subjects makes him an improving com

Ipanion to one who is not versed in what is going on in that

world, and had much good talk with him alone, on a

variety of grave subjects, as well as on the different insects

which belong to Switzerland, the Isle of Wight, and Scotland

Irespectively. That he knew so much about these was quite
a new light to me.   had two long walks with Mr. Birch

Iand his pupil. Lord John Russell made himself very agree

able to me, and like the rest of the household. There
reigns a strong wish to live here in privacy, which is most

wholesome to the mind, after such a life of representation.

The Prince has just finished Macaulay, and his discussion of

it with me was one of many fruitful subjects for comparing

notes and opinions.

     With love to all at Rivermede, ever affectionately yours,

                         CHARLES LYELL.

                To His SISTEE-IN-LAW, Miss HORNER.

                                                                Kinnordy : September5, 1849.

   I IMy dearest Susan, -- told your father that would send
Iyou a little gossip of our late tour on Deeside, during which

  had some good geological work on some remarkable hills
composed entirely of serpentine in Glen Muick, and some
botanising, with much useful and healthy exercise, in addi

Ition to agreeable companionship with the Clarks, pere, mere,

and fils, and parts of three days which spent at Balmoral.

i849. TOUR ON DELSIDE.                                             157

I IThe day went to dine there, Saturday last, had first a
Ilong walk -- Sir James Clark aud --with Mr. Birch 9 and his

pupil, a pleasing, lively boy, whose animated description of
the conjuror, or Wizard of the North, whom they had seen a
few days before, was very amusing. ' He (the wizard) had cut
to pieces mamma's pocket-handkerchief, then darned it and
ironed it, so that it was as entire as ever; he had fired a

pistol, and caused five or six watches to go through Gibb's
(one of their footmen) head, and all were tied to a chair on
Gibb's other side,' and so forth ; ' but papa (Prince Albert)
knows how all these things are done, and had the watches

Ireally gone through Gibb's head he could hardly have looked

so well, though he was confounded.' Sometimes walked
alone with the child, who asked me the names of plants, and

to let him see spiders, &c., through my magnifying glass,

Isometimes with the tutor, whom continue to like more as
I become better acquainted. After our ramble of two hours
Iand a half through some wild scenery, was sent for to join
Ianother party, when found the Queen, Prince, and Lord

John, by a deep pool on the river Dee, fishing for trout

and salmon.

On the way home we visited the quarry with the trap

I Idike cutting through limestone, and producing garnets,

which found out last year, and talked a little about it.

After the Queen had entered the Castle, the Prince kept me

so long, and we kept one another so late, talking on all kinds

of subjects, that a messenger came from her Majesty saying
it was only a quarter of an hour to dinner-time.

After the ladies had gone to the drawing-room, we had

much lively talk, which the Prince promoted greatly, telling
some amusing stories himself, and encouraging others by

laughing at theirs. Lord John Russell, and Lord Portman
                      the whole talk
myself, had                           to ourselves, but anyone
chose could             Sir J. Clark  was not well, and could
Iand         nearly
             cut in.
who
not dine with us. played whist in the evening with Colonel
IGordon, Mr. Anson, and Mr. Farquharson of Invercauld.

     Next day went to church, and we heard a good prac
tical sermon on good works by Mr. Anderson, who has none
of that shyness attributed to him by the ' Times ' correspond-

· Tutor to the Prince of Wales, who was then not eight years old.

158  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                       CHAP. xxvi.

ence. The prayer for the parish, magistracy, Queen and
royal family, judges, ministers of religion, parliament, and
whole nation, was just such as you would have liked, and iu

I Iexcellent taste, with nothing which a republican jealous of

equality could, think, have objected to, and which believe
our sovereign and her husband would thoroughly appreciate
the simplicity of. They shoved the box on the end of a long
pole to Queen and Prince and maids of honour, as to all the

Irest of the congregation, and each dropped in their piece of

coin. After church had much conversation alone with
Prince Albert, whose mind is in full activity on a variety of
grave subjects while he is invigorating his body with field
sports. Charles Bunbury has just summoned me to take a
geological walk with him. Caroline has just come in, in
great glee, to announce the discovery, for the first time, of
Ortkotrichum Lyellii ' in fruit, which Charles Bunbury admits

is a grand find.
     Believe me, with love to all,
                            Ever your affectionate brother,

                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

     To CHARLES BUNBURY, ESQ.

                                           11 Harley Street, London : January 17, 1850.

   IMy dear Bunbury, -- have been so busy with my anni
Iversary speech that have had no time to thank you for

your letter. There was a good discussion, and Darwin
adopts my views as to Mauritius, St. Jago, and so-called
elevation craters, which he has examined, and was puzzled

with.

   I am much pleased to hear that you have paid my ' Second
I IVisit' a compliment which fear rarely pay any modern
Ibook, that of re-reading it.  believe if you visited the
United States, and stayed long enough, above all, if you re
Ivisited it after a lapse of five years, you would feel exhilarated,

as did, at the rapid rate of general progress in wealth, order,
intelligence, education, and rational (or at least more rational)
Iideas of government in so brief a period.    am told by my
Icorrespondents that should now find things greatly improved

     1 A moss named after Mr. Lyell, senior.

i850. TICKNOR'S 'SPANISH LITERATURE!  159

since 1846, even in literature. For example, my friend
Ticknor has come out with three large thick octavo volumes
on the ' History of the Literature of Spain,' the work of his

Ilife, of which Hallam, Milman, Ford, and Lord Mahon speak
in very high terms, and which  have read scraps of with

much pleasure. Murray says that such a book could scarcely

here do more than pay its expenses, 750 copies being as much
as he dares reprint. Now three different booksellers offered

Ticknor for the use, for one year, of his stereotype plates,
5,000 dollars, and Harper, of New York, at last gave 5,250,

or above 1,000 guineas. This, Ticknor says, could not have
been done in 1846.

     As to California, so many New Englanders are gone there,
who, with emigrants from New York, &c., all understand

each other, that they govern and legislate for all the rest,

and have improvised a constitution far superior to any of

the new ones planned and overthrown, or now on trial in the
last two years in Europe. The determination not to have

Islavery bespeaks a wholesome prevalence of Northern men.

In France fear the new law of schools will place them far

too much under the Catholic priesthood, and the same cause
will prevent the Italians from becoming fit for representative
government, and they will be voted incapable because those

above them are determined they shall remain children. But

periodical revolutions such as we have witnessed of late are

the lamentable alternative of not acting honestly towards

Ithe millions, and having no faith in human progress.
        am glad you have planned your new book. Adolphe

IBrongniart's article on the genera of fossil plants 2 is a mas

terly production so far as can judge. It is only by this

double view, first botanical, then geological and chronolo

gical, that the subject can be thoroughly exhausted. There
is some hope even for the Old World, when such essays can
appear under an experimental republic with universal suf

frage.
IAgassiz, am told, is about to marry a young lady of
Ifgood Boston connections.  so, he will be a New Englander

for the rest of his life, and will be the founder of a school of

     1 Tableau dei genret de vegftaux fosnlei, 1840, extra.it du Dictionnaire Uni-
VtrteUe <?'liiitoire ATaturelle.

160                   SIR CHARLES LYELL.                  CHAP. xxvi.

zoology (for he has many pupils) of a high order, as he
teaches them to dissect and go into all the minutiae. His
enthusiasm is catching, especially when he has a good soil

to work upon.
     Believe me, my dear Bunbury,
                                      Ever affectionately yours,

                                                            CHARLES LYELL.

              To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

                                              Berlin : August 8, 1850.

     My dear Horner,--The Brocken Inn, where we slept four
days ago, is a curious sign of the length of time that the
                          of       travelling for  the sake of ad
Germans have been lovers           has been built   fifty years, its
miring natural scenery.   It
foundations standing 3,500 feet above the level of the sea, in
the latitude of London or thereabouts, and          the
buried some nine months of the year under          deep   spot being

                                                          snow. It

is solely for the pleasure of those who admire wild scenery,
who like to take two chances of an extensive view from a
Isummit usually enveloped in vapour, and to see the sun rise

or set, if they cannot do both, as we did. was very desirous
of testing by an examination of this mountain the grounds
of Von Buch's theory of the granite here having come up
' in a bubble,' and his singular notion that its dome-shaped
form and even outline support this hypothesis. Now close
         said Brocken House  is one of        those tabular masses
to the   we have at the top  of many
which                                         a Grampian Hill, of

granite, and  which corresponds    to the Cornish  tor, the rock
decomposing   in tabular masses.                   the Witches'
                                     It is called

IAltar,  twenty feet   high, and   about two    or three  miles  from
         found the    Schnarcher,             understand    are  men
this                                which I

tioned in Goethe's ' Faust,' to consist of two magnificent
tors of granite, the highest of the pair being 100 feet high,
and showing unequivocally to what an extent denudation has
              absuri it would          to imagine that the       pre
              the original one     be  the mass of granite       here
Igone, and how
                                   of
sent surface is
exposed. Lonsdale's remarks, unpublished believe, of the
modern tors now forming in the granitic Scilly Islands, show
how the sea is producing similar outstanding peninsulas or

i8;o.     VISIT TO GERMANY.                            161

I' drongs,' as they call them, in the Shetland Isles.  have

no doubt that the Devonian slates once enveloped the top,

as they do now the sides of the Brocken. So much for this

I' bubble.' Its indefatigable author is on a pedestrian tour

in Switzerland, as Ritter tells me, so have left my card

only at his door. The upper chalk of St. Peter's Mount,3 to

go back to the beginning of this tour, is very beautifully dis

played, and a young pharmacien of Maastricht, Bosquet,

author of a paper on fossil tertiary species of Cypris, was an

excellent guide, showing me where the change from our

chalk fossils began. He and his master had a fine collection

of shells, reptilians (monitor of Mae stricht, huge turtles, &c.)
to show us. De Koninck, at Liege, is a first-rate paleonto

Ilogist, and gave me a great insight into the carboniferous

and tertiary formations of the region. was glad to observe

between Aix-la-Chapelle and Cologne, how the railway-cut

ting exhibited the loess and its associated gravel and sand

Iat the watershed between the basin of the Meuse and Rhine.

But think of my surprise when got north to the Porta West-

phalica, and found, 500 feet above the level of the Weser, on

the inclined oolitic beds, 700 (?) feet above the sea, a patch of
loess, just like our old friend on the Rhine, and full of the
three shells figured in my ' Elements ' as the most common,

Succinea oblonga, half freshwater, Helix plebeia, and Pupa mus-

corum. Strombach of Brunswick, and the elder Roemer of

IClausthal in the Hartz, were much surprised to hear of this

find of mine. To explain it will, suspect, require some

changes of level which have not entered into the calculation

of many here, who think the Scandinavian drift of the North

ern plains the last geological phenomenon of importance to be

accounted for. Charles Bunbury will be interested to learn

that the newest examination of the shells of the six divisions

of the Devonian of the Hartz leads Roemer to think that

none of the older beds (slates, limestone, &c.) of this chain

are so new as the coal. Sedgwick and Murchison thought

the uppermost of the divisions might be carboniferous. Now

in this are numerous plants, Lepidodendrons, one Astrophyl-

lite, Calamites, but all save one Calamite perhaps, of distinct

species. This would help to confirm Goeppert's view as to

VOL. II.  " Near Maestricht.
                     M

162  SIR CHARLES L\ELL.  CHAP. xxw.

the specific distinctness of his Silesian flora of the Old Bed.

Goeppert has lately seen the Hartz flora, and says the species
are not carboniferous. This would harmonise well with the

close analogy in generic types, and the distinctness in species

of the fauna of the Old Red when compared with that of the
coal. An excursion with Strorabach to an anticlinal axis

called Asse, near Brunswick, was most instructive. It is clear

that the keuper and chalk were formed in connected basins

extending from England to North Germany. So was the

Wealden, which supplied first-rate shining coal for the steam-
engines at Minden and elsewhere, our locomotives, ' Bliicher '
and others, which carried us along twenty miles an hour over
the vast drift-covered and sand-covered plains of the ' iiber-
geschwemmtes land.' Yet ridicule was thrown by us for
seekers after coal in the Wealden, where the limits of the

same vast delta existed. The needles of a pine are as mani

fest in some of this Hanoverian Weald coal as are ferns,
Sigillariae, &c., in the older Stein coal. As to the botany of
the Hartz, it seemed a tame affair after the White Moun
tains, and it was impossible not to compare them as we rode

up from a woody region to a bare summit of granite covered
with the same Lichen geogrnphicus. The spruce fir, with
scarce any intermixture even of birch, covers the hills, and up

Ito the very top some dwarf trees are seen, or so near that

  believe if sheltered they might grow much higher. At the

summit a white anemone new to us was still sparingly in
flower, and plenty of it in seed covered the ground. There
are also Trientalis Europcea in fruit, Galium saxatile, Gna-
phaliwn (dioicum?) in flowei', besides the commonest Lyco-
podium, Lichen rangiferinum and islandicus, with several
vulgar plants, such as Ranunculus flammula and Calluna vul-
jaris, also the cranberry Vaccinium.

     What most surprised me in the Havtz geologically, high
and low, granite and limestone, marble or trap, whether at
700 or 3,500 above the sea, was the total absence of all
glacial marking, whether polishing, or furrowing, or stria-
tion, or roches moulonnees, or erratics. Such a contrast to

the southernmost part of Sweden or corresponding latitudes

in North America ! Yet some of the Scandinavian drift

reaches the southern base of the chain.

i850.         HARTZ MOUNTAINS.                            163

I find there is Eocene tertiary under the drift in the en
virons of Berlin, and brown coal with palm wood under the

Eocene shelly clay. 1 have seen the fossil shells.

     Mary is sending a letter about more modern affairs.
Hitter has just called again. Farewell, and believe me, with

love to all,

              Ever affectionately yours,
                                       CHARLES LYELL.

              To Miss CARRICK MOORE.

                                                                               Dresden : August 3, 1850.

   IMy dear Miss Moore, -- find that Mary is sending off a
Iletter to you, so take one of the sheets which we got on

the summit of the Hartz mountains as a memorial of our

having performed what was once a great feat ; ascending
to the top of the Brocken, which is covered with snow seven
months of the year, and though in the latitude of ' The

Cedars,' 4 presented to us a set of mountain plants agreeing
for the most part with those with which we were familiar

in the Grampians. It is 3,500 feet high, which to Germans

accustomed to that endless plain which stretches from

Bremen to the Oural, and which on our way from Berlin to

Ithis place we traversed in a north and south direction, may
well appear a magnificent height.  was well satisfied to be

carried by railway to near the foot of the Hartz, and by a

carriage which carried all our luggage to the inn at the

Itop, for by going up one road and descending by another,
was able to examine the granite of which it is composed,

and other points of geological interest for which one has

little time and courage when all one's energy and patience
are required to contend with physical obstacles.

     Our visit to Potsdam turned out most propitious, Hum-
boldt giving us a good deal of his company and conversation
and the entree to the finest view from ' Sans Souci,' where

the King was residing, not open to the public. The three

palaces are certainly fine, and an oasis in a desert must

always have a peculiar charm, so that the gardens pleased us

I Imuch, and the great fountains 120 feet high, which believe

              1 Where Miss Moore resided, near Richmond.
                                                    M2

164  SIff CHARLES LYELL.                        CHAP. XXVI.

Icould stand admiring as long as any child. But confess

that nothing pleased me so much as an exact restoration of

one of the buildings of Pompeii, an atrium or outer court of

a house, and a bath room, both of which form an integral

part of the palace called Charlottenhof. These were erected

by the present King 5 when Crown Prince, the bath being
used. The court has no roof in the central part, and as it

was a fine day, the blue sky, reminding me of Italy, had a

beautiful effect. Looking at the beauty of the proportions of
the room, and all the statues and paintings which adorned

it, one could not but feel how little we have outdone the

Greeks of a small provincial town, 2,000 years ago, in taste,

even in the palaces of our days. The restoration also by
Lepsius of one of the temples of Philae on the Nile, in the

museum, all the columns and walls being painted as on the

original, a facsimile, only reduced to one fourth of the

original size, is an excellent way of carrying one back 3,000

years. On the whole, however, the Berlin collection of

Egyptian antiquities did not appear to me to be comparable
in extent to that of the British Museum.

     IWe go up the Elbe to Saxon Switzerland to-morrow. The
weather both here and in the Hartz perfection.  sat long

"before the Madonna di San Sisto to-day, and can feel its

beauty. The wealth of pictures is overwhelming to one who

is not able to give weeks to them.

     Believe me, with kindest remembrance to your father and

mother and sister,

                    Yery truly yours,

                                    CHARLES LYELL.

                           To LEONARD HORNEB, ESQ.

                   I ILioge : August 28, 1850.

     My -dear Horner, -- believe in my last letter mentioned

Ithat was going with Credner a geological expedition to

try and determine the relative age of the loess of Thuringia

Iand the northern erratics. He took me to critical points,

and returned with a quantity of new facts leading me to
believe the loess to be for the most part posterior. As near

                                  · Frederick William IV.

i850. GEOLOGY OF SAXONY.       165

Stuttgard the loess passes downwards in some places, as at

Weimar and north of Gotha, into calcareous tufa and

travertin, the latter being used as at Rome for a building-

Istone. This calcareous formation is from fifty to eighty feet

thick, and searched in it for gyrogonites, seeing many

stems of Chara, and found them probably recent species, as

the shells, freshwater and land, are of living species. But

Ia great prize was a mass of tun7 with four eggs, which
bought from the workmen near Gotha, perhaps of a tortoise.

They are fixed in the solid rock, and were entire when

found. They were fifteen feet deep in the tufa deposit, and

in the same beds were bones of Elephas primigenius, Rhino

ceros tichorhinus, Ursus speJceus, &c., and recent LimnaM

Iand Planorbis.  have been fossilising in between Dresden,
     The beds

IWeimar, Gotha, Eisenach, Cassel, Giessen, and Frankfort

are triassic. The muschelkalk everywhere, as formerly
knew it at Baireuth. The keuper with Calamites, some grow

ing like the East Virginian ones at right angles to planes

of stratification; the lower member, the Bunter, usually

Iwithout organic remains.
       was glad at Halle to be taken by Professor Giebel to

pay my first respects to the roth-todt-liegende, or Permian

conglomerate, and the contemporaneous porphyries out of the
ruins or rolled fragments of which it is chiefly made. Again,
Iat Eisenach, where there is a kind of section of the Thiirin-

genwald chain, found the Wartburg, where Luther threw

the ink-bottle at the devil, is made of this same conglomerate

800 feet thick, and Charles Bunbury will be interested in

hearing that the Psarrolites occur iu the lower beds of the

lowest member of the Permian.

With love to all, believe me ever affectionately yours,

                               CHARLES LYELL.

                        To CHARLES BUNBURY, ESQ.

                                             11 Harley Street, London : September 14, 1850.

   IMy dear Bunbury,-- am truly glad to hear not only of

your botanising in the Urwelt, but also that you do not mean
to let the plants remain for nine years more as unknown as
they have been for the last nine million years.

166          SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxvi.

     IWhen met Colonel Codrington and Sir J. Wilson in

Itown since my return, they said they could see by my looks
   had been holiday-keeping in the country. So much for
that whirl over the Scandinavian drift and Thuringian trias

             a
                      a

                                             a

                                                                           it,
which seemed to you, when you read an account of as any

thing but repose after London exertions. But when a man

has had to write and print book and Presidential Address,

and dine and preside at the Geological Society, and carry on
society, and an 1851 Royal Commission, all at once, you may

conceive what rest our tour must have been, though the

grass did not certainly grow under our feet anywhere. We

went to bed and got up with the sun, usually an explanation
of my returning better and Mary fatter, which perhaps you will

scarcely sympathise with, being like your late uncle (and as
Audubon says the mammalia generally, considered as a class,

are) nocturnal animal. To give you an idea how far from
      it a to get at the repositories of treasures in your way,
easy                             I
       I is                          I
asked everywhere for the names of Dresden geologists, and
most people said Geinitz the only man. At last, after writingI

to him, learnt the name of an officer, Gutbier, whose work
             I
                   I is
on Permian fossils afterwards bought. He was quartered at

Dresden. We arrived and set off for Geinitz. Not at home.

Lieutenant-Colonel Gutbier ordered out to a grand review

before two Austrian Archdukes. Mrs. Geiuitz assured me

that there was not soul, young or old, caring for stones or
             a

fossils in the whole city. Not believing this, inquired

diligently for dealers, and found there were two, who sold

stuffed birds and insects. The first of these whom beat

up said he had no minerals, but once sold some to a teacher

of painting, Professor Zeula. Off went to wbere Zeula once;I
lived, he had changed his abode went off again. At last

found him, an artist selling pictures and antiquities, and just
going to lecture on painting, all very unpromising. But at
last showing him my Anniversary Address, and making him

aware that was somebody, he gave me the overhauling of
             I
                                      aI

                                                   I
200 drawers, more rich in well-arranged fossils, and among

others Permian and German coal plants, than any saw in

public or private cabinets. He would, think, have sold the

collection, though he got them from real love of geology.
The moral of this is, never to believe that in any great

i850. LETTERS OF IGNATIUS.         167

German city -- and the same is true in France and the United
States -- there are no paleontological resources.

     Believe me, with love to Frances, ever affectionately yours,
                                                            CHARLES LYELL.

          To GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

                                   London: 1850.
I I IMy dear Ticknor, -- believe
          said that                thought

Bunsen would lose his time in entering into the controversy

about the Letters of Ignatius, but after a conversation I have

had with him in which he gave me a sketch of the points in

his new German pamphlet not yet translated, 1 have changed

my mind.

He contends that the Syriac MS.6 not only proves that

the passages in the first three letters which were relied on as

proving the Apostolic succession were spurious, but also that

the four other letters which were an expansion of the inter

polated passages were altogether forgeries. In short, ' the

three Letters ' translated by Cure ton are all that Ignatius

ever wrote. Bunsen has remarked that if Mr. Keble, our

great Puseyite, could say in his preface to Hooker that it

was a special intervention of Providence which led to the

recovery of the Letters of Ignatius at a time when Episcopacy

was in danger, what shall we now say of that Providence,

which just at a moment when a certain party of the English

Church are pushing the pretensions of the clergy to the

verge of Romanism, has brought to light this MS. in the cellar

of an obscure convent in the Libyan desert beyond Cairo ?

Bunsen says that when the eight verses are omitted, the

three letters are such as he might be supposed to have

Ipenned in prison (A.D. 107) ; but not so the other four.
        believe the Syriac MS. is of the fourth century. How

early did these frauds and forgeries begin, and who shall say

that all the three letters are pure and undefined, or what

degree of certainty have we in respect to the full and literal

genuineness of documents still more important of which no

IMSS. earlier than the fourth and fifth centuries exist ?

learnt with much surprise from Bunsen, a propos to forgeries

     · Purchased for the British Museum from an Egyptian convent, containing
the original Epistles of Ignatius.

168         SIR CHARLES LYELL.                                      CHAP. xxvi.

and pious frauds of the primitive and mediaeval Church, that

Luther published the last edition of his Bible without the
passages in St. John on ' the three heavenly witnesses,' but

that soon after Luther's death they reprinted his Bible with

them inserted. As they are wanting in all the four older
                                                                    is ?
MSS. of the New Testament at Rome, as well as the Codex
                                                                      (?)I
Regius at Paris, have always considered a great want of
            if                                           I

                I                                               it
good faith on the part of the Protestants, that we distribute

millions of Bibles without any mark to show to the multitude

that these verses are spurious. Am not right in saying

that a great many, nay most of the Bibles used by the Uni

tarians at Boston, contain these verses without any italics or

marginal note to show that they were interpolated                           pre

sume that this be the case, would be defended on the
                                                   is

                                                     it
ground that the Unitarians do, what our ministers do not,

viz. explain that the passage not genuine. It precisely

the same plan adopted here in regard to Moses and his

geology. The vulgar hear the first chapter of Genesis read

out without comment or the smallest explanation from,

ninety-nine out of hundred pulpits, and ihey grow up
                   a

                              it
in the belief of the modern origin of the globe, and the unity

of the creation of man and the globe, and all the inhabitants

which have ever lived upon since the beginning. Hence

they regard scientific men with suspicion and with prejudice,

and yet no educated clergyman could now-a-days enter the

field against the popular creed of the geologist or astronomer,

any more than he would stand up and attack Erasmus or

Person about the three heavenly witnesses.' In short, in.
            a
spite of the Reformation, the Bible nearly as much a'

treasure in sacerdotal keeping as if we had all gone overis ;
                                                         is
with Newman to Rome and in spite of Cureton, and Bunsen,        is

and Blanco White, one sometimes tempted to ask whether

good faith and regard for the sacredness of truth not a             is

rare exception to the rule in Anglo-Saxondom at least, what

ever may be in Germany. The sectarian spirit of the two
'

       it
divisions of the small Episcopalian Church in Scotland, the

Drummondites and their opponents, the High Church or
            is

                       '
                          ;
                                                !
Puseyites,  blazing out almost as violently as the old Kirk
and the free Kirk and then there Romanism, and the new
edict even of Pius IX. against the excellent new Irish.

i 850. PREJUDICE AGAINST SCIENCE.  169

Colleges intended by Peel to be open to all religious denomi

nations ; and the Wesleyans, who are now much worse than

the Establishment in setting themselves against progress,

and admitting no interpretation which Wesley did not

sanction, although he, had he lived, would have moved on

with the age. This and the narrow views of our dissenters,

and the power of the English Church to substitute a sham

national education for a real one, makes one almost despair.

Even some of the most liberal of our clergy assume in their

pamphlets that the labouring class will be made unhappy if

taught too much, so they take care to confine them to the

merest learning of their letters, and never allow them to

think, paying schoolmasters thirty pounds a year in some

Ifplaces, wages which none of their men-servants, who are
found in food, would accept.  the people, or the laity,

should succeed in taking the matter into their own hands,

I Ias in your country, should have some hopes, but do not

expect it. A few months ago the new King's College of

London began a professional system of Divinity on the pro

fessorial plan, and forty-eight young menintended to graduate

Iin London, and never to go to Oxford or Cambridge, imme
diately entered.  attach considerable importance to this

move, as it is the first formidable opposition to or competi

tion with the old Universities, and men brought up in the

metropolis will have larger views. The clergy must continue

Ito be our real educational rulers in this country, which
believe is more parson-ridden than any in Europe except

Spain, if we consider how the higher education as well as

that of the lower orders, and how the laity, as well as the

clergy, are under the influence of this ecclesiastical body.

Ten years ago, before Agassiz had been many months travel

ling here, he told me he thought the prospects of science in

IEngland very poor because of the power of the English

Church, and was surprised that as a foreigner he should

have seen so far. The promotion of the new Bishop Hamp-

den was well meant by Lord John, but he recanted so

ostentatiously his liberal views, called by some Socinian,

and he has done so little to distinguish himself, that few are

Imuch pleased with the nomination.
     You ask me when hope to get out any account of the

170  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                           CHAP. xxvi.

Iresults of my last tour.  have only been steadily at work
three or four months at the non-geological results of my
nine months' absence from England, but get on fast, owing
Ito having talked and thought it over with so many clever
minds on the subjects which shook me.  have to steer
clear of two errors, --first appearing to be too discontented
with the state of things in England, especially as regards

progress and education ; and secondly, being too much an

optimist about the corresponding parts of your system north
of the Potomac or of New York city.

    With love to your family, ever most truly yours,

                           CHAELES LYELL.

     To GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

                                                       Mildenhall, Suffolk : December 29, 1850.

   IMy dear Ticknor, --It is long since have written to you,
I Iand believe owe you a letter. We are a large family

party here of Bunburys, Horners, and Lyells, and the

Ichristening of my nephew 7 (also my wife's nephew) has
been an event to mark our Christmas festivities.  am now

Iwriting my Anniversary Address as President of the Geological

Society, and then hope to be able to work at some original
papers, the results of observations made on the geology of the

United States in 1845-6, and last year in Germany, after

Iwhich we hope to make another expedition of several months

in Germany, that may follow up a line of geological research
broken off last autumn. You will see by the papers that

there has been a great Church or ecclesiastical ferment here,

I can hardly dignify it with the name of a religious excite
Iment, for fear the people are not, like the Scotch, enough

in earnest. If they were, we should no doubt have an out

burst of fanaticism and sectarian bitterness for a time, but
it would lead to more religious liberty, such as you enjoy,

and our statesmen and legislators would be more free to

adopt a Government scheme of education, which must be very
limited so long as we have 17,000 endowed clergymen, and

10,000 perhaps dissenting ministers, equally wishing to

monopolise education. The Pope's rash move, or rather the

     7 Leonard Lyell.

i85i. LECTURE AT IPSWICH.  171

insolent way of doing it, has roused the Protestant feeling of
the middle classes, and the churchman sees that he must

draw in his horns, and not lay claim to the supernatural
power which our ordination service confers upon him of

retairing and forgiving sins, than which no Catholic priest

ever claimed more. So far, therefore, as tends to the check
ing of Tractarianism and semi-Romanist pretensions within
the Church, this excitement, with all its intolerance, may do

some good, but I fear it will bring about no reform in the

Church creeds, liturgies, ordination services, and baptismal
mystic rites, which a large majority of laymen look upon
either as superstitious, or as forms of words which are to be
gulped, or laughed at, or which, with a most worldly spirit of

compromise, they contend for as a political badge.
     Oxford and Eton continue to rear up men who pass

through Puseyism to Rome, and the opinions of the higher
and middle classes are getting more and more widely
separated in religious matters -- an effect which may one day

undermine the Establishment, although its authors are aim
ing to increase their domination and supremacy.

                                   Ever most truly yours,
                                                             CHARLES LYELL.

                            To GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

                                           11 Harley Street, London : January 10, 1851.

   IMy dear Ticknor, -- have lately been giving a lecture 8

to a large audience (gratis, and in a missionary spirit) at
Ipswich, to more than 1,000 persons, on 'Geology,' one of
the new provincial institutions, badly off for funds rather, but

Iwith a beautiful museum of natural history. Being on the

surplus-fund committee of the Great Exhibition, am in
hopes of getting these provincial institutes connected with a
central London Board, and that we may have examiners to
grant certificates to be required of all who take places under
Government, great or small. The Prince Consort is a host
in himself in forwarding education, worth all the English
Whigs put together. Oxford, and Puseyism, and Evangelism
and a State Church, and the narrowness of excluded sectari

                  ' On White Chalk and Progressive Development.

172      SIR CHARLES LYELL.            CHAP. XXVI.

Ifanism, are fearful odds against us.  once the clergy see
Iwe are getting under weigh, they will try, and fear with

success, to get the mechanics' institutes into their own
power, in which case the cause of science will suffer. But

at all events, as yet, we are always moving onwards in the

right direction here, while the rest of the Continent is retro

grading, and the influence of Russian and Austrian semi-

barbarism is felt as far west as Hamburgh, while France, to

her shame, is strengthening sacerdotal despotism in Rome,

as well as military power at home. At a large party of
scientific men at our club the other day at dinner, it was

said, ' We shall all have to migrate to America soon, as so

Ifmany approve, even here, of Louis Napoleon and his Pratorian
guards and Jesuits.'  Holland, Piedmont, Belgium, and

the few constitutional states which remain free from Cossack

influence, would join with us and the United States, it would

be easy without a war, but at present it seems to us that the
semi-barbarous nations are going to have it all their own.
way. You augured ill from the beginning of the French

move in 1 848, but you could hardly have anticipated such a

result, and that, too, with a steady rise of the French funds.

No one can now write a word on politics to a friend in Paris,

and private letters from thence abstain from politics just as

if it were St. Petersburg. Senior has returned from Rome
even more shocked with the persecutions and dungeons there

than Gladstone was with Naples. Never were so many of

the best men imprisoned in all the more civilised countries

as now.

     As a set-off against occasional conversion of Puseyite

Anglican clergy to Romanism, and people of rank and
property, we have some thousands of Irish peasantry and

farmers quitting Catholicism for Protestantism, and the

Irish Romanist periodicals furious thereupon ; also several

instances of theological works of free inquiry in an earnest

spirit, printed by men who are suffered to retain professor

ships in Universities, although so outrageously unorthodox

that ten years ago they would have been sent to Coventry in
society for entertaining or confessing such want of faith.

     Remember us to the Prescotts and other friends.

         Ever affectionately yours,    CHAELES LYELL.

i 8s I. EXHIBITION IN HYDE PARK.                173

To CHARLES BUXBURY, ESQ.

                                               53 Harley Street, London : April 22, 1851.

    My dear Bunbury,--Heer's paper is most interesting to

me, although ' Pereant qui ante nos, nostra dixerunt,' came
almost to my lips when reading some of the pages. The
first question is, how much faith one ought to have in his
determination of the S. Jorge plants. The Corylus, for

example, is it a hazel ? He draws important conclusions from
it, and the Asplenium marinum, on which he reasons.

     The discussion on the former existence of an Atlantis is

Ione on which have made many notes and written much.
IIt is very suggestive as treated by Heer, and better than

anticipated from his old essay on ' Madeira.' He does not
appear to feel enough the contrast of the shells and plants,

I Ithe forms so muchmore

to the land-shells). It
                          endemicand less European (I allude
                         is really a splendid essay of Heer--

allowing for future modifications. As think can prove
that the islands, as islands, go back to the Miocene period, I
feel the more interest in his speculation as to the original
source of some of the plants from tertiary ' protoplasts,' as

Dr. Latham would say.

   I hope you will get a paper out or ready before I finish
Imine, if that day ever comes, for unless 1 fix the time see
that a life-time would never bring it about in the natural

course of events.

Believe me ever affectionately yours,

                         CHARLES LYELL.

                   To GEORGE TIOKNOR, ESQ.

                     I I11 Harley Street, London : May 20, 1851.

My dear Ticknor, -- Since last wrote to you have seen
Mr. Lowell, who has come to see the World's Fair, with which
Ihe is as much struck and delighted as anyone.
                                                arranged
Iwith him that should give my lectures in Boston in the

autumn of 1852, instead of the winter, as my scheme is to
return in the winter for several reasons. . . . You will see
by the papers which will reach you with the same steamer

174                   SIR CHARLES LYELL.               CHAP, xxvt

as this letter, how wonderfully the ' Crystal Palace ' 9 has

taken, and how the prejudices of those who were incapable
of taking in such a ' new idea ' have given way before the tide

of popularity and fashion. We, the commissioners, are now
doing our best to give it an educational turn, but my hope
is that the chief good will be the admission of the million
to see so much of the result of the highest civilisation, such

as even the aristocracy who have travelled to see palaces

and museums cannot help admiring. Foreign nations in

general   have come   forward handsomely, and have sent pro
perty to   an extent
                      which if estimated by the mere money

value is really amazing. Turkey, Tunis, Egypt, and such dis
                                              United
tant points.     To  us, who know what the    concern  States might
easily have
              done,   it is a matter of some           that, if they

sent anything, they should have done so little, especially
after claiming so large a space. There are two or three good
carriages and sleighs, and fortunately an Englishman sent

IPower's Greek Slave, which with your Bostonian Wounded

Indian, is, fear, the only two pieces of sculpture-- an article
which forms a fine part and feature of the Exhibition. But
any one of the Atlantic cities might have sent a better turn
out, and ought to do so now, were it only to show John Bull
in the month of September, in the course of which several
hundred thousand will still be crowding to Hyde Park, how
much faster they have gone than the present contributions
will give an idea of. Even now the Lyons people have only
half their splendid silks and velvets unpacked, for they had
no faith iu our opening before the 1 st of June. We have
often been wishing that you and Mrs. Ticknor and your
daughters were here, as we are staying longer than usual in
town, to receive friends who are coming up to see the Exhibi
tion. In the beginning of July we hope to get to Germany,
via Belgium, to return in September.
Our nephew is gone with his parents to Scotland for a
Ifortnight's visit to his aunts. We shall miss him, and my

brother is to sail for India the first week in July, but hope

for two and a half years' absence only.
              Believe me ever most truly yours,

                                              CHARLES LYELL.

                     · First Exhibition at Hyde Park.

                       RAFFAEL'S CARTOONS.                    175

          To His SJSTER-IN-LAW, Miss HORNER.

IMy dear Susan,--                                   Ipswich : July 4, 1851.
                       sat next but one at the luncheon to
day given by the President and Vice-President of the Ipswich
Museum to Prince Albert. Airy, President of the Associa
 between me and H.R.H. One of

dinner was the Prince saying to
Ition,                                         the  'incwidiellntsshodwuryinong
                                              me,
the
a geological illustration in your way; there is a glacier'
(pointing to        a   huge block of Wenham Lake ice), '
                       proceeding from its melting, and you  and here
is the stream          to.' We all looked, and the stream    see where
                                                              was just
it is flowing

pouring   over the edge of  the table-cloth    into Henslow's lap,
who, as   President of the  Museum, was       sitting in the chair

man's place. He had barely time to escape being wet
through.

I I I I I I I Imjaomst'muhinnTsurieedlshtyyseleBtaawrCnbpiu,dspeo,uuti'uadmtsstinesitcnhmoattoeaha;wihidpslsenelsysdthfihhoaoaeotaafnc,osffvvmt,aa*eestiiydrdhwlfeh,omaushicunstu'leiunltdbAynssthej,ettrena?aewdcoinatteteds.ftymkwoiwombreiyuaelAnetlonfioot.ftuttdtlrodeeoointn.rfoBubhvhulemiguaemltEeenirbnvtawsc,e.tva.hioireintesfhs,ocetTynoonaoieuswusnuaslutlldndmnhrc.eohet'ahowensna-Proo,amvrartiefirfotrnyrorbecsdVrmehepoiefeowfnshivtrcuwioatocurvoueiealelkt,r.tl
I IoTt(hwrhehatYitwcfoahoiusctastmbhdoeoaoufyptnttrhheotehestsreeitcnifhragosirbneeepk,iaanrwisgftaytossooofutbotthhhoaaeedvlleyobdnuasngsnhoi)gn,oteewmrsansa.cokwofepoByudauledotssfhtrbotsuehrtcteietlluiroosanreoi,fgnwueiol&nrcaodlf
Ithink, and the cold and discomfort to artists in winter.
        am sorry you should have to re-write it, but we      have
at least the satisfaction of thinking it is not forgotten.
Believe me, my dear Susan, ever your affectionate brother,

                                              CHARLES LYELL.

     i Miss Horner  had drawn up a statement  of the danger and injury to Raf ~
fael's cartoons at
sicgton Museum,     Hampton Court from clamp  and fire. They are now in K'
                    and under glass.

176  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxvii.

                        CHAPTER XXVII.

                             FEBRUARY 1852 -NOVEMBER 1854.

 DEPARTURE FOR AMERICA-- ELECTRIC CABLE --GEOLOGY IN NOVA SCOTIA
       AND NEW BRUNSWICK-- VISIT TO SIR EDMUND AND LADY HEAD--EX
       PEDITION TO VERMONT -- NEW YORK EXHIBITION -- VISIT TO OSBORNE --
       MADEIRA -- GEOLOGY -- WONDERFUL ORCHID.

      [Sir Charles Lyell sailed for Boston in August 1852, to give a
 course of lectures at the Lowell Institute, and returned to England
 before Christmas.

     In 1853 he was invited by the Government to accompany Lord
 Ellesmere as one of the Commissioners to the New York Inter

 national Exhibition, and in consequence of the illness of his chief,
 much of the official business and representation of the Commission
fell to his share. He returned in July, and in the -winter went to
Madeira with his wife and Mr. and Mrs. Bunbury.1 Early in 1854
he visited Teneriffe, the Grand Canary, and Palma, ret-irning to
England in April. He attended the British Association at Liverpool
the same year.]

                          CORRESPONDENCE.

                          To WILLIAM GROVE, ESQ.'

                                                              11 Harley Street: February 14, 1852.

   IDear Grove, -- heard the whole of your lecture 8 from a

distant part of the room well and distinctly, and with great

delight. It could not have been better or clearer, so far as

the making an abstruse question comprehensible was con
cerned, and the exordium and peroration were beautiful.

     i Lady Lyell's sister.
    1 Sir William Grove, Judge of the Court of Common Pleas, author of the
Correlation of the Phyrical Farce*.
    · At the Royal Institution, the previous eveuing, February 13, ' On the
Heating Effects of Electricity and Magnetism.'

i852. SCIENTIFIC SOCIETIES.                177

   IAs to the latter, cited a letter of Liebig once on ' English

Utilitarianism,' and you cannot put down too often the cui

bono objectors. But you did more by taking the very highest
ground in doing homage to the martyrs for truth. The ex
tent to which the concealment of nearly all the newly
discovered truths in every branch, moral and physical, is

defended, if opposed to the popular notion, is one of the

worst vices of the times, against which the shafts of satire

should be aimed.

     Speaking of martyrs, do you remember the low tone of
morality with which, in a letter cited in Sir S. Romilly's
Life, Hirabeau, with all his characteristic force and eloquence,
apologises for Fontenelle. ' He well knew,' he says, ' that
philosophers do not multiply like fanatics under the axe of

the executioner or in the dungeons of the Inquisition,' &c.,
and went on to show how slowly and cautiously ' truth should

be unveiled.'

                  Ever yours truly,

                                           CHARLES LYELL.

                         To WILLIAM GROVE, ESQ.

                                          II Harley Street: May 30, 1852.

   IMy dear Grove, -- was much obliged to you for your note.

We worked very hard for three or four hours on Saturday, and

greatly improved the Report.4 Do not criticise too much
what we do, but lean to the indulgent side, seeing that the
great point in striving to get up a University for the people,
is to approach it in the shape of industrial instruction, and

Iif we can through certain influences get Lord Derby to join

(and this expect you will see done), much good must follow.
The Church has of course an exclusive right to educate the
people, but the humbler task of instructing them may, how

ever reluctantly, be conceded to laymen and statesmen, pro
vided the latter proceed with due caution and courage. The

i It was desirable to get a union of the principal Scientific Societies, and

this movement ultimately led to the juxtaposition of the Societies at Burling

ton House. Mr. Grove gave evidence before the Oxford University Com

mission (to whose Report the above letter refers), recommending more in
struction in physical science, and the making an elementary knowledge of it

an integral part of University education.

VOL. II.          N

178       SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. XXVII.

individual independence of the Royal Society, &c., if they
Imove to a new site, mast of course be guaranteed, but
Iconfess  regard this as of most importance (I mean the

juxtaposition) to the getting some system and organisation

into the schools for the people. We must not be too nice

about the machinery for the first movement. The weak

part of the Oxford Report is the not saying more about
physical science ; but it is a really grand Report, and all

would follow if what they recommended were adopted.

          Ever truly yours,

          CHARLES LYELL.

                           To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

                                  Government House, Fredericton : September 12, 1852.

    IMy dear Homer, -- In the steamer had much pleasant

talk, not only with the Heads,5 but with several other mess
mates. The Americans seem all to agree that the vast

German emigration pouring now into the United States is
giving them a much more respectable and orderly population
than the Irish, besides the advantage of being chiefly Protes
tant. Mr. Gisborne was on board, who has already manu
factured a rope for an electric telegraph, to be laid down
this season from Nova Scotia, by Prince Edward's Island, to
St. John's, Newfoundland, whence a steamer will go in five
and a quarter days to Galway, so that it ought to be possible
before the end of 1852 to send a message from New Orleans
to Vienna in five and a half days. Some money has even
been subscribed for a rope 1,600 miles long from Newfound
land to Galway. But even Gisborne said that though he
had subscribed largely himself, he would recommend no

friend to do so ; though he says the whole line would cost

Ino more than two miles of the Box Tunnel.
        hired a pleasant private carriage with a pair of steeds,
to take me and Dawson 6 on the way to Truro, eighty miles
from Halifax, changing horses about every twenty miles, on

     5 Kir Edmund Head, Bart., born 1805, died 1868 ; eminent classical scholar
and devoted to art, on which he published several works. Lieutenant-Governor
of New Brunswick in 1847, and in 1854 promoted to the Governor-Generalship
of Canada.

    · J. \V. Dawson, Esq., now Principal of Montreal College.

i852. INDIAN WIGWAMS.                        179

an excellent road, through natural woods, with very rarely

any house in sight, and bright sunshine, my companion

knowing the names of all the plants, and showing me among

other things the great ridges of huge boulders, six feet and

upwards in diameter, which the ice heaps up round the

borders of the numerous lakes of clear water which we passed

in a region of quartz, slate, and granite. We got out lor a

few minutes to visit five wigwams of Indians, beautifully

roofed with birch bark. There are 2,000 of these Indians of

Ipure breed roaming over this wild country, and after return

ing to the carriage could not help wondering that this-

scene was within eleven days of my having walked the streets

of Liverpool, after what was complained of as a longisli

Ipassage, with a fair share of head -wind, in the least fleet of
the new steamers of Cunard's line.  felt much fresher for

Ithe fallow which the voyage had given to my mind after the
excitement of London.  was going to peep into the wig

wam, when a curtain was hastily drawn, and Dawson warned

me against intruding on the Indians uninvited, as they are

very ceremonious among themselves. A Baptist missionary

who was master of their language and gained many converts,

was expounding lately the parable, that when you are asked

to a feast you should take the lowest place, &c., when an

old Indian remarked, ' It is strange that Christ should have

spoken so to the white people. When a stranger enters our

tent, he sits himself down by the door, and if we welcome

him, we entreat him to come to the other side of the fire,

farthest from the door. But the white men will come in
unasked, or, if invited, will seat themselves without ceremony

Iin the best place.'         crossed between Truro and
     Next day, September 2,
IAmherst, the Cobequid Hills, by a different route from that

which followed with Mary in 1842, and more picturesque,

displaying a great quantity of hard wood under which the
fern and ' sweet fern,' Pteris aquilina, and Comptonia aspleni-

Ifolia, were growing together, which they do not in the White
Mountains, having there two distinct zones.  was amused

at seeing good-sized schooners of 40 tons, building high up

on the hills, 200 and 300 feet. In the winter a strong team
of oxen will easily draw them down over the snow into th«

                       x2

180                       SIR CHARLES LYELL.            CHAP. xxvii.

Bay of Fundy. Imagine them buried by a landslip, a future

geologist proving by them the change of sea level ! It is

marvellous to see the larch posts of the electric telegraph

scaling the mountains, and serving all winter, though trees

are blown down upon it every great storm. It is instantly

repaired, and pays a very great interest for the capital ex
pended, and in this ' sparsely ' peopled country ! My horses

I Iwere ordered by it, and whenever went into an office
                                                                        ' The
fsohuipnd"  aAnsntrain"g  of messages waiting to be     sent on : e.g.  They
                          sails from Truro at 12 A.M.,   Thursday.'

also effect insurances of vessels at New York in a few minutes,

giving the tonnage, &c., and receiving an answer from the

Insurance Company. Dawson, the first evening, told his

wife ' all well,' and asked if a child who was not well was

better. The answer could not be given at once from Pictou,

because part of the news from Europe brought by the
' America ' with ns, was still streaming through the line to
various parts of Canada and the United States, but while we
were at tea the reply came, ' Go to the Post Office and you
will find a letter from me.'

     On the Cobequid Hills the red maple had already begun

to turn to a brilliant scarlet. The ground was covered with

Kalmia and Bhodora, both out of flower, the latter a kind of

Rhododendron, with bluish green leaves, and said to be

beautifully purple in spring when in flower. The asters,

golden rods, and everlastings, cover at this season all Nova

Scotia and New Brunswick.

   J. W. Dawson has for the last two years been a sort of

school missionary paid by the Government. He showed me

a room at Truro, where he met and lectured to eighty school

masters, convened to exchange ideas and for mutual instruc

tion. No hindrance arises in these schools from sectarian

differences, they are free to all denominations, but all at

tempts to make progress in the higher education at the col

lege has failed, owing to the Legislature having divided the
money among a number of sects, each unable to pay quali

fied professors. Luckily, when this system began, the

schools for the people had not been started, so they deter

mined to profit by experience. One of the last endowed

colleges, that of Fredericton, New Brunswick, is rendered

1852. GEOLOGY IN NOVA SCOTIA. 181

useless and almost without scholars, owing to an old-fashioned

Oxonian of Corpus Christi, Oxford, having been made head,

and determining that lectures in Aristotle are all that the

youth in a new colony ought to study, or other subjects on
Ithe strict plan which might get honours at Oxford.
                                                     trust

that Sir Edmund Head may succeed in his exertions to get

something taught which the pupils can afford to spend their

time in learning. At present they must go to the United

States.

   My companion, J. W. Dawson, is continually referring to

the curious botanical points respecting calamites, endoge-

nites, and other coal plants, on which light is thrown by

certain specimens collected by him at Pictou, and sent to

Charles Bunbury. He cold me that the root of their pond

lily, Nymph&a odorata, most resembled Stigmaria in the

regularity of its growth ; and Dr. Robb showed me a dried

specimen, a rhizoma, which being of a totally different

lamily and therefore not strictly like, still suggests the pro

Ibability of the Stigmaria having grown in slush in like manner,
and sent out rootlets.  was much pleased to see two Sigil-

lariae dug out with their four dichotomous roots, each again

dividing. It requires more labour than most geologists have

time for, to have the whole disinterring and washing of

trunk and root, allowing for occasional failures owing to the

external marks being occasionally wanting, especially if

neur the base of the trunk and first starting off of tho

roots.

    IDawson and set to work and measured foot by foot

many hundred yards of the cliffs, where the forests of erect

trees and calamites most abound. It was hard work, as the

wind one day was stormy, and we had to look sharp lest the
rocking of living trees just ready to fall from the top of the

undermined cliff should cause some of the old fossil ones to

Icome down upon us by the run. But never enjoyed the

reading of a marvellous chapter of the big volume more.

We missed a botanical aide-de-camp much when we came to

the tops and bottoms of calamites, and all sorts of strange

Ipranks which some of the compressed trees played. The

so-called flabellaria, which believe C. Bunbury thinks

are the stipes of ferns, puzzled us much. They abound

182                    SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxvn.

most with Sigillaria. The underclays with Stigmariae are
wonderfully like those clays with recent roots under peat,

and sunk stumps, in tLe marshes of the Bay of Fundy.

     The names which the sailors have made out of the original

French settlers' names are amusing. Point Demoiselle is

Muzzle Point ; Mont Chapeau Dieu, so called because usually

Icapped with cloud, is Mount Shoepoddy ; the great river

Petit Codiac is Petticoat Jack. But have met with none

to rival an old friend in Musquito Bay, on the St. Lawrence,
Anse de Cousins, which is ' Nancy Cozens.'

     After the Joggins we returned to Amherst and thence to

Dorchester, where a friend of Head's, called by some his

prime minister, Mr. Chandler, received us in a handsome

house, and his son took us next day to see a wonderful bed

or vein of asphaltum, the subject of a hotly contested law
suit -- a vein from one to eleven feet thick, of pure pitch coal,

is
                          it,
or something like              traversing fractured coal measures.
It too puzzling to attempt an account of it. As Gesner

has consulted me, and the other party Dawson, we are trying

to persuade them to compromise the suit. About 3,000/.

pocketed already by the lawyers The chief point being,
                               !

whetLer  be bed of coal which passes by a crown lease,
         it

                    a

or of asphalte or some mineral which would not pass.

Many of the most eminent of the scientific chemists and

geologists of the United States examined. The distances
are enormous. After Dawson left me at Dorchester, tra
                                           I

velled about 150 miles at one stretch in a stage coach to

wards St. John's, New Brunswick. Chandler and two

friends, good company inside. The population returns just

made show that New Brunswick, which nearly numbers

200,000 souls, has increased in the last ten years faster than

the average of Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, and

Vermont, the four adjoining States. Nova Scotia about
     '
                                                     by

                                                                       is
                                                                                      is
280,000. Both big enough and fertile enough to hold as
·many as Ireland -- noble provinces. They lose many of their

most enterprising colonists    desertion to the States, and

say we must get railroads in order to keep them.' Many
are off to Australia and California. Still they grow 23
per cent. in ten years. Sir E. Head met me at St. John,

and we examined the Falls together. It very strange to

NEW BRUNSWICK.                              183

see a great river or tidal current, rush first in for several

hours, and then out of a narrow gorge formed of metamor-

phic rocks, vertical beds of limestone and slate, invaded by

trap and syenite. They ought to be called the Rapids rather.

The vessels, a little fleet laden with timber, wait till the tide

flows neither way, and then sail in or out. The whole har

bour is beautiful. The sail up the river eighty or ninety miles
from St. John to Fredericton is fine -- picturesque, till a

country of nearly horizontal coal measures produces tame

outlines and low hills. The power of ice is ever present to

me in these regions, transporting huge boulders in winter.

The sea-ice carried an enormous angular mass of coal grit,

twelve or more feet in diameter, from an adjoining promon

tory to the place where the colliers loaded. They were

obliged to blow it up with gunpowder at low-water this

spring. Our stay at Government House was very agreeable,
and made up in some degree for losing the Heads for the
last four years in town. He has many difficult points to
grapple with in his colonial management, but Lord Grey

supported him well. He is evidently much liked as Governor.

We saw the Puseyite Bishop who had preached to us on
board the ' America ' enter, carrying a crozier in his hand !

No one at home has yet ventured to perform this play, for

Iwhich he cites an ordinance of Edward VI., in which am

told there are other popish ceremonies ordered which are

not yet ventured upon.

   I I Ibelieve mentioned in my last that Dawson and
Ifound the skeleton of an animal in the middle of one of the
upright trees of the Joggins, Nova Scotia.  thought it

Iwould prove a Labyrinthodon, and not a sauroid fish. Agassiz
has seen the jaw, and what  supposed the humerus. He

says it is something quite new, but he inclines to believe it

will turn out something ichthyic. Dr. Wyman had a long
work with me at it yesterday, and after he had begun by

thinking its reptilian characters predominated, he ended by

Iinclining the other way. He and Agassiz are to confer to

day upon it. On the whole, fear it will not prove reptilian,

though a remarkable fossil, and certainly in a strange place

Agassiz is looking well, and preparing to publish a great
embryological work on ' Paleontology.' He says ' he has

                  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                                             CHAP. xxvn.

revelled in the sea here.' The French Academy have voted
him the first prize bequeathed by Cuvier, for having done

the most since Cuvier's death.

    With my love to dearest mamma and her daughters, and

to the Bunburys, believe me ever affectionately yours,
                                                            CHARLES LYELL.

To LEOKAED HORNER, ESQ.

                                                                               Boston : October 30, 1852.

   I IMy dear Horner,-- Since wrote to you last have
Imade a geological expedition into Vermont, as believe
IMary mentioned in her letter, where found a tertiary
brown coal or bed of lignite, nine feet thick and very pure,

associated with white porcelain clay, just as in many parts

Iof Germany, near Leipzig, &c. No fossil shells, but hope

the fossil fruits may enable Charles Bunbury or some one to
Idecide its age.
                  never saw before in the United States any
Ideposit quite like it. am going to give a lecture on some

remarkable trains of huge erratics which attest in the west

I Iof Massachusetts, in lat. 42, what wonderful power the ice,

  believe coast-ice, has exerted. James Hall 7 and worked
Iafive days at and think we can explain the manner in
      it,
          I
which the wind and currents distributed them in certain

linear directions. Even in the neighbourhood of Boston,
                                                                                 ;
have been doing with Agassiz, Dr. Gould, and to-day with
                                                                                    II
Strepson, young engineer and conchologist, some good

work, but have not time to enter into it. The discoveries

of Agassiz in the Florida reefs will delight Darwin, aud

shall have much to tell him. Meanwhile, if you see Charles

Darwin, tell him that in Florida the effective reef-building

corals do not build lower than about sixteen fathoms so he

was much within the mark. Agassiz believes in subsidence

and the atoll theory. He saw one spherical individual of"

Porites fourteen feet diameter and thinks its age, and that
*
                                                                              !
of some Maeandrinffi, as vast as Ehrenberg thought.

Agassiz has in MS. sixty monographs on embryology of

marine creatures, invertebrata. He confirms in most things

       Mr. James Hall, Director of the Government Geological Survey of New
York.

i852. SERAfON ON DANIEL WEBSTER.  185

the observations of Sir John Dalzell, where he has been on

the same ground. He has upset all Ehrenberg's Infusoria,

some are Vermes, some Crustaceans, some plants, some spori

Iof plants, &c. And what, asked, are Infusoria ? The reply

was, ' There are no such beings ! '

    October 31. --Mr. Peabody, a Unitarian preacher in King's
Chapel, gave us a fine discourse to-day on the death of
Daniel Webster, very simple and original. He dwelt on the

great importance to a nation of a commanding intellect, as
even those parties who differed entirely in their political
views had the advantage of seeing every great question
placed in a clearer light and on broader grounds, so that
they were forced in opposing them to do so less ignorantlv.

There was no hyperpanegyric --which of course there has
been in the various speeches made here. The union of all

the distant States, and sects, and political parties, shows

Ihow national this country is. ' Uncle Tom's Cabin ' will,

  hope, do more good than harm on the whole. It is a gross

caricature, because the very great number of kind masters,
and of families where the same negroes remain for genera
tions, is carefully kept out of view. But all the evils de
scribed, or nearly all, do now and then occur in a population
of nearly four millions. As to Congress, it can no more

interfere constitutionally than our Government to. reform

the harems and other abominations in Turkey.

     My class is a very satisfactory and steady one, and being
twice as great as has been seen in the Lowell Institute for

many years, gives pleasure to its patrons.
                                      Ever affectionately yours,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

                   To J. W. DAWSON, ESQ.

                                                                             Itoston : November 6, 1852.

   IMy dear Sir,--- have very good news to tell you. Agassiz

only conjectures that hollow- tree Joggins animal is a ccelo-
canth fish, possibly allied to Holoptychius, and assuming it
to be a fish, then the remarkable bone which first struck us,
and of which there are two, must be a hyoid bone because it
could be no other. Yet he knows of no hyoid bone like it.

186               SIR CHARLES LYELL.             CHAP. xxvn.

You see how very loose a decision this is, when the materials

are so ample. Wyman begins to suspect an ichthyic reptile

allied to Siren, Proteus anguinus (Nemobranchus?), &c.,as he

says there is a bone in them more like it. So much for our
principal skeleton. But you will be delighted to hear that

in the same stone Wyman has worked out part of a vertebral

column, seven vertebrae in a series, and three other detached

ones of the same dorsal and lumbar region, belonging to a

distinct creature, and which he at once pronounced a sala

mander from the articulating surface of the ball-and-socket
joints, &c. Afterwards, when it was shown to Agassiz, he
Iexclaimed, ' This is more reptilian than anything ever saw
Iin the coal ! '  now begin to regret that we left a single

fragment of the stone on the beach. For Wyman worked

Ithis treasure out of a most unpromising stone, like many

which threw away.
    Latest intelligence. -- Dr. Wyman has just been here with

great news. The first bone which we found is clearly not

the hyoid bone of a fish, but the iliac bone of a reptile. Do
not say anything about it, as every hour he is advancing.

The iliac bone is so precisely ours, and the hyoid of a gar-

pike (the nearest which Agassiz could find) is so very unlike,

that we may pronounce ours to be a true ichthyic reptile till

he can gainsay us. So we have two reptiles according to

this, and as only four individuals were previously known
in the coal of the whole world, 1 hope we have added 33£
per cent. at one stroke to the reptilian paleontology of

that era.

     Believe me, my dear sir, ever truly yours,

                  CHARLES LYELL.

                            To GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

                                               11 Harley Street, London : February 17, 1853.

   IMy dear Ticknor, -- must add a few words to my wife's

letter to Mrs. Ticknor, though my head is rather too much
occupied with geology to have anything else worth telling of.
My publisher is seriously thinking of an edition of 5,00U

Icopies for this, the ninth, of the ' Principles of Geology,'

with which am very busy. Macaulay says that Longman

i853. NEW YORK EXHIBITION.                            187

told him that in England more than a million copies of
' Uncle Tom ' have positively been sold, far exceeding in
popularity -- what think you, the 'Pilgrim's Progress' or
         ? -- not         all--but James'  ' Anxious            '
IWalterScott          at                              Enquirer
                                                                  !

of which at least never heard before. This perhaps ex

plains far more of the run of Mrs. Stowe's book, than either

its talent, or slavery, or the charm of reading a new picture

of life, after our own social state has been hackneyed in so

many novels, good and bad. It is, in fact, the first book

which ever hit precisely the taste of the religious world and
of the profane ; 100,000 they tell me have sold of the ' Wide
Wide World,' and half that number of ' Queechy.' One

small printer who bought of Clowes the paper intended for

the Exhibition Catalogue (the privileged one) which was a
failure, and got it cheap because of its unusual shape, when

paper was not easy to get, cleared 3,00OL by 60,000 copies of
' Uncle Tom.' Murray ascertained this.

So now everyone is speculating in American reprints,

good, bad, and indifferent. They are poured in upon us like

gold from Australia.

                          Ever most truly yours,

                                           CHARLEB LYELL.

         To GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

                                        11 Harley Street, London: April 26, 1853.

IMy dear Ticknor, -- wish to make to you the first
announcement of a sudden change in our plans, by which

we hope soon to have the pleasure of again seeing you and

other friends on your side of the water. About a week ago,

Lord Granville (President of the Council and Vice-President
Iof the Royal Commission for the Exhibition of 1851, which
still subsists, and of which  am a permanent member),

called here to say, that the Government had determined to
send out commissioners to the New York Industrial Exhi

bition. That it was somewhat contrary to etiquette, but

that they were ready to waive that, inasmuch as the last

Government of the United States had partially recognised
the New York scheme as national. Lord Ellesmere had

offered his services to the ministry, and they had thought of

188  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                CHAP. xxvn.

me as No. 2, both to represent science and ' as one who

would be acceptable to the American people.'

   I Itold him must take time, at least a day or two, to
Iconsider ; for unless could calculate by great exertion to get
out my ninth edition of ' Principles,' now eight months out
I Iof print, could not go.  must also, I said, see the in
I I Istructions, and
     stipulated that if went,          would not

Iundertake any share, much less a superintendence, of the

Report. Secondly, that would serve, like Lord Ellesmere,

without any salary or pecuniary remuneration. These terms

being agreed upon and put in writing by me in a letter

to Lord Granville, and shown no doubt by him to Lords

I IAberdeen and Clarendon, from whom he brought the mes

sage, was nominated, with leave if could not be ready

Ifor the Government steamer in which Lord Ellesmere is

to go, to take a mail packet, in which might sail with

I Imy wife.
        also bargained that might return as soon as the New
York business is over, as my scientific work, to be cleared off

Ibefore sailing for the Canaries in the autumn, will be much
interrupted by this affair. In short,  give them two

months in all of my time, in return for what is considered

here a great compliment usually. Some of your countrymen
here protest that the whole New York affair is a humbug.

But Ingersoll has sent in a note which confirms the ministers

Ihere in their friendly resolutions. The Italian sculpture,

consisting of a hundred statues, is, hear, beautiful, and

Istimulated no doubt by the sales they made here in 1851.
        had resolved that nothing should persuade me to in

terrupt my regular geological studies, but there are many

Iinducements to make us accept this on such terms, and

shall be glad if you will tell Mr. Everett, Lowell, Winthrop,

Abbott Lawrence, Hillard, and many others whom you think

I Iwould be interested. My wife will tell Mr. Prescott, but not
enlarge on the subject.     thought might read to Lord

Granville a pithy passage from your last letter about the
state of parties --Pierce, Douglas, Cass, &c. -- which was ad

mirably fitted to show them that, politically speaking, this

might be a good move, or could not fail to be, for it is done

in a good spirit. Lord Ellesmere  is,  as you know, a most

i853- EDUCATION IN AMERICA.  189

accomplished man, and has really great knowledge and taste
in the fine arts, and has a glorious gallery of pictures.

     Macaulay is in an unsatisfactory state. Whether India or

Ioverwork, or both, have damaged his strong constitution,
Icannot learn ; but he seems to have grown very weak and

ailing. But hope he will rally.
                                        Ever most truly yours,

                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

                            To LEONARD HORNEE, ESQ.

                                                                     Boston: July 11, 1853.

    IMy dear Horner, -- Lord Ellesmere's illness, and the un

 certainty as to what may be called upon to do in the

Ievent of his absence, has kept me in some doubt, but hope

still he will rally, as he usually does rapidly, and not dis

Iappoint the meeting, and this expect will be the end of it.
I find educational matters more eagerly discussed than ever,

 and a growing conviction that the whole system must give
 way, simply because with, the doubling of the population
 and trebling of the wealth, students on the old foundations
 do not augment in number. They have cheapened education,
but it will not do, and finally they are coming to the reluc
tant confession, that as a large part of the people will do
 ·without Latin and Greek, but will have science and modern
 literature, they must provide the articles they want.

    In New England, at New York, and in Philadelphia, I

 heard precisely the same declarations, and they have been made

at public meetings since my arrival. It is evidently a crisis.

Fortunately they have neither mediaeval endowments to
render them independent of modern public opinion, nor eccle
siastical collegiate governments to prevent them from adopt
ing a radical change. They are going to work in good earnest.

     There are so many sectarian colleges, that it will be some

time before any one grows big enough to subdivide sciences
as they require.

      Agassiz is quite recovered and at work. Dr. Leidy made
professor at Philadelphia, aged only thirty-five, and a first-

rate osteologist and comparative anatomist.
                                     Ever affectionately yours,

                                                                  CHARLES LYELL.

190             SIR CHARLES LYELL.          CHAP. xxvn.

                To His WIPE.

                                                                               Osborne : August 23, 1853.

   IMy dearest Mary, -- made out my journey and voyage

very successfully. The parterre of flowers was in great

beauty, and the views of the sea in spite of cloudy weather

very pleasing.
     I got here between six and seven, and Lord Clarendon
Iarrived alone just after.
                            was very glad to find that he was

to be the Minister in attendance. As usual, he has made

himself very agreeable. He has been reading Lord Elles-
mere's speech in my paper, and likes it much ; the Prince is to
have it by and by. At dinner we had, besides the household,

Count Mensdorf, the Duchess of Kent's nephew, Austrian

Ambassador to St. Petersburg. After dinner, when four of

the household played whist, the Prince had a long talk with
Lord Clarendon and me about the United States, foreign

Ipolitics, and University reform. Very frank, and both going

as far as do in most things, and never clashing in senti

ment.

    The Prince then invited us to join the ladies and sit down

Iat their table, and was asked by the Queen news of New

York doings, and made them merry with Soft-shell, Old

Hunkers, &c., and gave an account of the Exhibition pro

Ispects, United States prosperity, &c.

       shall try and drive over to Ryde this afternoon, if the

Queen and Prince drive out. Lord Clarendon has proposed
returning with me to town, which will be very pleasant. How

they are overworked ! We parted at a quarter-past eleven

o'clock, and Lord Clarendon found, to his dismay, five red
boxes with State papers from London in his bedroom ! He

Itold me he had hoped the interval of salt water would have
stopped them.   am enjoying myself much, and only wish
you were here. It is a very pleasant residence, like a small

German Principality palace.

                Ever affectionately yours,

                                    CHARLES LYELL.

i 854.                  MADEIRA.  191

        To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

                                  Madeira: January 1854.
IMy dear Horner, -- have been wishing to send you
some account of my geological results in Madeira, but have

Ibeen so actively employed in the field, that have had
Ibarely time to write my notes each evening. Besides, am
Icontinually modifying, and improving as hope, my views of

the structure of the island, which far exceeds in interest any
Ithing had anticipated, as it does in picturesque beauty any
Iregion of equal extent
                         ever saw ; Switzerland not ex-

cepted.

     The sea-cliffs and innumerable ravines, both of great
depth, display the rocks very finely, but the ravines and
deep valleys make it a long affair to get from one spot to
another, which looks an easy morning's walk. The horses

Ican climb admirably, and even leap up a succession of rocky

steps, to which have now got accustomed, and feel safer

than on my own legs.
     My companion, Mr. Hartung,8 is very zealous, and his

agricultural, entomological, and botanical pursuits had made

him in the last three winters get up the physical geography

and language well, and some beginning of geology ; so he

helps me very much, and is an apt scholar. He also draws

Itolerably, and improves in this daily.

        have satisfied myself that Smith of Jordanhill was

right in attributing a sub-aerial origin to the volcanic rocks

Iof this island generally, although Vernon Harcourt has since
disputed that opinion.   have now seen more than either

of them did, and have visited the only part where marine

formations are known above the level of the sea. They reach

Ia height, not of 1,600 feet, as reported, but of 1,200, as deter
mined by my barometer.   have found waterworn pebbles

of the usual Madeira volcanic rocks in these same beds,

which contain corals and sea-shells; such pebbles are
entirely wanting in the volcanic breccias which all over

the island contain angular fragments thrown out by ex
plosions. There is one example of au impure lignite, and

· Mr. George Hartung, of Konigsberg, author of Travelt in Normay, IK.

192  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxvn.

Ia leaf-bed under basalt, in which have been the first to

 find leaves ; a greater mixture of ferns with dicotyledonous
leaves than Charles Bunbury has seen in any other tertiary
formation. He has found about five species of ferns,
 Pecopteris, Sphenopteris, Adiantites (?), &c., and has not
 quite examined all my specimens, most of which have been

Iobtained for me by a peasant, whom have kept at work
Iever since found out the spot, which like most of the best

 geological localities here, is rather inaccessible. One really

ought to have a tent, so much time is spent in going and

coming back, but there is much to see upon the way, which
makes up somewhat for the exertion. On the great ques

Ition whether the Curral is or is not a crater, on which

Darwin will be curious, have made up my mind that it is

not. In general this island confirms his doctrine, that if all

 valleys were cut by rivers alone, they would be very narrow,
though they might be of any depth, and that the sea is the
great widening power. The question then arises, whether

the two principal central valleys of Madeira, the Curral and

that of the Serra d'Agoa, could be as wide as they are if

due to aqueous and fluviatile erosion alone, aided by the
gradual upheaval of the rocks to the height of 1,200 and per

haps more feet, which the marine strata have reached,

Iduring which upheaval the original flattened dome has

   presume acquired a more convex form, in accordance so far

Iwith the ' Erhebung's ' theory, provided time enough be

allowed for the uplifting. But find the beds very much
nearer horizontality in the central region, where they
are highest, and the dip which they have from 3° to 7° is by
no means always away from the central valleys, as stated to
be the ease in the Caldera of Palma. Besides, these central

valleys radiate outwards to the sea, both to the north and
south, unlike the case of Palma ; the dome was of an elliptical
form, as there was not one habitual volcano, but a chain of
rents, like a miniature Andes.

    In the middle or axis of the chain, sub-aerial volcanic

matter, 4,000 f«et deep, is seen to be piled up. The basalts

accumulated between numerous cones of eruption, and then
flowed away in all directions, occasionally encountering and
burying lateral cones, some of which are exposed in the lofty

I854-           GEOLOGY.                 193

sea-cliffs. What surprises me is, that the sheets of basalt

are scarcely, if at all, more inclined than at first, where

nearest the great focus of eruptions, whereas they have a

slope from 9° to 13°, and sometimes rather more, as they re
cede from it. Dikes are innumerable in the central region,

and are fewer nearer the sea, unless where a transverse or

north and south volcanic axis branches off, and presents on
a smaller scale an epitome of the whole island. One of these,

Iat Cape Giram, has its anatomy finely laid open by a nearly

vertical sea-cliff 1,600 feet high, where have counted 120
dikes, some of them running from the base of the cliff to the
top. Even in this section the basalts are most horizontal
where the dikes are most numerous. The modern rivers
have left beds of pebbles 100 and 130 feet above the present
channels ; precipices which bound them are so steep that

higher ones cannot be preserved, for they get undermined
and fall down.

                     Believe me ever yours affectionately,
                                                               CHARLES LYELL.

                To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

                                  Lazzaretto, Santa Cruz, Teneriffe: February 21, 1854.

   IMy dear Horner, --Although have only time to give you

a brief outline of the results of my last two or three weeks'

I Iwork in Madeira, must endeavour to do this before am ab
I Isorbed in this new field cf interest in the Canaries. At last
  found beds of pebbles, which believe to have been rolled
by rivers under currents of lava in Madeira, and like the

fossil plants alluded to in my last letter, and more of which

were discovered up to the last, these pebbles prove that there

Iwas here a volcanic island built up by a series of sub-aerial
eruptions.      had also the pleasure of finding a set of

trachytic lavas and tuffs 900 feet thick, at Porto da Cruz, all

newer than an older and more inclined basaltic series, show

ing that one set of movements was over, and the erosion of

one set of valleys completed, before some important portions

of the volcanic operations had begun. Such conclusions you

Iwill see, respecting the north-east of the island, are in harmony

with the different ages which ascribed to the Cape Giram

       VOL. n.  o

194  SIR CHARLES LYELL.               CHAP. xxvii.

Ibeds in the south.  was able to prove by repeated visits to

that grand sea-cliff section, that the juxtaposition of the

Ihighly inclined and the horizontal beds was owing to a great

dislocation, but must not dwell on that now.

   IBesides some beds of waterworn alluvial gravel covered

by trachytic lava at Porto da Cruz, found at Camera de

Lobos, near Funchal, some tufaceous alluviums, with slightly

Iabraded blocks overspread by layers of columnar basalt.

But after a nine weeks' search, never met with a single

river bed with lava resting upon it, no old fluviatile gravel

conforming to the present veJleys, or even approaching to a

Icoincidence of position with what are now the lowest levels

upon which a stream of lava had flowed. therefore sup

posed that Madeira during its growth was not like Auvergne

or the Olot district in Spain, but like Etna, where there are

no torrents or rivers or springs, not even in the Val del Bove,

where the cattle have to be supplied with the water of melted
Isnow, or like Mouna Loa in the Sandwich Isles, where a

dome of much larger dimensions is, think, described by

Dana as without running water, though not without rain.

    Von Buch saw but little of Madeira, or it would certainly

Ifhave been regarded by him as a ' crater of elevation.'

the Curral, and tlie Serra d'Agoa, two great central valleys,

be given up as craters, and regarded as valleys of erosion,

still Madeira would resemble the Mont d'Or and the Cantal

all the more for not having any great central crater. The

existence of a marine deposit at one point north of the east

and west axis, rising to about 1,200 feet above the sea-level,

shows that here, as in the case of Etna and Somma, there

has been upheaval in some shape and to a certain amount,

and in Madeira, as in the case of the Neapolitan and Sicilian

volcauos, the earlier eruptions were submarine, for the

shells and corals are associated with rolled volcanic frag

ments and tuff. But besides this, there is such a tilting of

some masses of solid lava away from the central axis as to

imply that much of the principal movement was of a kind to

Icause the beds to dip away from the force of eruption,

although, as said before, there are large spaces at great

elevations, from 2,200 to 5,000  (?)  feet high, where there are

plateaus at or near the centre of the island, where the beds

i854- GEOLOGY OF MADEIRA.  195

Iof basalt have a slight dip, not more than conceive they
Imay have had originally. In this respect Madeira differs

from Palma and Teneritfe, so far as know the latter by Von

Buch's descriptions.

    A great proportion of the dikes are older than the in
clined basalts, and others as old, and it would seem some
thing of a paradox if we found that the grand explosion and
upheaval was reserved till all the ordinary volcanic energy

was spent, although we might perhaps imagine that when
the safety-valve was closed, the subterranean force might

expend itself in uplifting and injecting the rocks below.

Let us see then whether we can reconcile the different

theories of the eruption and elevation schools, so that by
the aid of both we may account for what I have regarded as
facts of a conflicting character. In the first place we have
abundance of evidence that had there never been any eleva

tion whatever, Madeira would have been a lofty island about
4,500 feet high, formed by a long series of supramarine

eruptions which gave rise to mountains more than 4,000
feet high, consisting from top to bottom of volcanic tuff, and
breccias and scoriae, lapilli, cinders, and lavas, and slightly in
clined basalts flowing away in all directions, east, west, north,

Iand south, for miles, perhaps far beyond the present limits of

the isle, and not below the sea. have fossils, leaves of ferns

and dicotyledons (more than 150 specimens) showing that
before the island was formed, it was clad with vegetation.

In the Curral we see very deep into the interior, to within

1,700 feet of the sea-level, and that in the middle of an
island above 6,000 feet high. No signs there of any corals

Ior shells, or such wearing or rubbing off of the angles of the

stones included in the breccias as invariably found in the

Porto Santo and S. Vincente marine volcanic conglomerates.
     This hypothesis, therefore, of the upheaval of the island, so

far from explaining its structure, would involve us in many

perplexities. In the first place there are no raised shingle

beaches, no tuffs containing sea-shells, a leaf bed only 900

feet above the sea-level covered by tuffs and lavas 1,200 feet
thick, &c. Mr. Smith's 9 suggestion that some parts of the

coast of the isle have sunk since the volcanic period would

· Of Orotava.

o2

19(5             SIR CHARLES LYELL.                  CHAP. xxvu.

Iperhaps explain much more, but will not at present discuss

that view.

   IThe conclusion to which am coming is this, that there

has been a prodigious succession of periods of volcanic erup

tion both along the central east and west axis of eruption,
and along certain north and south lines, and finally, and at
a later season, along the coasts. In this small chain, thirty
or thirty-five miles long, as in the greater one of the Andes,

all the volcanos were not active at the same time. Some

were extinct ages before others broke out ; yet there was
such a similarity in the products of all, and in the mode of

rending, injecting, and dislocating the rocks already formed,

that the general result throughout the whole chain was verj

uniform, the general structure and composition nearly the

eame, and the numerous local exceptions only discoverable

Iafter much study.

     But must conclude, for the arrival of the Cadiz steamer

has made us determine to avail ourselves of its aid to visit

Ithe Grand Canary, and Mary, Mr. Hartung, and go there
Ito-morrow morning ; but shall leave others to send you all

the news not strictly geological.

     The climate of Madeira was like that of a good English
summer, never too hot for work in the field, and never cold,

even when one was wet with a shower. In the small grounds

of the Lazzaretto here, over which we are allowed to walk,

Messrs. Bunbury and Hartung gathered forty-eight wild

plants in flower. With love to all, believe me ever yours

affectionately,                     CHARLES LYELL.

                 To MRS. BUNBTJRY.

                                               11 Harley Street, London : June 10, 1854.

      IDearest Frances, -- was very glad to learn from your

last letter to Mary that you had not forgotten the baro

Imetrical calculations.1
        received the other day a letter from Joseph Hooker

from Hadleigh, in which he gives all his reasons for thinking

Coniferae as highly developed dicotyledons as any others,
Iand above mouocotyleds. In this he differs from Ad.
Brongniart. Henslow sends word that he concurs.      should

                 1 Made by Mrs. Bunbury in Madeira.

1854.       ANCIENT FAUNA AND FLORA.  197

Ilike to show the letter to your husband and get his criticisms.

But it is a precious document, as have to allude to the
question when treating of the carboniferous flora.

     Please send all possible objections to the views of Hooker

andHenslow. It is curious that in a number of ' Silliman'just

received, Agassiz, in a paper on ancient faunae and flora),
asserts that they were at every ancient period as varied as
now, but that the grade of the highest was not so high as
now. The supposed fact of all the Stonesfield mammalia

being marsupial made him despise the pouched animals.

Afterwards Owen found the Thylacotherium (or Amplithe-
riuin) to be placental or monodelphous. Now a grand discovery
has been made last Wednesday. Owen read a paper on a

new Purbeck (Tipper Oolite) mammifer, a new genus of the
mole family, allied to Talpa aurea or the Chrysochlore of the

Cape, allied also to Thylacotherium. Several perfect lower
jaws with teeth in good condition, a true non-marsupial

mammal.

     Truly the oolite is looking up, and it is the more striking
since the chalk (Wealden and all) still refuses to yield up

Iauy of its mighty dead, if it has any to disgorge, as expect

it has. But if not, it only shows that their absence is no

argument that in older beds more advanced forms were not

developed.

       What does Charles think of Hooker's notion that there

were some grasses in the coal ? No doubt it would better
suit the progressive theory if they came in long afterwards.
It would be more orthodox that Nature should first try her
If Ihand at some easier feat.
of Burns,                      might paraphrase the lines

                                On ferns she tried her 'prentice hand,

                         And then she made the grasses, 0 ;

Ibut must really have done. The Duke of Argyll, at the

levee yesterday, had a long talk with me about my speech at
the Geological Society on Owen's paper, and he said, ' You

will never get over the absence of mammalia in the coal

which has been so well worked, and contains more dirt beds

Ithan the Purbeck.' This was a good hit, and, as confessed

to him, the strongest point on that side ; but on negative

evidence the coal was without land quadrupeds, birds, sau

198  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                          CHAP. xxvn.

Irians, chelonians, ophidians, land crabs, air-breathing mol-

lusca (save two individuals which found), insects, save
three or four individuals, no helices, no lymneas or planorbis,

&c. &c. In short, it proves too much when the marine

fauna was so perfect.
                                      Ever affectionately yours,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

     To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

                                             11 Harley Street, London: August 12, 1854.

   IMy dear Homer, --Edward Forbes is come to town for a

short stay, and must get out my Grand Canary and Madeira

fossil shells to show him. Murchison has come out with a
Ivery useful book on ' Siluria,' well done, and much new mat
ter on Coal and Old Red, as well as older things.  shall

have to controvert one chapter on ' a long period when the

Iinvertebrate animals alone existed.'
         asked M'Andrew yesterday how many vertebra; or

any remains of dead fish he dredged up on the Dogger Bank
or the great ' Ling Banks ' or cod-fishing grounds off Shet

land. To my astonishment he replied, ' I never drew up one

Ibone or tooth, though sometimes live fish came up in the
mud. Once I got what thought was a tooth of some ver
tebrate animal, but it proved to be of an echinus.' He ima

gines that future geologists will find no signs of the exist

ence of fish in the sand and mud of the great fishing-banks
of Newfoundland ! Yet you remember in the ' Principles '
1 had a ' bone-bed ' in the sea of the Hebrides, so we have

an Upper Silurian bone-bed. Huxley is established at the

Museum of Practical Geology ; he is coming on fast in Pa
leontology. Elie de Beaumont was here for two days, and

made himself very pleasant. He is looking well.

     Ever affectionately yours,

                         CHARLES LYELL.

                  To C. J. F. BUNBURY, ESQ.

                                              63 Harley Street, London : November 13, 1854.

   IMy dear Bunbury, -- have been intending from day to

day to write and thank you for your former letter, in which
you gave nie an account of the conversion of the ^Bgilops

i854- REMARKABLE ORCHID.                      199

Iinto wheat, which shall keep for next edition of the ' Prin

ciples.' Hooker seems to believe it, though in general not

BO proue as Lindley to entertain such ideas.

When we were at Charles Darwin's we talked over this and

Iother like matters, and Hooker astonished me by an account

of an orchideous plant 2 sent, think, by Schomburgk from

Brazil, and which on different branches of the same indi

vidual specimen contained flowers previously referred to

three distinct orchideous genera, some of the said genera

having had several species referred to them. You probably

know about this, which will figure in C. Darwin's book on
' Species,' with many other ' ugly facts,' as Hooker, clinging

like me to the orthodox faith, calls these and other abnormal
Ivagaries.
            think Joseph Hooker said that each of the three

so-called genera, now resolved into one and the same species
by Sir Robert Snhomburgk's specimen, were morphologically
I Idistinct on many different points.
                      have learnt all could
Ifrom the Bury paper of your lecture, which was, think,
very well imagined, and not dry, as it might have been if

too botanical. There are no end of desirable illustrations of

plants, if one could set Henslow to work in his Michael An-

gelo style ; a name rarely conveys an idea to a class without

a picture.

Of my four species of Bryozoa from the Grand Canary,

Ione is recent and three unknown, so says the first-rate
authority, Mr. Busk.  imagine the age may be Miocene or

falunian ; but this is a mere guess as yet. The San Vincente

sub-marine beds were volcanic, or contemporary with erup

Itions, whether upraised before Madeira existed as a volcano
   cannot say. But as the mass of Madeira is of supramarine
Iorigin, this San Vincente bed must have been its foundation,

  suppose. It is a good question. Porto Santo is strictly
an analogous case, an upraised volcano of submarine origin,

and a superstructure of sub-aerial lava.

   ISebastopol is an anxious business. The lateness of the

season is, suspect, chiefly owing to Lord Aberdeen never
having intended anything but a demonstration in the Medi

I Iterranean, and never in earnest. This think know

     1 Catatetum, described in the Fertilisation of Orchids, by Charles Darwin,
and referred to in the Origin of Speciet,

200                SIR CHARLES LYELL.        CHAP. xxvii.

through private sources. The Czar knew it, and did not

budge, of course.
     I hope to comply with your friend Lord Arthur Hervey's
Iwishes 3 some day, not a distant one. Meanwhile am very
Iglad your lecture went off, as fully expected it would, so
Iwell, and that you are going to repeat it.
                                             am sure that

what Dr. Franklin said of Wesley's field-preaching and ex

temporaneous discourses, that the most effective were those

he had often given, so is it with lectures. Each time you will

improve the same subject ; you know better the value of the

hour, and measure the relative importance and popularity of

Ithe subjects better, and waste no time in saying how little

time you have, though do not hear that yon did so, but

most men do.

    With love to Frances, believe me, ever affectionately

yours,

                   CHARLES LYELL.

     1 The present Bishop of Bath and Wells, who requested him to give a
lecture at Bury St. Edmunds.

i855.  DEATH OF EDWARD FORBES,     201

                     CHAPTER XXTIII.

                      JANUARY 1855 --AUGUST 1856.

DEATH Of EDWARD FORBES -- BERLIN-- DR. HOOKER'S INTRODUCTION TO
    'FLORA INDICA' -- HUGH MILLER-- ENTOMOLOGY -- MACAULAY AND PRE8-
    COTT'S HISTORIES-- FOSSIL BOTANY -- ON THE DOCTRINE OF SPECIES--
     SILESIA-- RIESENGEBIRGE-- BOTANY-- GEOLOGY OF SAXON SWITZERLAND
    -- BARRANDE'S 'COLONY' OF UPPER BILESIAN FOSSILS.

    [In 1855 and the two following years, Sir Charles and Lady Lyell

spent several months of each year travelling on the Continent, always
with the view of geological inquiry. The University of Oxford, hig
Alma Mater, conferred upon him the degree of D.C.L. in 1854, and he
attended the British Association at Glasgow that year.]

       CORKESPONDENCE.

       To HlS SlSTER.

                                           53 Harley Street, London : January 2, 1865.

My dear Caroline, -- I enclose a letter from Sir Walter C.

Trevelyan of Wellington, supposing you must be the in

dividual alluded to, who having found a rare insect, wished
Ito keep the habitat to yourself.
                                   wrote to say that we
I IInever kept it a secret, but that as had given away all the

duplicates had here, would ask you if you could send one
Ior two to Sir W. Trevelyan, by post in a small box with cork,

or as you think best, and asked him to acknowledge

direct to you their safe arrival, if safe. He alludes to poor

IEdward Forbes's death, which is indeed the greatest loss of

an active scientific friend have ever sustained, and as he

Iwas but thirty-nine, so unexpected. We are getting up two

London memorials to him, to which subscribe. His death

and Mr. M'llvaine's of New Jersey, and Lord Cockburn's,

are a great many in one year, and among geologists much

202  . SIR CHARLES LYELL.                         CHAP. xxvm.

Iyounger than myself, whom often saw, Mr. Strickland, run

over by a railway.

    It makes one feel as one grows older much as the officers

in the Crimea must feel, that they are surrounded by com

panions whom one may never see again, a few weeks or

months hence, and it seems strange how little one is checked

in one's own proceedings, and how one coolly purchases a

lease of sixteen and a half years of this house.

     With my love to all, and a happy new year, believe me

your affectionate brother,              CHAELES LYELL.

     To GEORGE HARTTJNG, ESQ.

     53 Barley Street, London : January 21, 1855.

     Dear Hartung, --Your letter, dated January 4, reached

Ime several days ago. You make steady progress as a geo

logical artist, and think the vi«w of Funcbal and the S.

Martinho range with Cape Giram and Pico Bodes range in

Ithe distance, is a particularly truthful sketch.
       chipped off with a small hammer, some three weeks ago,

Inine small fragments of rock, from as many specimens which
   collected when with you, and sent them duly numbered in
a letter by post to M. Delesse at Paris. No mineralo

gist and analytical chemist is perhaps so good an authority

as he is. In a few days he sent back an answer, and had

Ifound, by aid of the microscope, minute crystals of all the

minerals, larger crystals of which were in the big pieces

kept here. First I sent the ' yellow concentric ' from Sitio do

IPoizo and another place, calling it basalt. He replies, we in

France should call it basalt, but did not expect that you
would ; as it is made exclusively of greenish felspar and
olivine without any augite, ' therefore would you not in Eng

land call it trap?' Certainly I had imagined that the darkish

Igrey colour was derived from augite, though was aware that
Iit consisted in great part of felspar. Other rocks, which

called basalt, he also named the same.
     I hope when you return to London to know much niore
Iabout the Madeira and Canary Island rocks.
                                                  shall send
Iyou a copy of my book with the report have given of the
result of our joint observations. It would be better for you

i855.                      BERLIN.                                                                       203

and me to see a country of recent or active volcanos nezt.
But you are -well employed in Madeira. Pray go to the Pico
of Camera de Lobos and see the lava or scoriaceous mass
on the flanks of the hill which often wished to go up to.

     The Bunburys and Lady Lyell desire to be remembered
to you. will try and report in my next letter on the Grand

Canary organic remains, some of which are curious.

                                    Ever most truly yours,
                                                             CHARLES LYELL.
       I
                            I

                                                                        (?)

       To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

                                    Berlin March 24, 1855.
       it I
                      I

                                                          a

                                                                                                      :
My dear Horner, -- We have spent our time very plea

santly and happily here.1  returned this morning from an

expedition to the Kreutzberg to see the boulder sand and

clay, which think has undergone good deal of rearrange

ment since first began its travels from Scandinavia. My

companions were Beyrich, Ewald, and Dr. Both. One or two

mornings' work with Mitscherlich have been very profitable.

He, Gustave Rose, and Dr. Roth went to Vesuvius and

Stromboli and Vulcano. At Stromboli those three men

established the important fact, that from the modern crater of

Stromboli have proceeded continuous streams of lava twelve

feet deep and 100 broad, of dolerite as compact as the ordi

nary lavas of Etna and of exactly similar composition, and

that the same lavas are now and have been from the first on

slopes of 15°, 20°, and 29°. What shall we think now of

Elie de Beaumont's and Dufresnoy's assertion that no con

tinuous stream could form on the least of these inclinations.

     Scacchi's account of the eruption of Vesuvius in 1850, and
all that happened there between 1845 and 1850, copy of
       1 is
                                                       is

                                                                 is
                                                                                        a

                                                                                               '
which Mitscherlich lent me to read, highly interesting, and

quite unfavourable to Von Buch's theory and to Dufresnoy's
facts and views. In one paper Scacchi
                                                                             so astonished at

Dufresnoy's assertions, who never walked once over one

whole side of Somma, that he says in so many words, that

if the French savant was ever at Naples, he could never have

gone out of his house, or only by night.'

    It strange what influence Von Buch exerted, for he

       With Chevalier and Madame Fertz, Lady Lyell'a sister.

204              SIR CHARLES LYELL.          CHAP. xxvni.

has made both Ewald and Beyrich entirely disbelieve all the

I Iglacial hypothesis. The other day told Mitscherlich

would convert them both, and he said (both of them being
present, and laughing at the joke), ' No, you will never do
that, for the one (pointing to Beyrich) is like a stone, and
the other like india-rubber; you think you are making a
great impression, and then find next day that up he comea
again just in his former shape.'

                               Ever affectionately yours,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

     To DR. JOSEPH HOOKER.

     IMy dear Hooker, --                53 Harley Street: July 17, 1855.
                          have to thank you for your valuable
volume on the ' Flora Indica.' Your introductory essay is a
Igreat treat, and must study it carefully with reference to
Ithe ' Principles of Geology,' as may some day have an
Iopportunity of correcting and enlarging my views.
                                                    have
Ialso to observe that was gratified at your note at p. 40,

because Bunbury once told. me that Henfrey, in some general

work of his, had said that Edward Forbes was the first to strike
Iout that line.
                 never thought it worth while to allude to
Ithis, as have tried not to spend any time or words in
Imaking ' reclamations,' though, suppose, that if my books
Ihad not had so large a sale, should have given way to that
Iweakness, as see so many others do.
     I Iam glad you have two full indexes.
Ithe whole into one.                        would have put

                          am sure that, as a rule, it is best,

however heterogeneous the subjects, to have one only at the

end, for one finds a word easier in a large than in a short

index, and one knows exactly where to find it. But this is

a trifling matter in a volume which one sees at once is the

result of such a vast body of new facts. The maps are most

useful.

   IDe Candolle has just sent me his two volumes, but have

not had time to look at them.

   I have had a week's steady work in the Wealden district,
Istudying the problem of ' denudation,' but must conclude.

                 Ever affectionately yours,

                                      CHARLES LYELL.

i8ss- HUGH MILLER.                                    205

            To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

                               Shielhill : September 5, 1855.

    My dear Horner, --You mention in your letter to Mary
bow much you were interested in Hugh Miller's ' Schools and

Schoolmasters,' a biography every page of which we read
Iwith delight, though quite agree with you in wishing he
Ibad kept to bis prose. found the man quite equal to my
Iexpectations from his books.
                               had always missed seeing

him before, and narrowly did so this time, as he arrived in

Edinburgh the day after us, after a three weeks' ramble.

He welcomed me most heartily, and was entirely at my dis

Iposal for two days, and would have accompanied me longer,

whether in the field or the museum, had had time. His

remarks on other geologists were very just, and his criticism

Ialso, with a generous appreciation of their merits. He is

quite as willing to learn as to teach, and got a great many

new ideas, both in going over his beautiful collection, and in
Iwalking over Arthur's Seat and Salisbury Craigs.
                                                      had
a walk to the top of Blackford Hill with Charles Maclaren,

who was very well, and full of geology. Dr. Fleming has a
Inotion of giving us something on Edinburgh, and wish he
Iwould.     had two good talks with him, and a walk over the
ICalton Hill, and over the coast of Fife from Kinghorn to
Kirkcaldy.  view the Edinburgh and Fife rock with very

different eyes now, since Madeira and the Canaries. They

are in part intrusive, in part sub-aerial in my opinion, in part

estuarian, like the associated Burdie-house coal measures,

which last are the lower portion of the coal series.

            Ever affectionately yours,

                               CHARLES LYELL.

                 To CHARLES .T. F. BCTNBURY, ESQ.

                                                   63 Harley Street, London : October 6, 1855.

   IMy dear Bunbury, -- am afraid, from a letter which

Symonds has written to me this morning, that you have had

Irather more than an ordinary share of bad weather, but

hope you will make out a visit to him.

    In Phillips' new edition of his ' Geology,' just out, he makes

206                 SIR CHARLES LYELL,      CHAP, xxvni.

I Ithe Lingula beds Cambrian, just as do, which am glad

of, as, however Murchison may complain, it is really we that

are adhering to the original divisions and names adopted by

Murchison and Sedgwick. It would be wrong to give up

the term Cambrian just when we are beginning to have a

distinct fauna for  it, as Salter was the first to show here,

and Barrande in Bohemia. Sedgwick's attempt to take theI is
Lower Silurian into his Cambrian even worse than Murchi
                           is
son claiming all that older than the Devonian as apperby

taining to his Silurian.
    Tell Symonds that yesterday had a talk with Murchi

son about the Dumfries beds. He says, when he first saw

them he felt, as he does now, that no such sandstones,

speaking lithologically, were ever seen  him in England or
elsewhere in the true trias.

I    am glad that Frances has made Mr. Symonds' acquaint

ance, and that she enjoying herself.
                    is

     Believe me ever affectionately yours,

                                         CHARLES LYELL.

                        To His SISTER.

                                             53 Harley Street, London January 1856.I

     My dear Caroline, -- am actually going to dine at Ladyis
Coltman's alone, for Mary not well enough, having been                               :
in bed instead of breakfasting with me, for the second time                                                   5,
only since our marriage. There was something like an epi
demic at Mildenhall, though certainly Leonard and FrankI
                                                                                 "
were merry enough, and some others, but presume that
Harry and Katharine gave you the news of our merry

making there.

       was shocked to find poor Curtis so nearly deprived of

sight, and expecting to be soon quite blind the night met
him there was discussion at the Linnaean Society as to
the cause of the very unusual number of moths, especially
of the Noctua family, in the summer of 1855. President
Bell, who now proprietor of the house which White owned

at Selborne, said that there had only been one-fourth the
usual number of birds' nests in the spring of 1855 others
attributed the abundance of the Lepidoptera noclurna gener-
I

                         a

                                                                                     *
                                                                                                ;

                                                  I

     2

       is
                                                      i

                                                                                                                             ;
     His nephews.                       The entomologist.

i856. PRESCOTT'S 'PHILIP II.'               207

ally to the scarcity of birds killed by severe winters. Curtis

said this could scarcely explain the case of the Noctua

tribe, since they get through their first change the autumn

or summer before they come out in wing. The result was

Ithat many rare moths were common and many new ones were
taken.  suppose the ' Entomologists' Annual ' will give you

Isome report of this.
       had some good geological walks with Charles Bunbury,
most of them dry enough, although on the immediate

borders of that fenny region which Macaulay describes
early in his third volume ' as saturated with all the moisture

of fourteen counties.' Macaulay's is certainly a work to

read slowly, and to buy, not borrow. It is full of all kinds

Iof interest, and even the criticisms one hears on all sides
show how much it occupies the public mind.  hear that

his health is worse than ever. He has a bad cough, and few
expect we shall ever see two more volumes. How often he

must have waded through a shelf of MS. to be able to say in
a single sentence that there is no evidence in such and such

memoirs of certain popular stories. Some single chapters
imply the perusal of a room full of books and records.

    Prescott's ' Philip II.' is very interesting. Not a few

readers complain that there is a want of expression of vir

tuous indignation on the part of the historian at the crimes

of Philip II. But he makes him out to be a villain of the

deepest dye, and all from his own royal letters. In regard

Ito the auto-da-fes, or murders perpetrated against heretics,
   think Prescott naturally makes great allowance, as in

those times every well brought up young lady in Spain who

was not a dissenter, would have sat and seen a Protestant

burnt alive with no small satisfaction, and when the Inquisi

tion were torturing thousands to death, with the sympathy
of all or nine-tenths of the Spaniards on the same side,

one must not judge the monarch as severely as we should

Isabella II. if she should try now to imitate her Most

Catholic ancestor.

With my love to all, believe me your affectionate brother,

                    CHARLES LYELL.

208  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                                                             CHAP. xxvm.

     To DR. FLEMING.

                         63 Harley Street, London : February 6, 1

Mydear Dr. Fleming, -- Lord Wrottesley, at the insta r c° .
presume, of the Committee of the British Association, left out
two or three passages, in which in a tone complimentary to

Imembers of the ecclesiastical profession who are in earnest

as churchmen, had explained my reasons for objecting to
Iecclesiastics holding chairs of Natural History, &c. You

know my reasons because they are in print, and will, hope,
refer any objector to my chapter on ' Oxford and University
Reform ' in my first ' American Travels.' You will also point

out as a verification of my arguments founded on past ex

pmeyrieonbcjeec, ttiohnreetoretmhearkcalebrlgey,illeusspteractiaiollnysifofthtehye  soundness of
                                                                                    be eminent ;

that Buckland, from the time Le was preferred to a Deanery,

held and neglected his Geology Chair at Oxford ; that Sedg-

wick did the same at Cambridge, or was less efficient when

resident Canon at Norwich ; and worst of all, that Henslow,

whose influence when resident in the University was so great

over the young men, no sooner became the conscientious pastor

of an ignorant Suffolk flock, than three-fourths of his use

fulness as Professor of Botany was at an end, and still he
Iretains his chair ! Say that was in some degree a prophet
I Irather than a bigot.
                         hope am not to infer that the

INatural History Chair is inefficiently filled in Auld Reekie.
   never saw the Professor, and God knows gave him no help.

     Believe me ever most truly yours,

                           CHARLES LYELL.

     To CHARLES BUNBURY, ESQ.

                                        63 Harley Street, London : February 19, 1856.

IMy dear Bunbury,-- was very glad to hear an account

of the Hypnum fluitans.
Hartung has written to Professor Heer to invite him to
Isend his S. Jorge fossil plants to me, that may submit
Ithem to your inspection.
                           have made acquaintance with

Mr. Wollaston, the nephew and representative of Dr. Wol-
laston, who has spent several years in the Madeiras, camping

i8ss. BEETLES OF MADEIRA.  209

out on the Deserta and in Porto Santo and on all manner of

so-called inaccessible heights in Madeira, pitching his tent

Ion the summit of Pico Ruivo among other spots.
        have learned much conchologically and entomologically
from him. The beetle a are wonderful in their distribution,

each island and almost every rock having its own. So

many peculiar to the Madeiras, several hundred, and apterous
although of genera not wingless in Europe or elsewhere, &c.

Query, was it not foreseen that wings would only cause them
to be blown out to sea and drowned ? The winged kinds may
date back to the period of the old Atlantis.

     The shells common to the Madeiras and southern Europe,

about a dozen of them, can be almost all proved to have been

introduced by man, and the date of their radiation from

Funchalis often known. A Lymnea truncatella got in thirty
years ago, and has gone all over the island. A friend of

Wollaston received a flower from Europe in a pot very
lately, and found five species of European helices alive,
buried in the mould. But although the fossil species of
Madeira and Porto Santo are seventy-five in number, not one
of them belong to any of these modern immigrants, and in

the whole seventy-five, only one British, Helix lapicida, is a
species living out of Madeira.

     The evidence of a connection between the Atlantic group
of islands is not strong unless it was at a very remote and
almost Miocene epoch. But Wollaston thinks the insects
can hardly be explained without it, though there was no
union with Africa. He thinks there must have been a land

of passage to enable some Canary Island species to travel
northwards to the Salvage and Madeiras, that the migration
was from south to noith.

    I hope when you are next in town to make you known to

Wollaston. He is of independent fortune and no profession,

Ihas published on the Coleoptera of Madeira a splendid 4to,

which Hooker and have got the Athena>um to purchase,

and you will do well to read the introductory remarks.
                                   Ever affectionately yours,

                                                             CHARLES LYELL.

VOL. n.

210          SIR CHARLES LYELL.                     CHAP. xxvm.

             To PROFESSOR OSWALD HEER.

             63 Harley Street, London : April 23, 1856.
     IMy dear Sir, -- received a few days ago both copies of
Iyour most valuable essay on the ' Plants of S. Jorge,' and am
very much obliged to you for them.  sent off one to Mr.

Bunbury, who is reading it with great interest, but slowly, as

Ihe does not read German as fluently as many other modern

languages. will, however, take the liberty of observing, that

your style is so clear, and the sentences of such moderate
length, that it convinces me that what we complain of in
regard to the involved sentences in most German authors, is

not the fault of the language, but of the writers.

        Mr. Bunbury sees by the figures you have given that four
  of your ferns are wanting in our collection, namely : Tricho-
* manes radicans, Osmunda regalis, Axplenium tiunburianum, and

A. Marinum.

On the other hand we have three very well-marked ferns,

and perhaps a fourth, which you have not.

     One of the most remarkable of our dicotyledonous leaves
is not in your set. Mr. Bunbury agrees in the identification

of Pteris aquilina and Oreodaphne fattens.

   I am extremely pleased with your discussion of the old
I' Atlantis,' a subject on which have been preparing some

observations, especially in regard to the fossil and recent

shells. MM. Lowe and Wollaston have of late been seven

months under tents in Madeira, Porto Santo. They have
satisfied themselves that Helix pisana is not truly fossil, but

lies bleached and dead on the top of the Cani£al and Porto
Santo shell deposit. They believe it came into the island

with man. Indeed they admit no European shell to be truly
fossil except Helix lapicida in Porto Santo, now lost in the

Madeiras as a living species.

They have found Helix tiarella living in the north of

Madeira. But these and other discoveries do not alter the

Idata on which you have reasoned materially.

      have told Wollaston of your Laparocerus. I am in hopes

that Mr. Bunbury will still find some novelties to communi

cate in the way of species, though he and Dr. Hooker are

i856. MADEIRA SHELLS.                          211

very timid in identifying species in comparison with your

self. The specimens of the fossil Mi/rica Faya which you
have figured do not agree closely with any of the varieties

of the same plant which Mr. Bunbury brought from Madeira

and TeneriHe.

We have more numerous and finer specimens of Wood-

wardia than yours, and hope you will remember that Mr.

Bunbury recognised this plant in my paper in 1854 to which

you refer. He thinks it is W. radicans, as he allowed me to

Isay at that time.
     When asked Mr. Wollaston why there have been no

coprophagous or dung-eating beetles created in Madeira, he

Ianswered because such already existed in the island, and
they are now playing their part.  asked, ' What did they
feed on b.efore the era of man ? ' and he said, ' Probably on

decayed wood.' Believe me, my dear sir,

                           Most truly yours,

                                         CHARLES LYELL.

               To C. J. F. BUNBURY, ESQ.

                                         53 Harley Street, London: April 30, 1836.

IMy dear Bunbury, -- rather think that Heer stayed later

in the year than we did in Madeira. Wollaston says that a
botanist had almost better never go to Funchal at all, where

the nine years' fire burnt all the native flora, and left a clear
field for the foreign invaders. He speaks with rapture of

getting into the interior and camping out, at the height of
4,000 feet and upwards, on the Fanal and other native

I Iwoods.                                      was in re
     After what he tells me,
                           feel how fortunate

gard to geology, for certainly Funciial is a first-rate station

Ifor that science.
        certainly believe that the Madeiras were islands in the
Miocene sea, and that most of the indigenous shells came

there after the separation, and the reason of the flora being

so much less peculiar than the land shells is partly that the

latter have comparatively small powers of migration, espe

cially across salt water.

Are Carices among the swamp plants which La\e a wider

                           t3

212  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                     CHAP. XXVIII.

Irange than plants loving drier grounds?  have got some

of their seeds (Carex) from Dr. Boott, and am making ex

Iperiments as to their power of vegetating after long submer

gence in salt water. The seeds of Carices find float well

in salt water, and a marine current would carry them far

in a short time. Many seeds will not float at all. Allowing,

what you say is admitted by botanists, that the temperature

of pools of water is. more uniform than that of the dry land,

the seed of a Oarex thrown ashore and getting into a fresh

water swamp behind a line of sea- beach, or cast on a delta,

would be likely to thrive, while other dry-land plants would

not find a fitting climate.

   IAccording to Manry's last chart of the Atlantic, and his

deep-sea soundings, think the only way Madeira could be

united with Europe and the Azores is by land stretching

round and crossing the Atlantic north of the latitude of the

Azores, and then coming south again.

     What you s:iy of the difficulty of supposing a connection
with America is a good hint. Wollaston rather exclaimed

against it as new and doubtful, entomologically speaking.

IfAgassiz always maintained that the European flora was
like that of the United States.       so (Smilax, Comptonm,

and other genera were cited in common) some Miocene

forms coming down to our times might create a generic

resemblance between the Madeira and American floras.

     The Ancyhis fluviatilis is. said to have been indigenous in
the Madeira rivers, and lately the Portuguese introduced un

intentionally the Lymnea trnncatdla, and it has run over the

island in thirty years, and is said to have appeared even in
Ifpools and ruts in the roads.
                                 this be so, they have powers
Iof spreading which require investigation.
                                            suspect that

their spawn adheres to water-birds and water- insects?

When Huxley, Hooker, and Wollaston were at Darwin's
last week, they (all four of them) ran a tilt against species
Ifarther I believe than they are deliberately prepared to jjo.
Wollaston least unorthodox.      cannot easily see how they

can go so far, and not embrace the whole Lamarekian
doctrine. Huxley held forth in a lecture last week about

Ifthe oxlip, which he says is unknown on the Continent.

we had met with it in Madeira and nowhere else, or the

1856. PROFESSOR HEER.                    213

cowslip, should we not have voted them true species ? Dar
win finds, among his fifteen varieties of the common pigeon,

three good genera and about fifteen good species according
to the received mode of species and genus-making ot the
best ornithologists, and the bony skeleton varying with the

rest !
     After all, did we not come from an Ourang, seeing that

man is of the Old World, and not from the American type of

anthropomorphous mammalia ? Pray write soon.
                                          Ever affectionately yours,

                                                               CHARLES LYELL.

   IP.S. --M.de la Harpe of Lausanne called here one morning,

and when expressed my misgivings as to Heer's confidence

about species founded on mere fossil leaves and fragments of
Ileaves, he said that ought to see Heer's collection and mode
I Iof work, and should have more faith.
                                         told him that

Wollaston could not have felt secure without a leg or one of the
antennae of the beetle, not even that it was of the division of

the (Jurculionidae to which Laparocerus belongs, much less

as to its not agreeing with any of the numerous known

Ispecies of Laparocerus, a genus peculiar to Madeira.
     De la Harpe replied, ' am not at all surprised. Mr.

Heer once, from a fragment of an insect's wing from (Eniu-
ghen, said what it was, and the whole insect has since turned
up fossil, and is exactly as Heer drew it prophetically. No
one,' he continues, ' who does not make a study of elytra or

wings as a separate branch, or of the leaves of plants, can

imagine the resources of that branch when isolated, and

·when the entomologist or botanist feels he must rely on that

and that only.'

    All this convinced me at least that Heer is a man of

genius, who impresses those who come into personal contact
with him with a complete faith in his powers.

      De hi Harpe himself has converted Salter into a far

Igreater belief in ' foliology ' than he had before, and saw
the table in Jermyn Street covered with the leaves of numer

ous species of figs (Ficus) to prove that many of the Isle of

Wight Eocene leaves are true figs by their venation. C. L.

214         SIR CHARLES LYELL.                           CHAP. xxvm.

            To DR. JOSEPH HOOKER.

                                   Hamburgh : July 25, 1856.

   IMy dear Hooker, --A few minutes after you left me on

Sunday, fell in with the two copies of your Essay,4 and

I Ihave had one as my companion for two d;.ys, during a calm
voyage to this place.           had read it before, but now have

digested it, and so the spirit moves me to thank you for it.

I IHad published when returned from New Brunswick an
IEssay introductory to the Geology of that British colony,

should not have sold more than half a dozen copies. But

had you gone to a publisher who knew his business, and who

would have suggested or insisted on some general title, as
' On Botanical Classification, with Considerations on the
Limit of Species in the Vegetable Kingdom ' (and then in
small type, ' In Special Reference to the Flora of New

Zealand  being an Introduction,' &c., you would then
         '),
            '

                               '

                                                    it
have sold a great many for the benefit of science, yourself,

and all of us, zoologists included. Some day or other      ;I

would have you get out the whole of almost verbatim,

with selections from Flora Indica,' to serve as canons in

natural history. This kind of work will be very indispen

sable from some one of authority, seeing where we are
drifting to; for whether Darwin persuades you and me to

renounce our faith in species (when geological epochs are
considered) or not, foresee that many will go over to the
         it

                             1
indefinite modifiability doctrine.

   If so, will not, or ought not, to make the slightest

difference in regard to the rules you lay down, and in doing

which you have with prophetic caution anticipated the possi

bility of many of your readers embracing the transmutation

theory. But the species-multipliers will be delighted with

a theory which sanctions to great extent the conclusion
                                a

that the boundaries of species are in the nature of things

artificial, or mere human inventions, and therefore gives

them a kind of right to affix their own arbitrary bounds.

So long as they feared that a species might turn out to be a

separate and independent creation, they might feel checked

         i  Introductory Essay to the Flora Antarctica.

1856.  DOCTRINE OF SPECIES.                215

but once abandon this article of faith, and every man be

comes his own infallible Pope. In truth it is quite im

material to you or me which creed proves true, for it is like
the astronomical question still controverted, whether our

Ifsnn and our whole system is on its way towards the con
stellation Hercules.  so, the place of all the stars and

the form of many a constellation, will millions of ages hence

be altered, but it is certain that we may ignore the move

ment now, and yet astronomy remains still a mathematically

exact science for many a thousand year.

     You must go into the doctrine laid down at p. 13 with
fuller explanations, and it must come to be understood that

they who make species must be consistent with themselves,
Ifand make them all of co-ordinate value.
                                           they will not

admit your two cedars to be one species, they must then
deny the authority of Linnaeus and other great naturalists

Iwho have made the primrose and cowslip one and the same.
   cite this at random, but some such inconsistency should be
exposed, and they should be set down as totally wanting in

Iphilosophical power and their synonyms never cited.

could furnish good examples in conchology of such utter
neglect of relative value in the species invented by the

ignorant, who at the same time adopt the names of their

predecessors, which comprehend a much wider range of
varieties in one species of the same genus.

     The speculations as to the quondam connection of the

Iantarctic lands now separated by ocean are very interesting.
   think Darwin does not enough allow for a suggestion
·which you advance, that the land from which species now
common to A and C migrated, may have been in the space

       JAv'                   ·"
       B              v       ^

                 "")J
                                                      B'

                      ")I J
                                                                                                    C
                                                                                                                                    "")

                                                                                                  is
B now occupied by the ocean.  always incline to the idea
that existing continental areas are in great part of post-

eocene date, as Europe, north of Africa, and a large part of

Asia best known, certainly are. For similar reasons spaces
like may have been the compensating areas of subsidence.
Your idea of the antarctic species going north by the

Andes, and of the Panama Andes having once been loftier,

'216            SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxvni.

very grand and probable. The marine (living) shells each side
of the narrow isthmns of Panama are very distinct, and it is

most probable that in the older Pliocene period that isthmus

was higher and broader.
    Your occasional criticisms of Edward Forbes, to whom you

Ihave done ample justice, interested me much, and some day
  should like to talk them over, as well as a multitude of
Iother topics.
                expected you would have used ice-rafts more

freely in the antarctic ; coupling them with oscillations of

level in the post-miocene ages, one might get a most compli

cated succession of states of the same area, geographical and

Iglacial.

       fear much that if Darwin argues that species are

phantoms, he will also have to admit that single centres of

Idispersion are phantoms also, and that would deprive me of

much of the value which ascribe to the present provinces of

animals and plants, as illustrating modern and tertiary

Ichanges in physical geography.
        am also wholly at a loss to account for such facts as you
told me, of the Lysimdchia vulgaris in the Australian Alps,

if we embrace the indefinite variability speculation, doing

away with all creation, and substituting a power of in

dividuals to produce offspring unlike themselves, or a pos

terity referable to distinct species. For if such were the

influence of external causes, one would think that the I/ysi-

machia, or Capsella bursa-pastoris, could not retain its
character after wandering over the globe, and that it would

be contrary to the doctrine of chances that the individuals

descending from common parents of a different specirs

should be found in the southern and northern hemispheres
with identical characters, each having of necessity got into

this new state or permanent variety (or species) by quite a
different set of changes, both as to climate and co-existing

animals and plants.

   If such results were possible, T should expect the re

currence of the same species in distinct geological periods,

Iafter they had become extinct, or in abeyance for an inter
mediate period or two.  have seen the Zamias and Cycads

of the Botanic Garden here, but have not yet seen Leh

man ; however Otto, the inspector, showed Victoria Regia in

i856. SILESIA.  217

flower, and all sorts of Nymphaeas, which are killed, root and
all, every winter, and yet are got up in seven weeks in great

Ibeauty.
        am just starting to see Wiebel, the geologist.

                            Believe me ever sincerely yours,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

                           To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

            Wannbrunn, at foot of Schneekoppe, Riesengebirge : August 8, 1856.

     My dear Horner, -- We have just been taking a walk in a

 fine evening's sunshine, to see the warm springs and the
 scenery of this beautiful watering-place; the top of the
 Schneekoppe, 4,954 feet high, quite clear, but the Schnee-
grube, only 800 feet lower, capped with clouds and looking
grander for the moment and loftier than its conical neighbour.
We came here to-day from Breslau, thirty-five miles by rail,
and about thirty more by extra post, over a good road, and
through a very fertile and thriving country. The railway
took us through a brown coal country, partly covered by
Scandinavian drift.

     When we left the plain, about 600 feet high, and got
about 1,000 feet above the sea, we were in carboniferous and
trap rocks chiefly, and now in granitic. Ferdinand Roemer
and Goeppert were very attentive during our stay at Breslau.
We had not seen Roemer since he came to us in Hart Street

ten years ago, before he went to Texas ; he has seen much,
and is well read in geology. Goeppert showed me his coal

plants, and tried to persuade me that his Stigmariae were not

roots, but a perfect plant of some aquatic species. His
specimens in amber are very curious, and worth seeing, and

especially under the microscope. Some large ones having
the whole surface filled with circular convex indentations
explain the specimens of copal which you may have seen on

Imy mantelpiece in London, and which puzzled Charles Bun-

bury, and if remember right, Robert Brown. The amber

which has these markings is always found buried in the
earth, and with a coating of decomposed amber, which
comes oft ; and Goeppert says that much copal is dug up out
of the soil at the foot of trees, &c., which produce it. He

218  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                  CHAP. xxvm.

Las a process by which he can give this kind of surface to

Iamber.                               reached the highest
     August 9. -- Yesterday Mary and

summit of the Biesengebirge, an expedition well worth

Imaking fiom Warmbrunu. The latter place is about,

Ipresume, 1,000 feet high, but missed my barometer much,

after my Madeira experience, having got accustomed to read
off at once from the instrument, without calculation, an

approximate height. The first seven miles was over a level

region, where the granite peeps up in small knolls, and

where there are numerous ponds, with oak, lime, birch, and

Ifir. This region contrasts well with the fir-clad hilly region,

where we left the carriage and began the ascent, on horse

back, and Mary carried on a chair by two bearers. We had

seven miles to go to the top of the Schneekoppe ; first a mile

through a straggling village, Seydorf, with orchards and

gardens, then into a wild country of spruce fir, with very

vigorous undergrowth of the whortleberry, which only allows

the heath, Calluna vulgarix, to grow here and there in
patches. At every two or three miles, a small farmhouse,

fitted up as an inn, serves as a resting-place, and as we had

occasional showers, enabled us to dry our cloaks and um

brellas and to take refreshment while the men smoked, &c.

After passing some clear trout streams gushing down their
granite channels, we climbed at last to the region of Knie-

holtz, or brushwood, where the spruce firs which had ex

clusively formed the woods below become stunted, only three
or four feet high, and nearly all the ground is occupied with,
Ia short fir, looking like dwarf Scotch fir, but have gathered
Isame branches with cones to ascertain.
                                         believe in the

guidebooks it is named Pinus pumilis. Here a species of

Persicaria in flower almost equalled the dwarf pines in height.

Iceland moss, gathered here for lung complaints, was very

abundant. The snow prevents any tree from getting up

Iabove two or three feet, but there were no ' stag's horns ' or

bare boughs such as saw on the ' White Mountains '-- in

the same zone of stunted trees. We then came to the bare

region where there are no trees, and much rock covered with

Lichen geographicus, and at the top some 300 or 400 feet,
where the slope of the granite is inclined at an angle of 35° ;

i856.    BOTANY.  219

Ibut a zigzag road enabled us to ascend without difficulty.

was disappointed at not finding the vegetation at the summit

more alpine. The same Persicaria we had seen far below
was still conspicuous, a species of Hieracium, a few plants of

heath (Calluna), a Luzula very abundant ; these and a few
others we have preserved, and a red lichen which looked
like paint on the rocks, or the colour of the French soldiers'

Itrousers, and a black lichen, with many others ; but so many

of the plants looked like those far below, that wondered

that 5,000 feet, even in the latitude of London, did not seem

so arctic as the Clova hills, or hardly as the Clune, near

Kinnordy. A traveller showed me the common Monkshood,
and said he gathered it near the top ; we could not see it,

but it was conspicuous below in the woody region. Patches
of snow had remained only eight days before we were on the

summit.

     After having been so many days between Hamburgh,
Berlin, and Breslau, in the great plain of Scandinavian gravel,
it seemed quite strange, as it will do to you in the Hartz,
to be in a region of purely local drift. Nothing but the
wreck of true Kiesengebirge granite and gneiss, which comes

up to meet the granite on the south side of the highest

ridge near the top, not one far-drifted pebble.

     For part of the day, the granite cone of the Schneeberg
had a banner of vapour streaming from it like Etna, when

the rest of the range was free from it. Joseph Hooker

describes this as very singular in reference to the isolated
and loftiest peaks of the Himalaya, and tries to explain it

me teorologically .

    In the stunted fir-region, a dandelion- looking flower,

which we have kept, was pointed out by our guides as
' Arnica.'

   IAt Breslau (the easternmost point have ever reached in

my travels) Goeppert showed us his splendid brown coal tree,
formerly called Pinus proto-laryx, 26 feet in circumference,
but another 3,i feet has since been found. The state of pre

servation of the wood, which divides like deal in a peat bog,

is to me very strange ; for no matter whether the formation

be called the lowest 'oligocene,' according to Beyrich's

nomenclature, or by any other term, it is certainly about the

220  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                    CHAP. xxvm.

age of the Isle of Wight series, below the Hampstead beds,

Iabout the top of my Middle Eocene.
         must send this off, trusting to Mary to say how

pleasant a time we passed a.t Berlin, and to tell unscientific

news. Humboldt was very courteous. It was a great pleasure

Ito hear all were well. Mary came down quite fresh from

the mountain, but as had not been on horseback for an age,

ten hours' riding with only two off the saddle, made me tired,
till a good ten hours of bed restored me.

     Ever affectionately yours,            CHARLES LYELL.

                           To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

                                                                                 Prague : August 23, 1856.

     My dear Horner, --Geinitz showed me much at Dresden.
Not many miles from that city, to the north-west, there is a

region where numerous deep coal shafts are sunk 1,200 feet
deep, through chalk and Permian into coal, so that they are
turning the country into a manufacturing region, and getting

it covered with railways, and threatening to make the
capital so smoky that the Madonna di San Sisto and the
other wonders of art may ere long run the same risk as the
contents of our National Gallery.

     Geology has gained much by these speculations to win

the coal at such depths. They go through chalk marl,
under which is the lower Quader, a sandstone representing
our upper greensand, and sometimes greenish. The roth-
liegendes beneath this is of various thickness, associated
with porphyries and syenites, which come in in unexpected
places, and interfere with speculation and contracts. The
coal is often excellent. The specimens of rothliegendes con
glomerate showed that brecciated character which made
Ramsay conclude a glacial origin for some of ours, but these
Saxon cases would not help him much, as the angles are
often worn off. Yet as contrasted with Old Red and New Red,
the subangular character of the fragments in these Permian

agglomerations holds good, and is very singular.
     Our exploration of Saxon Switzerland with Gutbier as a

guide was thorough. The scenery of that beautiful region
derives its chief beauty and peculiarity from the upper

i856. SAXON SWITZERLAND. 221

Quader, a mass of quartzosegrit, like some millstone grit when
coarse, and when fine just like much of our tertiary ' Druid

Sandstone,' being often 800 feet thick, and rent in two

opposite directions, and the joints often open, and these

joints facing the rivers, and brooks, and valleys quite per

pendicularly, with here and there intervals of two, four, or

eight feet between two joints removed, you have ravines and

separate columns innumerable. As this mass is above the

level of the Planer, which is lower white chalk, or grey
chalk (the clunch clay of Strata Smith), it follows that it

represents our white chalk. In other words the Quader of

Saxony, a grit wholly deficient in calcareous matter, corre

sponds to the most purely calcareous rock of Great Britain,

Iand vet contains here and there the same shells.
         was glad we made an excursion to the country on the

left bank on the south-west side of the Elbe in Saxon

ISwitzerland, for there saw the same Quader unbroken, and
forming large platforms, instead of such isolated masses as at

Konigstein, Lilienstein, and others which occur chiefly on

the north-east side, though by the way, Konigstein is an

exception on account of the winding of the river. From the

Schneeberg, 2,300 feet high, where the cretaceous or Quader
reaches its highest point, we had a fine view into Bohemia,

the Toeplitz region, and of the Mittelgebirge, where the

Milleschauer, a phonolitic mountain, very conical, is 2,500

feet higa, and in another direction saw the beginning of the

Erzgebirge. Returning to the Elbe at Tetschen, Gutbier

resumed the railway to return to his fortress of Konigstein,

of which he is sous-commandant ; a great place, which the

late King of Saxony, a lover of science, gave him, because he

was a naturalist as well as a good soldier and military
engineer, though not in the engineer corps. He regretted

missing Charles Bunbury when he was at Dresden, as he had

published on the fossil plants of the Saxon Permians. We

Ilearnt the names of many wild plants while with him, but
mostly English ones or Scotch.  don't know whether

Prenanthes purpurea, which was new to me, is British. The

extreme scarcity of land shells, owing doubtless to the

absence of calcareous matter in the Quader, is quite striking.

Yet on the walls of the fortress of Konigstein, where arti

222  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxvin.

 ficially lime had come with the mortar, we found two clau-
 silias and a very singular planorbiform variety of Helix
 lapicida, which may throw light on one of my Madeira

 fossils.

      My excursion to Toeplitz and Bilin gave me a good idea

 of the chalk, and brown coal, and basalt, and syenite, and
 the infusoria beds of Bilin.

      The number of shafts sunk into the tertiary to obtain

 brown coal is so great between Toeplitz and Aussig, and
 the tall chimneys so numerous to pump the water out of
 the mines, that you would suppose yourself in an old coal
 country. Yet it is only Upper Eocene.

      The gorge through which the Elbe flows south of Aussig
 displays fine sections of this brown coal in the form of sand
 stone with much basalt, and afterwards cretaceous beds,
 Planer and Quader. We then got into the valley of the
 Moldau through the old coal and overlying cretaceous, till near

IPrague we entered Barrande's Silurian of Bohemia, and here
    found this great workman and discoverer himself, very
 much disposed to show me the principal localities of the
 1500 ! ! species of Silurian and Cambrian fossils which he
has brought to light, nine-tenths of them distinct from the
species of Scandinavia and England. Sternberg had only

Iworked in the old coal.

     How little did think when La Place once pointed out
to me, from the top of the Observatory at Paris, the number
of new convents rising on all sides, and new Jesuit establish
ments, and expressed his indignation at it, that among other
results of this bigoted course which Charles X. was then
pursuing, would be the banishment of the Bourbons, first to
Edinburgh and then to Prague, where, twenty-four years ago,
Barrande, the tutor of the Due de Bordeaux, began geolo-

gisinff ! He took me to the quarry where he found the first or-

thoceras, and where we picked up many. He went with it to
the Museum at Prague, where they assured him that Count
Sternberg had left nothing for anyone to do in this region.
Barrande has now 500 species of Cephalopoda from these
beds, proving among other things, as he quite admits, thai the
mollusca, at any rate, were high enough in the scale in those
very early days, and the very class of whose history from first

i856. BARRAADeS ' COLOXY.'             223

Ito last we know the most. have been in two immense quar

ries, one in limestone and another in trap alternating with

Silurian schist, exclusively worked by Barrande for fossils,

and there are others of the same kind in all directions. A per

Ifect knowledge of the Bohemian language was indispensable

for Barrande, and have heard him talk with the peasants

most fluently. For twenty-four years he has gone on steadily

investigating this region, which is twenty-four French
Ileagues in its longest
                                       mean the fossiliferous
part of the old rocks.
                     diameter.
                     It is very difficult to remember Bar-
Irande's nomenclature, as he only uses letters. have already
been twice on the ground of this famous colony, as he terms
Iit, and, explain it as we may, it is the most singular and, at

first sight at least, anomalous fact ever remember to have

verified in paleontological geology.
    As he puts it in his work, it is a sort of anachronism, not

by any means equalling the Petit Coeur case of supposed
coal plants of the Alps occurring in lias, but a small approach
to the same kind of entanglement of two distinct faunas or

assemblages of species, which but for these few exceptional

localities would have been supposed to have had nothing
whatever to do with each other, or to have belonged to two

distinct (though consecutive) epochs.  CHARLES LYELL.
     Yours affectionately,

                     To His SISTER.

                                                                Vienna: August 28, 1856.

IMy dearest Caroline, -- found your letter among many

Iothers in the Post Office, and was much interested with the
entomological news.  had quite made up my mind that

Wollaston would be very glad of the contents of the box, for

knowing you have a good eye for insects generally, and a

Ipractised one for Elaphrut lapponicus, your remark to me

that the batch was undersized struck me much, and thought

Ithe Wilsons had gone up to some higher bog and got a

smaller variety of E. lapponicus, which would, suspect, have

Ibeen more curious in Wollaston's eyes than this E. uliginosus.
  have told my bookseller to send you a copy of Wollaston's
Ibook on the variation of species as illustrated by insects,
that you may see how he is at work.    have had no time to

224  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxvin.

look even after Lepidoptera diurna on this tour, but have

been struck with their perfect identity, such as came in my

Iway, with those of England. At Dresden saw the ' Cam-
Iberwell Beauty '-- forget the Linnroan name -- but at any
Irate the English name is, if mistake not, much older

than Linnaeus, -- a splendid insect on the wing. Although

I have missed Professor Reuss, the geologist of Prague,

Iwho was travelling in Moravia, have been very lucky in
I Ifinding the men wanted at most of the principal places

have visited. The Prussians have a University (equal in

the number of students to Bonn, though not equal to

Berlin) at Breslau, the capital of Pilesia. Herr Goeppert
and F. Roemer, who have published good works on geology,

Iwere very attentive. At Dresden Professor Geinitz, whom
   missed when last there, accompanied me on an excursion.
IBut was particularly fortunate at Prague to find Barrande,
Ia Frenchman whom
                   had before known at Paris and

London, who was tutor to the Due de Bordeaux formerly, and
is now chief manager of his estates. When Charles X. went

into exile to Prague in 1832, Barrande settled there, and

finding the Germans were neglecting the older (Silurian and
Cambrian) rocks, and that they were rich in fossils, he set to
work, and spent all his own private fortune in opening and

Iworking quarries expressly for the fossils. How many thou

sand pounds sterling he expended in twenty-four years can
not say ; but he told me that in order to explain the eighteen
metamorphoses of a trilobite called Sao hirsuta, he collected

20,000 specimens, and they cost 5,000 francs, or 200Z. He has

at length got 1,500 species, and nearly all of them are peculiar

Ito Bohemia, or new. He showed me these in his museum, some

of which, however, I had seen at Paris, and went four days

on an excursion to understand the quarries and position of

the beds, and some very extraordinary results at which he has

arrived. He is a very remarkable man, with a good deal of

simplicity of character, so rare among Frenchmen, and much

commoner in Germany. Our friend Colonel Gutbier, with

whom we spent three agreeable days in Saxon Switzerland,

complained that Humboldt had lost this simplicity by living

Iso much in Paris. I found him, however, at eighty-seven, just

what knew him more than thirty years ago, quite up to

1856. CAMBRIAN FA UK A.                                225

all that is going on in many departments. Think of his eyes,
when in these days of cheap postage, his letters cost him

100/. a year, and he answers and reads himself nearly all !
                              Ever your affectionate brother,

                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

         To DR. FLEMING.

                          Vienna: August 31, 1856.
IMy dear Dr. Fleming, -- was very glad to receive your
I Iletter at Prague.
         have been much pleased with what

have seen of those parts of Saxon Switzerland, as it is com
Imonly called, which had not explored when there some
Iyears before. At Prague
                          made four excursions with

M. Barrande, who has perhaps done more work than anyone

in our time in paleontology and the Held united. He ex

plained to me on the spot his remarkable discovery of a
' colony ' of Upper Silurian fossils 3,400 feet deep, in the

I Imidst of the Lower Silurian group. This has made a great

noise, but think can explain away the supposed anomaly

by adopting Barrande's printed explanation about the re

moval of a barrier, and by allowing for ten per cent. of 'pe
Iculiar ' species in the so-called colony -- a point,
                                                       believe,
Iofteu overlooked. But will not go on, lest you should not

have read about this famous puzzle. What between Sweden

and Bohemia we have now 120 species of the Cambrian (or
Primordial) fauna all distinct, and all the genera of the tri-
lobites save one, from the Silurian. As Barrande names his

primordial fauna C, it is easy to remember that this stands
for Cambrian. In all, he has 500 species of Cephalopoda,

scarce one of them English or Swedish. Ihey show that the

mollnsca in early days were not of simple form, but of high

Idegree. About 130 gasteropods, but not one of Lamarck's

canalicu'ata, so suppose the carnivorous cephalopoda did

their work, as Dillwyn used to say, long ago.

The Silurian fauna of the United States agrees consider

ably with that of England and S.veden, which may have

formed one great province becoming gradually different in
its remote parts, while Bohemia, Spain, aud Portugal con

stituted a second province, having all the species except a

few brachiopods distinct. Besides these, there must have

VOL. u.  Q

226  SIR CHARLES LYELL.            CHAP. xxvni.

existed contemporaneously another province, namely, the

Imother-country of the fa-i ous 'colony.' All the facts stated

hy Barrande respecting the latter are perfectly true, as am
now convinced. Murchison has been over the ground, and,

as Barrande tells me, has printed his adhesion to Barrande's

view so far as the section is concerned. Fortunately the

Moldau, or rather the great natural rent through which this

river passes, lays open clear and continuous sections display

ing most beautifully the succession en masse of the rocks
composing the groups D, E, F, G, including the ' colony,' so

Ithat he who runs may read, provided he has Barrande with
him to cross-examine.      ne\er saw Silurian fossils in such

abundance except in a few strata in Sweden ; but here they

pass through many thousands of feet. Yet the whole fos-

siliferous area is only equal to one-sixtieth part of the
IAdriatic. As Barrande himself has calculated this, wonder
Ihe remains such a finality man.
                                  remember at the Geolo

gical Society when Sedgwick and Murchison used to argue

with me exactly on the grounds now taken up by Barrande

in proof of a beginning of life on this globe, founded on the

notion that no fossils would ever be found below the stiper

stones. Now that a totally distinct fauna has turned up,

and that the transformations of some are traced from the

egg to the adult, the discoverer is just as sure that here at

least we have the true beginning. We expect to be home

about the end of October.

     Believe me ever truly yours,

                                  CHARLES LYELL.

i856. STYRIA.  227

                       CHAPTER XXIX.

                             SEPTEMBER 18.56-AUGUST 1867.

GEOLOGY OF THE NEIGHBOURHOOD OP VIENNA -- 8TYRIA -- SALZBURG-- DIS
     CUSSION WITH HEER AT ZURICH -- 1'OSSI LI FERGUS QUARRY AT S\VANAGE
    -- VISIT TO SWITZERLAND -- FOSSIL PLANTS -- ELIE DE BEAUMONT'S
     FRANK OPPOSITION.

                         CORRESPONDENCE.

                           To LEONARD HORNEE, ESQ.

                                                 Middendorf, Styria: September 15, 1856.

    My dear Horner, --We are here in a small inn in the

Styrian Alps some 2,500 or more feet above the sea, and
where they have six months of snow from December to May.

On our way from Gratz to Ischl, it is a beautiful country, of
green meadows in the foreground, and cultivated fields on
steep slopes, with usually a background of limestone moun
tains, with perpendicular precipitous sides often of bare rock,
but with larch and spruce on every available ledge.

   I left off at Vienna with my geological news. Before
Iquitting it contrived to make excursions with different

geologists to the chief points of interest both in the Miocene
tertiary basin, where the beds are nearly horizontal, and the
secondary and Eocene tertiary rocks, where the strata are
at high angles or vertical, as usual in the Alps, of which
we have here the eastern extremity, although they are in
fact continued in the Carpathians, with the same strike and
character. The commencement of these last mountains
is well seen from some of the heights near the northern

Isuburbs of Vienna, one of which called the Himmel, near

Sievering, visited in company with Mr. Cevarowitch, one of

the officers of the Government Geological Survey. In that
hill are splendid quarries of highly inclined Via ana sand

                                                             o2

228      5//? CHARLES LYELL.                   CHAP. xxix.

stone, corresponding to much of the Alpnie Flysch, and

deserving the name of Azoic as much as certain rocks so

Icalled in Scandinavia, in which fucoids have been found,
as they have been in this Viennese sandstone.  could not

help looking on it with great interest, even from its nega

tive characteristic of containing no fossils, whether in the

Viennese or Swiss Alps. There seems little doubt that part

of it is of Jurassic and part of Eocene origin, for some few

nummulites have been lately detected in one region and

specimens of Aptychus in another, but they must be wonder

fully rare, since so many magnificent quarries have been
opened in it for building and paving stones, and the whole

Viennese corps, who have proved themselves very sharp-

Isighted collectors, pronounce the formation to be hopelessly
barren.  wrote to Barrande to commend to him these

' Azoic ' beds, as he argued with me at Prague that no living

beings could have inhabited the globe before his '' primordial

fauna,' because some of the sandstones below his primordial

were precisely like in mineral character to others lying above

it, and in which fossils have been met with. Edward Forbes

used to say that no one who has dredged much can ever

I Iwonder at rocks being wholly devoid of organic remains.
        was fortunate, just as was on the wing for Styria, to

see a young geologist who has been kept always at field work

in the Alps by their Survey, of the name of Stur, very much

in earnest, as indeed the.y all are, but who is by far the

most ardent generaliser of them all. He knows no language

Ibut German, but Studer arrived in time to help me in one of

my conversations with him. Stur is, believe, the first who

has attempted to give a series of diagrams showing the state of

the Alps from the earliest periods. He makes out eight or nine

periods of elevation, or of convulsion rather, or movement.

Upon the whole the quantity of work done and doing in

Austria, and the number of young rising men of education

and some of them of family, interested in geology, is very

striking, and as they are all connected with mining establish

ments, and therefore professionally occupied, or with Im

perial Museums, they will continue to pursue the science.

IIt is a great pleasure when one stops at a coal-mine, as
did at Leoben, a small place between this aud Bruck in

1856.  VALLEY OF GOSAU.  229

   the Styrian Alps, to find several centlemen of education

  managing the works. It was a tertiary coal, forming a bed

   of coaly lignite actually some forty feet thick, of Miocene
   age, with fossil plants. There are many basin-shaped masses
  of such lignite formations in the Styrian Alps, in some of
   which freshwater shells (a few of them of living species)
   accompanied by Mastodon angustidens, Anthracotherium, &c.
  occur, a good deal disturbed and yet horizontal as compared

   to the distorted, coiled, and overturned older stratified

  masses of this wonderful chain.

        Boue made himself very agreeable and useful to me in
  two excursions. He told me that at one time, having a
  fright about French political affairs, and expecting that
  Thiers would make war with England, he sold all his money
  out of the French funds, and having a great opinion of the
  United States, bought into theirs, just when they happened
  to be most depressed at the time of the panic after the ' repu

  diation ' affair. In a few years he found his fortune exactly

  doubled by the rise of the United States state and other
  securities, upon which he sold out and invested in land and
  houses in Austria, to which his wife belonged. Here he felt
  rich for many years, and has still a house in Vienna, and
  a delightful country house near Baden, an hour and a half by
  railway from Vienna, the environs of which city are most

  agreeable and picturesque and geologically varied, as you
  would expect on the flanks of the Alps, or where they join
  the tertiary of the plains. But the increase of prices and
  enormous pressure of taxation has of late made Boue feel

  poor, and unable to travel and geologise as he would wish.

      Hallstadt : September 20. -- It is raining here, and the snow

 has actually fallen last night on the higher part of the hills
 not more than 4,000 or 5,000 feet above the sea, which rise

 abruptly 2,000 or 3,000 feetf .m this beautiful lake which

 is under cur windows, separated from us only by a garden

full of Dahlias and China asters. We made out our expedi

tion to the valley of Gosau very successfully yesterday, and
saw enough, though the clouds came down too fast, to con
vince us that it has not been overpraised by lovers

scenery. The fossils of the chalk, consisting chiefly of uni
valves, might well lead a geologist not familiar with the

230           SIR CHARLES LYELL.                   CHAP. xxix.

Blackdown beds, to imagine that the formation was tertiary,

although the species are different, and the hippurites and

Iother cretaceous forms ought soon to rectify the idea.
         have fortunately obtained here from the Bergmeister
two specimens of moderate size of the Hallstadt (upper

triussic) limestone in which an ammonite is associated with
an orthoceras in the very same fragment. They say that

Von Buch came here to ascertain the fact, and confessed
Ithat it overturned a favourite theory of his.
                                                   spent an
Iagreeable day and a half with Unger, and gave him a copy
of Charles Bunbury's paper on the 'Carboniferous Plants of
Cape Breton,' which he (Unger) was glad to have. In this

limestone region we have been finding many land shells,

especially in our excursion to the three beautiful lakes through

which the Traun runs, or rather from the highest of which
it rises, so justly praised by Sir Humphrey Davy.

    Ischl : September 20, 18o6. --We have just arrived here,

the clouds covering the mountain-tops and leaking a little

Iat intervals. We found letters from Berlin to Mary, and
yours to me.  am glad you saw Ewald, and that he ap

Iproved of my attempt to explain Barrande, who has half,
but only half, given in.  accused him of a downright ana
chronism, which of course he did not quite like; but it was

Ireally a solecism, and he ought to thank me if can help him

out of it. No doubt Ewald is right in saying that the word
' colony' is wrong in the exact way in which Barrande uses it.

But if we consider it as a colony of an antecedent state of the
fauna of E, the term will do. The first European settlers in

Virginia were a colony from England, though not of England

when she had more than doubled her population in the days
of Queen Victoria.

     With love to all, ever affectionately yours,

                          CHAB.LES LYELL.

                  To C. J. F. BUN BURY, ESQ.

                                                                        Salzburg: September 27, 1856.

    My dear Bunbury, --Your letter was forwarded to me
from Innspruck to this picturesque and beautiful town.
There is so much to see here, and in the snowy Alps imme

1856. SALZBURG.                             231

diately to the south of it, both in geology and scenery, that

I have determined not to go so far as the centre of the

Tyrol, as it would be too hurried a journey to do any justice

to it, and the shortening of the days and the snow on moun

tains only 6,500 feet high, which fell last week and is very

slowly melting, has warned me that the best season has gone

by. Yet we have had to-day a clear blue sky, and a sun

often too warm to expose ourselves in, without shelter, and the
tops of the Great and Little Watzmaun as steep as the

Aiguilles of Mont Blanc, 8,000 feet high, have formed a

Igrand feature in our landscape in an excursion in the neigh
bourhood.  am trying to understand what members of the

' Alpine Limestone,' as it was formerly called, are Jurassic,
which Triassic, and which Cretaceous. It is strange to think

that rocks so devoid of fossils to a cursory observer, should

have yielded of late, by dint of searching some particular

spots and beds, such a multitude of species, 1,200 invertebrate

for the Upper Trias alone.

The sandstone with Fucoides intricatus, a part of the

'Vienna sandstone,' seems to be made out pretty clearly to
Ibe a member of the chalk above the gault.
                                            collected some
Iof the fucoids yesterday, which were so fine that shall send
Iyou specimens when return.

Ever since we have been in the Alps, we have not ceased

to admire the profusion of autumnal Gentians, consisting of

three kinds, which we are told are G. ciliata, a tnnged sky-

blue one with a fringe on the corolla, G. autumnalis (or
Germanica), a purplish one with many flowers on a stem, and

G. asdepioidea, with several rich blue flowers on a long stem.

The latter abounds most at higher levels than the other two.

The G. Geiinanir.a is often as thick as some purple orchises
in boggy ground in England. We observe that on the same

stem, some flowers have four and seme five divisions of the

corolla, and a corresponding number of stamens respectively.

Perhaps this is common in many other common genera.

They regard Colchicum autumnale as a pest here. It adorns
the meadows very much, and is as thick as if in a garden

plot at very various elevations. This town is more than

1 ,309 feet high, though commanding a view of the great

plain of Bavaria, and looking low with the Alps on one side.

232  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                    CHAP. xxix.

     I have been observing the land and freshwater shells
with some attention. After collecting some thirty species,

I have never seen that large and conspicuous English shell,
IHelix aspersa. As it is not fossil in the loess of the Rhine,

suppose Woodward may be right in saying ' that it came in

with man and the dog.' Helix arbustorum swarms above all ;

IH. nemoralis (or hortensis) not very common. On the whole,
perhaps six in twenty-five not British.    am glad you

alluded to A. De Candolle's book, which he sent me, and

Iwhich have always been meaning, and still mean to read.

Hooker's doubts as to the Pinus pumitis being the Scotch fir

Iinterested me much, for though the possibility struck me,
Igave up the idea when saw how positively it ranks as a
true species in the books. Its cones seemed to me as large

as those of a tall Scotch fir, which has the effect of making

it look peculiar, and more unlike than its mere dwarfishness

would do. It never gets so low as the (Spruce?) on the
White Mountains, but I saw the Persicaria striving to top it,

Ias did Lycopodium dendroides presume to do in the case of
the dwarfed American fir trees.      saw no gradual passage,

but the change from a region where the snovr does not lie so

long, to one where it endures for a great many months, is

rather sudden on the Riesengeberge.

     With love to Frances, ever affectionately yours,

                                           CHARLES LYELL.

     To PROFESSOR GEORGE HARTUNG.

                                                                                Munich : October 5, 1856.

   IMy dear Hartung, -- was very glad to learn by your

Iletter which found here, that we may look forward to the

I Ipleasure of seeing you in London on your way to Madeira.
   have made progress, since saw you, in German, having
Ihad to talk some whole days with good geologists who

know no other language, so hope to make out what you
Iwrite in your own tongue, and can always get the aid of my
wife when in doubt.  am well pleased that you have found

in conversing with your friends, how much (and very
deservedly) the connection of the history of the Madeira and

Canary volcanos is dependent for one of its greatest interests

on the various groups of organic remains.

1856.                    KONIGSEE.                         233

   ITo give you some idea of the difficulty of bringing' all the

evidence to a focus, I may mention, that when applied at

the British Museum to get the corals, Zoantharia of Porto

Santo, &c., named, they told me there was no one in England

who could do it, and they had just sent over their own to

Paris to be named by Milne-Edwards.

   So I have got my old friend the former secretary of the

IGeological Society, Mr. Lonsdale, our best authority, to

rndertake them, and his report is, hear, ready. The

Bryozoa have been examined by a competent English

Igeologist, Mr. Busk, as a favour to me. As to the shells,

Ihave already worked hard at them, and hope to have a list
of sixty species from the Great Canary.  spent a day in

comparing the two species of Cypraca with Mr. Gascoin's

shells, who has the finest collection in Europe of Cypreadae,

unequalled in any public collection. The result was, that they

Iare both new species.  You remember them perhaps, and     that
                        turn out living species, to which  they
  thought they would

Ihave, until closely compared, a very marked resemblance.
As to the land shells,   have given much time to

Wollaston's unrivalled collection, and hope to have some new

and original results to work into the paper, but then the

detailed lists of species, recent and fossil, which must be

compared, constituting the pieces justificatives of what is

said in the body of the paper, must be given separately.

                         Ever most truly yours,
                                                   CHARLES LYELL.

       To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

                                                                   Strasburg : October 22, 1856.

IMy dear Horner, -- believe that my last geological news

·was written to you from Salzburg, after which we visited a
most beautiful part of the Alps, immediately south of

Salzburg, Berchtesgaden and the Konigsee, the latter a

beautiful lake, surrounded by limestone precipices 4,000

feet high, and some of which look as if they were horizon

Itally stratified, but which appearance is found after much
                                         1

                                                          it,

                                                        I
study to be a delusion.  was greatly perplexed by for

knew that no single uniform calcareous deposit in the Swabian

or Jura chain could boast a thickness of ,000 feet, where

234            SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxix.

Iit was clearly to be made out in reference to age and relative

position, and was unwilling to believe in the sudden

Idevelopment and augmentation of each calcareous formation

on their entering the chain of the Alps. Fortunately fell

in at Berchtesgaden with Mr. Giimbel, who has been employed

for the last four years with the construction of a geological

map of Bavaria by the government. He had just given

several months to the very region which was puzzling me,

and assured me that he had ascertained that the limestone

Iwhich appeared 4,000 feet thick or more, was only 350 feet

thick, and was the same member of the lias which had else
where seen under the name of ' Dachstein,' so called from a

snow-covered alp of that name near the valley of Gosau.

He declares that the splendid cliffs of limestone bounding

the lake of Konigsee, and seen far beyond, forming the sur
face of the snow-covered ' Great and Little Watzmann Alps,'

are a mere facing of stone, cleft by horizontal joints in

imitation of the bedding. These alps are between 7,000 and

9,000 feet high. According to this explanation the name of

I IDachstein is not a bad one, for a deposit that covers or roofs
such lofty mountains.  was surprised, before fell in with

Giimbel, at meeting with a species of Orthoceras in a quarry of

limestone in the Untersberg mountain near Salzburg, which

the Vienna geologists have set down as Dachstein. It is a

I Iquarry which has supplied marble for the Bavarian Walhalla.

For had thought it marvellous enough that had seen several,
of species of that ' paleozoic ' form, in the Hallstadt or upper

triassic group. But Giimbel assured me that the marble in

question was even still younger than the Dachstein, being

Iwhat he terms a member of the Oolite called the ' Adneter
Kalk.'  afterwards learnt that very lately a belemnite has

been detected in the Hallstadt beds, so that they are travel

ling downwards, while the orthoceras is ascending upwards

Ivery fast.    called on Prof. Wagner, who very politely

    At Munich

put off a journey he was just starting on, for a day, in order

to show me over the collection of the late Count Miinster,

which they bought for the University of Munich. The speci

Imens in the Solenhofen lithographic stone are splendid, as

daresay you remember. But what attracted me most was a

t8s6. PEARL-BEARING UNIOS.  235

newly arrived set of fo sil Miocene mammalia, from a cal
careous breccia near Athens, already in part described by
Wagner. Not only Dinotherium, Mastodon angustidens,
and a new large MacLairodus, but a large Miocene ape, and

a great creature of the sloth or megatherium family, called

Macrotherium. It may perhaps be a great sloth which

Ouvier determined from a single phalangeal bone in France,

Iwhich always thought a grand tour deforce, and which some

called in question.

     Liebig showed us his newly built laboratory, and a friend

of Gumbel's, Mr. Hessling, took me over a new Physiological
Government Institution, and a separate one for Anatomy.
The King seems favourable to science. In the first of the
two last-mentioned buildings was an aquarium for experi
ments on living freshwater animals. For several years the

pearl-bearing Unios (U. margaritifera) have been bred in

numbers. It takes eight or ten years for a pearl to form.

There are three kinds of external deformities which clearly

show whether there are pearls or not inside the shell. By
knowing these you may, without the labour of opening them,

cast them back into the water if they are barren, as a
vast majority are. It is a singular paradox which Liebig

discussed with me, that the thick-shelled pearl-producing
TJnios live in the lakes of the granite and ' Greywacke '
regions, where there is scarce a trace of lime in the water,
·whereas in those lakes and ponds in the limestone districts

where there is a very large proportion of carbonate of lime,

the Anodons with their very thin shells abound. It seems

Ito depend on vegetable food.

     At Ulm made an excursion to see some freshwater beds
about the age of the ' Mayence basin,' which, everywhere
almost on the Continent, geologists call ' Lower Miocene,'

arid I have seen so many signs of freshwater and land species

Ipassing from strata of this age to the supposed equivalents

of the Falunian, that may perhaps have eventually to

adopt this same classification, and call my ' Upper Eocene ' a
' Lower Miocene.'

     For if it is once established that the line cannot be

drawn anywhere without being somewhat arbitrary, it may
be better not to let too much be absorbed (as Hamilton

236            SIR CHARLES LYELL.                  CHAP. xxix-

said) ' in the Eocene vortex.' My argument of the perfect
distinctness of the French and English and Belgian marine
shells of my ' Upper Eocene ' and those of the Faluns still
holds; but perhaps Beyrich's investigation, and Sandberger's,

may eventually make out a passage even there, and Hebert

I Ithinks he has many links by aid of the Bordeaux basin.

    At Tubingen found Quenstedt, as anticipated, a
hard-working, enthusiastic, and original man. Like Bar-
rande, he has opened large quarries in the lias and oolite

exclusively for fossils, and has obtained an unrivalled series

of ammonites, brachiopods, belemnites, &c., besides some fine
reptiles and fish. He finds the beds admirably defined by
their characteristic fossils over an area of thirty or forty
miles of the Swabian Jura. He showed me the various beds
in the field, and we collected the commonest species in situ.

Gryphea arcuata (or incurva) though so abundant only ex
tends vertically through eight feet. The number of species
of ammonites, which he proves to be varieties of one, is very

great.

     Oppel studied for three years as Quenstedt's pupil,
then travelled in France and England to compare the

Keuper and Jurassic beds of Swabia with those of England

and France, and out of this came the joint work of Oppel
and Suess on the ' Koessen ' beds, now proved to be of the
age of the ' bone-bed ' of Wiirtembnrg and England.

     Last year Oppel thought the bone-bed near Stuttgardt

contained liassic marine shells, but they now prove to be all

Idistinct. You may remember that for several editions back,

(if not from the beginning,) have always put the bone-bed
in the trias, and not, as other English geologists did, in the

lias. This opinion  is now made out by the marine shells to

be true. It would   have been strange if the fish and reptiles

had misled us.

   IAt Zurich was glad of an opportunity of discussing

with Escher v. der Linth and Heer, both fresh from Vienna,

the great question of the St. Cassian beds, or the discovery

of the long sought for marine fauna of the upper trias.
                                         ' Vienna               '
Also the real  position  of the  Flysch            sandstone
                                                              ;

whether, as Schafhautt assured me, it was under the num-

mulitic and of cretaceous age, or, as Gu'mbel said, above it,

1856. FOSSIL PLANTS AND INSECTS.                 237

Iand as he almost proved to me by sections near Salzburg

which saw, or, as they told me at Vienna, partly Eocene
and partly Jurassic ! Escber is clearly of opinion that it is
Eocene --an azoic Middle Eocene --perhaps 2,000 feet thick,

but some think that all the Glaris fish belong to it. They

showed me the celebrated skeleton of a bird in the black slate

of Glaris. The rock may well pass, as it did once, for a
' transition schist.'

Bunbury will be interested to bear that Heer, who was

with Escher in Italy after the Vienna meeting, found all the

Monte Bolca plants without exception to be different from
his ' Lower Miocene ' (my Upper Eocene) flora. Heer showed
me his plants of Swiss Miocene and Pliocene localities.

The number of American forms is what he most dwells on.

How abundant the plane trees must have been, and yet there

is no indigenous European Platanus. But the insects of
(Euingheu struck me most. The colours of a cimex so well

preserved, and of several species of Buprestis, and so many

Brazilian forms as he makes out, especially a large hydro-

philus, of which he had at first only the elytra, and yet he
ventured to say it was a Brazilian form of the Hydrophili,

and now the discovery of a perfect individual has proved it.

But this was not guessing. They have a magnificent collec

tion of living species of insects at Zurich, which it took Heer

seven years to arrange. Of beetles alone, or Coleoptera,

there are no less than 30,000 species !

The fruits and even flowers of some of the plants of

(Euinghen are wonderfully preserved.

    A coprophagous beetle, ' Aphodius,' in the Swiss lias, fore

tells the future finding of a liassic mammifer.
At Paris I learnt from a letter of VVyman, that he has
Iat last an Ophidian from, the old coal of Ohio -- a great stap --
besides new batrachian bones.  also found Hebert hard at

work. No less than five individuals of the large ostrich-

sized Gastornis from the conglomerate under the Plastic-

clay are now found, and with them a large lophiodon and

Icrocodiles and a coryphodon.
       Since 1 wrote what said above about the controverted

Ipoint where to draw the line between Eocene and Miocene,
    have called on Deshayes, and he was realing the French

238                         SIR CHARLES LYELL.              CHAP. xxK.

Itranslation of my manual. He said he entirely agreed with

me as to classification, hoped should never give up, and

would show me a multitude of new proofs which he had re

cently obtained by work in the field in the Paris Basin in
                                                            the ' Ores de
support of my         old   plan (and his) of considerin g  distinct from
Fontainebleau         ' as   Upper Eocene, and as quite
the Falunian type -- an opinion which Edward Forbes thought

demonstrated by his latest discoveries in the Isle of Wight.

     Believe me, my dear Horner, ever most affectionately

yours,                                 CHARLES LYELL.

    Paris : October 26.

                      To CHARLES BUNBURY, ESQ.

                            53 Harley Street, London: January 13, 1857.

     My dear Bunbury, -- Mr. Beckles called on me about a

Imonth ago, to show me the bones of the huge Iguanodon's
foot (tridactyle, like a bird!) which he had found.         showed

him Stereognathus ooliticus, then in my charge, and urged

him to go and open a quarry at Swanage in the dirt^bed,

and go after higher game.

     He took me at my word, and soon wrote to say that the

first day produced two reptiles, and the second a jaw (query
if
    mIatmwmaasliaan)   which he  sent  me by post.
                      new genus   of   insectivorous  mammal !  Mr.

Bristow, of the Survey, then told me that Brodie at Swana^e

Ihad been collecting for two years without sending to Owen.
  wrote and begged for a sight of the new Mammalia, said to

be found by him in the Purbecks. Up came a box from

Brodie, and with three new species (of two new genera) of
mammals, one as big as a hedgehog, and with the skull

which Dr. Falconer interpreted to me. Then came box after

Ibox from Beckles, every day a new form of reptile or mammal,

till have got up to indications of twelve species of mam

malia (including the original Spaleeotherium) and nine

genera ! ! The biggest is one- third bigger than a hedgehog.

The last was made out by Falconer to have the dentition of

the kangaroo rat, or of that family, with the back molars
Ilike Microlestes of the Trias ! have shown all to Owen,
Iand he confirms Falconer's determinations.
                                                            am figur
ing this Hypsiprymnodon microlestoides -- a pure vegetable

i?57-      SWANAGE FOSSILS.                                239

feeder ! All these twelve are got from an area not larger

than my drawing-room, and from a bed only three inches

thick.

   I have casts and beautiful drawings made at my expense

when last at Stuttgardt of the Microlestes, and am much

pleased at knowing what that oldest of yet found mammals

was.
     So the ' Noch-nicht-gefunden-seyn ' (a capital specimen

of a German substantive) of the Angiospermous plants in

Irocks older than the chalk, offer no reason to anticipate the

rarity of warm-blooded quadrupeds. asked Hooker whether

he did not infer a rich mammalian fauna from the genera

being almost as numerous as the species ; he said judging
from plants, a poor one ! for in tropical islands the genera

are very numerous proportionally, and the flora poor, but he

added, they afforded no argument as to contemporary conti

nents. But then, surely the number of species being almost

as great as that of the individuals, argues a rich fauna.
IFalconer reckons on large beasts as we go on.
                                                           am

very glad of the cranium, a well-developed one, some evi

dence higher than lower jaws. Had these mammals turned

up just above the Wecilden, they would not have been so

useful in warning men not to speculate on negative evidence

in regard to no land creatures being found in aqueous

deposits.

With my love to Frances, ever affectionately yours,

                             CHARLES LYELL.

                           To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

                                                             Bienne, or Bicl : August 7, 1857.

    My dear Horner, --You will have learnt from Mary's
letters that we have been having a prosperous journey

Ithrough Belgium and the old Rheinthal to this delightful

country, which every time that revisit it always seems
more full of charms and wonders than at first. My visit at

ILiege was very useful, as besides talking over with Kon-

inck the present state of Belgian geology, got a full day

Iin the Devonian rocks with poor Dumont's locum teuens

(and hope his future successor), young De Walque, who

has published a good paper on the lias of Luxembourg. At

240          SIR CHARLES LYELL.   CHAP. xxix.

IAix-la-Chapelle found Dr. Debey most ready to show me

Ihis splendid and unique collection of cretaceous fossil plants.

  went with him to the hills in the neighbourhood to satisfy

myself of the real position of the beds in which this new and

peculiar flora has been detected, and the first hour convinced

me of the principal fact, namely, that the sands and clays

in which this vegetation is preserved are decidedly inferior

to the white chalk with flints, which with the chalk without

flints, and chalk marl, are of moderate thickness and rest

upon a cretaceous greensand like some of our upper green-

Isand, and immediately beneath this are the plant-beds.

found belemnites and numbers of our common chalk fossils.

IOu the second day made an excursion in a new direction in

company with a younger geologist, Ignaz Beissel, son of a
Ilate merchant of Aix, who has entirely devoted himself to the
marine beds above the Aachenian.  also paid two visits to

a schoolmaster of the name of Joseph Miiller, whose collec

tion of the cretaceous beds of the neighbourhood is large,

and who has published on them.

   IDr. Debey thinks he has a hundred species of the Austra

lian family, the Proteacea --of course cannot judge whether

he exaggerates the number, but certainly he allows many

Iforms to belong to one and the same species. As Robert
Brown, when  last talked with him about these plants

Ibeing referred to Banksia, Protea, Grevillea, Dryandra, &c.,

suggested some difficulties and doubts, was glad to find

that Debey had been at Paris, and had shown Adolphe

Brongniart some of his specimens, and he had agreed with.

Dt-bey and remarked that the Dryandra was undistinguish-

able so far as the leaves go. But Debey has some fruits also,

and he showed me the epidermis of some of the lea.ves so

well preserved iu the fine clay, that the cellular structure

and the stomata can be seen under the microscope quite as

clearly as in a living plant, and these stomata in the Pro

teacea are differently arranged from those in other families.

     He has about fifteen species of Coniferue ; one of these

agrees very closely in its leaves and the form and shape of

the cones with Wellingtonid,

    The ferns are most beautiful, some forty in nu-nber, many
in fructification, and the spores bearing microscopic examina.

1857-     FOSSIL FLORA.     241

tion. But the numerous forms of ordinary dicotyledonous
leaves are doubtless what will most astonish botanists, who

thought that such plants made their first appearance on the
earth in the tertiary period. Ettingshausen of Vienna is to

publish jointly with Debey an account of the flora. It will

be as remarkable a lifting up of the curtain which concealed

from us the botany of the Chalk period, as the Purbeck dis

Icoveries are in reference to the land animals of the Upper

Oolitic era. After had come to a very strong opinion that

Ithese Aix beds and their plants were at least above the

Gault, and below the White Chalk, was told at Bonn that

Ferdinand Roemer has lately published a paper expressing
I Ithe same opinion, which
          am glad to hear.  was much
Iconfirmed by seeing at Bosquet's, when went over to spend

a day with him at Maastricht, four genera of land plants
found in the Maastricht chalk (two of them dicotyledonous
angiosperms) common to the Aix beds.

    It seems that the mineral character of the European

cretaceous deposits changes rapidly after one crosses the

zone of paleozoic rocks which run through Belgium and the

Iadjoining parts of France and Germany, and the plants

found by Debey grew, presume, on some of the land formed

by the dividing ridge of paleozoic rock (Carboniferous and
Devonian) which parted the two cretaceous seas.

   I picked up a few in the quarries. Among the monocoty-
Iledonous plants there are no palms, which wondered at

Iconsidering that they play a part even in the Miocene flora.
   found much silicified coniferous wood in the sands. Arau-
caria has been made out by leaves and fruit. Some thin

Ilayers of regular coal occur here and there.

     At Bonn found Dr. Otto Weber, who has published on
the Brown Coal Plants of the Siegberg district -- a fine

IMiocene flora older than the faluns. Here again was
shown fossils of the genus Protea, and of Banksia, Dryandra,

and Hakea, all of that Australian family which seems to
have predominated in the Cretaceous, to have flourished

Ilargely in the Eocene, and to have figured still, though less

largely, in the Lower Miocene. But have since learnt from

BLeer that this family of Australia continued to exist in
Europe in the Upper Miocene, and Gaudin of Lausanne has

VOL. II.  E

242       SIR CHARLES LYELL.                  CHAP. xxix.

even found one species allied to Dryandra in the Older

IPliocene near Florence. As had become interested in these
Iplants was glad to take a good look at them to refresh my
memory in the garden at Popplesdorf, which were taken out
of the conservatory. The gardener gathered leaves and
flowers of Protea for me, and leaves of Hakea, Banksia, and
others. You remember the large fossil frogs from the
Brown Coal ; they were contemporaneous with these plants,
which lived when a great many American forms, Liquidambar,
Smilax, Taxodium, Comptonia, &c., were abundant in Europe,
and when the eruptions which formed the older volcanic
rocks of the Siebengebirge took place. Von Decken went
an excursion with me to Kessenich, where we saw the
IDevonian beds and the gravel of the higher platform, and

where told him how much light your Egyptian researches
had thrown on the origin of the loess, which, as my views
were rather different from those which Von Decken had pro
Iposed, led to some amicable discussions. He is a most

agreeable companion and full of information, and think
very sound in his theoretical views.

   IThe quantity of work which Hermann Von Meyer had been

doing at Frankfort since had seen him some twenty months
before, surprised me as much as ever. He has a fair
quantity of daily official business, after which he devotes his
time most systematically to paleontology. He is his own
artist, and a first-rate one. The economy of time and temper
arising from his being able at once to draw what a scientific
eye can alone see correctly, must be great, and will alone ex
plain the prodigious amount of good work he is able to get
through. When it is announced that he is going to write a
                              in Germany  and many provincials
monograph, every collector    specimens.
in France send him their                  It is very rare that

any are detained more than three weeks.       to 271        indi
     Thus in three years specimens belonging
                               reptile Archegosaurus were sent
viduals of the Carboniferous
to Frankfort, and drawings    made of all. It has produced a

splendid    monograph of     the   genus, comprising two    species
already   in part published   in  the ' Paleontographica.'

   IAnother on the Pterodactyles of Solenhofen has also

been brought out by Von Meyer since was last with him.

1857. ELIE DE BEAUMONT.                            2 13

Yet he has now scarcely a fossil reptile in his house, after

Ihaving described eighty species from the three members of
the trias, and figured all.   found his table covered with

some twenty new species of an Oolitic Crustacean of his

new genus Prosopon, sent to him from various quarters. He

draws on transparent paper, so that the lithographer turns

it and sees it through, and therefore has not to reverse it.

This greatly increases the accuracy of the copy.

Our windows here (Lausanne) overlook Gibbon's garden,
in part of which the hotel is built. The view of the Lake

of Geneva and the Alps very beautiful, and the weather not

too hot. Mary is quite well.

            Believe me ever yours affectionately,

                                  CHAELES LYELL.

                To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

                                                                            Lausanne: August 10, 1857.

   IMy dear Horner,- am glad you have been thinking of

the future as well as of the present of the Geological

.... My taking the office a third time is out of the
Society. . . .

Iquestion.      have done a fair share of that duty, and hope

to continue for years travelling, making original observations,

Iand above all going to school to the younger, but not, for all
that, young geologists whom       meet everywhere, so far

ahead of us old stagers, that they are familiar with branches

Iof the science fast rising into importance which were not

thought of when began. Such is the case with young

Gaudin here, a fossil botanist who in age might almost be

my grandson.

When a vacancy occurred iu the Institute by Bucklaud's

death, Elie De Beaumont sent me word that there was a

Iparty for me, but that he should use all his influence in
another direction.  presume that his motives for this extra

ordinary message were various. He had lately received

hospitality at my house in London, and had been as usual on

most courteous terms ; in Paris always ready to furnish me

with unpublished Government maps of France, &c., and he

may have wished to act openly and frankly ; also to let me

                              B2

244  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                          CHAP. xxix.

know in return for my enmity to his opinions (or as they

always say in Paris) to himself, 'mes ennemis,' &c., meaning
' my theoretical opponents,' that he had the will and power

to thwart me in what he really imagines is the great object

Iof everyone's ambition. His message did not open my eyes

to his course in the election, for knew that before, but was a

gratifying testimony to the existence of a party in my favour.

    It would be the height of the inconsistency of human

Iwishes or expectations, to receive the compliments paid me

by the younger geologists since left town, and at the same

time to expect the opposite, older, and more influential men

of science to confer honours on the leader in a new school,

and as they think heresy.

     Prof. Bunsen at Heidelberg avowed at the dinner he

gave us that all his taste for geology had been derived

Ifrom my writings. Here is a man whom many in Germany

rank above Liebig. He is aware how am opposed to many

prevailing opinions. Marcou, in writing to me about my
' Supplement,' tells me he is gradually coming round to all my

opinions, even my theory of climate. Morlot at Lausanne

writes to say that he has been giving lectures in that town,
using my ' Principles ' as his textbook, ' for he is one of my

school.' Cotta. my translator, writes in the same strain, all

regarding me a» the head of an opposition party, opposed to

those who still on the Continent, and especially in France,

have the power in their hands.

     In one of my last conversations with De Beaumont he

I I Iused the word etranger in reference to some eminent French
geologist -- forget whom.       exclaimed that   always

Ithought he was a Frenchman. He explained that he merely
meant not a member of the Academy.     was so much

diverted and surprised at this classification of all scientific

Imen into those who did, and those who did not belong to his

Academy, that betrayed my amusement. He went on to
assure me that it was the way in France to speak of those

who were not in the Institute as foreigners, etrangers (out
side barbarians). He imagines that to get into it is the
groat object of every man's ambition.

     Believe me ever very affectionately yours,

                                       CHARLES LYELL.

i857. 'GEOLOGY OF DARMSTADT,        215

           To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

                                    Zurich : August 15, 1857.

My dear Horner, --We have returned to our beautiful

room here, or to one which has the same views of the Lake

and the Alps, having made a most successful tour through no

small part of Switzerland, by Soleure, Neuchatel, Lausanne,

IVevay, Freiburg, Berne, and Aarau. But must try and
Iresume my sketch of my geological proceedings. said some

thing of the day which Hermann v. Meyer, with his usual

liberality, gave up to me. He lives very isolated at Frankfort,
though in communication with all Germany and part of the

French provinces, and when anyone calls who appreciates
Ihis labours, it must do him good.
     Wishing to make an excursion,  got Professor Kaup of

Darmstadt to introduce me to a Major Becker, of the Darm

stadt Engineers, a geologist, who drove with me into the

Odenwald, and showed me Bothliegendes, various trap rocks,

Iand some tertiary limestone of the Mayence basin (Lower
Miocene).  was not a little surprised, just when taking

leave, to find that my companion was a brother of Becker, the

IPrince's secretary.  had some good talk with Professor

    At Heidelberg

Bunsen on the theory of glaciers ; Tyndal versus James

Forbes, &c. ; and Professor Blom showed me many fossils

illustrative of the triassic rocks of the neighbourhood and the

Odenwald, and also of the Permian. They have made out

Ithe age of their sandstone, Bunter, &c., better than had

imagined. The Rothliegendes is certainly very angular in
its pebbles in that region, though not so much so as you

found at Eisenach.

     Professor P. MeVian at Basle invited us to his country

Ivilla, and told me who was, and who was not at home.
missed Fridolin Sandbergerat Sachingen on the Rhine, which

he had just left, but was lucky enough to find Heer at

IZurich, disposed to devote as much time as could give to

show me his collection and talk over Swiss and German

Itertiary geology. He had lately returned from Italy, or at

least had been there since was here last year, and had

seen De Zigno's oolitic plants at Padua. Charles Buubury

246  . SIK CHARLES LYELL,              CHAP. xxix.

will be curious to know that after great accession from all

countries this flora remains exclusively confined to Crypto
gams, Cycads, Conifers, and without any dicotyledonous

Iangiospenns.
         perceive that Heer is trying to frame a progressive

theory for plants, though he is a good deal put out by finding
a Paleoxyris in the Coal, one of the Bromeliaceoe. In fact the

monocotyledons do not seem as yet to keep their place in

the chronological system as they should do if they knew

their real rank in the order of development. Some of them

appear before their time. It is, however, striking to observe

that the tendency of geological facts (or opinions) carries a
man who is working in a new field, and an independent

thinker, into the speculation that nature began with cellular,

and went on to vascular cryptogams, from lichens and sea

weeds to ferns, and slowly got up to Coniferae and Cycads,

then to different divisions of dicotyledonous, apetalous,

polypetalous, and gamopetalous in the order of their perfec
tion. Although Heer is too well aware of the exceptions to

his rules, and even of the impossibility of classing the dicoty

ledons correctly according to relation, dignity, or perfection,

3'et the attempt shows how seductive such a generalisation is.

So long as it is admitted that man came last, and the idea

Iof progress is cherished as the only way of uniting that

fact with paleontologiccil data, suppose these views will

find favour. It seems the only prospect of a complete

system, of uniting all into one grand whole, the supposed
absence of fish in the oldest rocks, with the coming in of the

Mammalia last of all, and with a parallel series of progres
sive steps from the algae to the lilies and the roses. But it

might be better if we were rather less ambitions. This

Ieager desire to solve the whole problem may mislead zoologi
cally, botanically, and geologically.  suppose most men

Iprefer a doubtful system which enables them to group
together a great many facts, than to have none.  spent

three days in Heer's collection. He is continually finding

fruits which bear out the generic determinations previously
obtained from leaves alone. The fruit of Cinnamomea

camphora among others, the leaf of which was so well known,

also certain maples common to the lower and upper molasse,

i857-    FOSSIL BOTANY.                              247

Ias are a great many plants, helping to link together what

now call Lower with Upper Miocene, and justifying my substi
tuting the former term for Upper Eocene in reference to the
Mayence basin, Hampstead, Isle of Wight, &c. What is
singular is this, that Heer finds all the insects and plants,
1,000 species of the former and 700 of the latter, from the

freshwater molasse, to belong to extinct species, whereas the
marine beds which separate the Lower from the Upper
molasse contain shells like those of Touraine or the faluns of

the Loire, of which a third are recent. Possibly some of the
plants may be identical with the living, though Heer has

apparently good grounds for distinguishing them, often by
the fruit, as distinct. But the more one examines his speci

mens and hears his reasons, the more faith one has in him

and in fossil botany. I now have little doubt that the whole

of the (Eninghen beds are Upper Miocene.

     Heer convinced me that the Madeira plant sent to him

from S. Jorge was the Oreodaphne foetum, and if Charles
Bunbury found Laurus Canariensis among mine, it must be

because both are there, which is not improbable. The glacial

phenomena appear to me more than ever wonderful. There

Iis much lecturing here in small places, very like the United
States.  met with a M. Zollikot'er, who ha* done good

original work in the Italian glaciers, starting to lecture to the

watchmakers of Chaud de Fonds and ten other places.

         Ever affectionately yours,
                                 CHARLES LYELL.

248                  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                                    CHAP. xxx.

                          CHAPTEB XXX.

                            AUGUST 1857-8EPTEMBER 1857.
LEAVES ZURICH TO SEE THE LIMESTONE QUARRIES OP SOLBURE-- GLACIAL

    PHENOMENA IN SWITZERLAND -- THE RHONE OLACIER -- ZERMATT--
     VIESCH -- THE MATTERHORN.

                     CORRESPONDENCE.

       To LEONARD LYELL (six years old).

                                     53 Harley Street, London : April 13, 1857.

     My dearest Leonard, -- Mrs. Nisbet1 brought me the

IActinia on Saturday evening, and the next morning Aunt

Joanna took it to the Zoological Gardens, where have since
       looking quite well, and likely to live till you come
Iseen

   Iback.
     I it,

                                    is
                                                             it)
                                                                       is
     There are a good many of the same species (Actinia
                                     the name of in the Fish House, and
Mesembryanthemum

almost every one of them differs a little from the other, and

  could only see one which resembled yours in colour, and

that one was not exactly the same. It what naturalists

call a variable species.

       am not sure that zoologists understand the meaning of

that beautiful row of blue tubercles which surround the base

of the feelers or tentaculae. Some individuals seem not to

have them.

   If can manage to run down with Aunt Mary to Brighton

some day before you return to town, we will see what we can

find on the beach when the tide goes down.

    With my love to Frank and Arthur, believe me your

affectionate uncle,

     Give Rosamond kiss for me.      CHARLES LYELL.

1

                                  a
      The faithful housekeeper, who was forty-three years in his service.

i857.  SOLEURE QUARRIES.  249

                            To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

                                                               Zurich, St. Gallen : August 16, 1857.

     My dear Horner, --From Zurich we went partly by rai.

Iand in part by voiturier to Soleure, where went to see the

quarries of ' Portlandian ' white limestone, almost a marble,
in one bed of which all the turtles (of several genera) have
been found-- all it is said with the carapace upwards and the
plastron down, a position in which they might be expected
to settle. The most striking phenomenon in these large
quarries at Soleure was an extensive shelf of the limestone,
from which a covering of about eight feet of solid unstratified
mud, full of angular and subangular boulders, had just been
removed. These boulders, with now and then a block large
enough to be called an erratic among them, were many of
them striated, polished, and scratched on one or on all sides.
But the ledge of limestone below was smoothed in the most
beautiful style, as well as traversed with parallel furrows.
The sections of innumerable large Nerinwa on the surface of
the polished ledge made a beautiful show. There is no rock
which receives and retains glacial markings so readily and
faithfully as a compact limestone, provided it be covered with
mnd by the glacier, for it loses all its striae by a few months'

exposure in the open air. It is singular to observe what a

heavy and solid thing this fine mud, called ' glacier mud,' is.
Perhaps it has often been pressed under a great weight of
ice. They have discovered lately in the railway excavations
that they can advantageously blast them with gunpowder.
The erratics here are part of the supposed doings of Char-

pentier's great glacier, which walked across the great valley

of Switzerland from Monts Blanc and Rosa to the Jura, with
a thickness of ice of some 4,000 feet, then abutting against
the limestone chain, and rising nearly to its culminating
ridge spread itself on each side, after leaving Pierre a bot
(the toad stone) above Neuchatel, and some still more enor
mous angular masses on the cretaceous and oolitic rocks of
the Secondary Chain.

   IIn order to escape from the necessity of appealing to such

a gigantic mound of ice, ventured, you may remember, to

250  SIR CHARLES LVELL.  CHAP. XXX.

suggest that the sea may have floated the Alpine erratics to
the Jura, as Darwin has shown that the ocean now carries

on ice rafts the rocks of the Andes to Chiloe, arranging them
there with no small regularity. But the entire absence of
marine remains in the associated gravel, mud, and moraine,

whether here or anywhere in Switzerland, the conformity of
the distribution of the travelled blocks here with the shape of

so many valleys, and above all, the sight of the Alpine snows
at Berne and elsewhere, has made me strongly incline, with

Charpentier, Agassiz, and others, to embrace (as James Forbes

Idid) the theory of a terrestrial glacier. With Desor at Neu-

chatel, revisited Pierre a bot, and saw the zone of blocks of

the Monte Rosa talcose granites and gneiss at one level on

the Jura, and the Protogine blocks of Mont Blanc at another.
Afterwards Morlot accompanied me from Lausanne to a spot
in the middle of the great valley between the Lakes of Neu-

chatel and Geneva, where the glacial appearances are splen

Ididly displayed ; and lastly, when had got out of the

domain of the colossal glacier of the Rhone (or the Vallais),

Iand at Berne was in the region of the supposed ancient

glacier of the Aar, had a grand day with Escher von der
Linth, and went over all the arguments for and against the

land- and the sea-ice theory, examining the old moraines
around Berne, and ' the gravels ' (as Blackadder used to call
them on Strathmore) or the stratified old alluvium consisting
of rearranged (or remanie) boulder stuff, which have been
thrown down by rivers since the retreat of the ice. At Berne
Escher pointed out to me that on the right side of the moraine
of the Aar, you have fragments of the rocks which, far
above the Lakes of Thun and Brientz, belong to the right side
of the valley of the Aar, and on the left side those derived

from very different formations occurring on the left side. It is

evident therefore that the two lakes were then full of ice. An

other interesting point is this. It is clear that a greater glacier

like that of the Rhone coming down the Vallais -- filling the
Lake of Geneva -- rising as they assume 3,000 or more feet
above its level, and crossing to the Jura, must have blocked
up the mouths of the minor or lateral valleys. Places were
also pointed out to me, one of them near Vevay, where the
old colossal masses of ice of the Rhone-glacier blocked up

r857.       ANCIENT GLACIERS.                                 251

tributaries which in summer brought down pebbles at points

far above the level of the Lake of Geneva, 1,000 feet or more.

At these points of junction a mixture of stratified alluvium

proper to the said tributary torrent, and of unstratified mud
and blocks from the Vallais, are observed in spots on which

it seems most unnatural for any such accumulations to have

taken place, unless one admits Charpentier's theory or some

modification of it. Now, just such old moraines of mixed

character, called here ' diluvium glaciare,' are observable in

Forfarshire at the openings of lateral valleys into the larger

one of Clova, or Water Esk, only explicable by imagining the

deeper glen to have been once filled with ice. Indeed, if the

hypothesis now generally adopted here to account for the

drift and erratics of Switzerland, the Jura, and the Alps be

I Inot all a dream, we must apply the same to Scotland, or to

the parts of it know best. All that said in May 1841
                                      I(see ' Proceedings of
on the old  glaciers of Forfarshire                           the
Geological  Society ' for that year)     must reaffirm, and   the

glacier of the Rhone is comparable to our principal one of the

Tay, which came down by Dunkeld and by Coupar to the south
of Blairgowrie, and then through the lowest part of Strath-

more, characterised occasionally by masses of actinolite

schist which could only have come down from the valley of

the Tay. This glacier went across the strath, and in a

straight line by Forfar to Lunan bay, where it reached the

sea, being traceable by its debris for a distance of thirty-four

miles, and therefore by no means unworthy of comparison

with some of the old Alpine ice rivers. And we have also in

IAngus our ' Pierres a bot,' as stated in my paper on the
ISidlaw range, which is our Jura. The block of mica schist

which measured on the hill of Turin, a hill 800 feet high,

resting on the Old Red Sandstone within forty feet of the

summit of the ridge, was thirteen feet long, and must have

come from the Grampians, probably very far from the north

west. It is a fine monument of the transporting power of

Iice, as displayed in Scotland, but Pierre a bot is really more

wonderful when seen again, than when first beheld it, so

vast and angular, so clearly resting on a limestone chain,

with the great tertiary valley between it and the Alps. There

can in the first place be no doubt that ice was the carrying

252  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxx.

power, and the distance travelled by such blocks and others

is the same whether our hypothesis employs floating ice or a

land glacier. Escher has pointed out to me that in several

cases where the valleys bend at sharp angles, as in the case

of the Rhine above the Lake of Constance, the floating ice is

out of the question. He has established this by the aid of

a very peculiar rock called the granite of Pontelyas, near

Trons. Fortunately this granite is exceedingly unlike any

other in Switzerland or the Alps, large regular crystals of

common felspar in a base of green felspar, with another dark

mineral (I forget the name) dispersed like mica. As frag
ments are traced from its starting point we have positive
I Iproof of its origin.
     told Studer, Escher, and Morlot that

Iwas disposed to embrace fully the land transport theory, but
   thought they took too little account of the probability of

considerable and unequal upheavals. When we consider

that in Scotland, on the Clyde side, we have post-glacial
upheaval to the amount of between 200 and 300 feet, and
1,500 feet in Wales (Moel Tryfane), and 700 or more in

ICanada at Montreal, how much more may we presume that

in and near the Alps (which take to be the greatest centre
of movement in the later geological periods of all Europe),

there will have been vast and unequal changes of level after
the dispersion of the Alpine blocks in all directions, north

Iward, southward, &c. !
        am happy to find that Escher, who knows the geology
of the Alps more minutely than anyone, has quite realised
the idea of the probability of its great foldings having been
effected very slowly, and that the lateral pressure exhibited

on both sides may have been brought about at the same slow

rate at which the central nucleus crystallised, and in the act

of crystallising expanded. Even the Eocene strata turned

slowly by metamorphic action into granite and gneiss- in some

Iplaces.
        ought before this to have told you that after diligent

search the geologists have been unable in any part of

Switzerland to find a single marine shell in any moraine,

Ior any part of the boulder clay. In this respect the glacial

formation is precisely what know it to be in Forfarshire ;

and as our Scotch gravels, with the exception of a few

1857. GLACIAL PHENOMENA.  253

patches near the sea, and not many feet above its level, are also

without such remains, so here the stratified gravels formed

since the glaciers retreated, and often 200 feet thick or
more, are without them. This to be sure is mere negative
evidence, but lately Morlot has detected some wood very
well preserved in an old moraine (700 feet thick) opposite
Lausanne on the Lake of Geneva, and at Lausanne itself in a

similar position the bones of the marmot, the living species
(Arctomys) in unstratified boulder mud, full of striated and

polished pebbles.

   IIn regard to my belief in the greater height of the Alps

and other modern changes of level, cannot say more than
that this important mode of facilitating the explanation of

the phenomena has been far too much neglected. My idea

Iis that all the mountain chains, lakes, and valleys have re

mained as before, and quite agree that none of those
astonishing lateral-pressure folds can be of post-glacial date.
But when all northern Europe was colder, an addition of
2,000 or 3,000 feet to the altitude of the greatest chain
would have had a prodigious effect in the local augmenta

tion of cold and ice, and if the same causes which at several

distinct and successive geological epochs, have produced
more movement in the Alps than almost anywhere else, did
also in the glacial and post-glacial period contribute to
intensify the Alpine as contrasted with the Jurassic oscilla

tions of level, the slope down which the streams of ice crept
along may easily have been greater than now. A genera
tion must die off before geologists will know how to make
use of an ample allowance of time,

                                   Ever affectionately yours,

                                                             CHARLES LYELL.

                          To LEONARD HORNEE, ESQ.

                                                                         Altorf : August 29, 1857.

    My dear Horner,-- My last letter on the geology of my

Itoui related chiefly to glacial phenomena, and before get
Iamong the glaciers themselves, which we are fast approach

ing, must try and make up an arrear of some ten days or

254           SIR CHARLES LYELL.                CHAP. xx*.

Imore during which have seen much of the tertiary, and

something of the secondary rocks of Switzerland, and a good
deal of their geologists. Mary will have told you of my

Ihaving attended the meeting of the Swiss naturalists.
was tempted to do so by hearing that their doings only

lasted three days, and that it was very easy to see and con
verse, instead of listening to long and often dull memoirs.

There is also much brotherhood among these Swiss. They

give me very much the idea of men who meet together for

Imutual instruction, and as real lovers of natural history
and science.  saw most of Heer and Escher, Mousson also

Iof Zurich ; Merian of Basle, Langen of Soleure, Gaudin of

Lausanne, De la Harpe of do., all men whom had seen in

my tour, were present ; also Ziegler and Desor. Trogen in

Appenzell, where they met, is near the boundaries of the

Itertiary (molasse) and Alpine region.          visited all
     When you see Falconer, pray tell him that
the localities in which the Ziirich proboscidians named by

him in their museum had been found. The Mastodon

angustident of Winterthur has proved a splendid fossil.

The story has gone through all Switzerland how Falconer

threw up his cap to the ceiling when he saw it. According
to his suggestion it was sent to Kaup, and it turned out, as

Falconer thought, a nearly entire specimen ; upper and lower

jaws, in one of the latter the second tooth seen below the

milk tooth. Also the incisor. Moreover a young Mastodon

Iof the same species. It is from the Upper molasse.

Ivisited the quarry,
        also went to Diirnten, and saw the beds from which

Elepha* aniiquus was extracted, and Falconer will be glad to

I Ilearn that obtained a tooth, which though not perfect,

feel almost certain is Rhinoceros leptorhinus. The shells

Valvata and Cyclas of living species. The plants also (Heer
was with me), Pinus abies, P. sylvestris, Betula alba, Phrag-

mitet vulgaris, and a few more. No Cyrena as yet. The dip

of the beds Escher suggests may be due to subsidence when

the valleys were cut through the Pliocene, and when the

water was withdrawn from this peat-like deposit. He says

I Ithe molasse is quite horizontal below. At first hoped

had got a decided case of post-pliocene upheaval or change

1857. SWISS GLACIERS.                           255

Iof position in Switzerland, to favour my post-glacial oscilla

tions mentioned in my last. But fear that the subjacent

undisturbed molasse precludes this inference.   was not

  IBy the way, talking of Escher and upheaval,
a little pleased to find how thoroughly he goes with me in

doing things slowly. No one in Europe is so well acquainted

with the stupendous folds and inversions of strata in the
Alps, and yet he believes it all took place without any inter

ruption of the habitable state of these mountains. Had man

been there, he thinks he would not have known what was

Igoing on.
       end this at Visp, where the walls of most of the houses

are rent with the earthquake which shook them two years
ago. Perhaps after all there is something still in progress.

The shocks were felt for 800 miles by 200.

          Yours very affectionately,

                       CHARLES LYELL.

                             To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.I
                            it,
                                                                 Domo d'Ossola: September 10, 1857.it,

     My dear Horner, --We received your letter of September

 5th at Visp, and shall leave Mary to answer and continue
 my sketch of the geology of the country we have lately
 visited, where among other things have seen the glaciers of
the Rhone, of Zermatt, and two smaller ones adjoining
those of Zmutt and Findeln, besides that of Viesch which

 Escher recommended me to see, and which comes down
from the Bernese Alps towards the Vallais, whereas the
Zermatt group descends from the region of Monte Rosa.
think have learnt a good deal, for have been surprised at
finding the signs of glacial action diminish so rapidly in
proportion as got nearer and nearer to the glaciers, until

it became least evident when stood on and touched the

glaciers themselves. You will remember that when was
at Soleure, 150 miles from the source of the supposed ancient
Rhone-glacier, was struck with the quantity of polishing
and grooving and scratching of the limestone rocks, and of
the pebbles in the old moraine or unstratified mud. The
I         I
       I       I

                                I
                                   I

I

250  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                   CHAP. xxx.

erratics also on the Jura there, as well as near Neuchatel,

and the moraines of gigantic size SCO feet deep at Lausanne
or opposite it on the south side of the Lake of Geneva,

struck me much, and near Trogen and Winterthur and
round Zurich, it is wonderful how abundant are those pecu

liar memorials of ice-action which neither the landslip, nor

the avalanche, nor the vibrations of the earthquake, nor any

known agent but ice can produce, and which the torrent

whether of mud or water cannot cause, but on the contrary

Iimmediately effaces.
        had imagined that as the Reuss has strewn the country
below the Lake of Lucerne with erratics and glaciated (or

Ipolished, furrowed, and scratched) blocks and pebbles, that

when followed for a day and a half's journey the valley of this
same Reuss up to its source from Altorf to Andermatt and

Ibeyond, shall find the evidence of the old glacier still more
Iclear. But positively could not find one proof, except

I Isome talus-like moraines and two or three roches mouton-
nees, of ice-action. Had searched longer  should no
doubt have met with them, but I had expected them to ob

Itrude themselves on my notice as they do in the low country of

Switzerland far from the Alps. Crossing the Furka came
down upon the glacier of the Rhone, examined its lateral mo

raines (of small size), the blocks on its surface, and afterwards
its terminal moraine, with a view of ascertaining what propor

tion of the stones, whether angular or rounded, had been so

dealt with by the ice, that if I brought any of them away,

Ithey would be recognisable as glacial by a practised eye.
Ibegan to count, but not finding one in a hundred, no, nor

in two hundred, was soon tired out, and repeated the same

experiment afterwards on other glaciers and with the like

result. Several times when I and three or four companions

(guides and volunteers) looked sharply for hours in the

moraines on or around the glacier, we observed a few good

examples of smoothed and scratched boulders which were

unmistakable, but they must each have made one only in
many thousands --a singular contrast to what we witness

when we go far away from the spets where alone Nature
is now manufacturing specimens of this peculiar kind.

As to the medial moraines which travel down on the sur

1857.    GLACIERS.  257

Iface of the ice, do not see how we are to expect any frag

ments of rock in such a situation to differ from the talus of

the foot of a precipice, except occasionally that such

moraines have had some friction between the ice and the

rocks which bounded the tributary glacier. And in regard

Ito stones which have been ground against the bottom, can

not help suspecting that after glaciation they most of them

get rolled by the powerful torrent which runs beneath the
glacier for many miles, and bursts out usually from a large

arch at the end. The triturating power of these Alpine

torrents is enormous, and in a short distance they would

obliterate every groove and scratch.

    In the glacial period, when the weight of ice was enor

mously greater, when in the region of the Alps there was so

little melting, when glaciers at present only ten, fifteen, and

twenty miles long and from 300 to 1,000 feet deep, were 50 to

100 or even 150 miles long, and 4,000 feet deep (and if there

is any truth at all in the generally received theory of the old
Swiss glaciers such must have been their gigantic dimensions),

one may readily grant that the pressure and friction were so

much in excess of what we now see, as to explain the con

trast between the ice work done in the olden times and that

accomplished in our own days, to say nothing of the prob

Iably disproportionate length of the periods compared.

    But you will naturally say that am going too fast in as

suming that the glaciers are a vera causa, and adequate to do

Iall, if only enough of time and of cold be allowed. This is

the great question, to answer which came this year to the

I Ihigher Alps, being desirous to see the proofs with my own
eyes.  began with what did not see, because taking me

Iby surprise it made the greatest impression on me, and be-

caute it removes many difficulties which had in Forfarshire,
where in passing through Clova, and over the granitic por

Ition of the Grampians as far as Deeside, was disappointed
Iat missing good evidence of glacial striae, &c., although be

lieve there were glaciers there in the glacial period. Our
Scotch, erratics, our till or unstratified moraines, and in some
places our dome-shaped rocks or roches moutormees, are just
what -we find here even in those places where it is excessively
difficult to meet with smoothed pebbles or blocks with parallel
VOL. u.
         s

258  SIR CHARLES LYELL.   CHAP. xxx.

grooving. It seems that most granites and nearly all the

crystalline schists will not readily take or retain such mark

ings. Limestone, and still more Serpentine, are the best, but

the limestones must not be exposed to the atmosphere, or

Ithey soon decompose superficially and lose their distinctive

markings, and have examined blocks even of these calca

reous and serpentinous stones by hundreds on the glacier

and in its moraine, without meeting with any indubitable

signs of glacial action. Such negative facts have surely not

Ibeen dwelt upon enough by Agassiz and many other writers

on this subject. But now for what did see. First, the
small size of the lateral moraines of the Rhone Glacier some

Iway above its termination, and the equally small scale of the

terminal or frontal moraine of the same, astonished me. saw

Iafterwards some twice as big (thirty-five feet high perhaps,

and twenty or thirty broad), and have read of some much

larger. The old moraines of Switzerland are 150 and 200 feet

Ihigh, to say nothing of that one opposite Vevay and Lausanne,

said to be 800 feet. suspect that Zollikofer, in saying that

the lateral moraine of the glacier of Macugnaga S. of Monte

Rosa is 1 50 feet high, means the old moraine of the extinct
Iglacier, for he speaks of vegetation on it, whereas
                                                      never
Isaw even a lichen on any recent moraine. Hooker think
saw recent moraines in the Himalaya 200 or 800 feet high !

The steepness of the modern terminal moraine of the Rhone

on both sides, and of others since seen, at angles of between

35° and 45°, and so sharp at the top as scarce to afford room

for one's foot, is singular. There is an old terminal moraine

120 yards in advance of the new one of the Rhone Glacier,
covered with wild plants, some in full flower, and cut through

in two places by the river, showing entire absence of strati

Ification, its height only fifteen feet, width 90, slope in parts

37°. The next saw was the Viesch Glacier above Brieg,

or in the Upper Vallais.

     Although it is annually advancing, yet the melting back

Iof its termination during the heat of this unusually hot

summer, gave me what wanted, an opportunity of seeing
under it, or of observing the floor of granite on which it had

Ipressed eight months before. My guide took me under an

arch of ice, and saw a rounded and domed surface of

i857- ZERMATT GLACIER.          259

granite, smooth and with straight furrows, a quarter of an inch

deep, exactly in the direction of the onward movement of tlie

glacier. Although there is usually a dripping of water from
the ice in such places, it was so dry here that 1 had to blow

out of the rectilinear grooves the fine polishing powder as it

has been called. Not only were there furrows on the top,

hut also on the sloping sides of the granite boss, and they

Iwere also nearly parallel to the others, because suppose the

plastic (or viscous ?) mass of ice, with stones frozen into it,
enveloped the granite, and moving the whole of it forward in

the same direction, cut channels in the sloping sides as well

I Ias on the tops. All this was what had read about, but

was pleased at seeing another sign of the freshness of the

Iaction of the glacier. Some dark-bluish slate rock had left

streaks of colour which could wash off -- it could not grind

the granite, but had lost a portion of itself and left its mark

on the granite. A short distance away from the new

moraine are abundant signs of old moraines and roches

mnutonnees and rocks in situ, grooved in the direction of

Ithe valley, but had not time to look for striated pebbles.
I could find none in the existing moraine, only one imper

Ifectly furrowed piece of mica-schist.
     Next explored the Zermatt Glacier, two days at its ter

mination, and another day high up above its middle portion

at the foot of the Riflelhorn, crossing it and seeing all the
medial moraines. A few years ago this last examination

would have required one to camp out. Now an hotel more

than 7,000 feet above the sea, renders it easy to one who is

not fatigued by a mountain ride, and who can stand half a

Iday's walk over the ice. One of my guides had acquired a
keen eye for glacial markings.  was assisted by an intelli

Igent Swiss, the young landlord of the Riffel Hotel, also by

Mr. Sclater of Oxford, whom had met at Sir W. Jardine's,

Iand by another of my guides. After hours of search,
began to despair of ever seeing amongst thousands, one
truly glaciated transported or travelling block. At last,

under the Riffelhorn, on the right lateral moraine, we saw a

splendid angular mass of granite which measured in length
59 feet, width 49, height 42 Paris feet (I had borrowed a
tape measure of 45 feet on the French scale) ; nearly all of

s2

260    SIR CHARLES LYELL.                   CHAP. xxx.

one of its sides was beautifully polished and furrowed, while

the other sides were perfectly rough. In some places a very

distinct set of small scratches parallel to each other, but not

to the prevailing grooves, were visible. By confining our at

tention to the green or serpentine stones, we obtained here

and elsewhere in the modern (and in the ancient moraines
which appear in the same valleys at heights of several

hundred feet) a very few well-scored pebbles, and now and
then in the old moraines a fine surface of serpentine, with

I.two or even three sets of striae.         have visited is
     The rapid advance of all the glaciers
Imanifest. In the chaotic mass which the terminal moraine

of Zermatt (or Corner Glacier) presented, saw beams of
wooden chalets and roofing tiles. In the moraine of the

IZmutt Glacier remarked a large rock with lichens on it.
IThis was so unusual that walked round it, and found on
Ithe other side of it a fine larch tree with its leaves still green.
  then discovered that the glacier had closed round a small

island of rock covered with large larches, and had detached

several huge fragments of the rock, and pushed them into the

moraine. Farther on I found on the outer slope of the moraine,

which was fifteen feet high, and sloped at 35° to 46°, no

less than eight large larch trees with their roots buried in the

mass of mud and stones, and their boughs and trunks pro

Itruding in horizontal and oblique directions. Both in the
Zermatt and Findeln glacier-moraines  found fresh green
turf of meadows rolled up and mixed confusedly with the
Imud and stones.
                  was shown some meadows where the

Zermatt Glacier had penetrated some eighty feet last year,

although in other places it had moved forward much less.

Wishing to determine its average rate of progress, and
learning from the cure of Zermatt that it had reached a

Icertain brook which descends from the Furg Glacier sixty

years ago, mounted the glacier with two guides, and mea

sured the distance, which gave a mean annual advance of
forty-three French feet. In the last sixty years it has walked
over the site of forty-three chalets of men or beasts ; three

very lately. They usually remove most of the woodwork

before the ice comes and shoves the moraines against

them.

1857. FLVDELN GLACIER. 261

To one in search of the recent doings of the ice, or want

ing to study the geological monuments which an extinct

glacier would leave to after times, it would be more advan

tageous to visit the Alps in a period of recession. One

wishes to see what is going on at the very bottom, where the
Ipressure and friction are greatest.
                                      often congratulated
Imyself that was not trying to convert a sceptic by showing

him what a glacier in Cull activity could do. Ib is like taking

a Wernerian who denied the igneous origin of trap to a very

active volcano, such as Vesuvius. He would see nothing but

cinders and fireworks, and, for lack of power to observe what

Iwas doing far below, would go away a worse sceptic than he

came. But, thanks to the summer heat, saw enough to

make me believe the more abundant evidence which others

have seen in those glaciers where the rocks are more favour

Iable to a display of polished and scored surfaces. Even the

few found imply the existence of thousands, just as if you

find oue or two marine shells in a deposit after searching a

day or two, you expect that time and patience may bring to

Ilight a whole marine fauna.          ascertained that it

     On visiting the Findeln Glacier

is in full march forwards, ploughing up the meadows and

felling fir trees, and has been so for two years at least,

and has gained, they say, still more remarkably in height,

above sixty feet in advance, and more in altitude, so say
the neighbours. Before that time they say it was sta

tionary.

    Its aspect is to the south of west, that of Zermatt NNE. ;
and if, as Darwin says in reference to the Andes, the amount

of summer heat has more to do with the growth or decrease
of a glacier than the quantity of winter's snow, such a dif

ference of aspect or exposure to the sun and certain winds

may go for much, at least for a few years, though when

there is a continued augmentation of snow on this part of

the Alps, and of glacier ice, all the glaciers of the same

group must eventually share in the same movement. At

Ipresent the fear of the Findeln (or Findelen) people is that
their euemy is now making up for lost time.  was able to

ascertain by means of a water-lead constructed a month

before my visit at the end of the Viesch Glacier, that the ice

262          SIR CHARLES LYELL.               CHAP. xxx.

had melted down, or lost in height, exactly five feet at its
termination in the preceding four weeks.

     Nothing can be more satisfactory than the identity of the
fresh-made moraine to that older one which is often found

at a short distance in advance of and of larger size, as in
                 ;
the case of the Findeln one. The same sharp sand and fine
                    it,
impalpable mud, making a mortar-like cement when baked

in the sun, in which large and small angular stones, some
lew of enormous dimensions, are buried. When you trace

the same formation almost continuously to the lower country,

or find what may have been old lateral, and occasionally ter
minal moraines here and there with transported blocks,
belonging to, or derived from mountains in the higher part

of the same system of valleys, and accompanied with scored
pebbles increasing in number as you descend, and with

erratics and roches montonnees the whole leaves you no

alternative but to infer that one and the same cause or modus

operandi has prevailed throughout the whole area.
     Even the marked multiplication and intensifying of the

glacial agency, the farther one gets from the modern pigmy

glaciers, seems to me now to militate against my former idea

of employing floating ice to carry the far transported erratics
to the Jura and other distant points.
                                       want the grinding
                                       I
force of the denser and broader glacier which most of the
                                           I
Swiss naturalists have appealed to. The ice-rafts will not

supply (the more extended land-glaciers would). But here
   enough in all conscience for one bout, so must give you
is
             have said not a word of the splendid scenery of
         it

          I
a respite.

the Monte Eosa Alps. The Mont Cervin or Matterhorn

as wonderful as J. Forbes represents it. Every day, as saw
                                              I

                                                      is

Monte Eosa and some of its gigantic neighbours from new

points of view they gained upon me, and had stayed longer
                                       I

I  might have doubted the justness of my first impression, that

the Zermatt scenery, though grand, was not comparable toit

Cliamounix. At any rate, has the merit of being quite dif

ferent. No one peak, not even the Matterhorn, can compare
with the forms of the Aiguilles of Mont Blanc. We were

greatly favoured with fine weather.

             Ever most affectionately,

                                       CHARLES LYELL.

i857.                   TURIN.              263

                        CHAPTER XXXI.

                           SEPTEMBER 1857-DECEMBER 1857.

TURIN -- GEOLOGY OP THE NEIGHBOURHOOD -- EVIDENCE OF GLACIAL ACTION
    -- VEGETATION OP THE RIVIERA-- ZWERGLETHURM, NEAR VIESCH-- VISIT
     TO LEGHORN -- TOMB OP PRANCIS HORNER -- MRS. SOMERV'ILLE AT FLO
     RENCE- NAPLES -- ROME-- THE CAMPAGSA.

       CORRESPONDENCE.

       To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

                                                          Genoa la Superha : September 21, 1857.

   IMy dear Horner, --It is more than a week since last
Iwrote to you at'ter my arrival in Turin. In that city

found several able geologists, especially Gastaldi, now em

ployed in the administration or chief management of a

Government Polytechnic Institution. Sella, a mineralogist

and mathematician, and others aided me. Last year, when
Iat Vienna, heard the savants of Italy much run down by
Ithe Austrians, but am sure they only require fair play, and
Ithey are quite equal to those of Germany.
                                            did not see

Plana the astronomer, nor Babbage's friend Meuabrea, for it

was vacation time, and the heat had driven all away before

we arrived. You remember Playfair, when he visited this

Icountry, said it was more likely to produce a Newton than
we in Great Britain to produce a Raphael.   believe them

Ito have naturally an aptitude for science.

        made many excursions in splendid weather, accom
panied by Gastaldi, and in one case by him and Michelotti,

Iwho has published a work on the tertiary Lower Miocene
shells of the Superga.  have now had an opportunity of

comparing the strata containing these shells and others im
mediately below them with the ' molasse ' of Switzerland,

261                 SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP, xxxi.

which they resemble somewhat mineralogically as well as in

their fossils ; but a good deal has to be done before an exact

I Iparallelism of the successive sets of Miocene beds on each
side of the Alps can be made out.  have, think, made a

Ibeginning, arid as there are some plants in the Turin or

Bormida series which have urged Gastaldi to send to Heer
Iof Zurich,
             expect we shall soon obtain much valuable

botanical aid from his identifications.

    A comparison also of the extinct glaciers of the Italian

Iand Swiss sides of the Alps can better be made from Turin

than from any other place. Before my arrival had seen on

the banks of the Lago Maggiore some good examples of

erratics and of moraines which had come from the Simplon,

but these, as you might suppose a priori, are far inferior to
those which have descended from the Val d'Aosta or which

belong to the ancient mighty glacier derived from the com

bined snows both of the Mont Blanc and the Monto Rosa

group of Alpine heights. This glacier, although perhaps of

less gigantic dimensions than that of the Rhone, has cer

tainly left, as Gastaldi first pointed out in a memoir on the

subject in the French Bulletin, a far more imposing monu

ment of itself on the plains of the Po than have the extinct

glaciers of the Rhone or the Rhine in the lower country of
Switzerland. You may well imagine that having fresh in

my memory the proofs enumerated in my last letter to you
of the recent advance of the Viesch and the Zennatt Glaciers

Ifor a series of years, was prepared to accept willingly (and

after my geological experience north of the Alps, to expect)

evidence of former extensions of the icy masses.

    J. D. Forbes has well shown in his book on the Alps that

a glacier is a peculiarly sensitive instrument for measuring

the annual average of heat and cold, and that every slight
Ifdifference of temperature causes it to increase or lessen in
height and length.  therefore we had come to the conclu

sion paleontologically by the greater southern range of
arct.ic shells and quadrupeds (e.g. the musk bufialo and rein
deer) that the cold once reached to lower latitudes than it
does now, and this at a period geologically speaking very

modern, we ought to look for signs of glaciers belonging to

the existing mountain chains on a scale corresponding to the

1857. MORAINE NEAR MAZZI.               265

wintry climate implied by the southward migration of species

Ithe habits of which are well known to us. Not that

believe that geologists of this or the next generation would

Ihave got so tar as to miss the phenomena which we are now
only beginning to interpret correctly.  have often thought,

would the rainbow have been missed by the most profound

philosophers in optics ? and yet it is as necessary a result of

certain meteorological conditions as the glacier. It would,

however, be inexcusable not to welcome the monuments

which now stare us in the face when they accord so perfectly

with conclusions derived from evidence so independent in

kind as are the organic remains. As to those who feel at

liberty, as Von Buch and Elie de Beaumont have done, to call
in catastrophes when they are at fault, it is very unlikely

that the followers of that school will in our time admit the

agency, whether of floating ice or of land glaciers, to the

extent to which we ought now to admit them. Even they

who have most faith in the adequacy of actual causes, will

require to dwell on the testimony which I have just alluded

to, the arctic fossils ranging south, and the ready growth of

glaciers when favoured by slight changes of temperature, iu

order not to be staggered when they stand amidst the vines

and the maize and the mulberry trees of the plains of the Po,

and are called upon to believe that a lofty mound or ridge

2,000 feet high, called the Serra, running out into the great

Ialluvial flat, is nothing but the left lateral moraine of an

ancient glacier. That it is so, am now fully convinced.
I had asked Escher whether he knew any sections in

Switzerland in which either the ancient or recent moraines

exhibited that singularly contorted arrangement of the beds

of clay, gravel, and sand, which they display in Forfarshire
or in the mud cliffs of Norfolk. He told me it was so rare

to see a fresh section, that he could not give a satisfactory

answer to my question. Now it so happened that a railway

is making from Turin to Ivrea, and although they cut

through the lowest part of the terminal moraine near Mazzi,

Ithey have thought it worth while to make a tunnel through

which we walked. Near the entrance was delighted to see

that curious folding of the strata which will cause the same

beds to be twice pierced by a perpendicular shaft, yet with

266  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxxi.

Iout the beds below having participated in the movement. 1

have elsewhere speculated on the cause. What feel to be
important is, that here as in England, when erratics and un-
stratified mud are in association with stratified materials,

the latter are liable to be twisted or folded in so extraordinary

a manner.

     In order to appreciate the distinctive character of this
colossal moraine, you must reflect on the uniformity and
evenness of the vast plain of the Po all round it, for al
though really inclined from the Alps, it looks as level as

the sea ; then fancy the great mounds sloping up at angles
of 20° and 80° to heights of 500, 1,000, 1,500 and 2,000 feet ;
then consider that at the very extremity, as near Caluso,
there are blocks of protogine which have come 100 miles
from Mont Blanc ; also that the whole assemblage of stones
is not like that which has issued from the Susa or from any

other valley, but confined to rocks such as now strictly belong
to the basin of the Dora Baltea ; also that the pebbles and frag

ments of stone, if of serpentine or any easily striable rock, are

all striated, at least nineteen-twentieths of the whole, whereas
in a recent glacier which has only travelled ten miles, you
might only find one in twenty of the same stone striated ;
and lastly, think of the narrow vomitory which has disgorged
this enormous quantity of material, the ravine above Ivrea
being as obviously the source of the whole, as is the crater
of Vesuvius the point from which its lavas have issued.
When Gastaldi read his paper to the Geological Society at
Paris, written jointly by him and Martens, Elie de Beaumont,

Iwho had many years before visited the ground, objected en

tirely to their conclusion that it was a moraine, but never

saw a stronger or more satisfactory case. But in the same
paper the authors hazarded an opinion that although the old

Alpine moraines stopped short after going a few leagues from
the Alps, yet at some former time erratics had been conveyed
to the summit of the Collina just as ' Pierre a bot ' and other

blocks had been carried by the old Rhone Glacier to the

I Iflanks of the Jura. Now when read this at Zurich,

I Iimmediately recollected that in the valley of the Bormida

when passed from Savona to Alessandria in 1828, had
 been astonished at some very huge erratics of serpentine in

i857. THE SUPERGA.                                   267

Ithe Miocene. Having never seen blocks of such enormous

dimensions in any tertiary formation, was relieved in 1828

at finding in some spots on the Bonnida projecting frag

ments of serpentine in place, which the erosion of the
Ivalleys had exposed to view.
                               concluded that they may
Inot have travelled far, and when saw some large blocks on
Ithe Superga (in 1828) immediately suspected that as that
hill consisted of beds of the same formation, the blocks

Imight have been washed out of the Miocene not far off.

therefore now suggested this view to Gastaldi, and lound

that he was by no means tenacious of his printed theory,

although he said that the blocks were many of them angular,

of very great size, and accompanied by Alpine loam. We

then examined the beds of the Superga, both those dipping
to the NW. and those to the SE., and on both sides of this

anticlinal are strata containing fragments of stone of various

kinds, some not known in the neighbouring Alps or Apen

Inines, from two to eight feet in diameter. On our ascent to

the Superga saw a thickness of sixty feet regularly strati

fied of this conglomerate, in which were fragments consisting

chiefly of serpentine, but some of limestone, others of proto-

Igine granite, and one of the latter angular and eight feet in

diameter. In less than half an hour's search, found two of

the serpentine and one of the limestone pebbles with

scratches, which would be called glacial if they were found

Iin a modern moraine, though not such as you would select

for examples for a museum. Still searched this year in

some recent moraines quite as long without finding better.

As to the age of the beds, there is no doubt of their belong

ing to the Lower Miocene, the marine fossils of which we

collected in strata both below and above them. These

enormous blocks therefore were brought into their present
Iposition by causes which acted in the Miocene sea.
                                                     know

of no agency but that of ice which could have quietly let

them down upon subjacent beds of undisturbed fine marl and

Isand. Hence conclude that there was floating ice in the
ILower Miocene period, and if the few scratches saw really

imply glacial striation, the ice-rafts are probably derived

from glaciers which came down from mountains bordering

the Glacial sea; perhaps from the Alps, for that chain must

208       67J? CHARLES LYELL.      CHAP. xxxi.

I Ihave existed before the origin of a large part of the Lower
Miocene.  have kept the specimens  found of these

Miocene striated stones to show Ramsay, who will he inter

ested in hearing, that in spite of some Brazilian genera of

trees and insects, and not a few palms, and some reptiles of

good size, and many other fossil genera found on both sides

Iof the Alps and supposed to imply a subtropical climate,
    am not afraid to appeal to ice as the only known cause

Icapable of stratifying these great masses in the manner
in which they occur.  am sure that in the basins of

the Tanaro and Bormida there are some rocks of the same

Iage very much larger than any have seen. Professor

IAngelo Sismonda was absent from Turin with the Princes of

Sardinia, who hope will become good patrons of geology.
IHis brother the paleontologist showed me every attention.

        hope to find time before reaching Florence to tell you

of some other geological matters which occupied me at Turin,

and of several things seen in Switzerland not yet alluded to.

   ISignor Cocchi writes to say he is expecting me at La

Spezzia, where also learn that there are two active young

geologists, the Marquis Doria and Signor Campanelli.

          Believe me ever most affectionately yours,

                                   CHARLES LYELL.

                           To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

                                        Ruta, Riviera di Levante : September 25, 1857.

    My dear Homer, --We are stopping to dine half way
between Genoa and Sestri, having followed the beautiful
road which skirts the Mediterranean among groves of
olives and figs, and admiring in the gardens of the numerous
villas orange trees which stand the winter, and oleanders of
large size. Here and there the Pinus maritima, with its
foliage brighter than that of most pines, and some chestnuts

varied the scene. There are many hedgerows entirely made
of aloes, and we saw some cactus, reminding us, as did much of
the vegetation and the steep rocks and the trellised vines, of
Madeira. We only saw one date palm, but that also helped
the resemblance. The rocks however are not, like Madeira,
volcanic, but composed of what the Swiss call ' flysch ' and

i857.  RIVIERA.  269

the Italians ' macigno,' a formation of vast thickness and
without fossils, except a few fucoids. 1 mentioned it in

my letters to you last year as being styled at Vienna the
' Wiener sandstein.'

    It has had the singular fate of having been classed

during the progress of geology under the head of every
great division of strata -- transition, secondary, tertiary, and
is now quite proved by Escher and others to be above the

Inummulitic Eocene.
        have been seeing this flysch in my Swiss tour (in the
Vallais among other places), and always with great interest,

not only because its roofing slates look so very ancient, but
because the extreme scarcity and general dearth of fossils,

even where it is not in a metamorphic state, is so singular

in a rock of this age. It encloses near Genoa some moun

tainous masses of pure dolomitic limestone which have also

Iproved as yet unfossiliferous.

     There is suppose no doubt that Hannibal with his

African elephants crossed the Alps, though so many essays

have been written to decide by which pass they got over.

Dr. Falconer has very properly started another question,

whether the Siberian elephant ever performed the same feat
long before. He found all the specimens in the museum of

Italy to which the name of El. primigenius was affixed, to

belong to two or three other species distinct from the
mammoth, and therefore when he at last reached Turin

and discovered that they had made the same error in regard
to several of their proboscidians found in a railway cutting,
he not only corrected their nomenclature and put the names
 of E. antiquus and E. meridionalis as substitutes for their
 E. primigenius, but also when he met with a real tooth of

 the last-mentioned species (or mammoth) he put a query as

Ito whether it was really a true Piedmontese fossil.
      When had quite convinced myself that large glaciers

Ihad once advanced many leagues from the Alps into the

 plains of the Po, felt sure that a cold climate must once

Ihave prevailed in the highest bed of the railway cutting

 which 1 only saw as passed in the train, but of which
 Gastaldi gave me the details. The marmot has been found,
 the skull very entire, and not distinguishable from the living

270  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxxi.

IAlpine animal. As had seen in the present tour no less

 than four individuals of this species which Dr. Debey had
 procured from the loess at Aix-la-Chapelle, and another
 which Mr. Morlot got from an old moraine near Lausanne,
 the discovery of this creature in the plains of the Po some
 miles in advance of the terminal moraines of the old southern

 subalpine glaciers seemed to me to render it probable
 that the mammoth might also have availed himself of the

Isame cold climate, and at least have extended his range as

 far south as the marmot. Falconer had, am aware, ex

 pressed himself with due caution as to the opinion that the
E. primigenius had never crossed the great chain, since he

Iwas merely led to suspect it from negative evidence. But

expect that the mammoth will be the rare exception in Italy,

 and the same heat which melted the glaciers, vast as they
were, and caused them to terminate so abruptly in the great
plain to the north of the Po, checked also the southward

migration of the hairy northern elephant. At any rate the
publication of Falconer's paper will lead to the speedy clear

Iing up of this question.

         had often heard that the old glacier moraines of
Switzerland had left some curious monuments of their
ancient extent in places where they have in great part
wasted away under the influence of fluvial and torrential

Iaction, and 1 had planned last year a visit to the celebrated

' pyramids of Botzen ' in the Tyrol, which presume ex

I Ihibit this phenomenon. Having been unable to accomplish

that point when went through the Styrian Alps, was
not a little pleased to meet with others which fell in my

way this year.
     The first column which we saw, called the Dwarf's Tower

(or in the patois of Vallais, Zwerglethurm) was near Viesch,
in a small tributary valley which joins the great valley of the

Rhone. It is a single isolated pillar no less than thirty-five

feet high, of sandy mud, such as one sees in every moraine --
fine mud with sharp sand and angular pieces of various rocks

scattered irregularly through the paste, and now and then a
larger rock stuck into the same without any arrangement or
stratification. Now and then some of the small pieces of
granite, gneiss, or quartz were somewhat rounded. At the

1857- ZWERGLETHURM,                                        271

top are two large blocks which have evidently protected the

mass below (which is about seven feet in diameter) from
pluvial action. About 100 feet higher up the same steep

slope of mica-schist covered with fir trees is a second column
about twenty-two feet high, but with a much larger block

on its top, and there are no others in the neighbourhood.

They are monuments of the complete removal by rain and

Iby the melting snow of what was probably an old moraine.

At any rate saw similar columns afterwards, some of

them formed, others in the act of growth, at Stalden in the

Ivalley of the Visp, which joins the Rhone from the south.

  measured and made drawings of them, and found them to

contain erratics of various rocks, which could not have fallen

down from the rocks above like a talus, besides pebbles of

serpentine with glacial striae. Unfortunately the Stalden

pillars have some of them lost their cappings of large

erratics during the late earthquake of 1855, which did so

much damage to the town of Visp as well as to Brieg, and

which caused landslips and the fall of rocky masses from the

precipices bounding the Visp-thal. These same earthquakes,

by the way, may explain the origin of some of the gigantic

masses which, falling on the old glaciers of the glacial

period, were carried for more than a hundred miles into the

lower country.

James Forbes has well compared such pillars as the

Dwarf's Tower to the portions of earth or stone which the

workmen often leave to test the quantity which they have

removed. Old Time seems to have resolved to leave us now

and then a monument of the same kind, without which, in

such a case as the two pillars near Viesch, we should never

have given him credit for the extraordinary volume of matter

he has slowly and quietly carried away. At Stalden we

should have been able by observing here and there solid

fragments of the old moraine 800 feet or more above the
Ivalley-plain to infer a once continuous mass, but
                                                           saw

nothing of the case near Viesch. There are many gorges in

the Alpine valleys from which the old glacier moraines have

been quite cleared out by the torrent, the rain, and the

melting snow, the same moraines being in great force above
and below the gorges. Just as in Auvergne, one finds a

272  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxxi.

stream of lava like that of Tartaret, above Neschers, which

has been entirely swept away in the course of apes and the
valley deepened in the granite or other rock which formed
the defile, while above and below where the valley widens,

you see a continuous flat-topped current on one or both
sides of the river, with its range of basaltic columns below

and its scoriae above. It is the comparatively small quantity

of old moraine adhering to the sides of the Alpine gorges
just above where the old glaciers entered the plains of the
Po which makes the extraordinary expansion of the moraines
just below the outlets or embouchures of the same old glaciers
so striking. But it is clear that the same torrent, which has
such unlimited erosive power when rolling down a steep
descent within the Alps, would have little in comparison

when it came out into the plains of the Po. It would make

many breaches, as it has done in the great semicircular
moraine, but it cannot destroy any of its prominent features.

                                       Ever most affectionately,
                                                               CHARLES LYELL.

                               To His SISTER.

                                                                              Florence: October 4, 1857.

    Dearest Marianne, -- It is wonderful to think that it

Ishould be thirty-nine years since was here for the first time

with you and Fanny, for that visit seems to me as recent or
more so than many things which have happened not half so

long ago. It was the year before that only, that Mary's

uncle, Francis Homer, died, whose marble tomb, with the

medallion executed by Chantrey, we went to see at Leghorn
on Thursday, in the Protestant cemetery, surrounded by
China roses in full bloom and half hid by oleanders, which
the custode told us were full of flowers for the earlier part

of the summer. It was evid -ni that that monument, and

the one to Smollett, who was also buried there, are the lions

of the place, as the woman who shows it did not know who
we were, and selected them. Mary went also at Pisa with

me to see the room where her uncle died, which happened to

be unoccupied.

    It was a great treat to us at this same Pisa, to receive

1857. INDIAN MUTINY.                                 273

your long letter about the four bairns whose different charac
ters you have so well described. We cannot be thankful

enough that Harry1 and his family were safe out of India

before this fearful insurrection began. When one thinks of

the warnings of Mountstuart Elphinstone, Sir Thomas
Munro, and above all Sir Charles Napier, and his words
about ' caste being another name for mutiny,' one cannot but

feel indignant at the supineness and apathy with which all

Iordinary precautions were neglected at Calcutta, and at home.

       have much enjoyed the geology of the Pisan Hills, a
beautiful country. As the Professor of Geology, Savi, was

not quite well, and only able to show me the museum, he

sent an assistant with me who knew not a word of any
I Ilanguage but Italian.
                        was well pleased to find that

could converse with him the whole day without fatigue, and
I II only wish
          could say the same of my German, which

look upon as about four times as difficult to one who starts
Iwith English, French, and Latin.
                                   find a good deal of
Iscientific activity in Italy, so far as have gone, especially

in Piedmont. We saw the Somervilles yesterday ; consider

ing that she is seventy-eight, and he a good many years older,

they are marvellously well. Both her books are requiring
new editions in England, her ' Geography,' and the 'Connec

tion of the Sciences.'

We have taken our places in a large steamer which sails

direct from Leghorn to Messina, only touching a few hours

at Civita Vecchia (for Rome), and at Naples, and then going
on to the East.

         Believe me ever your affectionate brother,

                                         CHARLES LYELL.

          To GEORGE HAUTUNG, ESQ.

    My                                                                  Naples : October 16, 1857.

letter.  Idear Hartung, -- was very glad to receive your

         I have already seen much in this neighbourhood ;
above all, several streams of lava in motion, some going

fast, others very slow, and they have given me many new

ideas. The manner in which they cling to a slope of 27°

VOL. II.  i His brother, Colonel Lyell.
                             T

274      SIR CHARLES LYELL.                 CHAP. XXXI.

is very striking, and they cover continuously an immense

area, one-half of the whole cone in five and a half months,

by always flowing between preceding currents. All the

currents described by Scacchi of 1850-1855 are overwhelmed,

the prismatic lava of 1855 concealed under new torrents

Iwhich are as steep, but perhaps not so un-vesicular.

     As to the walls of Somma, so far as have yet re-

examined them, they offer no difficulty whatever. They are

simply thin-bedded lavas, rarely very continuous, alternating

with dense beds of coarse tuff and lapilli and coarse con

Iglomerates, at an angle of 27°.
        begin seriously to doubt whether any of the rents,

which are now dikes, imply distension as De Beaumont

assumes. Scacchi's observations seem to show that they are

I Irather the effect of a failure of support, and attended with a

partial sinking. But will explain more when have

devoted more days to the examination of this region.

   I I Ibelieve from what am now seeing, and what recollect
Iof Etna, shall be able a month hence to tell you that here

in the Kingdom of the Two Sicilies, as in Madeira, when the

beds are highly inclined they are thin bedded, one or two or

five feet thick, and where the inclination is slight, as five or

six degrees, they are often very thick, twenty and fifty feet

Ithick.
        have been delayed here by the extreme irregularity of
Neapolitan steamers, and shall not reach Etna for six days.
I IThere is, hear, a small eruption going on there. am glad
Iof it, for am now sure that no one can describe lava flowing
I Iso as fully to make others understand it.
                             assure you

scarcely expected to find so much confirmation in a few days

of the upbuilding, as contrasted with the upheaval theory.

IScacchi is my companion, and a scholar of his, Guiscardi.
  do not believe that Scacchi would allow that one-fourth of
the inclination in Madeira could with any probability be

attributed to upheaval. But all that we say is, that this is
the maximum of what may be. We do not say it must have

been. All the movement here is bodily, as you say of the

Azores.

         Believe me ever most truly yours,

         CHARLES LYELL.

1857. THE CAMPAGNA.                                      275

Lady Lyell desires her kindest regards, and begs me to
say she is sorry you are not with us. So am I, but every day-

makes me feel that you would only have been confirmed in

the true doctrines, which you have gradually and not hastily
Iembraced.  shall claim you as the first of my pupils in the
Ivolcanic line, and you will soon have seen more than have,

at the rate you proceed.

To HIS SiSTER-m-LAW, MlSS SOSAN HORNER.

IDearest Susan, --                               Avignon : December 19, 1857.

                          do not wonder that you were so
charmed with Rome. It certainly combines a greater variety
of attractions than any place. The sculpture struck me more

than ever. As to the antiquities, much has been done since

I Imy preceding visit more than a quarter of a century before.

The catacombs never heard of when first went there.

If half a million were buried in this way for five centuries or

Imore, the number would of course be immense, and after all,

if they used the volcanic tuff for pozzolana, can fancy its

being a cheaper form of burial than ours, as the room
required for the mere body in a winding-sheet was so much
less than for a coffin, and the volcanic matter removed worth

something.

The circus of Romulus Maxentius, entirely discovered and
Idisclosed since was last there, is a very grand monument
Iof antiquity.
                was also much pleased with the theatre of
ITusculum, and what little could see of the amphitheatre.
IThe Alban Lake, also, which went all round for geological
purposes, and the sight of Old Alba. Within the walls also

of Rome, much has been done to display the antiquities.
    The geology of the Campagna, and especially of the
Latin Hills and Hannibal's Camp, is very instructive, and

there also one falls in with all kinds of Roman antiquities

Iwhich Ponza explained to us. There is, moreover, a singular

advantage which did not appreciate before in the Campagna,
arising from its being so unhealthy in summer and autumn,
that they can only get good rents by leaving it in a pastoral

condition. By this means one has a boundless space almost

in a <»tate of nature, close to a great centre of the arts and

                          T2

276      SIR CSIARLES LYELL.                    CHAP. xxxi.

of antiquities, and where there is much agreeable society
brought near together, and in a way to promote much social
intercourse, with good things to talk about. All the natur

Ialists expatiated to me on the beauty of the wild flowers in
spring.  saw some, and several butterflies even in

November. What a charm there is in seeing no hedges and

fences, and straight ditches and ploughed fields! As a

Iwoman said to us, who after settling in Nova Scotia for

seven years, returned to pay a visit to Manchester (?), ' am

truly sorry for people who are obliged to live where they
cannot move a yard out of a straight turnpike road without

committing a trespass.' There is some compensation, there

fore, even in the malaria. Menighini of Pisa endeavoured

to account for the increase of this pest since the Augustan

age by the gradual sinking down of the west coast, which

has submerged a considerable tract, and sent the aguish air
Iof the marshes up the Tiber and other rivers.
                                                had heard
Iso many theories before, that was surprised they were not
exhausted, and this seems more likely than most of them, if

the subsidence be as certain as he affirms.

     The weather during four days' excursions into the Pisan

Hills, and the hills between Volterra and Siena, was most

delightful ; the air so clear, the sky so blue, and the sun,
though in December, so genial. The vegetation in those

parts not monopolised by the olives was sufficiently unlike
our own to interest me. Evergreen oaks, with an under

growth of an evergreen called Cytisus salicifolia, and the
Cratcpgus pyraranthus, which we have introduced so much,
and a heath almost as high as Erica arborea, but what they

call by another name. On some hills we had zones of olives,

Ichestnuts, and pines, one above the other.

       forgot to tell you that Mr. Gibson inquired much after
you, and paid handsome compliments to your skill in mo
delling. Miss Hosmer has bought a new spirited horse.
Gibson told h< r it would throw her, but she said she should
ride it for all that. He says she has great perseverance, and

works very steadily. Gibson wanted an account of his
allegorical sculptures, which accompany his statue of the

Duke of Wellington, to be printed in an Italian periodical,

but the oensoi" actually struck out the description of the

:8«7.  GIBSON.  277

angel carrying the Duke's soul up to heaven, as this was
impossible, seeing that he was a heretic. Gibson has kept
the proofs with the censor's erasures, and certainly they are

a curiosity in the year 1857. He told us the story in sight
of the new column raised to the Immaculate Conception. and
with this in the background, no open display of superstition

ought to astonish one.

   IConsidering that no lectures on geology are authorised

in the Sapienza, was amused at the late French ambassador
Count de Rayneval having made a splendid collection of
tertiary fossils in the hill of the Vatican, which he and

Ponza are preparing for publication. They are curious, and
intermediate it seems between Miocene and Pliocene. For

five years they have worked away under the Pope's window,

to throw light on the earth's antiquity.
     We hope to see you now in a week or ten days.
                                   Ever yours affectionately,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

276  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxxn.

                         CHAPTER

                        JANUARY 1858-SEPTEMBER 1858.

INDIAN MUTINY-- DINNER AT MILMAN'S -- 8IK HENRY HOLLAND-- RAJAH
     BROOKE -- BUCKLE'S 'HISTORY OF CIVILISATION '-- DEATH OP PR. FLEMING
     -- MEETING AT THE GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY -- DEATH OF ROBERT BROWN
     --LAC DE BOCBOET-- POLITICS WITH SIGNOR BEZZI-- NAPLES-- EXPE
     DITION TO VESUVIUS -- FESTA -MESSINA -- CATANIA.

     [After spending some weeks of the summer of 1858 with his
brother's family in the Berg Strasse near Darmstadt, gastric fever at
tacked his young nephews, and leaving his wife with the then conva
lescent patients, Sir Charles set off at the end of August on a tour to
revisit Vesuvius and Etna, the result of which was an important paper
on the ' Origin of Mount Etna and on the Theory of Craters of Eleva
tion,' which was read at the Royal Society. Large extracts from Sir
Charles's Journal, addressed to his wife, are given in the following
pages. The Copley Medal,i the highest reward of the Royal Society,
was conferred on Sir Charles Lyell this year.]

                          CORRESPONDENCE.

                             To GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

                                                  53 Harley Street, London : January 23, 1858.

    IMy dear Ticknor, --It is so long since we have had any

 direct correspondence, that shall write you a short letter,

Iand beg for some account of your present occupations beyond

 what gain from the interesting letters which Mrs. Ticknor
 and Anna have sent, and what the newspapers told us of

       i ' Nie ist wohl die Copley Medal einem Werke gewidmet worden, das
  zur Verbreitung und Vervollkomnung einer Wissenschaft heilsamer gewesen
  ist, als den schonen " Principles of Geology " unsers edlen Freundes Sir Charles
  Lyell.' -- Extract of a letter from Baron vou Humboldt to Madame Pertz, early
 in 1859.

1858. RAJAH BROOKE.                     279

the opening of the Boston Library, and your part in that

affair, in which we know from other sources how much you

have done. It was fortunate for us, as we could have done
no good if here, to be engaged on a tour on the Continent,

when the horrors of the Indian mutiny and the anxieties of
the commercial crisis were agitating people's minds all over

England.

IMy tour was unusually profitable, first in the glaciers
and then the volcanos.  came to the conclusion that

Agassiz, Guyot, and others are right in attributing a great

Iextension to the ancient Alpine glaciers, and that floating

ice which believe has done much in Great Britain, Scandi

Inavia, and the United States will not aid, as formerly

Isuspected, in explaining the transfer of Alpine erratics to

the Jura. found Agassiz's map of the Zermatt glaciers and

moraines very correct and useful.

We dined with the Milmans yesterday, both very well ;

their three sons also. We met Macaulay (the new peer),
looking rather older, and with a baddish cold and cough, but

cheerful, and telling many a good story ; the Chancellor,

and Lady Cranvvorth, both looking in good health ; the
Monteagles, Sir Henry Holland, who had been far, as usual,

Iin a short time, among other places at Jerusalem, and in
sight of the Pyramids.  think you saw when here the

Herman Merivales. We dined there last week, and met

among other public characters, Rajah Brooke of Borneo.

He told me that nearly all the Malays could read and write,

and might be rapidly improved if they had better things to

read, but the Methodist and other missionaries will only trans

late into the Malay language things which neither they nor

he (i.e. neither the Malays nor Rajah Brooke) cared to read.

IWhat would you recommend them to give them instead ? '
would begin with the "Arabian Nights' Entertainments."'

We have just voted at the Royal Society 150J. to Mr.

Mallet, an engineer and geologist, who has offered to go

Iand collect physical facts relating to the great earthquake
south of Naples.  have had him with me half the morning,

and expect he will do us good service.
IHave you seen Mr. Buckle's book, ' History of Civilisation
in England ' ?    have just bought it--full of talent, and

280  SIR CHARLES LYELL-  CHAP. xxxn.

Ihaving the great merit of setting people thinking.    am
Iprepared to find paradoxes and contradictions, as did in the

conversation of the man himself, but you will do well to get

it for yourself and your Library as soon as you can. That

large party here who exert a severe censorship on all who

dare to think differently from the 'endowed doctrines,' as

IChanning called them, are up in arms, and threaten to

blackball the author at the Athenaeum, but hope they will

fail, or that the committee will elect him before the ballot.

Tor BO bold a book, it is having a considerable sale.

     Ever most truly yours,

                         CHARLES LYELL.

                    To J. W. DAWSON, ESQ.

                                               53 Harley Street, London : February 14, 1858.

     Dear Dawson, -- Dr. Fleming's loss was very sudden and
unexpected by me. Less than two and a half years ago,
Hugh Miller and Fleming accompanied me severally on
many excursions about Edinburgh. Miller was the extinction
of a great light who was making steady progress, and daring

Ito declare his faith as he went on.
        spent more than two months in the glaciers of Switzer
land (last autumn) and came to the opinion that the trans
portation of all the blocks in the Swiss valleys, and between
the Alps and Jura, and on the Jura, and also on the plains
of the Po, was effected without the agency of the sea.

IAgassiz, Guyot, and some who went before, were, think,
Iright in this. found all the glaciers advancing from year
Ito year.

          then went to Naples and Catania, and re-examined

IVesuvius, which was in full activity, and Etna, the latter

much altered, especially in the Val del Bove, since was
there in 1828.

     My convictions derived from my first visits in favour of
the origin of those mountains from a series of eruptions, and

Iagainst the Von Bnchian theory of Elevation Craters, have

been fully confirmed. · am writing a paper for the Royal
Society on the subject.

      We are getting on well at the Geological.

i858. GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.   281

    It will indeed be a great point for you if Sir Edmund

Head and the Government settle at Montreal.

                     Believe me ever most truly yours,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

                                                                                London: March 12, 1858.

   IMy dear Horner, -- Mary has written a journal of our pro

ceedings to you, and shall merely add a few words about the

last meeting of the Geological Society, when Darwin read a
paper on the ' Connection of Volcanic Phenomena and Eleva

tion of Mountain Chains,' in support of my heretical doc

trines; he opened upon De la Beche, Phillips, and others (for
Greeuough was absent) his whole battery of the earthquakes
and volcanos of the Andes, and argued that spaces at least a

thousand miles long were simultaneously subject to earth

quakes and volcanic eruptions, and that the elevation of the

whole Pampas, Patagonia, &c., all depended on a common
cause -- also that the greater the contortions of strata in a

mountain chain, the smaller must have been each separate

and individual movement of that long series which was

necessary to upheave the chain.
     Phillips pronounced a panegyric upon the ' Principles of

Geology,' and although he still differed, thought the actual
cause doctrine had been so well put, that it had advanced

the science, and formed a date or era, and that for centuries

the two opposite doctrines would divide geologists, some con

tending for greater pristine forces, others satisfied like Lyell

and Darwin with the same intensity as Nature now employs.

Fitton quizzed Phillips a little for the warmth of his eulogy,

saying that he and others who had Lyell always with them,

were in the habit of admiring and quarrelling with him every

day, as one might do with a sister or cousin, whom one would

only kiss and embrace fervently after a long absence. This
seemed to be Mr. Phillips's case -- coming up occasionally from

the provinces. Fitton then finished this drollery by charg

Iing me with not having done justice to Hutton, who he said
was for gradual elevation.  replied that most of the critics

Ihad attacked me for overrating Hutton, and that Playfair

understood him as did. Whewell concluded by consider

282               SIR CHARLES LYELL.          CHAP. xxxn.

ing Hopkins's mathematical calculations, to which Darwin

had often referred, in reference to D.'s theory. He also said

that we ought not to try and make out what Hutton would
Ihave taught and thought, if he had known the facts which
we now know.      was much struck with the different tone in

which my gradual causes were treated by all, even including

De la Beche, from that which they experienced in the same

room four years ago, when Buckland, De la Beche, Sedgwick,
Whewell, and some others treated them with as much ridi

cule as was consistent with politeness in my presence.

                       Yours affectionately,

                                      CHARLES LYELL.

                  To GEORGE HARTUNG, ESQ.

                                                 53 Harley Street, London: March 22, 1858.

     IDear Hartung, -- have had a letter from Mr. Wollaston,

who is now in Teneriffe with Mr. Lowe, formerly of Madeira,

and who is now collecting plants while Wollaston collects

Ooleoptera in the Canaries. For six weeks they had the

loan of a friend's yacht, and went to Hierro and Gomera,

Ispending some time in exploring each entomologically and

botanically ; but am sorry to say neglecting the shells ex

cept when they obtruded themselves on their attention.

Wollaston says, however, they got some thirty species, mostly

different specifically from those of Madeira. The weather

having become more genial, they took Teneriffe in hand, and
mean next to go to ' the wooded caldera of Palma,' where

Wollaston expects to get plenty of beetles. He speaks with

great admiration of the native and uninjured forests of Hierro,

but with much disappointment of the cleared country of the

valley of Tarro.

     Not a word about geology ; but Prof. Piazzi Smyth has

just returned from an astronomical tour in Teneriffe, and
I
                                 it,  in which there are geological ob
published a book upon

servations scattered here and there. He and his wife en

camped some 9,000 feet high on the peak, or rather got the

sailors of the vessel which took them out, to build a rough

shelter with blocks of lava.

     am getting on with my reading up for my paper on

i858. LETTERS TO HARTUNG.                          283

' Etna,' a course of reading which will be useful for Madeira.

I find that Waltershausen imagines almost all the stony beds
Iwhich you and should consider as lavas, and which are

parallel to the tuffs and scoriae, to be injected in the form of
dikes ! By this means he obtains proof of great upheaval.

But he is against any great catastrophe, and goes to work as

Ipatiently as do. Pray let me know what you are studying

Iand reading and writing. As to upheaval on Etna, saw

very few beds which required it, and what we allowed as

possible for Ma leira, or one-fourth of the whole, is the utmost
which is wantea, or probable in any part of Etna.

                                          Ever faithfully yours,

                                                               CHARLES LYELL.

           To GEORGE HARTUNG, ESQ.

                                         63 Harley Street, London : April 22, 1858.

IMy dear Hartung, -- was glad to hear that you had

observed in the Azores those mica-schist and other fragments,

Iwhich believe will turn out to have been transported by

ice. But you would have followed it up with more spirit,

and traced them to their maximum height, had you thought

of the glacial theory when there. Icebergs get as far south

in mid-Atlantic in our time, and if so, thousands of them

may have floated there annually in the old glacial period.

Our present schemes for the summer are still somewhat
vague, but probably we shall leave this in July for some
Iplace on the Rhine near Heidelberg or Darmstadt.
                                                   should
Ilike you to join me, that may go over the MS., especially
Ithe illustrations of our joint paper or papers on volcanic
subjects.  also hope to get to Zurich and Berne in the

course of the autumn, and see Heer, Escher, and the Swiss

Igeologists, but nothing is yet fixed. As soon as have got
I Ioff my hands what have to say on Etna and Vesuvius, shall

Ireturn with more knowledge to Madeira and the Canaries.
  mean to allow some upheaval in case of Etna, but exceed
ingly subordinate in proportion. So also in the case of
Vesuvius. Scacchi and some of the best observers in Italy

doubt whether any is absolutely necessary in the case of

Vesuvius. A few local and partial dislocations may of course

284        SIR CHARLES LVELL.                      CHAP. xxxn.

happen, and you may find beds vertical, but such accidents

Iare more likely to derange the symmetry of cones than to be

the cause of that symmetry. But will not allow the ex
travagance of the ultra-upheavalists who call Monte Nuovo
a case of erhebung, to provoke me into a denial that there

has probably been some central distension which has modi
fied the more dominant influence of the outpouring of lava

and the outthrow cf scoriae, &c.

                                              Ever yours sincerely,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

           To CHARLES BUNBTJRY, ESQ.

           53 Harley Street, London : June 11, 1858.
     I IMy dear Bunbury, -- am sorry have no specimen of
I IEqut*etum Lyellii, but will inquire about it.
                                                   am glad

you have taken up that subject, and hope you will publish
un it separately -- of capital mixed geologico-botanical

interest.

     Yesterday morning Robert Brown 2 breathed his last.
They told him they might keep him alive even till Christmas

possibly, Brodie, Bright, and Boott, by opium and stimulants,

but he preferred not to live with a mind impaired, and so

cheerfully and tranquilly, and in full possession of his intel

lect, gave way to the break up of nature. Every one who
has been with him in his last days agrees with me in

admiring the resignation with which he met his end, and the

friendly way he talked and took leave of us all. Boott has

been constantly with him, and looks much worn. Bennett

Isat up with him many nights,
         read my paper, or rather spoke
           a                                       last night at the

                     3

                                              it,
Royal Society to good audience.

           Ever affectionately yours,

                                                 CHARLES LYELL.

           The eminent botanist.


-

I

                    -'1 -:

.I

1858. VALLEY OF THE RHINE. 285

             JOURNAL.

             To His WIFE.

                                                                            Basle: August 24, 1858.

IMy dearest Mary, -- Between Bensheim and Heidelberg
found myself in a second class carriage, quite full ; how they

talk as contrasted with first class ! It is the way to absorb

IGerman with a plentiful supply of tobacco smoke in one's

lunfe and clothes. At Heidelberg took first class, a hand
some saloon ; nine others, all English, absolutely dumb, ladies

Iand gentlemen. All turned out at Baden-Baden, and was
Ithen alone to Basle. What a splendid panorama of the
Rheinthal !  drew back all the blinds, and could walk

about the room with Bach's map spread on the carpeted

floor. No map is better coloured geologically for giving a

pictorial idea of a large part of Europe to the eye of one

Iaccustomed to associate scenery with the nature of the rocks.

You remember, some three years ago, was discouraged by

some of our Berlin geological friends from purchasing this

valuable map, because they flattered themselves that Von

Decken's, and the Geological Society of Berlin, would so

Isoon come out with a better one, on as large a scale, and

this is the third journey have profited by it, and Walters-

hausen told me Von Decken's had not yet appeared.

The volcanic mass of the Kaiserstuhl stands out very

prominently in the valley, and is well seen from the railway.
The old Rhine, long after it was extinct, covered it by its
annual inundations of mud, till it was nearly potted up in

loess, and the modern Rhine has never been able, when it re-

excavated the great valley, to wash it clean again. So it is

blindfold work, as there are no continuous sections, merely a

peep at the rocks here and there.
      Ouloz, near Perte du Rhone: August 26, 1858. -- We have

Ihad a splendid drive from Geneva along the banks of the
Rhone for some sixty miles.  should like to have seen the

Iimprovements in the town of Geneva, new streets, churches,

hotels built since we were last there, but hope some day,

ere very long, that we may see them together.
The arch over the river called the Perte du Rhone exists

2S6  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                 CHAP. xxxn.

no longer; they have broken down the limestone arch under
which the river flowed in a deep narrow gorge, in order to
let the wood float down freely. This scenery is in the Jura
where that chain joins the Alps. What with changes of
railway carriages when the travellers for Lyons and for Italy
divided, and the French douane first, and then the Sardinian,
and a change to a steamer on the picturesque Lac de Bourget,

surrounded by magnificent precipices of limestone, something

in the style of the Saltzburg Alps, there were many oppor
tunities of losing luggage. One lady's went wrong, another

Ileft a heavy purse in our carriage, but got it restored to
Iher. On the lake fell in with Signor, now Cavaliere Bezzi,

returning with despatches from London in two days, as lively

and wide awake as if he had slept in a bed every night, and
going to cross Mount Cenis without stopping, and to see
Count Cavour on his arrival. He has been active in the
Sardinian Parliament, and lives on his property on the
Mount Ferrat (Superga chain) near Turin, has founded
several schools, some infant ones, preached against by the
clergy chiefly for founding them as a heretic and Protestant,
and with such effect that hs lost his seat, with many others,
at the last election. Count Cavour offered to bring him in
for a distant county, but he said he must in that case
abandon all his schools and the superintendence of his private
affairs, but next spring the Government has proposed his

Icoming in for an adjoining county. Bezzi tells me, what
am sorry to hear, that all the old nobility are alienated from
                      system, because    in 1849 primogeniture
the  constitutional    fait accompli '  which Cavour could not
was  abrogated, ' un
Ialter if he would.

        remarked, ' Now you will in the next generation have
only two powers, the King and People ; a republic or an
absolute monarchy as in France, and as your people will not
yet be advanced enough for the Republic, especially if you
succeed in your desire to unite all Italians, most of whom
                                    than yourselves in politics, you will
                                     He replied that ' nationality under an

                                     be worth having, even if they passed
Ifwill

have
     btheele"ssReadnveattnoc.e" d'

Italian sovereign would
through a phase of absolute monarchy to gain it.
                                                  we

could only get these foreigners out of Italy ! There is only

i858. POLITICS WITH SIGNOR BEZZI.               287

one King towards whom there is any loyalty. All save
IKing Bomba and the Pope are Germans. We wish your
court had not German leanings.'  asked if he did not

suspect that the concessions now offered to the Lombardo-

Venetians by the Archduke Maximilian came from King
Leopold's and Prince Albert's advice ? ' Possibly so, for they
are too enlightened to wish to see Italy governed as the
Austrians would rule her, but still it is natural that your
Prince Albert should not wish to see the Germans driven
out.' He added, ' Palmerston when hard pressed by us to
stand up for Italy on some point, coolly laid the blame on

Ihis court (!), saying, if can have my way on important
Imatters, must yield in small ones, meaning by the latter

the liberal cause or some point then under discussion, of

I IfItaly.'           an English minister who can easily con
         remarked, '

Itrol the court or resign, could be so unprincipled, why
should you believe him ?  think him at heart a man who

sympathises with your enemies, whereas the Prince Consort
is by nature a liberal. Do you not think that Palmerston
and Clarendon were as free to act in the Cagliari affair, as
afterwards Lords Derby and Malmesbury? The German

leanings alleged against our court did not interfere there,
and yet you see which side they took.'
    To this Bezzi replied, ' Well, it may be your aristocracy

as much or more than the court ; all we Italians know is this,
that hitherto all your diplomacy has been Austrian to the

backbone in every part of Italy except Turin. Sir J. Hud
Ison alone has been true to us, a man of enlarged views and
a good heart.'     told Bezzi how openly the French press

avowed that the union of all Italy into a compact nation
would diminish French power and influence, and although
the French and Austrians may by their mutual jealousy
preserve Sardinia independent, they would never allow a

revolution which should consolidate Italy and make her free.
So may it not be best for the Lombardo- Venetians to accept
from               such concessions as the two
isms  the Coburgs                               rival despot
      would never  grant? ' My dear sir, it is  all too late--

the anti-German feeling has become a sentiment throughout
the best heads and hearts in Italy.' He then told me that

288                   SIR CHARLES LYELL.                  CHAP. xxxn.

Savoy was a source of political weakness to Sardinia, because

they did not speak Italian, and were superstitious. They

refused to furnish one soldier for the Crimean war, because

it was against their principles ! This was an act of rebel

lion, and some proposed to decimate them, but La Marmora

said wisely that when a whole people (who are loyal to the
King) were determined, you must wink at however awk
                                                 I it,
ward as precedent. Even with Savoy they are only five
     a                                                  by

millions.         is  lucky came on, as otherwise         should have
                      by
    Genoa. -- It
                        I
had to have gone land to Leghorn, and then sea direct

by a Tuscan boat, as shall do now, after a delay perhaps of
                         I

several days which can well employ, not by a run to Pisa
                      I

or Florence, but by regular business, having much to prepare

in going over my notes made when with Waltershausen, and

studying them with the two maps of Etna, and planning
each day's journey. You well know that once at Naples or

at Catania there will be no time for this. Instead of a

night of suffering had my memory of the Alps refreshed,
                  I

                                  1
and even the least good of the Alpine passes exceeds all

other scenery save Madeira, from which       it so different.
                                                 isin about fourteen
    Leghorn, August 29, 858. -- We got here

hours, in small vessel only destined in ordinary times for
La Spezzia. There was not much sea, and scarcely sufferedIa
                                             I

at all and slept most of the night, but numbers were ill, the

small steamer rolled so much.        asked a young man whose
                                     if I
                                          I
appearance took fancy to, he were English he said no,
                      a                              ;

and that he could not talk English. We went on in French            it ;I

saw he was German by his accent.             spoke out freely about    is

the Neapolitan panic and ignorance (for Bezzi assures me
not a political move) which has thrown the whole commercial
world, French, English, and Italian, into confusion. He by

no means dissented, but saw both he and his wife smiled
                         I

                                     a
                                                                 a

                                                     I
now and then, and he seemed little cautious. Next day we
had some more talk, and just now at the douane, learnt

that he was the reigning Duke of Saxe-Altenberg, travelling
under an assumed name with his wife and suite, one of

whom lately married, and with his young bride, a pleasing

girl, spoke English and talked much with me.

On reaching this about eight o'clock this morning, and

i858. NAPLES.

Iafter getting through the douane, found a splendid English

three-mast steamer going to sail to-morrow straight for

Naples, and not touching at Civita Vecchia. But the captain

is waiting in no small tribulation for a telegraphic despatch

which the Neapolitan consul expects to-morrow morning,

and which may derange all his and my plans and those of
many others -- among them a very intelligent French agent

of the Rothschilds who is in this hotel with me, and who

having gone to Marseilles was put into the Lazzaretto here

for four days, much to his astonishment and annoyance.

For the Tuscan Government was persuaded by the Neapo

litan, and the Pope, to put Leghorn into quarantine. But

when this same Tuscan Government had learnt that Count

Cavourfus had ered positively to inflict a quarantine on

Genoa, Tuscany took courage and immediately took off the

nuisance here. But now comes the danger ; every one fears

that in retaliation Naples may to-morrow morning put this

port into the list of infected places, because she now

trades freely with Genoa, &c.

    Cimta Vecchia.: September 1, 1858. -- It was rough and

Irolling weather when we started and many were ill, but
escaped, only went without eating till this morning when we

Igot early to this port. had a steady work at Leghorn, and
Iwas so rested after my march across the Alps that can the
better rough it in this steamer. The heat has not been
oppressive, though of course the sun is powerful --yesterday
Iit was cloudy. We have been five or six hours at Civita

Vecchia, but have not landed, as they talked of leaving
sooner. It has enabled me to finish my notes on Mount
IEtna, and shall now make a small list of essentials for
IVesuvius, hoping to find Guiscardi at my service.
                                                    am told

that September is thought a good month for Vesuvius, as
later it is generally voted too cold.

    Port of Naples : September 2. --We came here in about

Itwenty-six hours from Civita Vecchia, the first part rough

for a steamer of this size, the last half calm. So arrive in
good plight. A boat has come from Ungaro's, but it m ay

Ibe hours before can profit by it, as you know how long the
Ipolice are here. Vesuvius is capped with clouds, so cannot

VOL. u.  u

290      SSR CHARLES LYELL.                  CHAP. XXXII.

see how much vapour it is giving out of itself. No great

heat as yet ; rather pleasant temperature in this bay.
     September 2, one o'clock. -- Here we are after all our precau

tions, and in spite of a telegraphic message from Naples to

ILeghorn promising free entrance, put into quarantine for
one day, as we are told.    profit by my cabin being to my

self, and have a table in it with my books, and am working

much as in Harley Street ; weather cloudy and cool. Vesu

vius nearly unrobed, and showing half way down between the

summit and the base, or sea-coast, the new craters of 1857-

58, smoking or fumeroling away. We are not to go to

Nisita, but stay on board.

Ungaro has come himself in a boat, and tells me my

letter arrived yesterday, and he sent it to Guiscardi. An

order came to go to Nisita, but the captain pretended he

had no coals left, so we are glad to be left opposite Vesuvius.

    6 P.M. -- Guiscardi has come in a boat, and had a long con

versation, and will go with me to tbe Solfatara to-morrow.

Ehrenberg is at Naples, and going soon to Vesuvius. Seacchi,

Palmieri, and the others got my abstracts of Etna. All

Idescribe the eruption of last spring as most magnificent from
Naples.  hope to get a small picture of it.
8 P.M. --We are lucky not to be in Nisita. One of the

openings of April last is emitting a glowing light, sometimes

brighter and then a dull red, rather lower than half way

from the summit of the great cone. It gives us a good idea

of the exact position of the last eruption, and of the wonder

ful escape the town below must have had.

As there is no moon, the lights of the houses all round

the bay look brilliant, and the lateral crater's glow is a very

Idistinct feature on the opposite side.

    Naples: September 4, 1858. -- have paid an early visit

this morning to the Temple of Serapis, and have found the

brackish water incrustation on the walls which Babbage
Ispeaks of, and which missed last year, and some points
Iconnected with it which
IBabbage for interpretation.shall be glad to submit to

                              got back in time to attend a
Isitting of the Academy at eleven o'clock, when saw Palmieri,
Iwho has given me a letter which had requested from him

1858.      VESUVIUS.                           291

to admit me and Guiscardi to sleep in the Observatory on

Monday.

    Yesterday we visited (Guiscardi and I) the crater of the
Solfatara, which is full of interest. The hot vapours rush
out with a sound such as reminded me of the descriptions of

the Geysers of Iceland. The extent to which the trachyte is
turned into clay by the gases is curious, and often the felspar
crystals have disappeared and left their forms in cavities

while the felspathic base remains undecomposed.

To-morrow we go to St. Anastasia, to return at night to

visit ravines or barrancos on the outer slope of Somma.

Monday, to see the new mouth of April last, still in action,

and sleep at the Observatory. Tuesday, Atrio del Cavallo

and back. Wednesday, a great fete, of which more anon.

Thursday, sail by a steamer direct to Messina, only, as it is
Sicilian, will they keep their promise ?

Many of the very baths which used to cure devotees in

the pagan days of the Temple of Serapis are restored by

Islight repairs, and this after so long a submergence under
the sea !  saw the hot spring there for the first time to

day.

   ISeptember 7. -- Just returned from a successful expedition

to Vesuvius, which in the last three days have explored in

a variety of ways, and understand much better than before.

The first day was to visit a ravine which runs up from the

town of Somma, and which shows the structure of the

mountain to be just like that seen in the great escarpment

in the Atrio, except that there are no dikes.

       Ehrenberg and Rammelsberg of Berlin were bent upon

revisiting Vesuvius the next two days with us, aid we offered

I Ithem places in our carriage. We began with the Atrio.
How glad am you were there last year !         hardly think
you could have got into it over the new lava of this year.

Horses out of the question, and the fatigue considerable ; no

paths yet. A small cone stands in the Atrio just where we

came down when we descended from the summit or great

crater, and it sent a flood of lava over all the region which

we crossed on horseback going from the Observatory. It

flowed to the Fossa Vitrana.

       Other small cones were formed at the base of the great

                              u2

292               SIR CHARLES LYELL.           CHAP. xxxn.

Vesnvian cone facing Naples, and though these are now

dormant, and without even fumeroles, there is a constant

emission of liquid matter going on from some unseen point

or points below, above which are large swellings of lava, or

gibbosities, as Guiscardi names them.

     Palmieri believes that all the steam and gases are being

let off by the great crater, which is sending out a grand body
of vapour, forming in these sunny days bright and large

fleecy clouds, while in every other direction there is only

blue sky. He imagines that the lava is escaping from under

one or both the gibbosities, without any steam or explosive

Igases, tranquilly welling out, and rising up through the mass
of lavas.  walked in part, and was part of the way carried

in a chair by four men, to a point where the lava was issuing

from a small grotto, looking as fluid as water where it first

issued, and moving at a pace which you would call rapid in

a river. White hot at first, in a canal four or five feet broad,

then red before it had got on a yard, then in a few feet

beginning to be covered by a dark scum, which thickened

fast and was carried along on the surface. You then saw

this superficial scoriaceous covering forced by the current

into a number of crescent-shaped ropy curves, evidently
caused by the greater rapidity of the motion of the central

part of the stream as compared to the sides ; the ropes of

scorife farthest from the grotto were the most perfect and

solid. You would at first wonder that when the outer and

exposed portion of the fluid cools and congeals, it does not

begin to sink, but it is a peculiarity of liquid lava, that if

you throw a stone on it and press it down, it will not sink.
So the plastic crust of scoriaceous matter generated a few

yards from the grotto cohered a few feet farther on, and at a

few yards farther was converted into those bent cables which

you saw last year on the lava of 1857 in the Atrio. All this

manufacture of ropy scoriae takes place in a minute or two.

I could have watched it for an hour, but the heat which it
Iradiated was so scorching that could only take a glance by
                  men holding their
Ithe help of the  my eye-glass it was  coats   bIelfeotregom, ythoeuygehs.
                                       so hot
When took up
I Iit was really not heated enough to require that.
        was exceedingly glad undertook this excursion to the

1858. MONTE SOMMA.  293

  top of the second gibbosity, from which Guiscardi rather dis
 suaded me on account of the fatigue, but few who are not
 residents at Naples ever see lava run away rapidly. We had
 also a fine opportunity lower down of watching the slow
 progress of lava, and saw the manner in which a small

 narrow ridge is formed. Possibly those described by me in
 the Val del Bove of 1852 were made in the same way on a

 gigantic scale. The viscous mass moves on, swelling out
 occasionally, with pieces of scoriae rolling down in front and
 from the sides, which give way in such a manner as to

 undermine the top of the ridge, which continues solid, and

 by the undermining and falling away of both sides, acquire

Ithe shape of a sharp crest.

     In the escarpment of the Atrio tried to find the broad

 est of the ancient lavas, or a transverse section, showing how

Iwide the widest of the old streams of Somma ever were.

 could not get one above 200 feet, but this was only a rough

I Ifmeasurement, and hope Guiscardi will follow it up.

 they are wider than one ever sees a stream on the flanks of

Ithe modern cone of Vesuvius, it may be used as an argument

 in favour of the upheaval theory, and therefore was desirous
 of determining the point, which has been strangely neglected.

     We finished yesterday, after coming down from the Obser
vatory, with a drive all round more than half the outer
circuit of Monte Somma, by St. Anastasia and the town of
Somma to Ottajano, where we explored a ravine in which we

Iwere told there were dikes, but there are none ; nor have

yet found one in the barrancos which radiate from the crest

Iof Somma.

     September 8.-- have had the Costas, father and son,
to breakfast, dejeuner a la fourchette with tea and a bottle
of Capri wine. The old man, after being three months in
Calabria quite safe, was on his return knocked down by a

common robber near Naples, and because he refused to give
up his money, was stabbed in several places a few months
ago. His purse was taken and he still shows in one eye the
marks of the assassin, and is wounded in the leg, but full of

spirit and energy.

  I have had three days of such exertion that, although

I Iquite well, am as glad of this repose to-day (though have

294     SIR CHARLES LYELL.           CHAP. xxxn.

to ticket innumerable specimens and pack my portmanteau),

as the Neapolitans seem to be at the fete of the nativity of
the Holy Virgin. The procession is to pass my window,

which is on the first floor.
    Half -past three o'clock, -- For an hour and a half the troops
have been passing my window ; cavalry, infantry, and

artillery; Neapolitans and the Swiss guard. The latter in
red uniform like English. A fine-looking set of well-grown,

and decidedly tall men. The numbers which have passed

must be a great many thousands. Sometimes they went slow,

but sometimes 800 infantry in one minute going as fast as

they could. The cavalry managed 100 a minute trotting.

Innumerable brass bands, which with drums seem to form

Inearly all the instrumental music ; a great mistake, think.

The troops, after filing one way, are now forming an unbroken

line, often four men deep, on each side of the street. Many

Icarriages and foot-people crowd the interval between the

ranks, and how the procession is to pass cannot imagine.

Such a repetition of regiments, without a mixture of civilians

Iand priests, becomes monotonous when continued for two
hours.  have been wishing that Katharine and the two

Iboys were in my room now with you, dearest. At intervals
    have been ticketing my specimens, and have nearly
finished. Four men-of-war, one a steamer, and decked out

gaily with flags, twenty or thirty on each mast, opposite my

windows.
     Four o'clock. -- The cannon are firing to announce that

the King has left his palace. The pavement is so covered

Iwith dust, that being never watered, it has caused some of

the fine dressed troops to be a little dusty, and see them

wiping their coats. The cavalry raised clouds of dust when

they moved fast.
     The four ships of war are firing salutes one after the other,

quite shaking the houses, though they are far enough off for
a long interval between the rolling out of the smoke and the

sound reaching us. The line of hills of Posilipo return a

splendid echo to the gunn. No end to carriages and six,
and now one with eight horses, in which are the King and

Queen, and glass    windows    very  large. The people so
excluded now, that            judge  of his reception, but per
                    I cannot

i858.  GREAT FESTA.  295

haps as it is the Virgin they are honouring, it is not a time
for loyal demonstrations. The King is followed by some
eight or ten six-horse carriages of state, with members
of the royal family and officers of state, and several regi
ments of horse guards. We have now had three hours
of a continuous military procession, and nothing else here

at least.

      The people are now closing in, and filling the middle part
of the street, and seem very merry, but, for Neapolitans, not

noisy.

   IHalf-past five.--After an interlude at the table d'h6te,

return to my room, and find the fleet as busy as before, firing
salutes. The troops still lining the streets. Some English
men at dinner tell me that they never heard the people make
any more demonstrations of loyalty on other occasions. The
priests seem to have been all in the churches, but one priest
accompanied every regiment except the six Swiss ones, who,
being Protestant, have none with them.

   I am almost a prisoner, the streets being so lined with
Isoldiery, and cannot help regretting that never see Vesu

vius, as every hour of the day the phenomena there are
changing. They tell me the number of troops who have
passed this window is just 22,000, and as they are all passing

a second time, besides 100 guns, you may fancy the time

they take. The infantry are actually running, and the cavalry

trotting. The King and all the twenty or more carriages of
state are gone by again, and the officers seem to be hurrying

the men, who must be hungry enough. It is quite a curious
sight to see the quick movement. All day opposite us have

been thirty-two drummers and thirty trumpeters ; the former

were allowed to overwhelm the others by their noise. Think
of the cavalry having the old flint locks still. The Swiss at

least have percussion guns. They have much higher pay,
but are not allowed to be buried in consecrated ground !

     This rapid retreat of the soldiers twenty-four deep across

the street is a far more amusing sight than the outward
march. We are now beginning the sixth hour of our unin

terrupted military procession. The band has moved off, but

others are passing and playing. Every now and then there
comes a jam of people and soldiers, and a dead halt. The

296         SIR CHARLES LYELL.   CHAP, xxxn.

Swiss are very conspicuous with their distinct costume, more

than 6,000 Ungaro says.

   I ISeptember 9, ten o'clock, -- must leave this soon if

learn that the ' Etna ' (steamer) is really true to her day and
hour, which last is an unusual one, twelve o'clock. Guis-

cardi came to tell me last night that Vesuvius had given the
I Irequired signs of sympathy with the two ' gibbosities ' of
lava which  before described.    went out with him

between eight and nine o'clock, and saw light at intervals

distinctly reflected from the vapours overhanging the

highest crater, showing that there is lava there also. We
now agree with Palmieri that the eruption is going on in

the great chimney, but the lava is escaping without steam

from the two cones without craters, which are just below

the windows of the Observatory.

     The lava was seen by us from the Observatory in tbe

night, radiating in narrow streams from the upper part of

the two flattened domes.

   Guiscardi thinks I have made great progress this time

in striking out a theory to explain the connection of the

pumiceous tuffs of Monte Somma and the old lavas of
If Ithe same mountain.  have done so, it is partly because
I had the means of taking expensive drives to distant points

Iand back. Guiscardi had never reached Ottajano in his
life.  have set him several supplementary observations

Ito make, to complete points required by my theory.

    Messina : September 10. --When was concluding my last

letter at Naples, Signer Scacchi came in and inquired after

you, and we had an animated talk over what 1 had seen of

Vesuvius during this last visit. We started at half-past

three o'clock instead of twelve, and in place of bringing us

direct to Messina, as promised in the advertisements, the

'Etna,' an appropriate name for my steamer on this occasion,

took us to Eeggio, and stayed two hours discharging cargo

there, and then returned here, losing thus four hours of

Iour time. So the post for delivery of letters was closed

at twelve o'clock, and must wait to see if there is one
from Dr. Carlo Gemellaro to-morrow. After all we got
here in twenty-two hours. No wind, but a roll from an

old storm which made three-fourths of a large number of

i858. MESSWA.  297

Ipassengers ill, but escaped and was much amused by the

conversation. All Sicilians or Neapolitans; some officers

and their families returning from the procession to Our

Lady of Pietra Grotta, i.e. the grotto of Posilipo, near

which there is a chapel to which pilgrimages are made on

September 8, and to which the royal devotee with his army

go in state. There were also many priests and monks on

their way back. A certain physician, young and lively, and

known to many, was holding forth in our cabin, maintaining

that the world of imagination and of ideas was the only

thing real, true, and enduring, and all things material were

fictions and a delusion, which of course he meant to provoke
the others to combat. At last they came upon the ' Etna,'

built last year in Glasgow, her machinery on quite a new

construction, and having all her coal from Newcastle. They
then appealed to Don Pietro, this learned ' medico,' to
explain why there was so much coal in England, on which

he went off in a more stately and exalted style than usual.
' The temperature of the English climate at a remote period

in the history of our planet was ten degrees above that now

prevailing in Sicily. There flourished at that time the

vegetation which produced these dense strata of coal.
Those plants were before the creation of animals, for it was

necessary to establish plants first. Then came the her

bivorous animals, afterwards the carnivorous, and lastly man

was formed.' 'But, Don Pietro, you seem to require ages
without end for all this.' ' Certainly, but it all admits of

mathematical proof.' Some of the priests seemed intent on

their breviaries, but perhaps they had one ear open to these

new geological ideas, which have evidently been penetrating

Iinto those regions like Newcastle coal and Glasgow engines.

    Messina, five o'clock P.M., 10th. -- have been a two hours'
excursion up the course of a fiumara which runs from the

hills here, with a pharmacien, Sequenza, and found two

tertiary formations, Miocene and Pliocene, between the
gneiss and the sea, --a very instructive section.

     Catania, September 12. --After leaving my box of fossil

Ileaves and rocks of Vesuvius at the British consul's, went
Ion board the ' Diligente ' steamer at eight o'clock. The noise

in the inn ' Victoria ' so great, that mean to try a new inn,

298       SIR CHARLES L YELL.  CHAP, xxxii.

Ithe ' Trinacria,' the Tooms of which inspected, kept by the

former proprietor of the ' Victoria,' and near it. The ' Dili-
gente ' had come pretty full from Palermo, and the Catanians

and Syracusans who had been at the great festa at Naples

crowded into her. My commissioner had got me a good bed,

but too late for a private cabin, as they were all secured at

Palermo.  The ladies' room crammed with women and

children. The berths in the gentlemen's quite open, one

over the other, not bad but public. After all were full, in
IIcame
          Barone and Baronessa, and two grown-up, lady-like

daughters ; no beds. One capitano after another got out and

Ipressed the ladies to lie down on theirs. But they posted

themselves in chairs with their backs to my berth, so at

least was a prisoner. Then came other ladies and gentlemen,
all without beds. At last all the men gave up their berths

to ladies they knew, and stood about, then got beds put

on the great table and all over the floor. They contrived to

give us plenty of air, and most fortunately, though the sea

had been rolling for three days, the straits were as calm as

a lake. In seven hours' sail we were in Catania, and not

Ivery long in getting ashore. The proprietor of this hotel
came himself to help.  went to bed and learnt that no

butter or milk could be had. Why not the milk of goats?

' Too late, and half-past seven o'clock ; you can only buy

Ibetween five and seven. It is too hot to have the goats later.'
        have been over the antiquities of Catania and examined

some points in the lava of 1669 not seen last year, and had

a talk with Gravina. The news came last night that

Gemellaro's only daughter, aged thirty, the wife of a judge at

IGirgeuti, was dead, leaving three children.
   Calling at Tornabene's, I asked him if should not find that

Dr. Aradas could tell me all about the Gemellaros, and

Iwhether Gaetano would have to set out for Girgenti. He

replied, ' rather expect he will go, and you have no time to

lose if you are determined to go to the Casa Inglese, and

I Igeologise the uppermost parts of the mountain. Go to

morrow ; will write to Dr. Giuseppe this evening.' So

am off.

     Mr. Jeans has kindly lent me a beautiful hammock with

which he has travelled all over Sicily, and a musquito net.

i858.                    CATANIA.         299

IThese creatures have been taking liberties with me again,

after had forgotten them since Leghorn. What a beauti

Iful city this is, incomparably better built than Naples, some

thing splendid in the style ! One, Piazza Filippini, had not
seen, --all the columns from an old Basilica. The streets so

wide, and the churches and private houses so often beautiful,

and such a flood of light upon them. The elephant in the

middle of the Piazza del Duomo is at this moment sur

rounded by a set of shrubs in full flower ; a yellow one like

Ia cytisus, a large red oleander, and others with white and
blue flowers--very gay.  passed the Albergo dell' Etna,

and that everlasting chime and bells of the church adjoin

ing was making the usual stunning uoise.

     Dr. Giuseppe Gemellaro has spent 151. since last year in

Irepairing the Casa Inglese, so the 81. sent, with certain
Iother subscriptions, will, hope, cover this.

We have never seen the top of Etna since my arrival here,

though the weather at Catania is splendid. Good night,

Idearest ; just starting for Nicolosi.

    Zafarana : September 15, 1858. -- am established herein
my old quarters of nine months ago, and accompanied by

IAngelo, the guide of last year, who showed such resources in

the Casa del Neve; which find on Waltershausen's map is

Icalled Casa del Vescovo, and known here also by the same
name.  yesterday drove to Nicolosi, seeing several things

of interest on the road in the geological way. Found Dr.

Giuseppe in affliction, especially as he was haunted with the

idea that this blow might be the death of his brother. The

necessity of making plans and preparations for my expedition

Iwith Waltershausen's map before me, and of getting provi

sions and guides, cheered him up considerably, and left him

less dejected and very busy preparing for my campaign in the

ICasa Inglese. To go there now, as had hoped to do, is
Iimpossible, the weather is so unsettled ; so am to attack

Ithe middle heights of the Val del Bove first. The mornings
are usually fine.  ascended the Monti Rossi yesterday ; well

worth doing, both for the crater and the scenery.

   IOn my way here, a ride of four and a half hours, found

a new case of a stony lava on a slope of 10° and 15° and 29°,

one of known date too, 1629. Also another lava with ridges

300              SIR CHARLES LYELL.          CHAP, xxxii.

cut open, throwing some light on those of 1852. Just after we

got housed here, there came on a very heavy thunder shower

which may interfere with this evening's work and derange
I Iplans.
          find can get on with talking with the guides
Itolerably, and the map is an amazing help.
                                             have three

mules, and a muleteer who goes on foot, making with the
guides three men. Dr. Giuseppe approved of my taking Mr.

Jeans' hammock for the Casa Inglese. He fears that the

property of the Duke of Ferdinandina in the Casa Inglese

Ihas lapsed to those who have built and repaired it, being so
long unclaimed by the proprietor.     went to the valley of

Calanna and did some good work, but was driven back

by a soaking rain, but employed the afternoon well with the

parish priest, Sciuto, who let me copy his rough map of the
course of the lavas of 1852-3, and make extracts from tbe

journal he kept when the great eruption was going on for

seven or eight months.

     Resolved that the weather was too unsettled for the upper

regions, and that it is expedient to descend to the sea-side

to-morrow.

    Aci : Friday, 17. -- Early in the morning Angelo, the

tall guide, came to tell me that before dawn they saw a

Iplanet, quite a new one, with a long streak of light extending

from it in the east. So suppose a fine comet has appeared.
The ride from Zafarana to Aci Reale was through endless
I Ilavas. When got here re-examined the highly inclined
Istony lava of the Scolazzi, all as described it, but of
I Icourse learnt many new facts.
                                      then went in a boat to
see the basaltic columns of the Grotte delle Palombe. A

small Fingai's cave, in a current of lava, where it enters the

sea; a fine mass of scoriae over the columns.

     Nicolosi. -- The weather has changed for the better, and
as we rode out of Aci Reale, the whole of Etna, summit and

all, appeared free from a cloud. The shape of the summit

much more divided than when you saw it. This sight made

me determine to wheel round and come here, to go up to

Ithe Casa Inglese to-morrow. When the master of the

' Aurora ' at Aci saw us return, he exclaimed, ' thought the

gentleman would think twice before he left Aci the very day
                                   '  .In fact the band was playing
of   the  Festa  della  Veigine
                                 !

i858.   NICOLOSI.                               301

in the streets as we went out, priests were assembling, and

crowds of peasants in their best attire coming in to swell a

population amounting, my guides say, to 30,000. But we

rode resolutely through to the woody region, not sorry to be
Iunder a milder sun, though have really never suffered from
Iheat.
        found Dr. Giuseppe quite prepared for my change

of plan. He had sent up the bed this morning.

   INicolosi : September 1 9.--The clouds again return, and
am going to Biancavilla and Bronte in place of the Casa

IInglese. By choosing my time shall succeed at last, but
Ithe first fortnight of this month was perfect, and that

should have had according to my original plan.

        Ever your very affectionate husband,

                   CHARLES LVELL.

302  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                      CHAP. xxxni.

     CHAPTER XXXIII.

     SEPTEMBER 1858-OCTOBER 1888.

ADERNO -- PROCESSION OP MONKS -- CASA INGLESE ON ETNA -- ROUGH
    QUARTERS -- VAL DEL BOVE -- DESCENT OF THE BALZO DI TRIFOGLIETTO
    --COMET -- FINE CLIMATE COMPENSATES FOR THE DRAWBACKS IH
     BICILY.

                               JOURNAL.

     To His WIFE.

   IAderno : September 19, 1858. --My dearest Mary, -- must
Ihave a chat with you before go to bed after a long ride from

seven to five P.M ; only off the mule when examining the

Ibasalts of Licodia and Biancavilla, often columnar and resting

on a sandstone the age of which have not yet made out.

From Nicolosi to this place, through the woody region chiefly,

was a fine lesson in the aspect of lavas of every age from

Ione to eight centuries known, and for thousands of ante

cedent years of innumerable dates unsettled. begin to have

Ian eye for the coming on a new lava, where the difference
would have escaped me one or two years ago.  had ex

pected to sleep to-night in the Casa Inglese, but it has been

so enveloped in dense clouds all day that we did right in

desisting.

    A procession is just passing, rather imposing ; first fifty

Franciscan monks two by two, each with a sort of Chinese

lantern lighted, and on a short pole, preceded by drums
beating in the usual Sicilian style of military devotion.

Then comes a gilt splendid carriage, in which a figure of the

Virgin, well done in the waxwork style and as large as life,
stands upright; then a full military band playing, with

soldiers attending ; then an immense crowd of peasants.

i858.                       ETNA.                                              808

There are also numerous banners preceding and at intervals,

I Iand fireworks and guns going off in the churches.
        think shall soon be a good campaigner. Not liking
tea and coffee without milk, and being tired of hearing of

Ithe impossibility of getting            ordered Giuseppe to get a
        I
             I

                                          a

                         a iIt,
                                I it
clean empty bottle and a good cork. When we had been

riding eight hours we came to flock of goats, and asked
                                                                    I

the goatherd for how much he would let me fill the bottle.
He said one carline and half -- that the milk was good but

not plentiful, and should have to milk a good many of the

flock. So Giuseppe set to work, and took near half an

hour (while was geologising a cavern in the basalt) to fill
the bottle with excellent milk, which have been enjoying

to-night, and shall to-morrow.

       never saw Etna look so grand as at four o'clock this

afternoon. The cultivated region and the summit were

in sunshine, and all the woody region concealed by a zone

of fleecy clouds, above which seemed marvellous to see a
                                     it

mountain. The sun was hot enough to make me hold an

umbrella over my head, but this fatigue was relieved by an

occasional cloud.                                                            may

    Nicolosi 20. --Returned to this once more, that
            is :                                                    I
                 a                                                       II I

                I
                      I is
either go on with the Val del Bove or the summit, while the

heat which       little more than pleasant below, remains to

cheer us above.  see clearly that after five months of very

fine weather the time come for Etna to be rarely fine for

two whole days. But have the great advantage of being

here one month earlier than when encountered the snow
                                         II
storm last year. Dr. Giuseppe was glad to see me, and hope
my next date will be the Casa Inglese. The provisions are

all prepared so far as can see to them, but as am to have
       I
                 I

                                 is
daily communication with Nicolosi, hope to repair omis
sions. As have not of course tasted butter since left

Messina, my great point              to see to the milk. They take

great care about wine, but cannot be brought to believe that

coffee and tea require milk. Yet most of them think goats'

milk better than that of cows.
     Casa Inglese September 21. -- Got off with two guides

and two muleteers and four mules at half-past seven, in
                 :

                                                                 a
bright sunshine, from Nicolcsi, and after beautiful sunuy

304  SIR CHARLES LYELL,                       CHAP. xxxm.

ride of three hours through wooded craters, protected from

Ithe heat by my umbrella, was gradually enveloped in clouds.
   saw a lava stream, where the oaks had been surrounded

by lava which had taken the form both of upright and pro

strate trunks, surrounding them with tuff, and the wood

being burnt up they are now cylinders of scoriaceous lava.

After a couple of hours we got above the clouds, when about
8,000 feet high, but not till my hands were numbed, for I

Icould not believe for a long time in the necessity of my put

ting on a cloak. After reaching this place set out with
Angelo for the top of Etna, leaving Giuseppe to cook. We

had now and then a small drifting cloud, but on the whole
Isplendid sunshine.
                         saw the spot at the foot of the great
Icone where the Catanians, as mentioned in 1830, quarried

ice from under a current of lava. My guide saw the same

done six years ago, while the eruption of 1852 was going

on in August and September ; the sand and lava ten feet

thick, and four feet of ice below (once snow), and bottom not

Iseen. When there is a scarcity of snow they send to this

reservoir. Not far above the ice warmed my hands at a

fumerole, where the steam and some sulphuretted hydrogen,

Iwere given off at such a heat that was obliged to be care- ,
Iful how far in put my fingers. This welcome heat enabled

me to write. The bank of clouds below us was such as

aeronauts describe, finely lighted, some parts representing

even plains, others alpine heights one beyond another, some

nearer masses moving apparently much more rapidly than

others. When we reached the edge of the crater, the whole

of Sicily was hidden except the higher part of Etna between

us and the Montagnuoli. But Lipari and Stromboli stood

Iout in the sea very conspicuously.
        made a rough sketch of the two craters ; the smaller

Ione has lately, believe, fallen, and shows a section of some

of the horizontal beds of lava with which it has been filled

up nearly to the top. It seemed to me about 200 yards

diameter and perhaps 150 yards deep, and the great crater,

separated by a very narrow partition, vertical on one side
                                              three or four times
and steeply sloping  on  the  other, seemed    exertion climbing
as wide and deep.        was  a considerable
                     It

and going half round     it,  after a seven hours' ride, and this

i858.          CASA INGLES E.                            805

Imakes the Casa Tnglese, which is the roughest place was

ever in, seem a hospitable mansion, as it saves our return

Iing. The wind is whistling round, and somewhat through

it, hut Dr. Giuseppe, hear, has made it weather-tight.
There is no chimney, and we have charcoal burners, but if
Ithe wind always blows like this, am at any rate guaran
Iteed from asphyxia.
                      was determined to write to you before

trying Mr. Jeans' hammock. The two guides have an

Iadjoining room. Our m uleteer has taken back the mules, and

  have offered him a reward if he brings me up milk to
morrow, which the others promised to obtain on the way,

and failed.

    September 22. --Two experiments at once --this house,

Iand a hammock to sleep in for the first time -- was too much,

for this house is the roughest was ever in, since we cannot
let in the light by the one window, which is without glass,

without admitting a blast which in a minute annihilates an

hour's warming of the charcoal apparatus.

     The well-swung hammock pitched like a cutter in a

Ishort sea when got in and out, and rolled like our old
Ifriend the ' Britannia ' steamer when was restless, so that
I1 lay awake wondering whether should be sea-sick, withal

a smell of an occasional whiff of sulphur from the highest

cone. Having come down from that cone hungry, T had

eaten too heartily just before going to hammock, and this

Iwas perhaps the chief reason of a sleepless night, just as
Ihave got to where the cold protects us from musquitos.
                                                         was

glad when daybreak was announced, although accompanied

Iby Giuseppe's anticipation of snow. The sun, however, con

quered, and got a fair day's work, breaking ground on

those enormous precipices below the flattened dome-shaped

area, on which the principal cone with its two craters rises,

and on which also this wretched remnant of the earthquake-

ruined edifice which the English army built, stands.

There were clouds below all day, but we were generally

Iin sunshine.  have been taking various measures against
     To-night
cold, for having tried with the guides to plan all manner of
ways of exploring certain parts of Etna, without coming and
staying here two or three days, we find it an unavoidable evil.

VOL. II.              X

306                 SIR CHARLES LYELL.               CHAP, xxxm.

Everything one touches is like ice just now. The floor so
uneven that a touch causes a chair to fall, and it is strewed

Iwith sand like the lavas which surround the volcano.
     September 23. -- Before was up, about dawn, the arrival
of five English officers of Captain Clifford's ship the ' Centaur '

was announced. They had encountered rain in the night,

Iand though they went to the summit, saw nothing but the
rim of the crater.  was much pleased with their chief, the

second Lieutenant de Kantzow, of Swedish origin he told
me, at least the name, -- well read in my works, and had

tried hard, but in vain, on several occasions, to get near the

lava of Vesuvius during the late eruption. The heat was

Itoo great. He thought me singularly lucky in what I saw,

Iand must remember this good fortune when am disposed

Ito abuse the quarantine regulations for causing me to have

this struggle with the elements up here. However, had a
much better night, managing by dint of clothing to warn off

the great enemy cold.

   IThe compact lava found yesterday is one great reward
Ifor coming up here, as can so easily refer to the place. It

is perhaps my best case, and the Royal Society will let me

Iadd it with the new date.
     To-day have explored the Montagnuoli, and feel sure it
is a simple case of a double cone, the newer one thrown up

Iin the common way. How Abich could think otherwise I

wonder much. To-morrow hope to descend into the Val

del Bove. The mists to-day have interfered more than any
          one with my geologising.
previous  Tnglese : September 24. -- Giuseppe,  the  son  of  the  inn
     Cam

keeper of Nicolosi, was amusingly put out by the roughness

of the quarters here, where he had never slept before, and

formed all sorts of schemes for enabling me to explore the
Iprecipices of the upper region of the Val del Bove without

braving the rudeness and coldness of things up here.
think the guides' room the warmest and lightest of the two,

Iand have therefore been sitting there nearly half the day with

Angelo, who is alone here. For sent Giuseppe round by
Nicolosi to Zafaraua, meaning him to bring the mules to
the foot of the great precipice, weather permitting, and so to

go on to my old quarters at Zafarana.

i858. BALZO DI TRIFOGL1ETTO.                          307

But we had rain and snow whitening the ground, and

ever since a regular Scotch mist, and instead of the grand

Iscenery of this spot, you would fancy yourself in shooting
quarters on some Highland moor.  have at any rate had a

day of rest from fatigue, whether of body or mind. Got a

good read of Hoffmann, and however dry he and his editor

Von Decken may be, the book interests one on the spot, as

Ithe rocks he describes in detail are what have been collect
Iing, and the places so many of them what have seen or

have to see. But the most useful part of the day's business

Ihas been the planning each day's excursion with mules till

the day must leave for Messina, availing myself of Angelo's

local knowledge of distances, inns, and places and sights, and

ihe power of mules. It is a most difficult country, Etna, --

Iespecially the lavas so often interposing a barrier to mules,
and an immense delay to men on foot.  have written all

out, and allowed for some rainy days, and three or four in

Catania. Angelo, a hardy peasant, is only diverted with
Giuseppe's dismay, and it is amusing how little the educa

Ition of the one makes up for the superior mother-wit of the

other. In most of my future excursions mean to dispense

with Giuseppe and have a muleteer under Angelo, who gives

Ime most information when alone with me. Lieutenant de

Kantzow, to whom had presented some milk for his tea,

presented me with half a bottle of good brandy. It has

Idone me good by spoonfuls, as the wine here is too acid for

me. By putting on all my clothes double have kept warm,

and have often thought of Samuel Rogers' maxim, that a

Ifman who suffers from cold must be a fool or a beggar.
it were some tropical volcano, how much more difficult to

Icontend against the enemy !
26. -- Yesterday  made the grand descent of the Balzo

di Trifoglietto, 4,000 feet, and really without much difficulty,

and in about three hours, spending a great deal of that time

in observing the interesting fact, that in the middle of this

cliff, the head of the Val del Bove, and just below the great
cone, the strata are perfectly horizontal --a fact first made out
Iby Waltershausen and I think first explained by me.
                                                      had

made up my mind that possibly Giuseppe, from want of

courage or from taking a different view of the state of the

       '508      SIR CHARLES LYELL.                              CHAP, xxxin.

       weather, concluding T should not descend, might not bring
       Itthe mules to the foot of the precipice.
                                                                 turned out that

       he had come for me the day before, in spite of the bad

       weather, and had returned yesterday, but lost his way in the

       Imist. So we found no one ; but after walking an hour and

       a half, told Angelo to go to Zafarana, get the mules, and

       return to my rescue. There was time for all this before day
       light was over. Angelo proposed to give one more lend

       halloo, which we gave, and were answered by splendid echoes

       from the surrounding vertical walls of the grand amphi

       Itheatre. But Angelo was positive that there was more than
                 I

                                          it,
       an echo.  could not believe though he turned out to be

       in the right, and after nearly an hour the lost Giuseppe

       found us, and got to Zafarana between three and four,
       just 7,500 feet below my station of the morning -- most
       agreeable change of climate, bed, and all things. To-day
                                                                     a
       have come to Giarre, having re-examined on my way the
       Cava Grande case, of steeply inclined lava.                       II

               have had a long talk with Dr. Mercuric. He tells me
       I
           I

                                          it

                                                      is
       there are two comets, but                          too cloudy to see them to

       night.    was glad to be free to-day from that chattering

       Giuseppe. Angelo and Delfo the muleteer are now my

       companions.
            Aci Reale September 27. -- have satisfied myself that

       Don Carlo Gemellaro right, and that the basaltic columns
                 :                         it I

                       is
                               is
       of the Grotte delle Palombe belong to a lava, which instead of
       being the oldest, newer than all the currents of Aci Reale.

         found a cliff 600 feet high or more, inclined at an angle of
I
       about 50°, and cascading over reduced the slope to 23°.is
      I
       So that Waltersh an sen wrong in his view, suggested,is
       suspect, by the old superstition for which Von Buch has in
       part to answer, lhat columnar basalt an older production

than ordinary lava.

       Before leaving Giarre, revisited the bed of the torrent
                                   I
                                           current of columnar basalt
                                        a
where            found last year

reposing on the old alluvium of Giarre, and shall be able

to make the diagram given in my paper more exact and

instructive.                                                         the
     Catania. -- Called on the British consul, and had

happiness cf receiving two of your letters. . .
                                                              .

I858.  ZAFARANA.                                309

ICasa Inglese, Etna : October 1, 1858. -- Here  am once

more in these elevated quarters, about 10,000 feet above the

Isea, having fine weather, and having flattered myself that

Ishall get off with one night, making to-morrow the descent

of the Montagnuoli, as have already done the loftier but

Inot equally precipitous height of the Giannicola. Yesterday

morning had appointed Gravina between seven and eight

o'clock to start with me. The news came that Angelo,

having out of his punctilious honesty preserved the fag end

of a ham used in the last excursion, had been stopped by the

Ipolice at the entrance of Catania (coming from Nicolosi),

with the three mules. So had to get Gravina to apply to

the chief of the police, and while he was so employed got

Imy breakfast and saved my character for punctuality.
        had a good day's geology at Fasano, which you may

remember on the road to Nicolosi, St. Paul, and Catera

in that neighbourhood, Gaetano Gemeliaro meeting us, and

Ihe and Gravina wanting my opinion on a geological point
on which they had been contending.  forgot to mention

that the day before Aradas had given me a list of 150 shells

of that Newer Pliocene clay on which Etna rests. Nine-tenths

Iof them agree with Mediterranean species ; but as he means

to lend me the whole collection, which hope to get Deshayes

to overhaul, it will be a valuable addition to my paper, as

Igiving a precise paleontological date to the volcano, the same

in truth as gave in 1828, which is satisfactory. In truth,
the first twenty-five species of shells would generally give the

Iresult which 150 afterwards confirm.

    Zafarana. -- came down the heights under the Montag
nuoli, about 3,000 feet, without fatigue seeing the rocks on

Ithe way. It would take vreeks to study such countless dikes

and lavas, but read off not a few of the principal features.
    We were met at the foot of the hill as near the appointed

Itime as could be expected, and I now feel that the most

difficult part of the task is accomplished, as have verified

the fact of the inclination of the lower, the horizontality of

the middle, and the unconformable southern dip of the upper

Imost part of the great 3,000 and 4,000 feet high precipice.

     October 3.--1 have accomplished a ride always wished

to make, and which Waltershausen, not having knowledge

310  5//? CHARLES LYELL.                                 CHAP, xxxni.

Ior faith enough in mules, believed should never make out.
I got from here almost without stirring from my saddle, up

the external valley, one outside of the Val del Bove, called

Cava Secen, and so ascended gradually till 1 reached the

Inarrow rim or knife-edge which divides the Val del Bove
from the outer slope.     wanted to see among other points

whether the junction of this deep valley (of Tripodo) with
the rim of the Caldera or Val del Bove was marked bv a

depression or notch, or what the Americans would call in
reference to the Alleghanies ' a wind-gap,' for you probably
remember there is not a single ' water-gap ' like the Barraneo

de las Angustias in Palma, allowing a river to pass out of the

Val del Bove. It is strange that no one in Catania could

help me as to this point, and yet there is not a more marked

Ifeature in the geography of Etna than the deep indentation,

narrow, and should guess 800 feet deep, if not much more,

which marks the situation and the unbroken rim of the

water-shed between this Val di Tripodo and the Val del

Bove, or a narrow ravine which descends inside into the

great Caldera. My guide, perhaps the most experienced on

Etna, never was there before. It is a most picturesque spot.

On the one side is a deep Alpine style of valley, the rocks

covered with old beech trees, on the other a look into the

great gulf or cauldron-shaped amphitheatre, with Etna steam

ing away and the great range of precipices below and on
the left, between the point of view and the Montagnuole,
                                                         it,

                                                                        a

series of five or six vast promontories one behind the other,

about 3,000 feet high each, without a shrub, but pinnacled

with dikes, some standing up fifty feet or more. The whole

scene of the valley was shown in sunshine for half an hour,

and the crater of Etna; then the clouds gathered rapidly, and

thunder soon began, but we rode back in sunshine, soon

escaping from the mists.

     Nothing amused me more than going to see what such a

torrent as that of Tripodo did, when a very powerful lava

current, such as that of 1792, has blocked up its mouth and

drunk up all its waters. The lava cannot absorb its sand

boulders and mud. So the torrent has been working away

for eighty years, and has already filled up lake-like cavity,
                          a
                                                      a
and redeemed the space of large field from the sterile

1858. RANDAZZO.                                        311

domain of the lava, and when it once gets its alluvium high
enough to overtop the lava, the side of which has been
probably thirty feet high, it will get on fast with its

fertilising soil, leaving occasional black ridges projecting

Iabove.
    Zafarana : October 4. -- got off by six o'clock this morn
ing, Etna and the whole region without a cloud, and secured
six hours' good survey of the centre of the valley, and the

craters and lava of 1862, having now satisfied myself that

Gaetano Gemellaro was quite out about the rock he still

will call Musarna, and his uncle Giuseppe very wide indeed

of the mark, in laying down his three points of eruption,

and in some respects the direction of the lava.

The views this morning were very fine. Just at twelve

o'clock the first white speck of cloud appeared on Mont
Zoccolaro, and it soon began to roll into the great valley,
and filled it with mist in an hour. We rode down out of it
Iand reached this soon after two o'clock in sunshine.
                                                       have
Inow done what intended of the higher and difficult region,

and am now going round the base to see all the tertiary and

Isecondary strata which peep out from below the ever encroach
ing envelope of lava.  hope by this means to be able to
         on the nature of the pedestal of Pindar's ' pillar of
speculate   must take care of the mules now they are in the

Iheaven.' feel here, as in Madeira, that a good mule is like
Iplains.

presenting an old geologist with a young pair of legs. They
would mount up the side of any English stone quarry where

a man can get, and you need not be merely taken to the

quarry's mouth.

IThe comet is most splendid on a moonless clear night in
the north-west.        hardly think that that of 1811 was

brighter, but the tail was much longer.

   IRandazzo : October 6, 1858. --After leaving Giarre,
wanted to see a small outcrop of tertiary between Piedemonte

and the sea, and not having found Dr. Mercuric was look

Iing out for an informant, when saw by the road-side an
Iarchitect whom employed last year to copy a map of the

rivers coming from the Val del Bove which he had been

employed to make by Waltershausen. He was one of the few

men in Sicily who could exactly tell me where and how to go

312            SIR CHARLES LYEI.L.        CHAP, xxxm.

Ito the point with my mules. He was amused to seeWalters-
hausen's map. His name is Vincenzo.      spent a pleasant

hour on a hill-side collecting old friends, Dentalium elephan-

tinum, Venus dysera, Pecten jacobceus, Limopsis, Pecten varius,

and many others, the guides and muleteer also helping very

well. We then went to Linguagrossa, bad quarters, but

luckily Don Gallo of Giarre had set me up with provisions.
IfAt such places (and it is the same here) they are thankful if
you want nothing but a bed.      you insist on the whole room

Iyou pay for two beds, only two carlines each ! The cone of

Mojo which passed to-day, the most northern dependency of

Etna, reminded me of Tartaret by its situation in the middle
Iof the river's ' thalweg,' and
                                 find many remembrances of
IAuvergne now that am on the borders of the volcanic and

IEocene formations.
        passed a good deal of heath (Calluna vulgaris) to-day
on the lavas, and abundance of Cyclamen Europceus ; also a

short-stalked purple mallow (I think), very handsome; the

Iyellow crocus large ; the Colchicum autumnale. A good deal

of Euphorbia, like English, think, but larger, and a second
species ; and the ' weebo ' of Forfarshire, and ' traveller's joy,'

and hawkweeds and others, all almost entirely common

British weeds, such as Euphrasia, &c.
     Bronte : October 7. -- Have had another fine day for sur

veying the northern and north-western side of the volcano.

Saw the place where a crowd assembled in 1342 to see the

lava flow into a great artificial reservoir of water. The

melted current of stone came forward with a front thirty or

more feet high, and falling suddenly into the water pro

duced for awhile no effect whatever, as  like white, hot
                                         if,
metal in Butigny's experiment,
                                                it
               it                required to cool down
                    it
before  could cause explosion. At lengthis it       went off
        it
suddenly, and everybody but one or two, fifty or more in
            I
number, were killed, asphyxia    said, for no wound was

found on anybody. Had not been for some heavy rain

many hundreds would have been there.

    Catania. -- made out my journey well yesterday even

ing, and cannot sufficiently congratulate myself thatI

should have been so many days for eight hours a day on

mule-back on such roads and crags, and without the smallest

i858. BOTANY OF ETNA.                          313

Iaccident. The chief difficulty is the food, but have learnt

I Iby degrees how to manage.                   have had in
         feel most thankful for the privilege

going over and checking my own and Waltershausen's obser

vations previously to printing my paper, which will gain
greatly in that kind of minute accuracy which is desirable

when one's facts bear on controverted questions, with

the disputing of which the amour propre and reputation

Iof living authorities is most sensitively concerned, and
have had the pleasure of being greatly strengthened in my
              Your very affectionate husband,
convictions.

                       CHARLES LYELL.

                         CORRESPONDENCE.

                                  To MRS. BUNBURY.

                                                              Casa Inglese, Etna : October 1, 1858.

     My dearest Frances, -- The cold in this habitation, about

I10,000 feet above the sea-level, is uncomfortable, but sleep

ing here, which am doing for the fourth time, having re
turned to it a second time, is the only way of examining

Igreat precipices which are a key to the structure of Etna.

have found striking confirmatory examples of the fact that
lavas form sheets of excessively compact rock on slopes of
35°, and they can form continuous stony masses at an angle

of 40° without vesicles ! It is strange that this should have

Ibeen denied on such scanty grounds.
        should not think that Etna would afford a rich botan-
ising ground in comparison with its size and height. The
eruptions destroy plants, and the single ones which can live
on loose sand, or can stand the barren lavas, such as broom
and Hypericum, and some others, monopolise large tracts.
The Oydamen Europceus is abundant, and like the Orocus (or
Coichicum) autumnalis, very ornamental, and the yellow

Icrocus, but that is rare. Also another purple flower which

I must learn the name of --not English, feel sure. Heer,

when he decided that one of my fossil plants from the tuff

Iwas Pistaccia lentiscus, said it was not in the floras of Etna

which he had seen in print, but saw it yesterday so

31 -4             SIR CHARLES LYELL.            CHAP. xxxni.

Iabundant that cannot suppose it had all strayed from

Igardens.
     There are but few travellers here this year, so am sorry

Itwo are coming up to sleep here to-night ; but they can have
a separate room.  have not yet seen the comet, which you

seem to have a good view of, but my guide announced it ten
days ago ' as a new planet, one he had never observed

before, with a btreak of light proceeding from it,' --not a

bad description for a most illiterate peasant.

       There is a great pleasure in reiterating one's observations

on one limited area like Etna, and considering the volcano

in all its bearings and its age as proved paleontologically,
its structure, the relative date of its valleys, and so on.

    In consequence of the death of Carlo Gemellaro's only

Idaughter, have got little help from him and his son this

Itime, but others have aided, and feel very independent

with my guide of last year, who knows enough Italian to get

on pretty well with me. My correspondence and talk has

Ibeen so much in Italian, that had the Sicilian spoken the

real language should have made great progress. To hear

Imy guides talk, you would suppose that the staple of Sicilian

was ' da bano,' which am told means ' dalT altra parte,' but

Iif it meant nothing more, it could not by any ingenuity be

introduced so often. When they talk together hardly
catch a word, yet their newspapers are like those of Tuscany
or Rome as to diction.

     The clouds have rather interfered with some of my work

I Iin the higher region, but all Etna has been clear to-day, and

since began this campaign have only lost one day by

rain, and that was when last up here on the summit. And

Iyet when came they had had five months of fine weather.
   IZafarana. -- have descended safely into the region of

vines from 10,000 to 1,800 feet above the sea, and have

Istudied another part of the great precipice on a fine day,

and found all right ; but must confess that the lower third

out of 3,000 feet is such a wonderful instance that dikes
have intruded in such numbers and of such thickness as to

make the beds they invade seem to play a subordinate part,

that other theorists may be expected to find facts to suit

their doctrines.

i858.           VAL DEL BOVE.                          815

   IZafarana : October 8. -- have told Mary of a ride which
Iperhaps delighted me the more as it was one never recom

mended to me, and which cannot find out from the guides
anyone has been at, though of course Waltershausen got

Ito the point when he made his map. It seemed to me the

most beautiful scenery had yet seen, the dividing ridge as
sharp as the crater of Etna itself, between the great Val del
Bove, which you look down into in its grandest part, and the

Val di Tripodo, the only considerable valley which furrows
the side of Etna, and which is well wooded, and contrasts

Ifinely with the savage scenery of the Val del Bove, now
almost without a spot of green.  won't say it beats the

north of Madeira, but no one has seen Etna who has not

Ibeen there.
     October 4. -- have had another fine ride into the centre of

the Val del Bove, to study the effects of the grand eruption

of 1852. The two craters after rain still send out such
volumes of steam that they look as if they were beginning

a new eruption, but without such fuel they scarce give any

signs of life.
       I must conclude this with my love to your husband, who
Iwill, hope, tell me by the end of the month what he has
Ibeen doing in his study in the way of fossil botany since
I Isaw him.
                little thought when wrote to Sir Henry Bun-
Ibury about the Casa Inglese, that should ever see it again

or sleep in it. The lawyers here say that they who built it,

and have repaired it, have the property as squatters, and

neither the Prince of Palermo nor his assignees have any

objection. But the singularity of the case is that no one
can say who it is that has squatted there.

       The Gemellaros say the English army, others say the

Gemellaro family, and so stands the case. Dr. Giuseppe, who
has an income so small it would astonish an English apothe

Icary, has spent 15i. this year in repairs, and more than half

out of the subscription sent him.

                Believe me ever yours affectionately,

                                 CHARLES LYELL.

316      SIR CHARLES LYELL.    CHAP, xxxiu.

         To His SlSTER.

                               Messina, Sicily: October 16, 1858.

     My dearest Sophy, --No excursion could have been more

successful in a geological point of view than my re-examina
tion of Mount Etna, and the strong and sure-footed mules of

that country gave me the power of scaling such heights as

you climbed so successfully in Switzerland by means of the

same power. The beautiful climate of autumn in this island

makes up for much of the drawbacks in the way of bad and

dirty inns, or rooms with beds where they do not profess to

I Ihave inns. But nothing but a considerable scientific excite
ment could carry one through.  was often afraid shonld

not keep well where the diet was so strange. They cannot

Iunderstand a man caring for milk and butter, but here at
Messina  see these rarities again. Night after nigbt I

stopped with my guides and muleteer at large towns, with

grand churches and priests and friars without end, and pro

cessions and tolling of church bells, and monasteries, as at

Linguagrossa, Randazzo, Piedemonte, Bronte, wh$re there
was not a single inn. You find at last a dirty hole where

they show you one or two rooms, in which there are two or

more beds, but nothing else, and before the white sheets are

brought, they look like pieces of furniture less inviting to

lie down upon than those lavas of Etna which are liberally

sprinkled with volcanic sand. You then bargain that no one is

to pass through your room and that no one is to sleep in any

other bed in it. You accordingly pay for the other beds ;
a mere trifle. You promise something extra for water and

a towel, and send out your guide to try and buy something
for food-- bread and eggs at any rate, and you may have
brought with you some tea, a teapot, salt, sugar, and

Bologna sausage. Sometimes you have a landlady who,

having never seen an Englishman before, can scarcely be

kept by lock or bolt from prying into the room and watch

Iing all your proceedings, to learn what you can want with

basin, towels, and other articles, never suppose asked for

before. But the worst trial is the dirt of your own servants,

guides, and muleteers, who during the ten days they are with

you never wash or change raiment, if indeed they ever did

1858. HARDSHIPS IN SICILY.                      817

before or after, but if you have fine weather and scenery in

the daytime, and are laying in a store of scientific facts, and

tired enough at night to be sure to sleep, and hungry enough

to be glad of bread and eggs, and above all, if you have no

one to blame but yourself when you feel you are in a scrape
so far as fare and comfort are concerned, it is extraor

Idinary how one comes through it all with health and
spirits.  must say it often did me good to think how much

worse our officers fared in the Crimea, and under an Indian
Isun, to say nothing of being shot at to boot.
                                                usually

held my umbrella over my head five or six hours of the day,

Iexcept when in the Casa Inglese, where we had snow and a
difficult fight with the cold.  slept there four nights, and

was glad when they were over, but they repaid me amply.

   I made some pleasant excursions from Catania with the

geologists of that city, and am going to-day with a M.
Sequanza of this place to explore a valley near the town,

where we shall find a great many fossils, and have splendid
views of Messina, the Straits, and deep blue sea, and oppo
site coast of Calabria.

Believe me, my dearest Sophy, your affectionate brother,
                                                      CHARLES LYELL.

318  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxxiv.

                      CHAPTER XXXIV.

                        FEBRUARY 1859--NOVEMBER 1860.

AGASSIS MUSEUM-- OWEN ON THE ' GORILLA '--MR. PRESCOTT's DEATH-- LORD
     LYNDHVRST -- MANSEL'g ' BAMPTON LECTURES* -- BRITISH ASSOCIATION,
     AliKRDEEN-- DARWIN'S ' ORIGIN OF SPECIES '-- BIRTHDAY PARTY -- DEATH
     OF MACAULAY -- DAWSON's ' ARCHAIA ' ON EVOLUTION -- FLINT IMPLE
     MENTS IN THE VALLEY OF THE SOMME -- DEATH OF CHEVALIER
      BUNSEN.

     [He visited Holland, Paris, and Le Puy in the coui-se of 1859, and
in September presided over the Geological Section at the British
Association, Aberdeen.

    In 1860 he was in Germany, visiting Rudolstadt and Coburg, and
in the autumn went to the Oxford British Association. In these

years he turned his attention especially to the antiquity of man.]

                         CORRESPONDENCE.

                           To GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

                                               63 Harley Street, London: February 16, 1859.

   IMy dear Ticinor, -- was glad to learn from Prescott's

last letter, that Agassiz was stirring about a museum, and
that at a meeting at James Lawrence's, the Governor had

Ipromised aid from the State. With the splendid bequest

left by Mr. Grey, hope something grand will come of this.
There is no getting on without such collections. Sir Philip
Egerton told me the other day, that he must go to Vienna
to compare some fossil fish with the recent collection, so

Imuch more complete there than in London or Paris.

expect we shall have to go to Boston instead, if once Agassiz

Ihas free scope in that particular branch.
        saw Mr. Harness (the Rev.) just now, who was re
marking to me that although Milman is very well, he is

i859. FOSSIL RHINOCEROS.    319

much more bent, and therefore older looking than ever, but
he is in good spirits. These evening services in St. Paul's

have given him much to arrange ; rather fatiguing, and
some preachers inflict more than an hour.

     The Italians here have been annoyed at Mazzini for
having expressed no sympathy at the alliance of Sardinia
and France, and the promised aid, and they said to hii.i that
if they could get help from the devil himself, they ought to
jump at it. His answer was, ' You will have the devil and

the Austrians too.' My friend Dr. Falconer obtained on his
way through Lyons a fine cast of a species of fossil Rhinoceros,
which we have in the valley of the Thames also. At Naples
the police voted it to be an infernal machine, and took it

away. It was five weeks before (after much trouble) it was

restored, but some MS. on osteological subjects in Falconer's

not very legible handwriting, was submitted to certain

priests, who still think it treason. I fear that when he gets

to Palermo he will find the prisons full of newly arrested
men of family. Affairs there are much as in 1847--48.

     Charlee Murray is returned from Persia, and we are to
meet him at dinner at Horner's on Monday.

     My three nephews and niece are quite well and in spirits,
after their summer's illness. Susan Horner's translation of

Colletta ' reads well, and has come out at an opportune
moment, when so many are thinking of Italy.

     Owen has been reading a paper to prove how much

nearer the Gorilla comes to man, osteologically, than does

the Chimpanzee, but he seems not to have more, if so much

Iintelligence as the elephant ; so whether the Lamarckians will

profit much by the fact cannot foresee, though they may do

so if the Negro is more like the Gorilla than the white man.

I am rather suprised at the popularity of the doctrine of a

chain of beings leading up to man. Agassiz is very fond of

    and strains a point for as do some others, while they
protest against Lamarck's transmutation, but they are
suspect drifting towards the same goal without knowing it.

                                      Ever affectionately yours,
                                                                CHARLES LYELL.
8. it,
    i
                                           of
                                        it,
                                                  I
    Hittory of the Kingdom  Xaplet, by General Colletta. Translated by
Homer.

320  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                             CHAP. xxxiv.

     To GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

                                                 53 Harley Street, London : March 11, 1859.

     IMy dear Ticknor, --Mary is writing find by to-day's

post on a subject2 which has been so much occupying our

thoughts, as it has yours, and on which so much has already

been well said and felt, on both sides of the Atlantic.

Mr. Prescott's correspondence with Mary was so frequent, that

Iwe cannot see a mail oome in from America without sorrow,
to think that there can be no letter from him.      am sure

there is no one of his friends to whom his death will be so

great and permanent a loss as to you. The universality of

Ithe expression of grief and regret has not surprised me, but

  have felt some consolation at the unusual amount of ability

and eloquence, and upon the whole good taste, of the various

speeches and biographical sketches extemporised on this

occasion, especially in the United States.

No impartial reader can peruse them without feeling

that from such a soil and in such an atmosphere great

Iliterary men must continue to spring up. In spite of the

warning given by Prescott's attack a year ago, was quite

unprepared for his being taken away from us so soon. A

letter which he wrote to me five days before his death was

in his usual cheerful and sprightly tone.

   I have been amused at meeting and conversing with two
Inotabilities since last wrote to you, whose minds preserve

remarkable vigour and liveliness at a great age, Lord Lynd-

hurst eighty-seven and Brougham eighty. The first I met at

Ia dinner at the Palace. I had not seen him to talk with him

for thirty years, when passed several days in Trinity Hall,

Cambridge, where Copley, the Attorney-General, was staying.

He alluded to those days as 'jolly times,' and then ques

Itioned me as to the latest geological discoveries respecting
the antiquity of the human race.  told him among other
Ithings, of Horner's paper on ' Egypt,' proving that pottery

was made there 13,000 years ago, and told him would lend
him the paper. On receiving it a few days later, he wrote

to me to say that he had found out that Bunsen in some

     1 The death of W. H. Prescott, the historian.

1859- MANSEL'S 'BAMPTON LECTURES.'  821

paper just published bad arrived at analogous results from
different data and by another process ; a discovery which
amused me, for in that short interval he (Lord Lyndhurst)
had been occupied in addressing the House of Lords on the

removal of the Royal Academy to Burlington House, giving a
sketch of their history, legal rights, &c. But though his

mind is clear and lively, he can only get upstairs, or even go
from the dining to the drawing-room, with the help of an

attendant. It was pleasing to see the Queen paying the

attention due to his years, and introducing the Princess

Alice to him.

    Brougham is upright and strong on his legs, and amused
me by almost confessing his sympathy with a new pamphlet
on the ' Reform Bill,' by John Austin, once as great a Radical

as ever Harry Brougham was, and now as much of an
alarmist as any Tory can be. We met him at Milman's.

Lord Lansdowne was to have been there, but had to go to

the Duchess of Cambridge instead. He is getting a little
deafer, otherwise very well on the whole. We dine with him

to-day. Lord Stanhope and the Bishop of London were at
Milman's, and Lord Shelburne, the day we met Brougham,
and they discussed the new Reform Bill very freely. The
Bishop says that the artisans are so much more intelligent
than the small tradesmen, that those of the former class who

have any property would make a far better constituency than

Ithe tradesmen, to whom we are in danger of transferring
so much power.  fully believe this, and think the scheme

of votes for those who have 60L in saving banks a good idea.
    Have you looked at Hansel's ' Bampton Lectures ' on the
' Limits of Religious Thought ' ? There were many fruitless

discussions among the dons of Oxford, how to force the

young men by various pains and penalties to attend the
University Church, which was nearly empty, but there were

no precedents for such proceedings. At last some original
thinker suggested, that possibly if they named some good
preacher it might remedy the evil. So they made inquiries for
some young men of ability, and found this Mansel, who forth

with filled St. Mary's to overflowing, and when the lectures

were printed they soon reached a second edition. A friend
of mine, Huxley, who will soon take rank as one of the first

VOL. II.        Y

322          SIR CHARLES LYELL.               CHAP. xxxiv.

naturalists we have ever produced, begged me to read these

Isermons as first rate, ' although, regarding the author as a

Churchman, you will probably compare him, as did, to the

drunken fellow in Hogarth's Contested Election, who is sawing

through the signpost of the other party's public-house, for

getting that he is sitting at the outer end of it. But read

I Ithem as a piece of clear and unanswerable reasoning.' Soon

after had seen them, was recommended by Sir Edward
Ryan to read a powerful article in the last ' National,' in
answer to Mansel, by Martineau ; and certainly it is worth

; reading, and shows among other things, in an episode devoted
 to Butler's ' Analogy,' how much more comfortable and con

solatory is the system of creation, or the divine dispensation,

I when viewed from a Unitarian than from an orthodox point

1 of view. At length, after expending much admiration and

adulation on their new defender of the faith, the Oxonians

have become alarmed, and Milman told me that one of them

Ihad written to Hampden ' You are avenged ; ' while Dr. Jeune

had exclaimed, ' To think that should have lived to hear

Atheism preached from the University pulpit, and the
                                                           '
member  for  Oxford  recommend  the  worship  of Jupiter
                                                          !
     IYou will understand, daresay, the last hit better than me,
Ifor have not read Gladstone's Homeric lucubrations.
     I Imust conclude, as have to go to Owen's lecture on
' Fish.' He assured us yesterday that every act of thought,

even in a reverie, is so far material that we are the worse for

it, and require reparation through the digestive organs.

There is something burnt, or a loss of oxygen, by every, even
the slightest effort, of the brain in thinking.

                     Ever affectionately yours,

                                     CHARLES LYELL.

                                  To MRS. BUNBURY.

                                                                          Leyden : April 22, 1859.

     My dearest Frances, --We have just returned from an
excursion to the sand dunes of Catwyk, at the mouth of
the Rhine, collecting shells, star-fishes, spatangi, seaweeds,

and other treasures on the sands over which the waves were
'rolling on a very bright day. We then visited the sluices by
which the water of the Rhine is let off at low tide, so as to

            ABERDEEN MEETING.                              823

drain the inland country, and sever out a passage through

the dunes which used to intercept the water of the river

before Napoleon I. made these sluices ; having cut a canal

through the dunes. On the sand hills we gathered abundance

of wild pansy, a small Myosotis, Stellaria, groundsel, and a.

few other plants in flower. We saw in the gardens and

suburbs of several villages on our way large patches of

brilliant tulips, of all colours, arranged in groups.
    In the Museum here we saw parts of a crab called Inachus

Imacrocheirus, from Japan, which they calculate is eight feet

long when entire. had thought that the Devonian crustacea,

Pterygotus, &c. which they say were seven feet long, exceeded

any of the creatures of these degenerate days, but one never

sees a rich collection like this without being convinced how

little one knows of the present inhabitants of the globe.
I Irather think it is thirty-six years since was last in
IHolland.
            am sure the Hague must have doubled at least
in size and population. It is a very handsome city now.

            Ever affectionately yours,

                                        CHABLES LIELL.

            To MRS. HORNER.

                              IAberdeen : · September 16, 1859.

    Dearest Mamma, --As you asked me to write will send
a short letter, and send it to-day unless interrupted in this

busy time.

Dr. Fowler, at ninety-four, looks well enough, but having

Ieaten turtle soup and melon too close to the rind, and other
imprudences, is not quite well to-day.     went in the Pro

vost's carriage to dine at Banchory, to meet the Prince, Sir
Koderick Murchison, General and Mrs. Sabine, Sir David and

Lady Brewster, Lord Rosse, Duke of Richmond, and several

Ilocal managers of the Aberdeen meeting. sat next General
ISir Charles Grey, whom always find agreeable.

   IAt the evening meeting was on the platform next

Lord Ashburton, who introduced himself, as he says he does

to all his friends (since his return from the East with a
beard), as not a soul knows him. He is quite changed by it.
The Prince's speech was well delivered. We shall send it

            · At the British Association.

                                   T2

                            SIR CHARLES I.YELL.             CHAP xxxiv.

to you when we get perhaps to-day. In consequence of

General Grey talking with me about the flint hatchets of
            it
                      it,
          Amieus, he for one determined to hear my opening address.

I           had thought best not to ask the Prince to be there, lestI
          should interfere with other arrangements, though had
         'two talks with him at Banchory. But next morning          it
          Sabine came with a message that H.R.H. the President
          requested me to defer my opening speech till he couldI
          attend at twelve o'clock, so got on Prof. Nichol first, on

          the Geology of Aberdeenshire.' When the Prince came,

the room, which had been gradually filling, must have
contained about 800. The Prince, the evening before, had

          2,200, and many ladies had been refused tickets.

     Young Geikie has read the best paper to my mind yet
presented to our section,on the 'Age of the various Trap Rocks

of Scotland.' He finished by endeavouring to prove the
                           I4

                                 I
                                                                              !
                                                   I
                                                                                  a
                                                                                                    is
top of Arthur's Seat to be tertiary Of the young men he

          certainly the coming geologist and writer.  am glad Homer

          likes his book.   expect he will one day be leader in the

          Ordnance Survey.

               My address, which hope to send you to-morrow in the
          newspaper, will be a full answer to Horner's very natural
          suggestion about the Denise fossil man. We have talked

          with Symonds of Pendock (who was escorting a daughter
          of the late Hugh Miller,) with Sir Richard Griffith, Profs.
          Ramsay, Huxley, Harkness, Lord Monteagle, Mr. Vernon
          Harcourt, Prof. Phillips, Sir Philip Egerton, Sir James
          Clark, Dr. Allen Thomson, Dr. Gould, Sir William Jardine,

          Prof. Owen, Mr. Hopkins, &c.

               Sedgwick was to have dined at Banchory, and slept there,
          but wrote on the day to say he could not come, having a cold,

          but hoped to be here on Saturday.
               Sir James Clark wanted Mary to go to a ball at Balmoral

          on Monday, but she will stay with me, and perhaps go with

          the Clarks to the luncheon, to which shall probably go at
          4

                                           I
          Balmoral on Thursday the 22nd.

                             With love to all, ever affectionately yours,
                                                                        CHARLES LYELL,.

                 Professor Archibald Geikie, Director of the Geological Survey of Scot
          land.

i859. ' ORIGIN OF SPECIES:  825

     [After the meeting of the British Association at Aberdeen, Sir
Charles Lyell asked Mr. Symonds to accompany him to Elgin to in

vestigate the history of the Elgin Sandstones, which contained the
fossil remains of the supposed Old Red reptile, Telerpeton. The late
Sir William Jardine, Professor Harkness, and Lord Enniskillen also
went with them. After many days' examination, Mr. Symonds came
to the determination that the Telerpeton beds were New Red -- not Old
Red --and it turned out that he was right eventually.]

                           To CHARLES PARWIN, ESQ.

                                           Drumkilbo, Meigle, Perthshire : October 3, 1859.

   I IMy dear Darwin, --1 have just finished your volume,5 and

right glad am that did my best with Hooker to persuade
you to publish it without waiting for a time which probably
could never have arrived, though you lived to the age of a
hundred, when you had prepared all your facts on which

you ground so many grand generalisations.

    It is a splendid case of close reasoning and long sustained

argument throughout so many pages, the condensation
immense, too great perhaps for the uninitiated, but an

effective and important preliminary statement, which will
admit, even before your detailed proofs appear, of some

occasional useful exemplifications, such as your pigeons and

I Icirripedes, of which you make such excellent use.
         mean that when, as fully expect, a new edition is
soon called for, you may here and there insert an actual case,
to relieve the vast number of abstract propositions. So far

I Ias am concerned, am so well prepared to take your
Istatements of facts for granted, that do not think the
Ipieces justificatives when published will make much differ

ence, and have long seen most clearly that if any con

cession is made, all that you claim in your concluding pages
will follow.

    It is this which has made me so long hesitate, always

feeling that the case ot Man and his Races and of other

animals, and that of plants, is one and the same, and that if

a vera causa be admitted for one instant, of a purely
unknown and imaginary one, such as the word ' creation,'
all tne consequences must follow.

                                         * On the Origin of Sjieriei.

326  SIR CHARLES LYELL.    CHAP, xxxiv.

   I I Ifear have not time to-day, as am just leaving this

Iplace, to indulge in a variety of comments, and to say how

much was delighted with Oceanic Islands--Rudimentary

I IOrgans -- Embryology -- the Genealogical Key to the Natural

System -- Geographical Distribution; and if went on

should be copying the heads of all your chapters.
     With my hearty congratulations to you on your great work,

                   Believe me ever very affectionately yours,

                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

                              To DR. JOSEPH HOOKER.

                                                                         London : November 13, 1859.

    My dear Hooker, --Your generalisations on species are
worth more to me in proportion to the vast numbers of in
dividual forms and varieties with which you deal, and to the

Imore extensive grasp which the botanist has already got of

the earth's flora, than the zoologist has of the fauna.
therefore wish all the reasoning in the old New Zealand
Essay, in the review of De Candolle, Introduction to ' Flora
Indica,' and in your new book, could be given in one 8vo.

volume, referring for details to the Essays.

      Reviews, even when not anonymous, are so apt to be classed
with ephemeral criticisms, in which the usually unknown
and half responsible critic writes off-hand on the book he is
treating of, that it is not the best channel for recording with
a date the results you had then come to, after collecting
personally a greater body of evidence than any other natu
ralist has brought to bear on a momentous question.

                                   Ever affectionately yours,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

     To His SISTEE.

     53 Harley Street, London: November 15, 1859.
     IMy dearest Caroline, -- have to thank you for your kind
Ipresent of a purse, which will be soon useful, as Mary says
Iwear mine out very fast.  wish you could have seen the

boys romping for nearly five hours, and very well behaved,

drinking my health at dinner without any mauvaise honte,

and keeping every one alive. Lady Bell is wonderfully well,

1859. BIRTHDAY PARTY.  827

and danced in the Haymakers. From her to Rosamond 6
there was a capital gradation of ages. Next week we are to
have the Hookers staying with us. He is finishing the
printing of an Essay on the ' Flora of Australia,' in which the
great question of the mutability of species is treated of, and
as he has for years been discussing this great problem with

ICharles Darwin, and goes nearly as far as he does, long to

Iread it before have my say in the new edition of my

Manual. Sir James Clark is rather better, but has suffered

much. He never missed a birthday dinner of the Prince of
Wales before, and the Prince wrote him a very good letter on
the occasion, very natural and kind. The Queen has also
been very attentive and concerned about him. You should
have seen Leonard introduce me to my table of presents.
He was as good as an auctioneer. He pronounced a cup and
saucer of Sevres manufacture, much to Lady Bell's amuse

ment, who was the donor, as decidedly the handsomest thing

on the table ; praised Susan's travelling letter-case as most
useful, and so of the rest, informing me who had sent each,

which he got up for his own curiosity and my edification,
and by no means to show off, for he was unconscious of the

amusement he afforded the company.

                   Believe me your affectionate brother,
                                                               CHARLES LYELL.

                              To DE. JOSEPH HOOKEE.

                                              53 Harley Street, London : December 19, 1859.

   IMy dear Hooker, -- have just finished the reading of

your splendid Essay 7 on the ' Origin of Species ' as illustrated
by your wide botanical experience, and think it goes very far
to raise the variety-making hypothesis to the rank of
a theory, as accounting for the manner in which new species
enter the world. Certainly De Candolle's book was like the
old doctrine of those who only called in spontaneous genera
tion for explaining those cases where they were unable to
trace the origin to an egg or seed. Nevertheless the extent
to which he granted nearly half of what he really believed

                        · His young niece of three years old.
                           ' Introductory Essay to the Tasmanian Flora.

328  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP, xxxiv.

to be true species to have been derivations in the way of

varieties, was calculated to lead philosophical and logical

Iminds to go the whole length of transmutation.

        thought your way of putting it very clear, and the

style luminous ; the acknowledgment of Robert Brown hand

somely done.
     The number of grand generalisations is really stupendous

when one considers the vast number of species to which they
relate. Such as the excess of unstable over stable forms ;

the limitation of genera and orders owing to extinction, and
of species by destruction of varieties ; the non-reversion to
wild stocks, which struck me as very new and important ;
the centripetal tendency of hybridisation, species being
realities even under the new view. The equality of distribu
tion of the Acot-, Mono-, and Dicotyledons is very wonderful

if the dicotyledonous Angiosperms are geologically so modern.

     The gymnogens ought, like the marsupial quadrupeds, to
have kept some one country to themselves from the oolitic

period in order to make the case of plants parallel to that of
animals. Though it must be owned that we do not yet
know whether in tertiary times there may not have been a

rich placental fauna in the Australian area.
     The first two notes of page vii. are very interesting, and

show what grand speculations and results ' the creation by
variation ' is capable of suggesting, and one day of estab

lishing.
     The facts and views in page xvii. are wonderfully sug

gestive and grand, as in all about the glacial migrations.

IThe geological chapter is only too short.
        read your Essay when staying with the Van de Weyers,
and he ordered and will am sure appreciate in a way
that few of our literary men can.

                                   Ever affectionately yours,
                                                         CHARLES LYELL.
     it,

          I
              I

                                                       it,

                                                                                            3,
                          To CHARLES BUNBUEY, ESQ.

                                             53 Harley Street, London: January 1860.

    My dear Bunbury,-- am sorry to hear of your cold, and
that you have not been able to get out these fine frosty days.

i860.  MOUNT LEBANON.  329

You asked me whether anything new had turned up about

the Bovey Tracey beds. The very day your letter reached me
with this query, Pengelly came to town with a fresh store of
specimens. Among these the Glyptostrobus Eur&pceus, with
fruit now, as well as innumerable leaves, was conspicuous.
They have come upon another bed in which a large palm-
lifce looking plant, sometimes two or three feet long, and with

Ia somewhat fan-shaped arrangement of the flabellaria-like

leaves, abound, but could find no point from which the
leaves radiated, and we had no botanist to help us. We
thought it most like one of Heer's plates of Manicaria.

It is at any rate an outlandish form for Britain.
   Did I tell you of Hooker's ascent of Lebanon, 11,000

feet high, and his finding, though now there is no perpetual

snow there, old glacier moraines descending 4,000 feet down
from the summit, of which he has made some very graphic

sketches ? All the cedars of Lebanon grow exclusively on

these moraines.

                                       Ever affectionately yours,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

                             To GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

                                             53 Harley Street, London : January 9, 1860.

   IMy dear Ticknor, -- have been so absorbed in prepara
Ition for a new edition of my ' Geology ' that have really

had no ideas to exchange, except on those matters which the
initiated are discussing, or that question which my friend
Charles Darwin's book has brought before the British read
ing public, both scientific, literary, and theological ; whether,
as Dean Milman expresses it, Lyell and his friend have come
from tadpoles, against which the Dean, after reading the
book on the ' Origin of Species,' vehemently protests, saying
that the production of such a book is in itself enough to re
fute the possibility of such an origin.

     Nevertheless it is easier to say and feel this, than to
gainsay the continually increasing body of evidence to
which 1 shall try to add some arguments not yet ad

vanced.
     Of all the small books of a readable kind which have

830              SIR CHARLES LYELL.                                         CHAP, xxxiv.

come out in our time, you will find  iIt,    expect, the one

which takes the longest to read and digest.

     Milmau has been much overcome by the sudden death
of Macaulay --ten years younger than himself.
                                                                            I  wish he

were not pall-bearer, as think      it       too much for him.
                       I
                                         is

The last time we met him, in July think, Macaulay wasI

in excellent spirits. It was at Lord Stanhope's. The Duke

d'Aumale and Motley were there among others, and there

was much talk about the true English origin of most Ameri

canisms. Lord Stanhope also, hear, to be pall-bearer.
                       is

                             I

                                                            a

have heard nothing positive about the state of Macaulay's
I
   I

             is
historical MS., but the general story runs that one volume at

least finished.

     have been much occupied with another geological sub

ject, besides that which your niece, Ellen Twisleton, irrever

ently calls, the proving her to be first cousin to a turnip

(a   violet she should have said).  mean the antiquity of
                       I
                                 I

                                        II
man as implied by the flint hatchets of Amiens, undoubtedly

contemporaneous with the mammoth, and also the human

skeletons of certain caves near Lie"ge which believe to be
of corresponding age.  regard the Pyramids as things of

yesterday in comparison of these relics.     obtained sixty-

five recently dug up, and Sir George Grey, of the Cape, and

formerly Governor of New Zealand, recognises among them

spear-heads like those of Australia, and hatchets and instru

ments such as the Papuans use for digging up roots, all so                     '
like as to confirm the saying you used to quote, of Man

being a creature of few tricks.'

     We hear that the open speaking out against the Govern
ment at Vienna forms a remarkable feature to the state of

things before the war. The Concordat irritates the low-

church party, the army complains that they were not well

led in Italy, and the Hungarians are of course more discon

tented than the German population.

     Among the stories hear that when the two Emperors
    a

                    is I

                                             a
                                                is

                                                               '
                                                                         '
took a ride alone after the peace of Villafranca, they went

to rock where there    famous echo, and Louis Napoleon

called out Euge"nie, to which the echo replied, Ge"nie,' and he

proposed to the Austrian to call out the name of his wife

Elizabeth, to which the echo answered Be'te.'

i860. DEATH OF MACAULAY.                                          331

   ITo return to Darwin's book, Twisleton, who has called

since wrote the above, being up here for Lord Macaulay's

funeral, told me he had been much taken with the new theory,

Iand stated some objections, and ended with asking me what
   thought Agassiz would say to it, after he had nailed his
colours to the mast in his recent work on ' Classification.'

Now I should like much if you will learn what Agassiz does

think and say, and if he has already written anything, please

send it to me. Asa Gray, among your scientific men of
Inote, is, think, the one who comes nearest in his opinions
Ito Darwin.
             confess that Agassiz's last work drove me far

over into Darwin's camp, or the Lamarckian view, for when

he attributed the original of every race of man to an inde

pendent starting point, or act of creation, and not satisfied
with that, created whole ' nations ' at a time, every indi
vidual out of ' earth, air, and water ' as Hooker styles
                                                                  I it,
the miracles really became to me so much in the way of

S. Antonio of Padua, or that Spanish saint whose name

forget, that could not help thinking Lamarck must be
I'
       Iright, for the rejection of his system led to such license in

               if
the cutting of knots. . .
    January 10. --Called this morning at Edward Romilly's
                                                                  I;
all talking of Macaulay's funeral. Edward Romilly said he

never heard Macaulay say anything with humour in it.

told him he once, when we were talking of novels, said to

me, suppose           you were  "evmerillsttoonwe rigterit.o"ne,  you would
make the lovers   meet on the   I'
                                                                  E. Romilly

declared there was more humour in that than in all he had

ever heard him say. As to my flint implements of the age

of the mammoth, Macaulay was very clear must be mis

taken. He said they must have got into the drift by some

accident.

    With love to Mrs. Ticknor and Anna, believe me affec

tionately yours,

                                CHARLES LYELL.

332  SIR CHARLES LYELL.    CHAP, xxxiv.

     To PEINCIPAL DAWSON.

                                                      53 Harley Street, London : May 15, 1860.

   IMy dear Dawson, -- ought to have thanked you sooner
Ifor your handsome present of ' Archaia,' which read through

with great interest.

   I Ithought some parts very eloquent, but you well know

am one of those who despair of anyone being able to

reconcile the modern facts of geology and of many other

sciences with the old cosmogonies handed down to us by the

unknown authors of the early chapters of Genesis. A great

Ipart of your book, however, may be read with no small profit

and pleasure, without reference to such matters, and was
glad it was written before Darwin's book came out, and

after Agassiz.

    You have truly remarked that the latter, by referring

varieties and races to separate creations, leads practically to
Lamarck's transmutations. Indeed the license in which, in
his work on ' Classification,' he indulges in multiplying the

miracle of creation whenever he has the slightest difficulty

of making out how a bird or a fish could have migrated to

some distant point from its first or other habitat, prepared

many to embrace Darwin's and Lamarck's hypothesis.

     The argument that a plurality of original stocks, demanded

by Agassi/, requires more than a sufficient cause, is un

answerable. But Agassiz honestly felt that if he had to

allow that the Negro and the European came from one stock,

he should go more than half over to the transmutationists.

IThis he candidly confessed in one of his reviews.
     Kenrick was the first remember to argue that the ante

diluvians who lived five hundred to one thousand years could

not have been of one species. Such a difference in regard to

longevity would far exceed the other peculiarities of the
If I INegro.
     believed (as certainly do not) that any race
Iof the genus Homo ever differed from us as much, should

think that a good specific divergence could take place in a

Imuch shorter time than Darwin would deem possible.
        by no means deny that progressive development may be
inferred from the manner in which the mammalia increase

i860.                       ON EVOLUTION.                                                              333

and rise higher in grade as we trace them down to times
nearer our own. Hugh Miller may have pushed it too far,

and few allow enough for our ignorance of the ancient in

habitants of the land, yet there is no doubt much truth in

the theory of advance, and you ought to have given Darwin

credit for not having insisted more upon this class of facts.

The truth is that what with occasional proofs of degradation

of some types and of persistency without improvement in

others, he did not feel justified in going as far as his orthodox

opponents. He would otherwise have rejoiced in believing

that the rise from the sponge to the cuttlefish, and thence

through fish, reptile, and bird to marsupial had occurred, and

from that to the intelligence of the Gyrencephala, and from

the Chimpanzee to the Bushman, and at length to naked

Britons, all by a law of creation ending with the development

into an Anglo-Saxon. This successive evolution of sensation,

instinct, intelligence, reason, which sucli a popular creed
                                     I
                                                is>
                                                     is
with those who shrink from transmutation, the direct way
which leads to Lamarckianism -- possibly the road of truth,

but they who travel by hardly think, see the natural
                            (I
consequences or the goal to which they are approximating.it
  wish you had shown more appreciation in your review of
it I
the number of very distinct sets of phenomena of which
    I is
        Darwin's hypothesis claim no higher name for offers a
                                                                                                    it)
                                                                                                            is
solution, and for which no other scientific hypothesis hitherto
advanced affords any. With limited variability, which an

        arbitrary assumption after all, we can explain nothing.
             Hip tables of large and small genera will show you that
              only when you have thousands of species to deal with

        that you can strike an average, and what you say of Asters
        will, think, be denied by botanists.

        Hooker's Introduction to the Flora of Australia will'                                       '

        interest you much.  Ever most truly yours,

                                           CHARLES LYELL.

                                        To Miss HORNER.

                                                                                  London June 22, 1860.

            Dearest Susan, -- have a promise that the bust of the
        late Mrs. Jameson, by Gibson, R.A., shall be placed in the
                            T
                                                                    '

                                                                                                 :

334     SIR CHARLES LYELL.                                          CHAP, xxxiv.

corridors to be appropriated to memorial sculpture on the

grounds of the Royal Commission of 1851 at South Ken

sington.'

    Also, that if the place for it is not finished or ready, it

shall provisionally be put into the room of sculpture.
     The Prince wishes, in this and other cases, that there

should be inscribed on the pedestal, not only the name, but
some statement of the merits of the individual com

memorated, which he thinks too much neglected in our

public statues, the people requiring instruction.8
     At first they will put all such statues and busts together

as they accept them ; but eventually they will be classified,
not according to sex, but their ' specialities,' as the French
would say -- historians, poets, artists, &c.

     He asked what division Mrs. Jameson would best come
Iinto.  said ' belles lettres, relating to the fine arts ; ' but
Ithat would consult her friends. At any rate that will be for

future arrangement.

     You may write to Gibson now.
                                          Yours affectionately,

                                                                    CHARLES LYELL.

        To SIR CHARLES BUNBURY.

                     53 Harley Street, London, W. : July 4, 1860.

     My dear Bunbury,-- Baron Anca, a Sicilian, has just
found in a cave near Palermo, or rather has just brought to

Falconer, remains of the living Elephas Africanus in a fossil
state, associated with the living African spotted hyaena, and

extinct El. antiqmw and Hippopotamus Siculus, all from a

cave near Palermo. He brought them to me in this room.

They show that Sicily must have been united with Africa,

and you perhaps remember that Admiral Smyth discovered

that a shallow hundred fathom                                       bottom ran from Tunis to
5
    a

                                                               (?)
Sicily, while on each side of this submarine ridge there was

       Miss Horner modelled a medallion of her friend Mrs. Jameson's head

from cast taken after death, and this aided Mr. Gibson in making the marble
bust at Rome which stands in Kensington Museum. The inscription on the

pedestal was written by Miss Horner.

1860 PROFESSOR HUXLEY.  335

very deep sea, a thousand fathom deep on the west side, and

never yet fathomed on the east.
     Lord Ducie told me a year ago of a hippopotamus having

been found in Malta, and the other day at Oxford he showed
me a letter from Captain Spratt, giving an account of a cave
in Malta in which he had found an elephant (fossil) and a
gigantic mole.

     Both Anca and Falconer seem to believe that man was

contemporaneous with this land connection of Africa and

ISicily.
         was not able to attend the section of Zoology and
Botany 9 (Henslow in the chair), when first Owen and Huxley,
and on a later day the Bishop of Oxford and Huxley, had a
 spar, and on the latter occasion young Lubbock and Joseph
Hooker declared their adhesion to Darwin's theory.

      Owen and Huxley discussed the osteological and cerebral
 distinction of Man and the higher Apes, Huxley contesting
 seven of Owen's propositions laid down in his lecture at

 Cambridge as untrue and unsound in fact.
      The Bishop of Oxford asked whether Huxley was related

 by his grandfather's or grandmother's side to an Ape.

 Huxley replied (I heard several varying versions of this

 shindy), 'that if he had his choice of an ancestor, whether

 it should be an ape, or one who having received a scholastic

 education, should use his logic to mislead an untutored
 public, and should treat not with argument but with ridicule
 the facts and reasoning adduced in support of a grave and
 serious philosophical question, he would not hesitate for a

 moment to prefer the ape.' Many blamed Huxley for his

 irreverent freedom ; but still more of those I heard talk of it,

 and among them Falconer, assures me the Vice-Chancellor
 Jeune (a liberal) declared that the Bishop got no more than
 he deserved. The Bishop had been much applauded in the
 section, but before it was over the crowded section (numbers
  could not get in) were quite turned the other way, especially
  by Hooker.

     IMr. C. Moore interested me much in our section, by the

  result of a collector's feat which never heard equalled. He
  carted away from a fissure near Bristol two tons of the

                               · At the British Association at Oxford.

336        SIR CHARLES LYELL.             CHAP. xxxiv.

detritus of the triassic bone-bed which had been accumulated

in the said upfilled rent. He had it conveyed to his house

I
          a
         it
                            '

                                                      !

                                                       '
                                                                          by

                                                                             it,
twenty miles distant, took two years to examine                                   and

found in forty-five thousand teeth of the genus Ac,rodus,

counted by the pint measure innumerable other fish and

reptiles' teeth and bones, many shells, and nineteen teeth,

besides few vertebra, of Microlestes and two other mammalia

genera of triassic age

     hope to hear soon that you are returning to your scien

tific reading and investigations, and that you will pay well

for what we call factorship in Scotland, rather than let

your valuable time be seriously absorbed such superinten

dence and agency as can be purchased.

     My love to Frances, and believe me affectionately yours,

                                       CHARLES LYELL.

           To the REV. CHARLES KINGSLEY.

                                          63 Hurley Street, London September 23, 1860.

     My dear Sir, --On my return from the Continent, find
I
   I

               I
                          II

                                                      a

                                  I'

                                 I
                                         I:

                                                                                              a

                                                    I

                                                                                                               a
here your excellent sermon on the Prayer for rain, sent to me

presume by your direction, and for which return you many

thanks. Two weeks ago, happened to remark to stranger

who was sitting next me at table d'h6te, at Rudolstadt in

Thuringia, that feared the rains must have been doing
great deal of mischief. He turned out to be a scientific

man from Berlin, and replied,  should think they were

much aeeded to replenish the springs after three years of

drought.'

     immediately felt that had made an idle and thought
less speech. Some thirty years ago was told at Bonn of

two processions of peasants who had climbed to the top of
the Petersberg, one composed of vine dressers, who were

intending to return thanks for sunshine and pray for its
continuance, the others from a corn district, wanting the
drought to cease and rain to fall. Each were eager to get
possession of the shrine of St. Peter's chapel before the other

to secure the saint's good offices, so they came to blows with

fists and sticks, much to the amusement of the Protestant

heretics at Bonn, who hope did not by such prayers as you
                        I

i860. GEOLOGICAL SPECULATIONS.                     837

allude to commit the same solecism occasionally, only less

coarsely carried out into action.

   IHave you read Freeman Clarke on ' Prayer ' (Boston, United

States), who states more fairly than any author have read
the philosophical difficulty, and, though he cannot clear it

away, treats the subject more ably than perhaps anyone has
done yet? Horace Bushnell, on ' Nature and the Supernatural '

(1859, New York), has also some splendid chapters on the

Irelation of God's free will to the immutable laws of Nature,
but the book is very unequal.  hope we shall have the

pleasure of seeing you when you are next in town.

          Believe me ever truly yours,

                               CHARLES LYELL.

          To the REV. W. S. SYMONDS.

                                                                                London : October 1, I860.

   IMy dear Symonds, -- should have written to you a day
Ior two ago had not been somewhat overwhelmed on my
Ireturn with arrears of correspondence, and until had seen

IDr. Falconer and learnt whether he and Prestwich had made

as much progress as had hoped on the great question at

issue about the relations of certain elephant beds and the

Iglacial epoch. am disappointed at finding matters so much
I Iwhere they were, here at least, for hope see my way

Irather more clearly in reference to Picardy, Belgium, and the

Rhine, where have been examining both into the question
of the antiquity of man, and that of the supposed return

of a warmer climate than we have now, after the era of glacial

cold.

Some of the evidence relied on for the latter opinion, such

as the Elephas Africarws in modern drift, has decidedly given

way.
     My idea of going to South Wales, and taking your

district on my way, and getting the benefit of your co-opera

tion, was dependent on some progress having first been made

by Prestwich, Falconer, and Colonel Wood in regard to the age

of the South Wales caves, with not only Elephas primigenius,

Rhinoceros tichorhirms, but also some of them with the other

elephants and rhinoceroses (E. antiquus, and R. leptorhinus,
VOL. II.
          Z

838               SIR CHARLES LYELL.            CHAP, xxxiv.

now called by Falconer R. hemitcechus), the age of these

relatively to the glaciers, glaciation, and submergence of North

Wales, and the deposition of the northern drift. Interesting

                     only one of many which have to go
as this question  is,                           I
                                                   I
                    it
                                                        I
                         is
                                       '
into, such as the new discoveries of human remains coeval

with mammoth, Darwin's theory of species, which affects

certain passages even of the Manual,' and know not how

many other matters which in my travels of the last five years,

since the last edition was published, have accumulated upon

me, and on which have to pronounce some opinion.         must
                  I

therefore stay in town and unpack my boxes, and only thank

you heartily for your kind invitation, for which my wife also

desires me to send her thanks to you and Mrs. Symonds.

                     Ever sincerely yours,

                                                CHAELES LYELL.

     To PRINCIPAL DAWSON, Montreal.

                                          London October 27, 1860.
                     is I

                         is it

                            I it

                                             ; it
                                                  it :

                                                    II
     My dear Dawson, -- received a letter a few days ago

from Sir Charles Bunbury, in which he called my attention

to your paper in the February 1859 No. of our Journal,

as 'iidmirable and of great importance, one of the most

material additions to our knowledge of vegetable structures

in coal that we have had for a long time.' Although
had been much struck with
                                          when  was first read,

had not fully appreciated till reperused in print. The
doctrine of the mineral charcoal having been formed by
plants decaying in the air a grand step, and seems to me
very unanswerable. What you say also of the Sigillariae

and Calamites, and their not having been of lax and soft tissues

but of slow growth,  most interesting also the number
of generations of Sigillariae in one foot of coal. In short the
whole paper teems with grand results, and makes us wish

for your continuation in giving us the history of the other
seventy-six successive coal-beds of the South Joggins.

     Another Stereognathus ooliticus jaw has turned up in the
Stonesfield slate. An animal about the size of a hedgehog,
but fear we shall learn nothing new from it.
I

     Falconer has made out clearly the former existence of

i860. FOSSIL ELEPHANTS. 3-19

a small elephant, the size of a Shetland pony, in the

small island of Malta. They have also found a hippopo

Itamus there, and a gigantic dormouse the size of a rat,

but fear Falconer's having to go to Sicily for his health
will prevent our having a printed announcement of these

discoveries.

     The African elephant, living species, has turned up in

Ithe Sicilian caves, together with the existing Cape hyaena

(fl". crocuta think it is called), showing the comparatively
recent land-connection of Sicily and the African continent,
between which there is a very shallow sea 200 or 300 feet

Ideep.
         abandon the Old Red reptile, which will gratify the

I Ifprogressionists, some of whom still feel inclined to adhere
to it. The Telerpeton  mean.  Darwin's theory is

ever established, it will be by the facts and arguments of

the progressionists such as Agassiz, whose development

doctrines go three parts of the way, though they don't seem

to see it.

                       Ever most truly yours,

                              CHARLES LYELL.

            To His SISTER.

                                      53 Harley Street, London : November 15, 1860.

IMy dearest Marianne, -- have to thank you for a letter

and your good wishes on my birthday, and those of the rest

of the family north of the Tweed. Our party ' went off very
pleasantly, as it was sure to do, for we had no one here

Ithat we did not like, and scarcely any one of whom may not

say that we were fond, from Rosamoud upwards to grandpapa,

and Sir Edward Ryan. The impromptu charade of the

Catacombs was most entertaining, and the final scene espe

Icially. The children, who all acted, were wide awake to the
last.       wish you and all of you could have seen them, and

the party.

   IOur new picture, which Susan got for us at Dresden,2

and of which presume you heard, was much admired.

            i On his birthday.
            1 A copy of the Madonna di San Sisto.

                                                 12

340                SSR CHARLES LYELL.       CHAP, xxxiv.

Both Gibson the sculptor and Boxall the painter admire it

as a copy exceedingly.
     The other day Mr. Wollaston, the entomologist, told me

that he had just received some insects, Coleoptera, from St.
Helena. Not only the species but the genera so entirely
different from all the rest of the world. He said, when we

were talking of the extinctions fast going on, that the large

Copper, Lycwna dispar, is believed to be fairly blotted out of
Icreation. It WHS only British, and you saw what they had
done to Whittlesea Mere.  hope our specimens are in

good preservation, for what with their beauty and rarity,

Ithey are getting up to a fabulous price, which shows how
they are valued. I am sorry did not find time when last

at Drumkilbo to go over the Coleoptera and Lepidoptera at
least. Some of the St. Helena Curculionida; seem to be the

Imost abnormal types.
        have just got Bunsen's ' Egypt's Place in Universal
History ' from Mudie's, and am much interested in it. Max
Miiller's Essay on ' Comparative Mythology ' in the Oxford

Essays for 1856 is a splendid article.

    It was like old times again to meet the Heads 3 at the

Milmans', but the loss of their son makes a great blank.

There was no young man of all my acquaintance as able and

enthusiastic as a geologist. The Heads will return in Feb

ruary to Canada, but 1 hope for no long time. Joseph
Hooker is expected this week to return from Syria. Faraday

was calling here to-day, to explain why he could not romp
with the boys as he did last year. He is very well, and

going to lecture at Christmas, and Leonard is to hear him.
With love to all,

                   Believe me affectionately yours,

                          CHARLES LYELL.

                   To GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

                                           53 Harley Street, London November 29, 18BO.

     IMy dear Ticknor, -- was glad to get the news in Mrs.
ITicknor's last letter of the opening of the Museum and of
Agassiz's doings.  fully expect it will soon be a model

     3 Sir Edmund Head, Governor-General of Canada, and Lady Head.

i860. ANTIQUITY OF MAN.                 341

Icollection.  shall be curious to see a second reply of
IAgassiz to Darwin, which understand is coming. Murray
has sold all that remained, and more, of my friend's ' Origin
of Species ; ' 4,250 copies printed, and only out about a year,

and he must now prepare a new edition.

      Whatever faith we may settle down into, opinions can

never go back exactly to what they were before Darwin cauie

out. The Oxford Professor of Geology, J. Phillips, has

I Ifought Darwin by citing me in pages out of my ' Principles,'

but must modify what said in a new edition. Agassiz
helped Darwin and the Lamarckians by going so far in his
' Classification,' not hesitating to call in the creative power to
make new species out of nothing whenever the slightest
difficulty occurs of making out how a variety got to some

Idistant part of the globe. Asa Gray's articles, all of which
   have procured, appear to me the ablest, and on the whole

grappling with the subject, both as a naturalist and meta

physician, better than anyone else on either side of the
Atlantic.

   I have been very busy with the proofs afforded by the

flint implements found in the drift of the valley of the
Somme at Amiens and Abbeville, and more recently in the
valley of the Seine at Paris, of the high antiquity of man.

That the human race goes back to the time of the mammoth

and rhinoceros (Siberian) and not a few other extinct mam

Imalia is perfectly clear, and when the physical geography

was different -- presume when England was joined to

France.

This will give time for the formation of many races from

one, and enable us to dispense with the separate creation of

Iseveral distinct starting-points, to make up for unorthodox

conclusions about ' preadamite man,' of which see some

writers are freely talking. How are you getting on with
I Iyour ' Life of Prescott ' ? faster hope than am with my new
Iedition of my ' Geology.'
                            am afraid there is no chance of

Baron Bunsen's recovery ; but when we saw him two months

ago he was full of vigour and animation. His date of 10,000

years B.C. for Noah's flood mast astonish some of the

orthodox in Boston. This reminds me of Max Miiller's
Essay on ' Comparative Mythology ' in the Oxford Essays for

                 SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxxiv.

1856, which appears to me in the philological part very
excellent. The argument for the existence of some aborigine
language, whether it be called Arian or by any other name,
seems conclusive, and it must go a far way back, as they
branched off into such distant and ancient nations. Bun-

sen's testimony that there is no tradition of the Arian
deluge in Egyptian history and mythology is striking.

                                   Ever affectionately yours,

                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

INovember 30. --The newspaper to-day brings the news of
Bunsen's death.  was not prepared for it so soon. He was

so beloved by his family, that it will be a great blow.

i 86 1.  FLATTERING OFFERS.  843

                         CHAPTER XXXV.

                       APRIL 1861 -- DECEMBER 1862.

EXCURSION TO BEDFORD, WHERE FLINT IMPLEMENTS HAD BEEN FOUND --
     OFFER OF CANDIDATURE OF M.P. FOR UNIVERSITY OF LONDON -- KBEUTZ-
     NACH-- FOSSIL BOTANY -- MEETING AT PHILOSOPHICAL CLUB -- DEATH OF
     PRINCE ALBERT -- LETTER ON THE PRINCE CONSORT -- ANNIVERSARY
     DINNER AT GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY -- CURTIS, THE ENTOMOLOGIST.

     [Various offers of a flattering kind were made to him at different
times to accept offices ; a Trusteeship of the British Museum, Presi
dent of the Royal Society, &c. : and during the year 1861, under the
proposed Reform Bill for a representative in Parliament for the
University of London, the candidature was offered to Sir Charles
Lyell. But he declined all, and resolved that he would devote himself
to the end of his life to his favourite science, which was daily open
ing up more interesting matter for study and research. The first
symptoms of ill-health declared themselves in this year, and he was
advised to spend some weeks in Kissingen in Bavaria, whither he
went in June, accompanied by his wife and nephew.

    In January 1862 he was elected Corresponding Member of the

Institute of France. This year was saddened by the death of his
wife's mother at Florence, whither he and Lady Lyell went in May,
and later in the year they visited various places on the south coast of
England.

    In 1863 he visited the Caves of Li6ge and Maestricht, and in the

autumn made a tour in Wales, accompanied by the Rev. W. S.

Symonds.

     The ' Antiquity of Man ' was published in February of this year.
An order of scientific merit was conferred on him by the King of
Prussia, the present Emperor. The order was instituted by the

former King (Frederick William IV.) and Alexander von Humboldt

was its first chancellor.]

344  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxxv.

                          CORRESPONDENCE.

                         To SIE CHARLES BUNBUEY.

                                                                          London : April 26, 1861.

    My dear Bunbury,-- I am laid up for a day or two after

an excursion to Bedford with Prestwich and Evans, to see a
section where a Mr. Wyatt, editor of the Bedford provincial
newspaper, has just found two fine hatchets of the true
Amiens and Hoxne type. They occurred in working a gravel

Ipit at Beddingham, which visited more than thirty years
Iago, when stayed with Admiral Smyth, then residing at
IBedford. That part of the pit, twenty-five feet deep and of

large extent, which then explored, is a wood of tall larches
which have grown fast and do credit to the interval.

     As the hatchets occurred at the bottom of the old fluvia-
tile gravel which contains Cyclas, Lymnaea, Helix, &c., of
recent species, they prove that man was in the country before

Iany mammalia of which the bones are buried in said gravel.

  saw a specimen of Elephas antiquus found in the town of
Bedford at the same level as the E. primigenius of Bedding-

Iham. At the latter place is also the tichorhine rhinoceros.

Iwas assured that the hippopotamus major was also found in

another locality ; but will not answer for that, but am pre

Ipared for anything after my last visit to Paris and revisit to

Abbeville. For am now prepared to believe that all the

Ianimals above mentioned were in the country after man, and

by digging a pit myself at Abbeville, obtained five imple
ments below a fluvio-marine bed containing the Gyrenaflumi-
nalis, alias C. consobrina of the Nile. The relation of man

Ito the close of the glacial period is a point on which have
Inot yet made up my mind, but suspect those beds in

France may have begun before the northern drift of England
was finished. The late discoveries at Herne Bay and
Reculvers convince me that man inhabited England when
the Thames was a tributary of the Rhine.

    But enough of these very modern aifairs. What you tell

Ime of those plants of more respectable antiquity, and of

Lesquereux's observations,1 interest me much. am surprised

                                  i On the Coal-plants of Pennsylvania.

i86i. DECLINES BEING M.P. 8 15

that he can make out, even by the omission of some con
spicuous plants, any kind of resemblance between the
American swamps and European peat mosses, except by
going very far north in the Transatlantic Continent. No
doubt all the coal-plants of Europe and America have been
formed in very analogous habitations. Dawson tells me that
he has found such a number of different species of Trigono-
carpum in that part of the Nova Scotia coal, where there is
a similar abundance and variety of Sigillaria, and where
Coniferae are scarce, and has found so many Trigonocarpa in
hollow Sigillariac, that he is half inclined to guess that said
fruits belong to said genus.

                                   Ever affectionately yours,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

                  To His BROTHER.

                                          53 Harley Street, London : April 23, 1861.

My dear Tom, --Under the new or proposed Reform Bill,

the University of London, with a constituency of about 700,

is to have a member, and a strong party, wishing to

have a new literary or scientific element introduced into

the House, as representing academical interests, offered to

bring forwaid Mr. Grote, formerly M.P., but being now im
mersed in finishing his ' History of Greece,' he declined

about a fortnight ago, and they then offered it to me.
   I was obliged to consider the affair just as if the Bill
Iwas carried, and as if (which really believe) the committee
Icould carry me.  declined, though there is no place in
Ithe House would so soon hold ; an 1 as the party who made
Ithe offer are by no means the extreme Liberals, should
have fully sympathised in their political as well as educational

I I Iviews. But my happiness is in carrying on my Geology, and
   believe shall do more good in that line, as have on

hand years of unpublished travels, and reading, and thinking.
There is a great demand for a new edition of the ' Manual,'
Inow out of print, and the ninth edition of the ' Principles '
(5,000 copies) nearly exhausted.  have also a new book

Ion the stocks.
     We don't talk of the overture, as would not cheapen

346            SIR CHARLES LYELL,            CHAP. xxxv.

the honour. After all, will Lord John carry his Bill ? They

I(the University of Edinburgh) offered me a degree at Lord

Brougham's installation, but grudged being absent five
days from town, but was half sorry to refuse to go. Here
is enough about myself in all conscience.

                      Believe me your affectionate brother,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

               To His SISTER.

                               Frankfort : June 17, 1861.

     My dearest Eleanor, --We were talking of you yesterday

when we stopped at the railway station at Kreutznach, and

wishing you were there again, and in as fine weather as we

Ihave been having ever since we left England. Leonard and

have been making out the geology as we flew along over the

Low Countries, and then spent two days among the limestone

caves of the Meuse at Dinant above Namur, and then through

Ithe forest of Ardennes, which still deserves that name
between Namur and Luxembourg.  went from the last

place to Saarbruck to see the finest collection of plants of

the coal which perhaps exists in Germany, and the finest of

insects of the same early period, chiefly fossil blattce and

Itermites (cockroaches and white ants), of which the Professor
has collected more than thirty individuals.  liked the look

Iof Kreutznach. Did any of you ever take a trip to Oberstein
to see the agates there?  should like to have stopped a

day there. We are to go for at least a three weeks' stay

to Kissingen.
     With love, ever your affectionate brother,

                                   CHARLES LYELL.

                            To the DUKE OF ARGYLL.

                                            63 Harley Street, London : July 9, 1861.

   I IMy dear Duke of Argyll, -- write to say that have

invited Professor Heer of Zurich, the best botanist in Europe
for fossil tertiary plants, to come here in the autumn --
August and September -- to determine the Bovey coal-plants
which have been collected by Mr. Pengelly at the expense
of Miss Burdett-Coutts.

i86i.  ANCYLUS FLUV1ATILIS.                                     847

    Heer is particularly desirous of examining the Mull
plants, because he thinks they will form a link between the
Miocene plants of Bovey Tracey, Switzerland, and the
fossils of the surtebrand of Iceland, which Heer has lately

worked upon. Among other wonderful discoveries they find
the tulip-tree (Liriodendron) in that now cold and treeless
island, and Heer thinks that Scotland in the Miocene period

Ifmay have supported a similar flora.

          you can do anything, whether by new researches or

by placing at Heer's disposal any stores already accumulated

of the plant-bearing beds, it is a fine opportunity of having

them thoroughly examined by a first-rate authority.
     He will detect species where they might evade the search

of any other naturalist, having so practised an eye. His
work now finished on the ' Flora Tertiaria Helvetica ' is a
beautiful and most satisfactory one.

                                 Believe me most truly yours,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

                    To LEONARD LYELL.

                                                                            Folkestone: August 7, 1861.

   IfMy dear Leonard,9 -- you visit Clova, or make out
Isome other expedition, hope you will write me an account

I Iof it. was glad to hear you had found Ancylus fluviatilis.

met with it lately fossil in France, in great numbers, in gravel

in which two species of extinct elephants and a rhinoceros

had been met with. The gravel was laid open in a railway
cutting on the banks of the river Oise.

Naturalists used to wonder how this Ancylus got spread

over the country in separated lakes and streams, till some

one found a young Ancylus adhering to the elytra of one of

those large boat-beetles, Dytiscus marginalis, which you will

see in the collection at Drumkilbo,3 and which fly about at

night from pond to pond, and may sometimes carry the

Ancylus with them,32            like the Patella which you saw high

                           if,
and dry on the rooks here, he can manage to do without

water for an hour or two, as most probably he can.

       Tell mamma we gathered samphire in flower at the

       His young nephew of ten years old, who was in Scotland.
       The country house of Sir Charles's sisters.

343  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                   CHAP. xxxv.

Lyddon Spout yesterday, and many other marine plants,

and wished she and you had been with us, as Mr. Bentham

named all the plants for us, and gave us much botanical

information. But we were so busy with the plants and
with five miles of walking, that we had no time for fossils,

and when we reached the gault it was almost dark. The

tide was lower than when you were there with me.

     Tell Uncle Tom that Mr. Powrie has been to Arbroath,

and has written to say that he finds that he was mistaken,

and not I, about the position of certain beds of conglomerate

and purplish shale which he, Mr. Powrie, said in a paper
Iread to the Geological Society, were not as had represented
Ithem during a visit made to the spot forty years ago. It
Iis an interesting place, and                     it
Iwith you, but I must not wait
     hope some day to examine
     another forty years, unless

intend to rival the Countess of Desmond,

                     Who lived to the age of a hundred and ten,
                     And was killed by a full from a cherry-tree then.

   I believe Aunt Mary told mamma about a letter of Mr.

Darwin's, wanting Mr. Bentham to tell him how to get from
Tenby in Wales a variety of Orchis pyramidalw, which you
remember gathering here, 'without spurs,' which mamma
one day pointed out to me as so cnaracteristic of the flowers
of that plant. The first specimen which Mr. Bentham
gathered in the Warren when talking with me of C. Darwin's
letter, was this very variety and monstrosity. But though

Iwe have picked two or three dozen since, not one of them,

departed from the usual type, and fear they are all gone

Ioff now, which is a pity, as Darwin has written to me for

another without spurs. But shall try again if the rain

will but stop. Yesterday we had a splendid day, the French.
coast very clear.

     Give my love to Frank and Arthur and Rosamond.

                       Believe me, my dear Leonard,

                                      Your affectionate uncle,

                                                    CHARLES LYELL.

i86i. FOSSIL BOTANY.                                       849

To SIR CHARLES BUNBURY.

                                                                               London: August 26, 186l.

  IMy dear Bunbury,-- wrote some time ago to Heer of

Zurich, asking him, if he had any copies by him of his

'Fossil Flora of Switzerland,' to bring one with him to

ILondon in September, for that you wished to buy it.

begged him at the same time to bring, if possible, a copy for

Iboth you and me, of a beautiful French translation which

know Gaudin was making of the grand Essay on the ' Swiss
Tertiaries ' as compared to those of other countries, and on

climate, all treated from a botanical point of view. In this

translation Heer himself has added some valuable pages here

and there on Aix-la-Chapelle plants of Debey, on (Eninghen

insects, &c. It would make a good 8vo. volume. All the

rest of the book, the description of the plants, &c., does very

well in German, but this theoretical portion, which is very
well done, it is a luxury to have in French. Gaudin has also

added some chapters to which his name is appended.

Heer has sent me a report on the Bovey coal-plants.

They had only made out about fifteen species, and now

Ithat Pengelly has, at my suggestion, sent over the collection
to Zurich, Heer finds forty-five species.  see he has named
a Lastreea, L. Bunbwrvi. It is Lower Miocene. A great or

rather abundant Sequoia, allied to the Californian mammoth

tree, forms the bulk of the coal, cones and seeds in plenty.
Sequoia Couttziai is named in honour of the lady at whose

expense the collection was made. There are palms (pal ma-

cites) ; cinnamons, two species ; Nymphcea, Proteaccw,
IQuercus, two vines; Ficus, two species; Gardenia.
                                                        quote

from memory, having had to send on the letter to Pengelly
Ithe same day got it. Fifteen species identical with conti
Inental Lower Miocene ; many new species.
                                                        expect Heer
Ihere in a week, ar.d he will go to Bovey Tracey, and daresay

find more species.
                            Ever affectionately yours,

                                           CHARLES LYELL.

350  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                       CHAP. xxxv.

     To PROFESSOR HEER.4

                                                   53 Harley Street, London: August 26, 1861.

   IMy dear Professor Heer, --The day received your letter

I Isent it to Mr. Pengelly, and have this morning heard
I Ifrom him. He is as much delighted at the importance of

your results as am, and he is more surprised, for always
felt sure that you would find twice or thrice as many species

Ias they had dreamt of.
          am extremely gratified by the compliment which you
and M. Gaudin have had the kindness to pay me in your
dedication to me of the translation of your splendid essay,

Iwhich am reading in French with renewed pleasure and
I Iadmiration. When first received the copy, did not see

that the dedication was there, and so acknowledged the
parcel in my letter to M. Gaudin without any special allusion
Ito this very flattering testimony of your esteem.
Ithe new edition will be approved of by you.        hope

                                              have gone

much farther than before in favour of a progressive develop

ment, and have also endeavoured to show the importance of

botany in geological classification.

     Believe me most truly yours,

                                      CHARLES LYELL.

                            To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

                                                  53 Harley Street London : November 5, 1861.

     My dear Horner,-- We had a good meeting of the
Philosophical Club, eighteen present. Sabine in the chair
in great force. Grove, Williamson, Miller of King's College,
Sharpey, Carpenter, Daubeny, Falconer, Frankland, Gassiot,
Hooker, Huxley, Bence Jones, Partridge, Sykes, Tyndall,
Wheatstone. Tyndall gave an account of an attempt he had
made to measure the heat of the moon's beams by an instru
ment on the roof of the Royal Institution, and he found in
a clear sky, that the moon when the instrument was turned
to it produced a chill. Melloni had found heat, but he

     4 Professor Oswald Hecr, of the Technological Inst itute of Zurich, eminent
fossil botanist, author of the [fritelt der Schneiti, and other important
works.

!85i. PHILOSOPHICAL CLUB. 351

found cold ; he supposed there was watery vapour in the
air, acted on by the heat of the moon. Grove and Miller dis
cussed it, but could make little of the fact theoretically. At

last Sharpey said that in controverting Tyndall's hypothesis,
they seemed to forget that his having ascertained the fact
was a great point, and they owed him thanks, although his

own expectations had been

Quenched in the chaste beams of the watery moon.

With this happy quotation, which produced quite a burst of
applause, the matter ended, and Huxley gave an account of

the Neander-thal cranium, and asked what he should call it.
ISome one suggested ' an anthropoid,' which he has adopted
since, in talking with me about it.  was asked to give

some idea of the age of said skull, and of Lartet's Aurig-

nac cave, which 1 did.

Ever affectionately yours,

                                     CHARLES LYELL.

                           To GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

                                             53 Harley Street, London : November 10, 1861.

   IMy dear Ticknor, --Milman was much pleased, when

called one day, to show me a couple of handsome volumes,
the last of the series of eight of his ' Latin Christianity,'

Iwhich had come out in the United States (New York,
Ithink), since the war began. When people express surprise

at such things, remind them that everything went on here
much as usual when we were in the worst of the Crimean

IWar. hope you read the Duke of Argyll on the ' American
IWar,' the best speech think of all, in or out of the Cabinet.

   I Ilike what see of Adams, the new Minister here of the

United States. But he must have much to put up with, if
it were only the ignorance of American affairs shown by the
questions put to him. If, says Mr. Adams, the questioners
were not politicians it would be more excusable. He, the

Minister, cannot pay visits, as the only time he went out of
town for two days, he was telegraphed back again, so con
stant are the arrivals of news, and so numerous the points
which he has to give answers about. The forfeiture of

052  SIR CHARLES LYEIJ~                            CHAP. xxxv.

merchant vessels because they have a one-sixteenth of their

Icargo belonging to Southern States, was the last affair

Leard of, many Americans not daring to leave London and

Liverpool, and wanting to learn from Adams what is the

force and construction of some late Act of Congress.

   I suppose you have read the memoir of De Tocqueville.
I never met him except that morning at Lord Stanhope's
Iwhpn you were last here, when thought him most agreeable

and conversationally eloquent.

     Remember me to all your circle.

     Ever affectionately yours,       CHARLES LYELL.

     To LEONARD HORNER, ESQ.

                                      Barton : December 26, 1861.

    My dear Homer, -- You were mourning like us the loss

I Iwe have sustained by Prince Albert's death.5 It was many

days before could fully realise it. went down the day of
the evening he died, and at four o'clock, just as the illness
Itook its fatal turn, found a bulletin at the Palace which led
Ius to hope that the danger was nearly over.
                                              hardly think
I ever saw a family where there was more domestic happiness

and good understanding between husband and wife, and

I Ifather and children. As to the reserve with which he was

charged, can only say that to me, and am sure to a
multitude of others, he was remarkably open, and talked of

all subjects, even the most serious, without fear of commit

I Iting himself. Though I have spoken with him often since

then, the last time had a full hour's talk, tete-a-tete, owe

to Susan's asking me to arrange the affair of Mrs. Jameson's

bust. That was soon settled, and he went into Educational,

Exhibitional, British Museum, and other subjects, and did

Inot mind speaking of his disappointment when he had been

overruled, and listened when did not quite agree with him

as to the British Museum with patience, and like one who

Iwished to look at the matter on all sides. know of no public

man in England who was so serious on religious matters, and

so unfettered by that formalism and political churchism and

conventionalism which rules in our upper classes.

     · Mr. Horner was spending the winter in Florence with his family.

1862. DEATH OF PRINCE ALBERT. 353

IThe only point ever remember distinctly differing from

Ihim, so that the subject was afterwards avoided, was

Hungary. As to Germany he went quite as far as do in

Ihis liberalism, but he could not help looking upon Hungary

from a German point of view, though believe he thought

Iof the folly of Austria, with her Concordat, &c., much as
   do.

Having seen his marriage, and the eldest children when

they were hardly out of the nursery at Balmoral, and then

the fetes at the marriage of his daughter, and now his death

I Ias a grandfather, and having felt myself so tar advanced in

my own career when first knew him, cannot think of his

being gone without seeming all at once much aged myself.

The regular meeting of the Geological Society was put off

Ibecause of this death.      get on very steadily and with
     As to my new book,6

pleasure to myself. T am now treating of the relations of
the earlier history of man to the glacial period --a difficult
subject, especially as 1 have to connect it with some new

views respecting the glacial hypothesis, both as relates to
IScandinavia, Scotland, and the Alps. have deferred what
I am to say on Darwin to the last or eighteenth chapter,
Iknowing that were
                    once to begin there is no chance
Iof coming out this year, but if all is ready but that, may
have courage to abridge it into one short chapter.

          Believe me yours affectionately,

                                          CHARLES LYELL.

To JOHN MUREAY, ESQ., Albemarle Street.

   IMy dear Sir,-- was at Sir Charles           January 2, 1862.

Icountry, or should have replied sooner.  Bunbury's in the

The late Prince Consort certainly deserves the most

"eloquent eloge that one of your best writers can give him in
the ' Quarterly.' He was always thinking of what could be

done to improve the nation morally and socially, and in the

fine arts, and how popular education, and that of the higher

classes, could be advanced.

VOL. II.  · On the Antiquity of Man.
                          AA

354          SIR CHARLES LYELL.     CHAP, xxxv.

     I believe it was a common idea that he was too reserved,
Ibut he was very much the reverse.
                                    am sure that not a

few can affirm that he talked most freely and without

restraint on a great variety of subjects on which many

public men would have been somewhat afraid of committing

themselves. He was certainly very careful, as became a man

in his position, to avoid personalities, but he spoke out his

opinions fearlessly, often on the most speculative as well as

on practical subjects, and always listened patiently to what

one had to say on the other side.

     The quantity of work he got through, in spite of innumer
able interruptions, was immense. His foreign correspondence

alone, which the public here knew nothing of, would have

Ibeen thought sufficient occupation for one who had nothing
else to do.  remember on two occasions when he was

called upon to write addresses, one as President of the

British Association, and one again for the Social Science

meeting, that he told me they taxed him rather too much,

as his other engagements were so numerous, and many of

them requiring much thought. He told me there was an

unusual pressure upon him when he had to compose his

IBritish Association Address for Aberdeen, and that he felt

strongly he had not done justice to it. Once when
Irequested him to attend a meeting of the Geological Society,

he looked at his note-book, and was astonished at the

number of Wednesdays in advance that he already had

engagements for, and on my expressing surprise, he showed

me that it would have been the same had we met on any
other day of the week. A very large proportion of these had

reference to some useful object, or were connected with the

duties of his station.

   IHe had no special acquaintance with geology or miner

alogy, or so far as know with any branch of natural history,
but he knew enough of all to be interested in them, and to

understand what their cultivators were about. How much

he desired to encourage them, and how much he wished that

the elements of these branches of knowledge should enter

more largely into the system of education in this country, is

I Iwell known.
     When first knew him, about fifteen years ago, found

iS62.  THE PRINCE CONSORT.  355

that he had read my ' First Travels in North America ' with

Isome attention, and he referred more than once to what

had said on educational matters. He was then very sanguine
of the progress that might be made in his own time in the
diffusion of popular education. Twelve or thirteen years
Inter he was equally zealous in the cause, but expressed his
disappointment that ' all that we of the present generation
in this country can hope, is to teach those who will educate

the generation that is to follow.' Alluding to my citation
of what Liebig had said to Faraday on the different relative
value set by the Germans and English on the practical in
science, and the purely theoretical, or discovery of new truths
or principles (' First Travels,' vol. i. p. 309), he said he
believed Liebig had justly estimated the character of the two
nations, and that both might in this respect learn from the

other.

     He often alluded to the want of cultivation of the German

language amongst the higher class, and the number of

diplomatists who had been sent to German Courts, and even
important embassies, who knew little or nothing of the

language of the people. It is well known how much he tried

to remedy this by giving prizes at Eton, &c. When fiist the
excellence and originality of his speeches and addresses on
various occasions attracted attention, it wad very commonly

Iasked, who wrote them for him ? When declared to some
Iwho put this question, that was convinced he got no help

from anyone in the way of ideas or opinions, only now and
then some passages were put out of the German, into the

IEnglish idiom by friends (and this only in early days),

found people very incredulous. It seemed to me that for

years he was underrated, at least that his great talents were
not duly appreciated, and that his character was not under

Istood.
          think the best tribute to his memory would be to
 collect all his speeches, and to make in your Review a
judicious set of extracts. There would be much life in them ,
 and some of the best will be found in newspapers, and not

Iseparately printed. There was a very good one am told at
Ia Royal Academy dinner which missed.

   I Inever made any notes of conversations which had

                                                                               A A '1

3-"i6             SIR CHARLES LYELL.       CHAP. xxxv.

Iwith the Prince, but have  a vivid recollection     of  many,
Iwhich have never repeated  to anyone, thinking      it  would

Ibe a breach of confidence.

       believe it was Sir James Mackintosh who said that a

Ibiography to be worth anything ought never to have been

written, and feel much the same in regard to such a letter

as would really answer the object you have in view.

                            CHARLES LYELL.

                  To LEONARD HORNEE, ESQ.

                                              53 Harley Street, London : February 23, 1862.

       IMy dear Horner, -- must send you a few words on the

anniversary, which went off very well. Murchison read your

letter, which was well received, and he then delivered an

appropriate complimentary address to Godwin Austen on

presenting the medals. Austen, who was remarkably grati

fied by the honour, replied at length, and said he should

work much harder in future. The chairman then gave a
biographical account of the late Dr. Fitton, which he had

got up with much pains, and which was a just tribute to

one who had taken so active a part in the Society as well

as in our science. After which, Huxley delivered a brilliant

critical discourse on what paleontology has and has not

done, and proved the value of negative evidence, how much

the progressive development system has been pushed too
far, how little can be said in favour of Owen's more

generalised types when we go back to the vertebrata and

invertebrata of remote ages, the persistency of many forms

high and low throughout time, how little we know of the

beginning of life upon the earth, how often events called

contemporaneous in Geology are applied to things which

instead of coinciding in time, may have happened ten

million of years apart, &c. &c., and a masterly sketch com

paring the past and present and almost every class in

zoology, and something of botany cited from Hooker, which

he said he had done because it was useful to look into the

cellars and see how much gold there was there, and whether

Ithe quantity of bullion justified such an enormous circu
lation of paper.  never remember an address listened to

1862. GEOLOGICAL DINNER.                                  3o7

with such interest or received with such applause, though

there were many private protests against same of his bold

Iopinions.

    The dinner at Willis's was well attended ; should think
eighty or more present. The Duke of Argyll made an excel

lent speech on proposing Ramsay's health. Monckton Milnes
made a happy and humorous speech in reply to ' Members
Iof the House of Commons.'
                                was requested to give the
I' Universities,' which coupled with Dr. Williams, Principal

of Jesus College, with whom we stayed at Oxford, who
spoke fluently in reply. Lord Ducie, Sir Philip Egertou, Sir
H. James, most of the Council, and a full representation of

Jermyn Street were there. The Duke of Argyll having

talked of Scotland as a specific centre from which so many

geologists had come, Warrington Smyth stood up for other

centres of creation south of the Tweed, and late in the

Ievening Huxley made them merry by a sort of mock-modest
speech.  sat between Charles Bunbury and Dr. Williams,

and had a pleasant time of and was pleased to think how
         is
                           it,
much life there coming on in the Society, when all of us

who are above sixty are added to the extinct organisms.

                              Ever affectionately yours,

                                      CHARLES LYELL.

         To His SISTER.

                                53 Harley Street: March 1862.
                                              I
My dearest Caroline, -- do not wonder that you thought7,
         a

              I

                         I
                                I
                                   I
Curtis was dead, for really when called after more than a

year and half, wondered whether should find that he

was still surviving the mischief which the three cabs, all of

which had passed over different parts of his body, had done

         was shown in, and though quite blind found him
...him.
I

                          is
looking well, wearing a handsome grey beard.              found

Curtis up to all that going on in entomology, and envying

the luck of a friend who lives near the great Lowestoft

lighthouse, where the moths come by thousands so as to

darken the light, and require to be swept away, some of

them crossing from the Continent, and not being British

species. Enough indeed to make an old blind collector's

358  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                      CHAP. xxxv.

mouth water. Then he told me how the ' Glory of Kent,'

Bombyx versicolor, which once cost 21. 2s., could now be had

for 3*. 6d., and other gossip of that sort. By the way,

I Isome day as pass a dealer opposite the British Museum

will send you the said ' Glory.' So much for getting blind

when near seventy, and having three cabs go over one.

                                  Your affectionate brother,

                                                             CHARLES LYELL.

     To CHARLES DARWIN, ESQ.

     Freshwater Gate, Isle of Wight : August 20, 1862.

     My dear Darwin,--Mr. Jamieson of Ellon has been again

to Lochaber, and confirms his former theory of the glacier

lakes. The chief new point is a supposed rise at the rate of

a foot per mile of the shelves as we proceed from the sea

inland. It seems to me to require many more measurements,

before we can rely on it. He found some splendid moraines

opposite the mouth of Glen Trieg. He found some shells

of Arctic character in the forty feet high raised beach of the

Argyllshire coast, and has asked me to learn about one of

them, of which he sends a drawing.

   I fell in yesterday in my walk with Mr. A. G. More,
Iwhom you cite in your orchid book. He considers you the

most profound of reasoners, to which made no objection,

only being amused at remembering that, such being the case,
you had performed a singular feat, as the Bishop of Oxford
assured me, of producing ' the most illogical book ever

Iwritten.'                                have been with
     We shall be here for a week longer.

my nephew Leonard to Alum and Compton Bays.

     Ever most truly yours,

     CHARLES LYELL.

                                 To LADY BUNBURY.

                                                           53 Harley Street: November 16, 1862.

    My dear Frances, --The so-called gorilla which is going
the rounds of the newspapers is a fine male chimpanzee, still
at Liverpool. They told me to-day at the Zoological
Gardens that some years ago there was a real live gorilla at

i862. 'MEMOIR OF PRESCOTT! 359

Liverpool which lived eight months and was mistaken for a
chimpanzee, but they stuffed him and the mistake was
afterwards detected. So the present hoax is a sort of
compensation.

     The Marquis d'Azeglio told me this morning that the
ibex or bouquetin of which, as well as of the chamois, the
King of Sardinia has sent a pair to the Gardens, is only a

hybrid between the ibex and goat. It had been spoken of

Ias of pure breed.

     Mary and saw Bishop Colenso yesterday, who is a very

Igentlemanlike and intellectual style of man.
        have to give evidence to-morrow before the Public
School Commission --Lord Clarendon in the chair -- recom
mending two hours a week on science and natural history,
as an encroachment on Latin verses and translating Addison
into Greek prose, to which the other forty hours must be

devoted.

   INovember 20. -- missed the Geological yesterday, and

shall not go to Owen's paper on the ' Paleornis ' to-night at
the Royal, nor to a dinner at the Rich's, nor to one which

IKatharine has invited me to, but in spite of every denial of

the kind, move slowly on. This last week an interesting
examination by the Commissioners of Public Schools, in
which they wished to have my opinion as to the feasibility
of introducing the elements of natural history and physical
science (two hours a week only) into Eton, Winchester,
Harrow, &c., stirred me up a good deal and did not benefit
me in my progress in my book.

                                      Ever affectionately yours,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

                            To GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

                                              63 Harley Street, London : December 19, 1862.

   IMy dear Ticknor, -- was glad to hear that you had at last

determined to bring out your ' Life ' or ' Memoir of Prescott '

Iwithout waiting for the end of the war, which may possibly

be deferred, not to the Greek kalends, for don't think the

ISouth will hold out two years, but for a time so uncertain

that it is better not to delay it. should much have liked

860           SIR CHARLES LYELL.     CHAP. xxxv.

it to have come out when people were less excited by battles

Iand such vital questions as the emancipation of the slaves.
People are beginning,  think, to estimate the financial

resources of the North and the real wealth of the country
Ifbetter than they were.
                          the result of the struggle could

be the abolition of slavery by the year 1900, it would be

worth a heavj debt and many lives, at any rate when one

thinks of what most wars are waged for, not but that the

IUnion alone is worth a long fighting for. The distress in
Lancashire is increasing, and  suppose we must have

parliamentary aid. The cotton we get from India so raises

the price that they (the Indians) suffer severely, and their

native manufactures are knocked up.

     The Milmans are well. He getting out a new edition of

his ' History of the Jews,' and will reply to George Cornewall

Lewis, who makes out the Egyptians so modern, and says

they were never a conquering people. Surely he never
could have seen the processions of captives and the sieges on

the temples.

     Bishop Colenso on the 'Pentateuch' is making as much

Ifnoise this year as did the ' Essays and Reviews ' last year.

people had read what Norton, or the Germans, or our
William Greg in his ' Creed of Christendom,' have said so well,

there could be no sensation created by such a book. But

the policy is well sustained, never to reply to any lay attack,

as it only draws it into notice. But if a churchman enters

the lists, Convocation and meetings of the clergy, and the
' Record ' and other intolerant papers, set to work advertising

the delinquent publication, as if they were bribed by Long

man, who sold 10,000 copies of Colenso the first day (price

6«.) and is going on since pretty steadily. The decision on
the case of the ' Essays and Reviews has left churchmen very
free on most points which they were afraid to venture on

for fear of legal penalties. One thing affirmed by Colenso
is universally admitted, that the strictness of the ordination
vows is preventing the young men of both Universities of

most talent and the finest moral sense from entering the

Church.

              Believe me ever affectionately yours,

                                     CHARLES LYELL.

i863. TRANSMUTATION THEORY. 361

CHAPTER XXXVI.

MARCH I8(,3-AUOUST 1863.

ON TRAN8MUTATION OF SPECIES-- LAMARCK -- VISIT TO OSBOBNE-- MUSEUM
     OF THE YOUNG PRINCES -- INTERESTING CONVERSATION WITH THK
    QUEEN -- ' ANTIQUITY OF MAN '-- WELWITSCHIA -- EXPEDITION TO WALES
    -- MOEL THYFAEN.

CORRESPONDENCE.

To DR. JOSEPH HOOKEE.

                                  London : March 9, 1863.

My dear Hooker, --Darwin has sent me a useful set of
Icorrigenda and criticisms for the new edition am busy in
Ipreparing.1 He seems much disappointed that do not go
Ifarther with him, or do not speak out more.
                                              can only say
Ithat have spoken out to the full extent of my present con

I Ivictions, and even beyond my state of feeling as to man's

unbroken descent from the brutes, and find am half

converting not a few who were in arms against Darwin, and

Iare even now against Huxley.
        feel that Darwin and Huxley deify secondary causes

too much. They think they have got farther into the
domain of the ' unknowable ' than they have by the aid of

variation and natural selection.

     Asa Gray says that Lyell's doctrine is ' that the thing

that is, is the thing that has been, and shall be.' Now if

tne thing that is, in the case of a man of genius born of

ordinary parents and with ordinary brethren of the same

parentage imply a slight leap, I do not see why Darwin

should complain of my leap, given only as a speculation, from

Ithe highest unprogressive to the lowest progressive.

     However, plead guilty to going farther in my reasoning

i Aniiqnity of Man.

362                 SIR CHARLES LYELL.                CHAP, xxxvi.

Itowards transmutation than in my sentiments and imagin

ation, and perhaps for that very reason shall lead more

people on to Darwin and you, than one who, being born later,
like Lubbock, has comparatively little to abandon of old and

long cherished ideas, which constituted the charm to me of

Ithe theoretical part of the science in my earlier days, when

  believed with Pascal in the theory, as Hallaiu terms of
        I
                                             I

                                                                           it,
I'   the archangel ruined.'                                                                  find
   II
        Monday evetiing. -- On my return home to dinner

your letter. have not time to reply, but thank you much.

     As the glacial chapters are of course not the most popular,

     am the more pleased that you and Darwin like them.
          see you coincide with Darwin, and not with Crawfurd

and others, who tell me they are so glad did not lay down
        'I
           I

                   I
                             I

                                 I I'
                                         I

                                          II
transmutation dogmatically as proved, though          have evi
dently come nearly quite round to it,'

        don't care what people have been expecting as to the

extent to which may go with Darwin, but certainly do

not wish to be inconsistent with myself. Though, as have

been gradually changing my opinion, do not want to insist

on others going round at once. When read again certain

chapters of the Principles,' am always in danger of shaking

some of my confidence in the new doctrine, but am brought

back again on reconsidering such essays as Darwin's, Wal

lace's, and yours.  see too many difficulties to be in the

danger of many new converts who outrun their teacher in

faith.

     I  have not had time to profit fully by your valuable letter,

but shall do so, and beg you to write freely you have not
                                   I

                                                  if
said all in the way of criticism.  have heaps of approving

letters, but few are able and willing to help one by such
comments as yours and Darwin's.

        Believe me ever sincerely yours,

                                   CHARLES LYELL.

                           To CHARLES DARWIN, ESQ.

                                                                  53 Harley Street: March 11, 1863.

    My dear Darwin, -- gee the Saturday Review calls my
book LyelFs Trilogy on the Antiquity of Man, Ice, and
Darwin.'
       '

                      I

                                                  '
                                                                                          '

i863. NATURAL SELECTION.                                        363

As to my having the authority you suppose to lead a

public who up to this time have regarded me as the advocate
                                   ' Principles
of the other side   (as in   the  new 'Year      ') you much    over
rate my influence.          the                  Book of Facts   ' for
                       In

1863, of Timbs, you will see my portrait, and a sketch of my

Icareer, and how am the champion of anti-transmutation.
I find myself after reasoning through a whole chapter in

Ifavour of man's coming from the animals, relapsing to my
old views whenever          read again a few pages of the

' Principles,' or yearn for fossil types of intermediate grade.
iTruly
        ought to be charitable to Sedgwick and others.
IHundreds who have bought my book in the hope that

should demolish heresy, will be awfully confounded and dis

appointed. As it is, they will at best say with Crawfurd,
who still stands out, ' You have put the case with such

moderation that one cannot complain.' But when he read

Huxley, he was up in arms again.

My feelings, however, more than any thought about

Ipolicy or expediency, prevent me from dogmatising as to the

descent of man from the brutes, which, though am pre

pared to accept it, takes away much of the charm from my

Ispeculations on the past relating to such matters.
         cannot admit that my leap at p. 505," which makes you
' groan,' is more than a legitimate deduction from ' the thing

Ithat is ' applied to ' the thing that has been,' as Asa Gray

would say, and have only put it moderately, and as a

Ispeculation.

        cannot go Huxley's length in thinking that natural

selection and variation account for so much, and not so far

Ias you, if take some passages of your book separately.
   I think the old ' creation ' is almost as much required as

ever, but of course it takes a new form if Lamarck's views

Iimproved by yours are adopted.

     What am anxious to effect is to avoid positive incon
sistencies in different parts of my book, owing probably to

the old trains of thought, the old ruts, interfering with the

new course.

   IBut you ought to be satisfied, as shall bring hundreds

        2 See Antiquity of Man, first editiofl, p. 505.

364  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                      CHAP, xxxvi.

Itowards you, who if treated the matter more dogmatically

would have rebelled.

   I have spoken out to the utmost extent of my tether, so

Ifar as my reason goes, and farther than my imagination aud

sentiment can follow, which suppose has caused occasional

Iincongruities.                   have met with against
     Woodward is the best arguer

natural selection and variation. He puts conchological
difficulties against it very forcibly. He is at the same time

Ian out-and-out progressionist.
        am glad that both you and Hooker like the ' ice ' part

of the Trilogy. You are the first to allude to my remarks
on Ramsay, who says ' 1 shall come round to his views in

Igood time.'          referred to oftener than to any other
     Falconer, whom

author, says 1 have not done justice to the part he took in

resuscitating the cave question, and says he shall come out
Iwith a separate paper to prove this.
                                       offered to alter any

thing in the new edition, but this he declined. Pray write

any criticism that occurs to you ; you cannot put them too

strongly or plainly.

                      Ever yours sincerely,

                                       CHARLES LYELL.

                           To CHARLES DARWIN, ESQ.

                                                                  53 Harley Street : March 15, 1863.

   IMy dear Darwin, --Your letter will be very useful.

wish to get such passages so far in the Darwinian direction
as not to be inconsistent vath my general tone, and what

IHooker calls some of my original arguments in favour of

natural selection. At the same time am struck by 1he

Inumber of compliments, both in reviews and hi conversation
Iwith the half-converted, which receive, because have left

them to draw their own inferences, and have not told them
dogmatically that they must turn round with me. Hooker
admits that in science people do not like to be told too
plainly that they must believe, though in religion they wish
to have it laid down for them. Yet he may be wrong, for

if the ' Times ' were to write for the next fortnight against

i863.       LAMAXCK.                        365

the Southern States, and against the Poles, nine-tenths of

good society would whirl round, and the middle class which

would stand firm would be able to do so partly because they

read cheaper papers which are not interested in following
....the lead of the ' Times.'
II wish deserved what you say about taking criticism
I Ikindly.
            often think should be as touchy as anyone if

the success of my works did not give me a constant oppor

tunity of profiting immediately by ever)' suggestion as to style
and moral tone, and above all as to facts and logic. Besides

the increased responsibility which 1 incur by the trusting

I Ipublic, who before they had read a word induced the trade

to bid for 3,850 copies, have the prospect, if improve

my knowledge and my teaching, of future success in new

editions with comparatively little labour.
IAs to Lamarck find that Grove, who has been reading
Ihim, is wonderfully struck with his book.
                                            remember that

it was the conclusion he came to about man that fortified

me thirty years ago against the great impression which his

arguments at first made on my mind, all the greater

because Constant Prevost, a pupil of Cuvier's forty years ago,
told me his conviction ' that Cuvier thought species not real,

Ibut that science could not advance without assuming that

they were so.' When came to the conclusion that after
all Lamarck was going to be shown to be right, that we

Imust ' go the whole orang,' re-read his book, and remem
I Ibering when it was written, felt bad done him injustice.

       Even as to man's gradual acquisition of more and more

ideas, and then of speech slowly as the ideas multiplied, and

then his persecution of the beings most nearly allied and
competing with him -- all this is very Darwinian.

     The substitution of the variety- making power for ' voli
tion,' ' muscular action,' &c. (and in plants even volition was
not called in) is in some respects only a change of names.
Call a new variety a new creation, one may say of the former

as of the latter, what you say when you observe that the
creationist explains nothing, and only aflirms ' it is so because

it is so.'

       Lamarck's belief in the slow changes in the organic and

inorganic world in the year 1800, was surely above the

366                  SM CHARLES LYELL.           CHAP, xxxvi.

standard of his times, and he was right about progression in
the main, though you have vastly advanced that doctrine.

As to Owen in his Aye Aye paper, he seems to me a disciple
of Pouchet, who converted him at Rouen to ' spontaneous

Igeneration.'
     Have not at p. 412 put the vast distinction between
you and Lamarck as to ' necessary progression ' strongly

enough ?
     IfHuxley's second thousand 3 is going off well.
                                                      he had
leisure like you and me ; --and the vigour and logic of the

lectures, and his address to the Geological Society, and half
a dozen other recent works (letters to the ' Times ' on
IDarwin, &c.), been all in one book, what a position he
would occupy !       entreated him not to undertake the
' Natural History Review ' before it began. The responsi

bility all falls on the man of chief energy and talent ; it is a
Iquarterly mischief, and will end in knocking him up.
        am sorry you have to go to Malvern. The good of the
water-cure is abstinence from work ; a tour abroad would

I
   I iIt,

                                           is

                            I
                                                                                                                                                       ;

                                                                               it

                                                                                                    is
do am persuaded, as effectually and more profitably.

       hope my long letter will not task you too much when

sit down to write to you, can never stop. Hooker, not

having heard from you, growing anxious, and hopes
because you are corresponding with me and not because of

serious ill-health.

                     Ever affectionately yours,

                                               CHARLES LYELL.

                     To LADY LTELL.

                                               Osborne: May 1863.
                                        I
     My dearest Mary,- --At Southampton                                      6,
                                               found a Queen's
Messenger, and on the way to the docks fell in with Lord

Stanley of Alderley, who had come down by the same train,
bound for Osborne. At the docks in a room there, Sir James

Clark was waiting, having only arrived ten minutes before

me. He had hired a nice open carriage, and given me the

offer to go on in the Elfin steam yacht with Lord Stanley
                     ·

                       '
                                     '

                                    I
to Osborne, or with him to Netley.      chose the latter, and

                     Lccturct to Working Men.

1863.  VISIT TO OSBORNE.                          367

after a pleasant drive of some five or six miles after crossing

the Itchen ferry in a steamboat, we saw the Abbey, and then

went over the Military Hospital, an immense building for

about 1,000 invalid soldiers, with four or five Professors of

Medicine and Surgery, Museum, &c. Most of the patients
are soldiers who have served in the East Indies, and it must

be good practice for the young medical stu dents from twenty

to twenty-four years old to attend here on those who have

Indian complaints of the liver, &c., just what they will find

when they get out to India. A lecture was being delivered

by one Professor, another showed me a collection of skulls

for ethnology presented by army surgeons, another pointed

out to me numerous bones with gunshot wounds, &c. After

two hours there, and seeing geological specimens and Brackle-

sham fossils from an artesian well (Carditaplanecostata, Fusus

longevus), 180 feet deep, which they have dug, we left.

    It is a beautiful site near the sea, this Netley Hospital,

on a deep and extensive bed of gravel, and all the news
paper stories of its being in a bog were inventions. The

colonel who commands assured me they are never annoyed

at low tide by the smell of the mud.
     We had expected the ' Elfin ' to return from Osborne to

take us up at the Hospital, but Prince Leopold's tutor and

Prince Alfred's had got hold of her to go on board the great

ironclad and ram ship of war the 'Resistance,' and we

received a message to take the Southampton packet. So we

Istarted in a boat with good sailors sent from the ' Elfin,' and

glad was of my cloak, for we were for an hour tossing
about off Calshot Castle. Botn the Southampton boat and
the ' Elfin ' came in sight from opposite quarters at last, and

it was twenty minutes before we knew which we should take.
At last we got into the ' Elfin ' which took us to the
' Resistance,' but the Prince's party had not done their

Iinspection, and the ' Elfin ' took us to the pier at Osborne,

and Sir James and landed and walked with our small bags

through the pleasant grounds to the house, which we reached
at half-past five o'clock, and we got a cup of tea. Dr. Lyon
IPlayfair has been here for a day, but has left.
                                                  believe
Ifrom what Sir James tells me, that shall not get back till

Saturday, but in good time.

368  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                          CHAP, xxxvi.

   It has been a heavenly day, or the toss in the boat, which

I by no means suffered from, might have been very disagree

able. Had there been mist, it would have been an un
pleasant adventure. We saw the outside of the great ram,

the ' Resistance,' famously.

     My love to all. Believe me ever yours affectionately,
                                                               CHARLES LYELL.

     To LADY LYELL.

     IMy dearest Mary, --After                      Osborne : May 7, 1863.

                                wrote to you Becker came to

my sitting-room, which opens into the bed-room, command

ing a pleasant view of the park with the trees in their fresh

Igreen foliage, as forward or more so than in London. He

took me down to the dining-room, where was introduced

by Sir T. Biddulph to his wife and to Lady Mount-Edgcumbe,

Inow in waiting, and her young daughter of eighteen on a visit.

Colonel Cowell, whom talked with, you remember, on a

former occasion about his visit to the Dead Sea, was also in

the drawing-room, and we sat together at the dining-table,

and he told me of a late visit to St. Vincent in the West Indies
-- the pitch lake of Trinidad, &c. Some fifteen in all sat

down to dinner, and were very merry.

Latish in the evening, when cards were playing at the

table, Lady Augusta Bruce came in, and asked me after you,

and had a long talk about American affairs, on which she is

very enlightened, though leaning to the opinion that for the

I Isake of the world (i.e. England), a separation might be

better ; but think modified her views.

     The Queen's open carriage and four, with herself and
Princess Alice, is just driving past my window for Cowes,

·where she is to visit the Prince of Leiningen.

The secretary, Mr. Ruland, was at breakfast this morning,

and the same party as at dinner yesterday, except the Post

master-General. Sir C. Phipps talked to me with great

admiration of Arthur Stanley, and showed me an excellent

photograph of him. 1 am going to take a quiet read, and

tben walk for an hour before luncheon with Sir James Clark,

Iif not stopped by a thunderstorm which is threatening.

i863. PAINC2SS ALICE. 860

have just finished Milman's preface, which is excellent, and

Ihave lent it to Sir J. Clark.

     Three, o'clock. -- only got a short walk in the garden with

ISir James Clark when the Prince of Hesse sent for me, and

as entered the Princess Alice received me, and said she

remembered me since Balmoral days, and introduced me to

her husband. Her manners are very charming, and she

talked most freely on all subjects. He has really read me

as far as the end of glacial chapters with attention. They

had been discussing the time it would take for all the existing

races to have come from one original pair. Arthur Stanley
Iis evidently a very great favourite with the Princess.
                                                         had

about half an hour's talk with them, and then retired to

luncheon, having promised at four o'clock to go to the

Swiss Cottage with Prince Louis to see the collection, which

consists partly of objects brought home by his brother-in-

law Prince Alfred, who he said wished to join us.

Ruland the secretary is here, so the Germans muster

strong. When the Prince of Hesse wanted a word in Eng

lish, he asked his wife in German to help him.

Becker is reading one of Mudie's copies of my book, lent
Ihim by Colonel Elphinstone. The Princess Alice said
Ishould give her a copy of the second edition, as had done
I Ito her sister.
          believe am to see the Queen before we go

to the Swiss Cottage.
     Geikie's book on the ' Glacial Period in Scotland ' is very

well done, and may enable me to make the ' Elements ' a little
different from the ' Antiquity,' in which last, however, there is

nothing wrong, or discordant with Geikie's facts and argu

ments touching glacial matters.

    Seven o'clock. --The Queen sent for me before four
o'clock, and talked with me alone for an hour and a quarter.

Mostly about Prince Albert, leading me also to talk of him.
Arthur Stanley recommended her to read my ' Antiquity.'

She asked me a good deal about the Darwinian theory as

well as antiquity of man. She has a clear understanding,

and thinks quite fearlessly for herself, and yet very modestly.

Nothing could be more natural or touching than her admir

ation for the Prince. She said that for one who had so

much enjoyment in the present, which he found wherever

VOL. II.           BB

370          SIR CHARLES LYELL.   CHAP. xxxvi.

Ifhe was, it was remarkable that he was cheerful whenever he
had to change place or business.  they were at Balmoral

or Osborne, and were called to Windsor, he not only went,

Ibut never allowed himself to be put out. As soon as we had

done talking over books, &c., went to the Swiss Cottage,

where the Prince of Hesse and Prince Alfred were waiting.
The last showed me all over the museum -- silicified woods

from Antigua brought home by himself, a very nice collec

Ition ; a collection of Portland stone fossils, tertiary shells, a

few of which he said gave him when last at Osborne, stuffed

birds which he or the Prince of Wales had shot in Canada

and elsewhere, &c.

     IThe Princess Helena and her next sister joined us at
the museum.  then started with Becker and Ruland on a

geological walk along the seaside, and in our way, fell in

first with the Queen driving Princess Alice in a pony car.
They went alone without any servant to the seaside, called

a boat, and took a row afterwards. Prince Alfred took a

boat and rowed the Prince of Hesse out to the Queen's boat.

He had no sailor to help him. In our walk we fell in with
Miss Hilliard and Princess Beatrice, who asked us to come to a

small miniature fort constructed in the grounds by Prince
Alfred, with a moat and rampart and drawbridge. Here
she played all sorts of pranks with Becker, who barked as a

dog, and got into a small miniature barrack, and then shut
her up in and so on. She has wonderful spirits.
II
            it,
                        is
                           I

                                              I
     The weather charming, but the gardeners and farmers

are in despair at the drought. They fear there will be no

hay.
        Iiope our aunts are arrived. My visit here has been a

very agreeable one thus far.      am made to feel so very

welcome.

      hope to hear from you this evening or to-morrow

morning, my dearest love.

    Princess Alice asked me after you and where had left

you.         Ever your affectionate husband,
                                                  CHARLES LYELL.

iSG3.  MUSEUM AND SWISS COTTAGE.                          871

                      To LADY LYELL.

                                                                                     Osborne : May 8, 18«3.

   My dearest Mary, -- Sir James and I leave this at ten o'clock

to-morrow morning. Yesterday we had Mr. Elliot to dinner,

who says the Greeks are settling down, and getting

reconciled with the new scheme. He describes the enthu
siasm for Prince Arthur as having been very great, ' the son

of the widow,' as they called him. Only 100 voted for a

republic, but their doing so freely was an advantage, as

showing that they were at liberty to choose.

   I have been with Becker this morning over Prince
IAlfred's museum, and find there is less disorder than

thought --some rubbish to be thrown away of course, but

most of it is very fairly grouped. We went over the kitchen

in the Swiss Cottage, in which the Royal children cook all

sorts of things, quite a large butterie de cuisine, and they

invite Becker and others to come and eat the products.

When the Swiss Cottage, in part of which the gardener

lives, was built, the boys used to work two or three hours a

day in earnest with the labourers, and got certificates of

work done from the foreman, and sent in a regular bill,

which the Prince Consort paid exactly according to the

then rate of wages, to give them an idea of such things.

Then we went over the tool-house, the initials of every

child on each watering-pot, wheelbarrow, &c. ; then over the

separate garden-plots belonging to each, from the Princess

Royal's down to Princess Beatrice's, each of equal size. No

great variety, because, if one of the elder ones chose to have

a row of potatoes, and of strawberries, and of currants, &c.,

Ieach of the others imitated. The flowers do not take up a
fourth of the whole.  came in and read for some time, and

then set out on a second walk with Sir James Clark, to a

kind of steward's house, older than the Palace, once a

Imonastery, with a great variety of shrubs, and a holly with a

larger trunk than ever remember seeing. The Erica arborea,

now in flower, flourishes exceedingly in the garden. Wei-
gelia rosea, 1 think, is the name of a splendid flowering

shrub which Fortune brought twelve years ago from Shanghai

                      BD2

372          SIR CHARLES LYELL.             CHAP, xxxvi.

Itin China.  is in great beauty here, standing the drought

well.

    30th. --The Queen has just started with Lady Mount-

Edgcumbe and Sir James Clark to see Netley Hospital. It

is almost the first time she has proposed anything of the
Ikind, and they are all glad she is going.
                                            take for granted
Ithat Princess Alice has also gone, but did not hear.

   IThe Queen has always dined privately with her own

family, and will suppose do so to-day.

    A most beautiful small aneroid, not bigger than a very

large pocket watch, has come down from Negretti, for the

Queen to measure heights with at Balmoral. They have a

Ifine telescope for star-gazing, and the night arrived, saw
IJupiter and his satellites, which only heard about to-day.
IAt every turn ore meets the hand of the Prince Consort.

     Six oV7oefr. -- have been walking with Becker and Ruland

to the meteorological observatory, where there is a regular

clerk of the works. For twelve years self-registering instru

ments for measuring the force and direction of the wind (to
day it is NNE.), and the fall of rain, and the temperature,

degree of moisture, quantity of ozone in the air, barometric

observations, &c., all printed monthly. These we inspected,

and then out along the wooded walks near the sea ; the wild

furze and broom, hyacinths, some primroses in beauty.
Seven o'clock. -- Sir James has just returned from Netley,
where the Queen walked over the spacious Hospital till poor

Lady Mount-Edgcumbe was knocked up. The Queen is
actually taking a drive in the grounds after all the inspec
I Ition and yachting.
             received your letter this morning.

was glad to hear of the arrival of our aunts, and hope to see

them soon after you get this.

             Dearest love, your affectionate husband,
                                                   CHARLES LYELI,.

     Sir James has his conge, and we go to-morrow at ten

o'clock. The Queen has sent word that she is to see me to
night to take leave.

i863. WITH THE QUEEN. 373

         To His SISTER.

         63 Harley Street, London: May 12, 1863.
I IMy dearest Marianne, -- am in your, and
                                            believe
Ieverybody's debt in the way of letters, Caroline believe for

Ione, whose account of the comparison of Lyccena dispar and

its foreign variety was glad to have. The English ento

mologists declare that no one can deceive them by trying to
Ipass off a foreign specimen as British upon them.
                                                    have

got a fine specimen of the American variety of the common

IAdmiral, or Vanessa Atalanta, which mention in my book,
Iand which will send when you are at Drumkilbo again, for

at present none of you would have time or heart to enter on

a comparison of the European and American races, which

I Ilook so like and yet are always distinguishable.
        am busy to-day thinking what am to say to-morrow

at a great meeting of the Literary Fund, Lord Stanhope in

Ithe chair ; having this morning got positive intelligence that
  shall have to reply to a toast on the ' Writers on Science.'

IThere is always a great muster of authors, and a good many
ladies.  have paid ten guineas as my subscription towards

I Ithe fund for distressed authors, besides a guinea for the
dinner, as am one of the stewards.  have felt it right as
a ' successful author ' to contribute to the unsuccessful, and

Ibelieve it is really very well managed.
       daresay Mary and Katharine will have told you my Osborne

news. It was a great satisfaction to have a good long talk quite

alone with the Queen for an hour and a quarter, and about
I Ione for whom had such a regard, and for whom felt, though
Iit would not be etiquette to say so, such real friendship, as
Idid for the late Prince Albert.  do not think she has given
way more than is perfectly natural --all necessary duties she

Ihas performed. The quantity of work thrown on her now is
great.   told her that when the Social Science people

pressed the Prince to be their President, he told me the

Ianniversary address would be a severe addition to his work.

No one of his speeches was more difficult, or, think, better

done, especially on the connection of science and religion, so

difficult a question for a public man to deal with. She said

37 !·            SIR CHARLES LYELL.               CHAP. xxxvi.

this address, and the thinking out the whole subject

thoroughly, as he always did, was one of the things which

overtasked him. She said he was always cheerful and

determined to think everything for the best, a short life,

among other things, of which he had sometimes a slight

presentiment, in spite of his good health. She has of course

Ibeen reading many serious books, and asked her if she had

read what Sir Benjamin Brodie has said about death. She

said she had, and was much struck with his observing

that if we knew what those we had loved were doing in
another world, or if we even knew the exact time of our own

death, it would alter the whole complexion of our lives,

and probably make us perform our duties less well in this

life.

   I had a talk with Princess Alice and her husband separ

ately in their room on another occasion, and another evening

a long conversation with the Queen, Prince and Princess of
Hesse, and Prince Alfred-- very cheerful, about books and

things in general. One morning I had a walk with the Prince

of Hesse and Prince Alfred, and no one else, and Prince Alfred

showed me over the museum in the garden, in which are all

the birds stuffed which be and the Prince of Wales had shot

in different countries. A fine set of half-polished silicified
woods of various kinds --palms, exogenous wood from

Antigua, fossil shells from Portland, Isle of Wight, &c. He
Ishowed me a few Isle of Wight fossils
                                        had given him,
Inamed years ago, which I had forgotten. was introduced

to Princess Helena by Prince Alfred, when she looked in at

the museum.

     The dinner party included none of the Royal family, and
were most of them well known to me ; Sir C. Phipps, Sir T.

IBiddulph, Colonel Cowell, Sir J. Clark, Lady Augnota Bruce,

two German ladies in-waiting on Princess Alice whom had

not seen before, Lady Moant-Edgcumbe and a very agree
able daughter, and some others -- a very merry party.

   II have only as yet seen the Princess of Wales at a

distance, but on the 19lh inst. Mary and are asked to a

reception at St. James's Palace, which they are to have for

the Queen. The   wQhuicehenI  asked me about the  success of niy
new book, about               find Canon Stanley  had spoken to

IS63- ROYAL ACADEMY DINNER.                         875

Iher, which had led her to request a copy from me.  had

taken down a copy of the second edition, thinking that it might

Ibe useful, and Princess Alice asked me for one, and told

me should dedicate it to her. Her husband had actually

read steadily through the Queen's copy as far as near the
I Iend of the glacial chapters.
        got some time for reading when  was at Osborne, and

went over the meteorological observatory, which is first-rate,

and the records of wind, rain, electricity, &c. &c., all kept

by self-registering instruments, and well kept, and published

Imonthly.
        went to Osborue on Wednesday and returned Saturday.
The ' Fairy ' brought us back, Sir James Clark and me, in

grand style from the pier at Osborne between ten and eleven
o'clock, and then by fast train we went to town.

   IThe Royal Academy dinner this year was a brilliant

affair, aud was glad to have. a good talk with Kinglake,
author of ' Crimean War,' who sat next me. Lord Palmer-

ston's speech also was very entertaining and lively. There
is a pleasant French article on my book in the ' Revue des

deux Mondes,' by Laugel.

    The Queen told me that her sons had asked her if the

Colenso whose Arithmetic they had studied was the Bishop,
Iand had remarked ' Then he must be very clever.'
                                                    told
Iher that my nephew Arthur had said, ' don't like Colenso ;

he gives me hard sums to do.' She laughed, and asking

his age said, ' All mine were older.'

Believe me ever your affectionate brother,

                                        CHARLES LYELL.

                        To THOMAS S. SPEEDING, ESQ.

                                                                     53 Harley Street : May 19, 1863.

   IMy dear Spedding,4 -- was very glad to hear from you,

and to know that you had been reading my book, which has
met with great success, having as Mudie told Murray a few
days ago, divided the reading world, so far as his library is

I Ia test, with Kinglake. We have sold nearly 5,000 copies.
  wonder have been let off with so little serious antagonism ;

                         1 T. S. Spedding, Esq., of Mirehouse, Keswick.

876        SIR CHARLES LYELL.                   CHAP, xxxvi.

only a few indignant remonstrances on the part of the

I' Record ' and some of the Church reviews for ignoring the

Bible, and writing just as if had never heard of such a

book, and could take for granted that the scientific readers

were as indifferent as myself at the irreconcilability of my
pretended facts and reasonings with Scriptural truths.

     The question of the origin of species gave much to think
of, and you may well believe that it cost me a struggle to
renounce my old creed. One of Darwin's reviewers put the
alternative strongly by asking ' whether we are to believe
that man is modified mud or modified monkey.' The mud

I Iis a great come-down from the ' archangel ruined.' Even in

ten yeai s expect, if live, to hear of great progress made

Iin regard to ' fossil man.'

       am in hopes that the struggle in America will rid the
country in the course of twenty years of that great curse to
the whites, slave labour, and if so, it may be worth all it
will cost in blood and treasure. My New England friends

do not despair, though indignant at the mismanagement at

head-quarters.

                           Believe me ever most truly yours,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

           To the REV. W. S. SYMONDS.

           Barton Hall, Bury St. Edmunds : June 23, 1863.
   IMy dear Symonds, -- Since wrote to you our plans have
I Ibeen somewhat more matured (and write again, as forget
Iwhat day told you we should probably leave town and
Ijourney towards South Wales).
                                propose to go on the 14th
Istraight to the inn near Gower Point, from which see by

Murray's book that tourists see the caves of the Gower

peninsula, those caves which Dr. Falconer and Colonel Wood

have lately been examining, and shall try and form an

opinion as to the relation of the extinct animals to the raised

beach and to the glacial drift of South Wales.

     My next point is the Cefn caves near St. Asaph, in the

Inorth-east of Wales, examined by Trimmer, Ramsay, and
Falconer.  have a letter from Ramsay about them. They

are best calculated in North Wales to throw light on the                      \

j863. MO EL TRYFAEN.                                  377

relative age of the extinct mammalia and the glacial drift,

and in their neighbourhood Captain Thomas showed Kamsay

drift with shells.

My other point is Moel Tryfaen, and the shells found at

Igreat heights by Trimmer and Ramsay near the Menai

Straits. Not that may succeed in seeing the shells, for

they are very rare, but Ramsay has given me the name of a
guide who can show me the drif; and region where they

have been found.
IAs it is only an hour or two by rail to Holyhead, may
Igo there.
            hope to see a peat moss out of which Mr.

Stanley, M.P. has dug two specimens of mammoth sent to

the British Museum. He has invited me to see the spot.

     YOU were good enough to suggest some months ago that,

if the time suited, you might be able to accompany me on

Imy tour. If you could, whether for a part or the whole of

the three weeks' run, should be very glad.

You said in one of your letters that there will be many

who will go soon to Wales to see whether the enormous

changes of level in Post Pliocene times at present inferred

from the glacial and other phenomena are legitimate specu

Ilations. Even a brief glance of some of the ground will

am sure enable me better to judge than a great deal of read

ing, or will at least qualify me to read critically what has

been said by others.

                    Believe me ever sincerely yours,

                      CHARLES LYELL.

                           To SIR CHARLES BUNBURY.

                                                      Pendock Rectory : July 19, 1863.

     My dear Bunbury, --We are enjoying beautiful weather
and a splendid view of the Malvern Hills from our windows,
having yesterday had a fine drive through the vale of Eve-

sham to Tewkesbury, and then here. I examined Strick

land's Cropthorn beds, and found at the level of the elephants
and Gyrena fluminialis what may be a ' core ' from which
flint knives were struck off, but perhaps Evans may say of it,
as of certain prismatic flints of the elephant bed of Ickling-
ham, that they are natural and not artificial productions.

878  SIR CHARLES LYELL.     CHAP, xxxvi.

He (Evans) has promised to go to Icklingham in the summer,
and to call on Mr. Prigg and try and make out the question
of the old trenches which contain tools.

     My visit to Charbes and Saint-Prest and the Paris
museums has satisfied me of ice-action in the time of

Elepltas meridionalis, and as to Desnoyer's proofs of 'pre-

glacial man,' and horns and bones cut and scraped and

broken by man, at the period of the Cromer forest bed. They

are certainly very curious, not to be pooh-poohed, and yet

tantalising because one wants more evidence. A propos to

Ithe same Cromer bed, King has just written to me to say

that he has found the rhizomas of Osmunda regalis. should
like to know your opinion of the kind of evidence on which
he relies so confidently. He says ' the rhizomas are so
large that they must have risen like tree-ferns two or three
feet out of the ground.' Mr. Symonds has got a specimen
containing, in one small fragment of rock, two or three seeds

representing the oldest known plants with the oldest yet
known Silurian fish, which he tells me he is to give you for

your museum.

       With love to Frances, ever affectionately yours,
                                                               CHAELES LYELL.

     To DR. JOSEPH HOOKEE.

     IMy dear Hooker,--                         London : July 31, 1863.
                         have been reading the paper on
' Welwitschia ' with as much pleasure and profit as one so
Iignoiant of botanical details of structure can do.
                                                     am

glad you threw oat a few hints on its bearing on the develop

ment theory. It is a splendid anomaly, and had it been

carboniferous instead of a living plant, would have afforded

Agassiz a fine illustration of his favourite theme, that in the

earliest periods adult organisms were what afterwards were

only exemplified in the embryonic stages of more highly

Iorganised creatures, animal and vegetable.
        have been with my wife and nephew Leonard geologis
ing for two days between London and Rochester. We found

primroses in flower.

     The Welwitschia would be enough for one year's work,

i863.             FOSSIL SHELLS.  879

though    a mere  episode in yours. The illustrations most
telling.                   Ever sincerely yours,
                                                      CHARLES LYELL.

                              To LEONARD LYELL.

                                                                53 Harley Street : August 23, 18R3.

   IMy dear Leonard, -- have been a long time answering

your letter, and have now to report that I went yesterday to

Mr. King's, whose shop is much improved, and bought three-
pennyworth of Anacharis, as you wished, which Aunt Mary
has put into the aquarium, when she counted the fish and
other creatures mentioned in your letter, and found the

Inumber agree with your list, besides the small fry.
        have been driving to-day all round Battersea Park,
which is now beautified with flowers. Miles of Tom Thumb

Igeraniums, blue lobelias, yellow and other calceolarias, and

a background of dahlias. Some day hope to take you to

Isee it.
     Aunt Mary and went over Victoria Park the other day,
where there is a greater extent of ground, with an equally
splendid display of flowers, and with a long piece of water

I Ion which were boats let out to hire and much used.
        suppose you heard that Aunt Mary and had a very

Ipleasant tour in Wales. On a hill called Moel Tryfaen, at a

height of 1,300 feet above the sea, found twenty species of
fossil shells, all of living species, in sand and gravel fifty feet
thick. You would have known most of them familiarly,
for there was the common cockle, whelk, eatable mussel,
Mya truncata, the common turritella, and others, but with
them Tellina proximo, Natica clausa, Mangelia pyramidella,
and other northern species. On the whole an arctic fauna

like Spitzbergen. I have mentioned this hill in my last

book, and the shells, but only twelve were known before --
found some thirty-five years ago, and as Charles Darwin
could find none, the fact was disputed by some. Luckily a
new mining company wanting to get roofing slates, had
spent 150Z. in laying open this section just in time for me

Ito see it. Next year probably it will all be closed up again,

but not hope till forty species have been found.

'380  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxxvi.

     These shells show that Snowdon and all the highest hills
which are in the neighbourhood of Moel Tryfaen were mere
islands in the sea at a comparatively late period, or when

these living European mollusks were flourishing.

   I had a good view of Colonel H. Bunbury's place, Aber-
Igwynant, the day rode up to the top of the mountain

called Coder Idris. July is often a rainy month in Wales,
but this year we had constant fine weather. The sportsmen
who came to fish complained of the want of rain, as the

salmon could not get water enough to ascend the rivers, and
were jumping in the sea in swarms off the coast of Aberyst-
with.

     With my love to Frank, Arthur, Rosamond, and papa

and mamma, believe me, my dear Leonard,
                                      Ever your affectionate uncle,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

i864. A LADY SECRETARY.  881

                       CHAPTER XXXVII.

                            FEBRUARY 1864-NOVEMBER 1865.

'-SCHEME FOB CAVE- EXPLORATIONS IN BORNEO -- DUKE OF ARGYLL ON

     · VARIATION OF SPECIES BERLIN-- THE CROWN PRINCESS -- CROLL ON
      'CHANGE OF CLIMATE DURING GEOLOGICAL EPOCHS' -- EARTH-PYRAMIDS
      AT BOTZEN-- HEKR'S ' URWELT DER SCHWEI7. '--LETTER TO MR. SPED-
      DINGONTHE 'AMERICAN WAR*-- SIR JOHN HERSCHEL'S DRAWINGS OF THE
      EARTH-PILLARS.

     [In the beginning of 1864 his father-in-law, Mr. Leonard Homer,
dial, in his eightieth year. In April Sir Charles and Lady Lyell made

an excursion to Midhurst (where he had been at school) and went on
to Salisbury to see its valuable Archaeological Museum.

     He was elected President of the British Association, which held
its thirty-fourth anniversary at Bath, where he dwelt in his Address
at length on the thermal springs of that place, and having spoken on
the phenomena of glaciers, he alluded to the antiquity of man, a
subject which was beginning to attract general attention.

      This year he was made a Biironet.
     He spent the Christmas of 1864-5 in Berlin, with his brother-in-
law Chevalier Pertz, and in the summer of 1865 he and Lady Lyell,
accompanied by their nephew Leonard Lyell, revisited the Alps, and
went to the earth-pyramids of Botzen and the Glacier Lake of
Aletsch.
      Through the greater part of his life, he had suffered from weak
sight, and therefore was frequently read to, and he dictated much of
what he wrote. During his last ten years, he had the benefit of a
very efficient secretary, a lady ' gifted with a rare intellectual power.
From her daily intercourse with one who never failed to inspire all
those who were with him with a love of his science, she acquired
an extensive acquaintance with the subject, which has since enabled
her to popularise the study of natural science among young people.]

    i Miss Arabella Buckley, author of a Short History of Natural Science ; the
Fairy Land of Science ; and Life and Iwr Children.

882  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP, xxxvu.

                          CORRESPONDENCE.

                         To W. PENGELLY, ESQ.

                                                              53 Harley Street: February 12, 1864.

     My dear Sir,-- Mr. Alfred Wallace, whom you know by
name, told me the other day that there are limestone caves
in Borneo, within reach of Rajah Brooke's jurisdiction, which,
deserve more than any in the whole world to be explored, as
he feels sure they must contain the bones of extinct species
of anthropomorphous apes most nearly allied to man, just
as the Australian caves afford us fossil species of extinct
kangaroos and other marsupials. He proposed to me to

Iget the Royal Society to make a grant for the exploration of

some one of these caves, and asked if knew anyone prepared

Ito undertake it, and could be sure that Sir James Brooke

would encourage the exploration, if would do my best.

Do you not sometimes meet Sir James at Miss Coutts's, or is
he not somewhere at Torquay ? ^'o one could better explain

Ithan you the peculiar interest of such an inquiry, and if

could get Wallace into correspondence with him, we might
perhaps find some adventurer with competent knowledge to
undertake the enterprise and get the scheme into such shape
as to enable us to appeal to the Royal and Geographical So
cieties, and perhaps get up a private subscription in aid of the

object. It is precisely the kind of investigation which no sur

veyor sent out to find gold or tin or coal, or other products
of economical value, would be justified in following up, or
even giving to it a small portion of his time, and you well
know how much time and patience it would require.

                       Believe me, my dear sir,
                                           Ever most truly yours,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

                            To GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

                                               53 Harley Street, London : April 28, 1864.

   I IMy dear Ticknor, --When last wrote to you had only

Iread the first half of your ' Life of Prescott,' and if

admired and enjoyed it exceedingly, you may well believe

1864. RAJAH BROOKE. 383

Ithat the last half interested me still more, for while think
Iits merit as a biography is equally great, it had the

additional charm to me of embracing the time when knew

Prescott personally, and so many of his friends. It was like

living over again those years which we spent in America,
which we always look back upon as among the happiest of

Iour lives.
        was very much struck with the skill you have shown
in making Prescott tell his own story, and yet omitting
those parts of his memoranda and letters which would have

Idiluted the tale. As it stands, it is very racy and pithy.
        am to-day going to meet Sir James Brooke, the Rajah
of Sarawak, and Mr. Ricketts, the first consul appointed
by the Government here to that new region, which has so
suddenly started into commercial importance, for the sake
of organising a scheme for exploring some caverns of lime

Istone in the Rajah's dominions, from which they have

hitherto got nothing but eatable birds' nests. But feel
persuaded that on examining the floor, deeply covered with
guano or the dung of countless bats or vampires, they will
find fossil bones ; and as we have obtained extinct kangaroos
and other marsupials frotu the Australian caves, and extinct

Iforms of armadillo, sloths, and American monkeys from the

caves of Brazil, so hope to get extinct ourangs, if not the

missing link itself, from these Borneo explorations. Miss
Coutts is a great friend of the Rajah, and we are all to meet
at her house. She thoroughly enters into the spirit of the

undertaking. If we can only get a few bones by a preliminary

reconnaissance, by aid of the Rajah's officers and dyaks, we
should easily raise funds here for larger excavations.

                                       Ever affectionately yours,
                                                               CHAELES LYELL.

                            To CHARLES DARWIN, ESQ.

                                               53 Harley Street, London : November 4, 1864.

    IMy dear Darwin, -- was delighted to henr yesterday at

the Athenaeum that the Council had decided that you were

Ito have the Copley medal, for when it was not awarded to

you last year felt that its value had been much lowered,

S84                SIR CHARLES LYEIJL          CHAP, xxxvu.

Iand in my indignation at the want of courage implied in

their hesitation, sympathised with a friend who has long

Iheld that these medals do more harm than good, which,

however, have always been un willing to believe.2

    In the present instance it is of more than usual import

ance, not in a purely scientific point of view, for your
reputation cannot be the least raised by it in the minds of
those whose opinions you care for, or who are capable of
judging for themselves as to the merits of such a book as
the ' Origin,' but because an honour openly conferred by
an old chartered institution acts on the outsiders and helps
to increase that stock of moral courage which is so small
still, though it has grown sensibly in the last few years.

Huxley alarmed me by telling me a few days ago that
some of the older members of the Council were afraid of

crowning anything so unorthodox as the ' Origin.' But if

they were so, they had the good sense to draw in their horns.

                        Believe me ever affectionately yours,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

     To CHARLES DARWIN, ESQ.

                      Magdeburg : January 16, 1865.
IMy dear Darwin, -- was so busy with the last chapters
Iof my new edition of the ' Elements ' before
                                               left town a
Imonth ago, that did not reply to your kind letter about

Imy after-dinner speech on your Copley medal at the Royal
Society anniversary.  have some notes of it, and hope one
I Iday to run over it with you, especially as it was somewhat of a

confession of faith as to the ' Origin.' said had been forced

to give up my old  faith without thoroughly seeing my way to
a new one. But
                   I think you would have been satisfied with
Ithe length went. The Duke of Argyll expresses in his
Iaddress to the Edinburgh Royal Society very much what
have done (' Antiquity of Man,' p. 469), that variation or
natural selection cannot be confounded with the creational

law without such a deification of them as exaggerates their

influence. He seems to me to have put the difficulty pretty

clearly, but on the other hand he has not brought out as

2 [It will be observed this does not apply to the late awards of the medals.]

1865. ON VARIATION OF SPECIES.                                  885

Ifully as should have liked him to have done, the great

body of evidence so admirably brought to bear in your work,
in proof of the bond of mutual descent, and the manner in

which species and genera branched from common ancestors.

He did not entertain this idea till he had read your book,

Iand he is now evidently impressed with it, as am ; and he
Iwould, think, go the whole length, were it not for the
necessity of admitting, in order to be consistent, that man

and the quadrumana came from a common stock. He

does, indeed, in defiance of consistency, admit for the
humming-birds what he will not admit for the primates,

and Guizot's theology is introduced to support him ; but the

Iaddress is a great step towards your views-- far greater,
believe, than it seems when read merely with reference to

criticisms and objections. The reasoning about materialism

appears to me admirably put, and his definition of the various
                                   ' law  '
         in which we use the term           ;  though,  having  only
Isenses
read the speech once, am not yet able to judge critically

on all these points. He assumes far too confidently that

Ithe colours of the humming-birds are for mere ornament and
beauty.   can conceive a meaning in your sense for the

advantage of the creature, or of its friends and enemies, in

every coloured ray of light reflected from the plumes. We

must indeed know far more than we do before we can

dogmatise on the irrelevancy of particular colours to the

well-being of a species. He ought also to define beauty,

Iand tell us whether it is in reference to man or bird.
have no objection to the idea of beauty or variety for its
own sake, but to assume it so positively is unphilosophical.

   IWe have been about three weeks at Berlin, and had
some good geological talk with Ferdinand Roemer, Bey rich,
Von Kcenen, Gustav Rose, Ewald, Dr. Both, and Dove the

meteorologist, besides Ehrenberg, Magnus, Lepsius, and

Du Bois-Reymond, and an animated conversation on Dar
winism with the Princess Royal, who is a worthy daughter
of her father, in the reading of good books and thinking of
what she reads. She was very much au fait at the ' Origin '
and Huxley's book, the ' Antiquity,' &c. &c., and with the
Pfahlbauten Museums which she lately saw in Switzerland.

She said after twice reading you she could not see her way

VOL. II.  C0

386                  SIR CHARLES LYELL.        CHAP. xxxvn.

as to the origin of four things ; namely the world, species,

man, or the black and white races. Did one of the latter

come from the other, or both from some common stock ? And

I Ishe asked me what was doing, and explained that in
Irecasting the ' Principles ' had to give up the independent

creation of each species. She said she fully understood my
Idifficulty, for after your book ' the old opinions had received
a shake from which they never would recover.'  shall be

Ivery glad to hear what you think of the Duke of Argyll's

comments on the ' Origin.' . think that your book is a vast

step towards showing the methods which have been followed

Iin creation, which is as much as science can ever reach,

and the Duke, think, has not fully appreciated the advance

which has been made, even in his own mind.

   I had hoped that a copy of the ' Elements ' would have
Ibeen sent to you while was still at Berlin. You will find
Imuch that is new, and nothing, think, clashing with the
I I' Origin.' Please read my description of the Atlantis theory.

  fear shall return and find the book still unborn, which is
too bad of the printer. Please let me know how your health

has been during the last four weeks.

                     Ever most truly yours,

                                         CHARLES LYELL.

    P.S. In an article in the Berlin ' Punch ' on the Pope's
encyclical, in which all the innovations which trouble his
Holiness are enumerated, ' Die Darwinische Lehre die uns

alle Affen macht ' was not forgotten.

Dover : January 19.

                     To SIR JOHN HERSCHEL.

                     63 Harley Street, London, W. : January 31, 1865.
     IMy dear Sir John Herschel, -- was very glad
                     II                                                                                 see
                                                                                                   to*
your handwriting, a.nd was on the point of writing to you on
two subjects, to which shall presently allude. The Irish

siliceous rhomboids are remarkably regular examples of

analogous results which have seen in various countries

where siliceous schists were traversed by divisional planes of

cleavage, usually referred to expansion and contraction by
heat after the original consolidation of the mass. But as to

i865. CROLL ON ' CHANGE OF CLIMATE:                   387

Ithe real causes, have never been able to satisfy myself.
ISometimes have seen very large fragments of shapes
Isimilar to that which you send.  will show it at our next

meeting to some of those who have made a study of such

Iappearances, and then write to you again.

     The first question wished to ask you, was whether you

have read a memoir by Mr. J. Croll on the ' Physical Causes
of Change of Climate during Geological Epochs,' in the August
number 1864 of the ' Philosophical Magazine.'

   IIt is well worth reading, but am specially called upon
Ito allude to it because am now re-editing the ' Principles

of Geology,' the ninth edition of which has been out of print

for several years, and which my publisher says ought with

out delay to be reprinted ; a more arduous task than he is

aware of, since already eleven years have elapsed since the

last version saw the light, and Darwin, among others, has

done much to shake our old opinions since that time.  had

   I IIn my eighth chapter, repeated at p. 126 what
said on your authority in preceding editions, as to the effect

of the varying eccentricity of the earth's orbit. In your
paper in the ' Geological Transactions,' vol. iii., you stated

that the necessary calculations had not yet been made, but

Croll now endeavours to found, on Leverrier's data, a differ

ence of one-fifth in the winter temperature when the extreme
If Iof eccentricity occurs.
you have not read his paper,
should like to send it to you by post, and should be glad to

Iknow how far you think may rely on his facts and reasons.
IOf their applicability to geology, may, perhaps, form an

independent opinion. His reasoning as to the direction of

currents and the assumption that the physical geography of

the globe in the glacial period resembled that now established,

is entirely at variance with what we know, as is the assumed

periodicity of hotter and colder periods, from the Cambriau

Ito the recent era.
       feel more than ever convinced that changes in the posi

tion of land and sea have been the principal cause of past

variations in climate, but astronomical causes must of course

have had their influence, and the question is, to what extent

have they operated? So far as we at present know, the

glacial period of the southern hemisphere coincided with

cc2

388              SIR CHARLES LYELL.         CHAP, xxxvn.

that of the northern, which would not be the case if it were

referable to the eccentricity of the orbit referred to by Croll.
     I IAs must allude to his paper, shall be very glad to
Ihave your opinion on its merits.
                                   daresay he sent you an
Iauthor's copy. The other point on which am desirous of

Iconsulting you relates to the earth-pyramids of Botzen in

the Tyrol. More than forty years ago, at Dr. Fitton's

Ithink, you showed me a drawing you had made of those
columns.  have never seen anything published on the

Isubject, and meant to visit Botzen, and may, perhaps, be

able to go there this summer. But in 1857 saw some

remarkable exhibitions of the same phenomenon in some

Itributary valleys of the Upper Rhone, on my way to the
glacier of Zermatt.  ascertained that the earth-pillars of

Stalden in the valley of the Visp, a stream which runs down

from Zermatt, belonged to an old glacial moraine, which

forms a terrace all along the right bank of the Visp, and

consists as usual of unstiatified solid mud, with boulders

rounded and angular, stuck irregularly in the muddy matrix,

and where large blocks occur to form a capping, the rain has

washed away some of the loose earth, and left pillars. An

earthquake had occurred a few weeks before, which had

thrown down chimneys and rent walla, the cracks being

still open in the town of Brieg on the left bank of the Rhone,

a few miles above its junction with the Viop. and these

same shocks had  thrown  down some of  the  earthV-p*ill^ars'  at  "
Staldeu.
                                                               "

I therefore saw, with no small wonder, two isolated earth-
pillars, one of which is called the Dwarf's Tower, or in their
patois, ' Zwergle-Thurm,' a few miles from Brieg in a valley
on the right bank of the Rhone. They are of exactly the
same moraine-like structure as those of Stalden, the prin

cipal one thirty-six feet high, seven feet diameter, with an

angular block at the summit about seven feet diameter, and
various other boulders sticking out from the sides.

The slope of the hill-side is very steep, at an angle of
Ifabout 43°, a deep narrow glen, cut in mica-schist.
                                                               the

two isolated columns mark the former position of a moraine

of an extinct glacier, the entire removal of the rest of the

moraine, and the subsequent excavation of several hundred

i865. EARTH PYRAMIDS. 3S9

feet of a narrow glen, are remarkable, and it is strange

that an earthquake never threw down these columns ; but I

Ifsuppose they are the last of hundreds that have been shaken
down.  the pine-trees were cut down, they would have

a most singular appearance.

   I could not find any rubbed or glaciated pebbles in the
IDwarf's Tower, but found some in the earth-pillars of

Stalden. One block of gneiss, twenty-two feet long and ten

high, caps two pillars at Stalden quite in the Stonehenge style.

The glaciation of some of the pebbles proves beyond a doubt,
in the Stalden case, that the pillars are part of the moraine
Iof one of the old extinct glaciers of gigantic size.
                                                       should

like to see your drawing, or a copy of it. Have you ever
Ipublished it ?
                 should like to give a woodcut of it, as
Icontributed by you to my new edition, giving the date, for

Isuppose in forty years the rain has done something to alter

it. made some drawings of the Stalden and Dwarf Tower

Ipillars which may be of some use as diagrams, but yours

gave a much better idea of the appearance, and have never

seen any published engraving, though so much has been

written about the old moraines.

With our kind remembrances to Lady Herschel and your

daughters, believe me ever most truly yours,

                                 CHARLES LYELL.

                                To PROFESSOR HEER.

                                                  53 Harley Street, London : February 4, 1865.

   IMy dear Heer, -- was very glad to receive your kind
Iletter, and your friendly acknowledgment of the receipt of

my ' Elements ' makes me feel that ought long ago to

Ihave written to thank you for your ' Urwelt der Schweitz.'

At Berlin began the reading of your ' Urwelt ' with great

care, and soon found how much the botanical and entomo
logical parts of my ' Elements ' had lost by my not having

Isooner gone to school in the pages of your excellent treatise,

the merits of which discussed with Professors Beyrich and
Ferdinand Roemer, both of whom were already familiar with
the ' Urwelt,' and fully appreciated its value and originality.

.390  SIR CHARLES LYELL.           CHAP. XXXVTL

IAfter reading the first hundred pages was interrupted, bur

shall recommence very soon.

   IWhen say that the Fontainebleau sand shells are all

specifically different from the rich falnnianof the neighbour

ing Touraiue, I speak after going into the question with
Ueshayes, Edward Forbes, Bosquet, and others. Your argu

ment founded on the corals of the Upper Miocene of the West

Indies and European Faluns, showing that the ocean of the

Miocene period could not have been vei'y deep, or could only
have had a moderate depth, is well worthy of consideration.

The affinity of the corals seems to me against the existence

of a continent, but it does require at least a great many

Iislands like the coral region of the Pacific (or Oceanica).

      long to have your report on the Miocene plants of the

Amurland, a country where the living mammalia are now

almost all of the same species as those living in Western

I IEurope.                         will send you
     When
      have read more of your book

Imore comments, and hope you will do the same in regard to

mine. Your criticisms are the more valuable because am
now re-editing the ' Principles of Geology,' and am therefore

going over much of the same ground, and have often no op
portunity of putting myself right.

     We are quite well, and my wife joins me in kind regards to

you and your family. The sudden death of Dr. Falconer has

shocked us much. He is a great loss to science, and much

knowledge dies with him.

      Believe me ever most truly yours,

                          CHARLES LYELL.

                             To SIR JOHN HEIISCHEL.

                                       53 Harley Street, London, W. : February 21, 1865.

    My clear Sir John, --The drawings3 are most valuable,
and it is tantalising not to be able to use all of them, or
to have only to extract telling bits of them. The Stalden
case is particularly good, because a portion of the moraine
not yet divided into columns has two big stones lying at the
top. But the beauty of the groups of the Botzen columns

                                   1 Of the Botzen earth-columns.

                                                                                          ,

i865. THE PLANET MARS. 891

Iis far greater. They are most elegant, and cannot believe

that the large undivided masses which you allude to, in the

lithographed sketch of which unfortunately the date is not

Igiven, can be taken from the same point of view ; at least,

that would imply a more rapid rate of waste than suspect

Itakes place.
         hope to get to Botzen this year, and shall take your

drawing and try to find your point of view, so as to judge of

the amount of change in forty-four years ; if it is not very

considerable, then the splitting up of the unbroken masses

to which you allude cannot have taken place between the

Iexecution of the print and your visit. The Stalden one is
of more interest to me at present, because  ascertained it

to be the work of one of the old extinct glaciers, containing

glaciated fragments of rock, so that ever since the era of

extreme cold there has been no flood in this valley to inter

fere with the gradual formation of these columns by pluvial
action. On this account it is valuable, because the columns

go down so low, the base of some of them being only slightly

above the river, which would not have been the case if a

flood had ever cleared away the lower part of the moraine.

   IAs you have been looking into my new edition, should

like you to read Chapter XV., which is new, as it will give

you some idea of the new part which fossil botany is
Iplaying, and the arguments for a Miocene Atlantis will,
Ithink, interest you.
                       see that Professor Phillips has been

reading a paper to the Royal Society on the appearance of

the planet Mars at different seasons, and the quantity of
snow in different years. Would it be possible to say whether

at present there is a preponderance of land in polar as com

pared to equatorial latitudes in that planet ? Phillips has
always ignored my cause --the varying distribution of land

If Iand sea as influential in accounting for former changes of

climate, though he has never, think, given any good reasons
for slighting it.  in Mars, as well as in the earth, land

and sea are always shifting places, it may sometimes happen

that the position of land and sea in the planet nearest the

sun may be so favourable to cold as to counterbalance the

effects of greater proximity to the great source of heat.

                       Ever most truly yours,

                       CHARLES LYELL.

392  SIR CHARLES LYELL.            CHAP. xxxvn.

     To THOMAS S. SPEDDING, Esq.1

     b3 Harley Street : March 12, 1865.

     My dear Spedding, --It is always a great pleasure for me

to hear from you, and so rare for me to differ from you in
Iopinion that, had not been four times across the Atlantic,
Iand seen both North and South of the United States, should
Idoubt my own faith when found you questioned its soundness.
     I must begin by stating that 1 entirely differ on the first
Ipoint you lay down, namely, the right of Secession.
                                                      think

it was about fourteen years from tho first outbreak of the

war with Great Britain, that the thirteen States tried to get

on with such a constitution as might have justified any one
of the independent States in seceding. But they found it
would not do, and they then made a constitution which is as

much violated by Secession as would our constitution be if

Ireland, Scotland, Wales, or even Yorkshire should declare

themselves independent because they were dissatisfied with
a new Parliament, and complained that they were not fairly

Irepresented.
     Pray understand me, that admit that every people have
the right of rebellion or revolution whenever they are op

pressed, or suffer such grievances as renders such an ex
treme measure natural.

    But you have only to read Vice-President Stephens'
earnest address to the legislature of his own State (Georgia)

before the outbreak, when he tried to point out to them the
folly of the proposed separation, to see that so far from
having any just ground of rebellion, the South had been

dominant to the last in foreign and domestic politics, had

always had the lion's share in the choice of Presidents and
other civil appointments, and in officering the army and

navy. In short they rebelled simply because Lincoln's elec
tion showed them that the Free-Soil or Republican party
were at last determined to resist the extension of slavery
into new territories, although they would still permit them

to retain the institution at home, because they were pledged
to do so by the constitution. The Morrill Tariff was never

     i Of Mire House, Cumberland.

1865. ON SECESSION IN AMERICA. 393

put forth by the Southerners as a ground of complaint,

although it was afterwards by Spence, who, as he was a paid

advocate of the Soutb, ought not to be compared to Goldwin

Smith.

The South had become very aggressive in regard to

slavery when the North, who had too long yielded to them,

determined to resist. No doubt the South were right in

foreseeing that the non-extension of slavery into new regions

would in the long run be tantamount to its extinction, or, at

any rate, to their rapidly diminishing importance in the

Ipolitical scale. But this did not justify the rebellion.
        differ from you as to our having ever had any proof of

the unanimity of the South in favour of Secession. No one

of the Southern States took the steps, which by their con

stitutions they were bound to take, in order to obtain a

sanction for an organic change in their constitution, even for

one of much less moment than Secession from the Union.
I believe that the slave-owning oligarchy did not dare call a
IConvention and put the question to a popular vote.
                                                     doubt

whether they would have carried it even in South Carolina,

and feel sure that they would have been beaten in Georgia

and Tennessee by large majorities ; the Negroes going for

nothing, and the white population alone voting. Sherman's

unopposed march through Georgia and South Carolina does

not surprise me. You will grant that if the population in

those parts of our island where the artisan and working

class are most intelligent, and the Baptists and some other

sectarians very numerous, had been polled, whether in the

first or fourth year of the war, they would have given a

majority of votes for the North ; and yet if our aristocracy

had chosen to drag us into a war in favour of the South,

they might have raised regiments out of the very class

which felt most strongly for the North and against the

Islave-owners, and they would have fought with spirit when
once excited, and fairly embarked in the feud.  have my

fears as to the result in this country of a wide extension of

the suffrage ; but if the opinions of such a class as the arti

sans of Lancashire, Birmingham, Newcastle, &c., were better

represented in Parliament, the Government would have been
more vigilant iu preserving neutrality, and fewer ' Alabamas '

394  SIR CHARLES LYELL.         CHAP, xxxvu.

would have been built and allowed to steal out, and we

should be in less danger now of a war, or at least of having

to support additional taxes in order to be prepared for the

worst after four years of insolent and malignant writing by
such papers as the ' Times ' and ' Saturday Review,' which

has estranged from us and embittered that party in the

United States which had the greatest feeling for England,
while it has done nothing to soften the hatred which millions

of Irish birth, with the democratic party which side with

them, cherish against us.

     There has been a great combination of motives which

Ihave led the aristocracy to take part against the North.

The most influential, think, has been a John Bullish desire

to see the dismemberment of a power which if it does not

divide will soon interfere with British supremacy. Next in

Iorder comes a sincere wish, for the good of mankind as they

think, for the failure of democracy. Thirdly, think the

Liverpool merchants, shipbuilders, and others were anxious

for the destruction of the shipping of their rivals. Fourthly,

the general ignorance (in great part wilful), of the ruling
classes, of the real state of things in America, cannot be

exaggerated, and if such men as Gladstone and Earl Russell

Ifhad been only six weeks in the United States, they would
never have said what they did.  you had lived among the

Americans you would not have wondered at the loyalty they

have shown for the Union, which outside of the New

England States has had more to do with the spirit they

have shown than the feeling against slavery. The two
motives taken together --the integrity of the empire, and the

non-extension, and for the last two years the extinction of
slavery -- constitute to my mind better grounds for a pro

Itracted struggle than those for which any war in our time,

perhaps in all history, has been waged. Although think

Ithe Irish might have rather a better case than the South

erners for, repeal, yet would fight for any number of years

rather than let that island be independent of us ; and there

is no Englishman who, if he had settled in one of the North-

Western States of the Union, would not have the same

feeling in regard to allowing the States at the mouth of the

Mississippi to belong to some other power. How could the

i865. AMERICAN POLITICS.              395

loss of Bengal be compared to this, and yet how many

thousands of lives and millions of pounds should we not

Ifhave expended, rather than have allowed even India to
secede ?    you visited A.merica you would soon see that the

vast majority have such a feeling of security of property,

equality of rights and of religious sects, as makes them feel

toward the Government as the rich and upper classes do

towards our own.

   ILincoln and his colleagues are not the sort of men that

you and would put into a Cabinet, so far as their con

ventional manners are concerned, but you must recollect that

this is not the feeling of ninety-nine in a hundred of the

electors on the other side of the Atlantic. But after all, are

Lords Palmerston, Clarendon, and some others, men of higher
Iprinciple than Lincoln, or as high?
                                      am intimate with

men equal to any here in literary attainments and in polish

Iof manners, and of independent fortune, in the United

States, whom used to wish to see in power instead of the

coaiser class into whose hands the reins of Government

Ihave been placed. But these men and the majority of

capitalists would, am sure, have knocked under to the

South, and the slave-owner would have made a compromise

Ifby which his institution would have been more rampant
than ever.  slavery, which was more injurious to the

white man than to the Negro, and which to a certain extent

poisoned the political institutions of the North, as well as

keeping the South in ignorance, is got rid of, it will be

owing to a very extended suffrage among a class which

had had much instruction, for working men, but to whom

the aristocracy of wealth and refinement were not pre

pared to make great sacrifices for such an object. Never

theless, when they were once embarked in the contest a

very large proportion of young men of the highest attain

ments and fortune went to the war, many of them serving

in the ranks, and this year after year, when the enormous

sacrifices and danger which they incurred were thoroughly

realised.
The ' Times,' whose leaders against the United States

were always copied into their newspapers, did much in one

way to help the North. It made them feel that if they fell

396           S/ff CHARLES LYELL.     CHAP, xxxvn.

to pieces (and the Secession of the South once yielded wouldif,1;
have been followed by other dismemberments), they woulda
be treated by foreign nations, at least by us, with that conit
tempt to which the weak alone are exposed. The writers'
of the money articles of the ' Times ' hoped to damage them
                      a
financially, and they must have succeeded so far as to cause

Ithe English to sell out, instead of taking any of the new

loans, about one-tenth of which has, am told, been purchased
by the Germans and other continentals. But the result has
only shown how ignorant the ' Times ' was of the wealth of
the Union, as they have already borrowed some 300 million
from themselves, and a fourth hundred million is now forth

coming, almost all from the same source. It is surprising that

year after year the prophecies of the ' Times ' correspondent as
to the impending bankruptcy of the North, the impossibility
of their obtaining any more men, and their disunion had
been falsified, while the opposite statements of the corre
spondent of the ' Daily News ' on the same subject were as
regularly verified by the events, including the Presidential
election, that the ' Times ' should have tolerated the con

tinuance in office of writers who must have associated with

Confederate agents at New York. You do not seem to think

I Ithat people in good society here have been ' Times '-ridden,

but assure you could always tell what people would think

on each separate question and event throughout the war,

     before going to a party, glanced at the leading journal

and if, as often happened, incidents of great importance were
under discussion, such as the treatmenb of prisoners by the
 Southerners, as proved before commission, or the fact that
only eleven per cent. of foreigners entered into the army, as
officially shown, few regular readers of the Times,' when told
of the suppression of such documents, cared to know the truth,
because was disagreeable to have chord struck out of har
 mony with the antipathies which had been excited by their
 daily reading. They would sometimes tell you that life was
 not long enough to read more than one paper. The contrast
 in the feelings of the Germans, when last Christmas we mixed
with the reactionary Tory party, as well as with the Liberals
 at Berlin, with the sentiment in good society here, was most
 striking, and Judd, the American Minister there, remarked

i865. MILITARY SKILL IN THE SOUTH.  307

to me how enviable was his position as compared to that
of Mr. Adams in England. But had people read the ' Daily
News,' ' Weekly Times,' and ' Star,' in this country, as well

Ias the ' Times,' a state of feeling among tho literary and

scientific men more like that which found in Prussia would

have prevailed.
     By the way, the ability, literary and political, with which

Ithe leaders of the ' Weekly Times ' have been written for

the last four or five months, during which have taken it,

on European as well as American affairs, has struck me as
marvellous for a penny paper.

     You cannot say too much of the spirit, courage, and
military skill which the Southerners have displayed. They
have certainly shown the power of an aristocracy to com
mand and direct the energies of the millions, and as by far
the largest true Anglo-Saxon army that was ever organised
in history, we may feel proud of their prowess, for there was

Inot that large mixture of Celtic and German blood which

was on the Northern side. also respect men like Lee, who,

after Secession was determined on, and after long and painful
hesitation, decided that Virginia with its State sovereignty,
and not the Federal Union, was his country. This doctrine had
been carefully inculcated into the minds of the Southerners,
a minority only of whom consisted of the mean whites, while
the majority, such as formed the bulk of the soldiers of
Stonewall Jackson, were good honest farmers, largely drawn
from the upland country, having few, and sometimes no

slaves, but very ignorant compared to the Northerners of the

same class, even unable to read and write, because the planters
wished them to be so, and they could seldom get a school

within forty miles' distance, and then it was too expensive
a one and meant only for the planters' children. Although
a notion prevails here that refinement was the comparative
privilege of the Southerners, they exhibited in truth a low

form of civilisation. They have produced no historians,
poets, great preachers, novelists, nor any literary men ;
orators and politicians alone, for to those departments their
aristocracy devoted themselves. The rebellion was chiefly
brought about by a small number of ambitious men, many
of whom while holding office under the Federal Constitution

398                SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP, xxxvn.

treacherously prepared for Secession by filling the Southern
forts with cannon and ammunition, sending away ships of war

to distant ports, &c. &c. These men, for whom so much sym

pathy has been shown, formed a party which has always given

the most trouble to England, and if they are subjugated, it

will be far more easy for the Northerners, who are industrious,

and who have a distaste for military service, to keep the

peace, provided we can stave off an outbreak for a few years.
They will be bound over by heavy recognisances to keep the
peace, for at first the interest of their debt at 6 or 7 per

Icent. will be about equal to our own, and a terrible burden.

But am very hopeful, for there will be a great tide of free
labour pouring into the South, where slave labour has

hitherto had a monopoly. The resources of a magnificent

Iterritory will be for the first time developed, and having,

since first visited America, witnessed what has been

Idone in Texas and California, which did not belong to

the Union when we first went there in 1841, feel sure

that people here will be astonished at the rapidity with
which the wounds will be healed when once the contest is

over.

     My late friend M'llvaine, once secretary of the United
States Bank, before the days of repudiation, used to assure

me that the ignorance of the Washington Legislature of
political economy, and their want of sound free-trade notions,

was extreme. They are showing this now, and have aggra

vated their debt by not being able to check the over issue of

Ifpaper by the State banks, to say nothing of enormous corrup
tion of contractors and others.  one did not recollect our

history in the war with France, and the Protectionists of

thirty years ago, one might despair. But some adversity

was wanting to improve and chasten the republic, and they
will have it now.
    It is strange that Canada is so anti-free-trade, and makes

Ime grudge expenditure in their defence. Australia, fear,
Iis equally desirous of ' protecting native industry.' But we
must have patience.  expect the military discipline to

teach even civilians in the United States habits of subordina

tion to central authority, which they needed, and that the
large debt will strengthen the Federal power which formerly

i865. LOYALTY TO THE UNION.  399

could not control the States from buccaneering and other

enterprises.
     Had the States been dismembered, there would have been

endless wars, more activity than ever in breeding slaves in
America, and a renewal of the African slave trade, and the

future course of civilisation retarded on that continent in a

degree which would not, in my judgment, be counterbalanced

by any adequate advantage which Euiope would gain by the

IUnited States becoming relatively less strong.

     You must recollect that from the first had a deep con
viction that the North would be staunch for the Union, and

for non-extension of slavery, and that they must prevail,
having such vast odds, not only of wealth and numbers, but
of knowledge and intelligence on their side.

   I believe that if a small number of our statesmen had
Iseen what had seen of America, they would not have
Iallowed their wishes for dismemberment to have biassed their

judgment of the issue so much. Certainly never reckoned
on the South being able to make so splendid a stand, which

Iwill be memorable in history; but then you must recollect

that took for granted that Lincoln would never attempt
general emancipation. When abolition was exchanged for
non-extension, we could not reasonably have expected that

Ito be carried without four or five years of war, or what was

equivalent to a conquest of the South. The result, think,
will be worth all this dreadful loss of blood and treasure.
As to the internal happiness of the States, so long as they
are not divided by hostile tariffs, and are not forced like the
Europeans to keep up ruinous standing armies during peace.

I am sure that had you travelled in the United States you
Iwould feel, as do, that their political organisation, with all

its faults, does not prevent their rapid and successful develop
ment. Whatever it may be for the rich, who have shown,

Ihowever, their loyalty to the constitution in this war,

certainly think that for the millions it is the happiest
country in the world.

      As for their external policy, it has hitherto been mainly
guided, not by a democracy, but by a slave-oligarchy. But
when that is got under, there is another curse, which like
slavery they owe to this country, and that is the millions of

400        SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxxvn.

Irish, who though their condition is wonderfully improved

by the schools and good wages which they obtain there,

form a class to whom the suffrage ought never to have been

extended.

    As to the foreign policy of the United States, could it be

more selfish and aggrandising than that of Bismarck, or of

France when they appropriate Savoy to themselves; and
have we much to boast of ? Italy was not helped by us to
make the step she has made. But all this you will grant,
and you will say that it only shows the danger of too much

Ipower wielded by any one corntry. But as always felt sure

I Iof the success of the North, have been vexed at what
consider the folly of this country doing so much to irritate

the better class of Americans. We have, at the cost of

several millions a year of taxes for the rest of our lives,

indulged in four years of vituperation of a people who were
doing exactly what we thould have done, and it will be

unnecessary now for the Americans to make war with us ;

they have simply to bide their time, and whenever we get
into a quarrel with any power, they have only as neutrals to

Iimitate us, and the whole of our commerce will be swept off
the seas.  hold that it is by the ignorance even more than

to the prejudices of our ruling class, that this state of things

has been brought about, and it has been partly owing to the

monopoly of influence by one single journal, which 1 think
tells far more in an affair of this kind than the Cabinet or

even the Legislature.

Believe me, my dear Spedding, ever most truly yours,

                               CHARLES LYELL.

   IP.S. That there were never more than eleven per cent.

of foreigners in the Federal army, have from the American
Minister, Mr. Adams. But this does not of course include
born citizens of the United States of Irish and German

parents. It only disproves the absurd charge of the Federals

having fought with a hireling force, which people in good

society still believe here.

1865.               THE FLYSCH.                    401

                    To PROFESSOR HEER.

                  I 63 Harley Street : March 16, 1865.

    My dear Heer, -- have been frequently citing jour very

Iinstructive ' Urwelt der Schweitz,' in the new edition of my

' Principles of Geology,' and am now referring to what you

Isay of the huge blocks found at many points in the Flysch.

This ' Flysch,' which studied at Vienna, Salzburg, Genoa,

and elsewhere, has always perplexed me much. You say

truly that to suppose glaciers when the climate as indicated

by the organic remains was so hot, would be a violent hypo

thesis. The absence of organic remains, and suspension of

I Ilife in the seas during a glacial episode, might be conceived,

and should be inclined to imagine this, if could rely on

the facts which you give as to the large blocks of lias, oolite,

granite, gneiss, talcose rock, &c., observed in tbe conglomerates

Iof the Flysch.

      should be very glad if you could assure me that there is

Ino doubt of large-sized angular blocks having been seen
fairly embedded in the Flysch.      am well disposed to believe

it after having seen them in the Italian Miocene.

       You will be glad to hear that our friend Dr. Joseph

Hooker has succeeded to his father at Kew, and is now fairly

installed as the head of that department, which is becoming

every day more and more creditable to this country as a

scientific institution.

    A good dissecting-room and a regular paid anatomist has

been added to the Zoological Gardens, which will now become

Ia good school of comparative anatomy, as so many rare
animals die there.  am very busy at present, trying to

make up my mind how much former changes in the eccen

tricity of the earth's orbit may have exaggerated the winter's

I Icold, and helped to cause a glacial period.
     Did tell you, when last wrote, that Agassiz has found
roches moutonnees in the Organ Mountains near Bio Janeiro ?

If there were glaciers in that latitude, how did the existing
tropical plants survive the chill of the glacial period ? It

seems improbable, according to Darwinian or any other

principle, that the peculiar and distinct tropical vegetations

of Australia, South America, and Africa should be all of post-

       VOL. n.                  DD

402          SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. XXXVIL

glacial origin. There has not been time for such an amount
of development of creational power, unless we admit the
doctrines of the paroxysmal ists.

     Believe me, my dear Heer, ever most truly yours,
                                                         CHARLES LYELL.

             To MR. PENGELLY.

                                                                  Munich: July 26, 1865.

     IMy dear Mr. Pengelly, -- hear from Mr. John Moore, that

you have written an important paper about the Trade-winds,

Gulf- stream, Sahara, &c. As you may not have had separate

Icopies to give me one, shall depend on your telling me in
I Iwhat Journal can buy it, for it is a subject which am
working at. Is it not singular that the hot water of the

Tropical Indian Ocean should, as we are told, flow round the

Cape of Good Hope, across the Atlantic to Brazil, while the

water of the Gulf of Mexico flows NW. towards the polar

regions '? If the Equatorial Sea, north of the line, sends its

hot water towards the Arctic regions, the Equatorial Sea,

Isouth of the line, ought to send its warm waters towards
the Antarctic latitudes.  suppose it is the geographical

conformation of the land, and bottom of the sea, that causes

this different behaviour of the southern and northern
Ifcurrents.
             you have been studying the trade-winds, you
Ican perhaps enlighten me.       presume that if there were no

such winds, the heated tropical waters expanding and becom

ing lighter, would flow towards the north and towards the

south from the equator, while cold under-currents would be

flowing in opposite directions.

             Believe me ever truly yours,

                                 CHAELES LYELL.

                           To SIB CHARLES BUNBURY.

                                                                                  Dover: August 31, 1865.

   IMy dear Bunbury,-- had expected to write to you from

Calais, but we found it answer best to come over and sleep
here. We have had rather a rough passage, but are all
pretty well recovered, and waiting for our luggage from the
Custom House. The Kissingen waters have done me as yet

i 865. ALETSCH LAKE.                            403

Ineither harm nor good. Our Alpine tour answered veryit
                        a
                                    aIwell. The weather upon the whole favourable, andit,
I·accomplished the only two geological points was bent on  is
                          I
clearing up. First the pyramids of Botzen, and the similaris
earth-pillars of several places in the Tallais, or rather in the
ravines of small tributaries to the Upper Rhone; andI
secondly, to see the Glacier Lake of Aletsch, and whether it
would throw any light on the parallel roads of Glen .Roy,a
which it does most decidedly ; a large terrace being formeda

exactly on a level with the Col which separates the valley ofI

the said Aletsch Lake from another valley, that of the Viesch
Glacier. Some persons have shrunk from the idea that the

drainage of the old Glen Roy lakes was effected in a direc
tion opposite to that by which the valleys are drained where
the parallel roads occur. This is just what actually happens
when the Aletsch Lake, or Marjelen See, as they call

blocked up by a barrier of ice, and gets quite full. It then

 flows over Col, or rather the stream issuing from passes
 over the Col on level with the terrace bounding the lake.

   luckily saw the lake forty feet lower than usual, and was
 able to examine the structure of the great shelf which
 level with the Col.

      As to the earth-pillars, had made up my mind before,
 that those of Stalden, near Zermatt, were remnants of a

 moraine of one of the great extinct glaciers, and can prove

 that every other case agrees as to origin in glacial time.
 Some of the columns are from sixty to eighty feet in height.

      Such thickness of coherent unstratified mud, with the

 requisite accompaniment of erratic or capping stones, could
 scarcely be found in any but a glacial formation.

       Leonard has been most agreeable companion. He has

  got on in German as well as in geology.
       We shall start for the Birmingham Meeting on Tuesday

  next, and return to town on Saturday, where shall much

  enjoy being stationary after so much wandering.
                                                    Ever affectionately yours,
                                                               CHARLES LYELL.

                                       D  2

404         SIR CHARLES LYELL.        CHAP. xxxvn.

            To SIR JOHN HERSCHEL.

                                                         63 Harley Street: November 28, 186o.

     IMy dear Sir John Herschel, -- have often been on the

point of writing to tell you the result of my comparison on
the spot of your excellent drawings of the Stalden and Ritten

Iearth-pillars and pyramids, with the scenes which they now
present after nearly half a century.  shall now dictate a

Ifew words on the subject to my amanuensis, having found it

necessary this last year to abstain as much as can from

Iusing my own eyes, whether in reading or writing, by which

means get on well, and seem to have acquired a new lease

for my eyes, and for ordinary purposes they feel much as

Ithey used to do.
        took my eldest nephew, aged fifteen, with me on my

last expedition to Switzerland and the Tyrol, which added

much to our pleasure, for he is quite an enthusiast in geology,

Iconchology, chemistry, and mineralogy.
     Except occasional attacks of lumbago, am battling well
with sixty-eight years, but am obliged to be very careful of

myself. Remember us kindly to Lady Herschel and your

daughters.

     Believe me, dear Sir John, ever most truly yours,

                                      CHARLES LYELL.

     I Ifound the Stalden columns when first saw them in

1858 had suffered greatly from the earthquake of 1855,

Iwhich had rent the walls of houses in the town of Visp, some
of them not repaired when  was there. The principal

capping stone had been thrown down, and many others

probably loosened, for great havoc had been made in the
Iseven years between 18-58 and 1865.
                                      suspect that but for
Ithis shock should have found as many pillars as you saw.
     I convinced myself that the unstratified mass in the
valley of the Visp, and another on a still grander scale in

the valley of the Borgue, which leads to Evolena near Siou,

in the Vallais, are the moraines of old extinct glaciers. It

is not merely the absence of stratification and of all organic

remains, but decidedly glaciated stones, pebbles, and erratics

which bear out this opinion. The same holds true with the

1865. RITTEN EARTH-PILLARS.              405

IBotzen red mud, where found all the same proofs of a

Imorainic origin.
        could get no good photograph of these last, and no

Iengravings in the least degree comparable to your drawings.

  am therefore very desirous of availing myself of your per

Imission to use your drawing of the Ritten pillars, perhaps
as a frontispiece to my new edition.  took much pains to

I Itry and ascertain the exact point of view from which you

took your sketch. often thought had discovered it, and
Iit was not till the last day that it occurred to me that you

must have been looking up the ravine, whereas had made

Iup my mind you were looking down, in consequence of the

view which got from the bridge the first day answering so

nearly to your representation, making allowance for such
slight differences iu the columns as forty years might well
bring about. Have you sufficient recollection of the place

to be able to tell me, first, whether you are looking up the

stream; secondly, whether on ascending the valley one

Iwould pass between a and b ; thirdly, is not the torrent
entirely hidden from sight by the wood?  conceive that

it would go to the bottom between the principal groups of

f; Ipillars in the line from a to c, then from c to d, and then in
the line d, e,  but of this last am not sure, for there

Ihardly seems space between the foreground on which the

tree e stands and the opposite rock g. As presume that

Ithe size of the copy you sent me agrees with that of your

original drawing, the tracing which enclose will suffice to

Ishow you what mean, as my letters would in that case be
Iexactly opposite the points in your original to which

allude.

     1 suspect that the scene has not altered materially, not
even in any of its details, since you were there.

400  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. XXXVIH.

                     CHAPTER XXXVIII.

                             JANUARY 1866-APRIL 1868.

ON GEOLOGICAL CHANGES OF CLIMATE -- TICKNOR'S ' SPANISH LITERATURE '--
     THE INQUISITION BEAUING ON NATURAL SELECTION -- DUKE OF ARGYLL'S
      ' REIGN OF LAW '--MR. DAKWIN ON · VARIATION OF ANIMALS AND PLANTS
     UNDER DOMESTICATION' -- REMINISCENCES OF FARADAY.

     [This year, 1866, he made excursions to the coast of Suffolk, to
Wevinouth, and later on to Forfarshire, returning south, by Whitbv.
He received the Wollaston Medal at the Geological Society for
eminence in his science.

    In 1867 the Exhibition was held in Paris, and after going there,
he went later on to Scotland, and attended the British Association at

Dundee. The tenth edition of his ' Principles of Geology,' much
enlarged, was brought out this year in two volumes.

     In the year 1868 he made expeditions in various parts of
England, and was at the Norwich British Association, and afterwards
Sir Charles and Lady Lyell spent September at Tenby and its neigh

bourhood with his brother's family.]

                         CORRESPONDENCE.

                                To PROFESSOR HEER.

                                                 53 Harley Street, London : January 21, 1866.

   IMy dear Heer, -- am much obliged to you for your letter

to me announcing the death of our friend Gaudin, for whom

I Ihad a sincere regard, and who was one to whom always
Ifelt drawn so much, that had seen as much of him as you

did, his departure would have made an irreparable void in
the circle of my friends. He was indeed a most loveable
person, and he would have occupied a very leading place in

science if he had had more leisure to devote to it, and

had his health and physical strength been more on a par
with his talents.

JS66. 0Ar CHANGES OF CLIMATE. 407

   I should have written sooner to thank you for your

Ivaluable pamphlets, but have been very much absorbed

Iwith a new theory of changes of climate dependent on varia
tions in the eccentricity of the earth's orbit.  am called

Iupon to give an opinion as to the influence of this cause in

a new edition which am preparing of the ' Principles of

IGeology.'
        by no means abandon my old doctrine, that the prin
cipal cause of former fluctuations in temperature, and of

warm and glacial periods, has been the ever-varying position

of the sea and land ; but it is now ascertained that the ex

treme distance by which the earth sometimes deviates from
a circular orbit is such as to carry it away 11,000,000 of

miles from the sun in aphelion, instead of 3,000,000 as at

present, and Mr. Croll of Glasgow has pointed out that the
cold of winter in aphelion would be very intense during such

Imaximum eccentricity.
        ought to have said that this 11,000,000 of miles oc

Icurred 230,000 years ago, and was not the extreme possible

maximum, which believe would be 14,000,000 of miles.

The proximity of the earth to the sun in perihelion would

be proportionally great ; but Mr. Croll maintains, and with
some reason, that most of this excessive heat would be ex

pended in melting part of the accumulated ice of winter,

and this process would cause so much fog and cloud as to

Iprevent the intensity of summer heat from overcoming all
the effects of winter's cold. When  have worked more

upon the tables which the Astronomer Royal is Jiaviug cal

Iculated for me, will let you know more about it.
   I received very lately your beautifully illustrated paper

on the ' Pflanzen der Pfahlbauten.' Your opening address
of last year to the Ziiricli Natural History Society interested

me greatly. Among other things your remarks on the flora
Iof the interglacial period.
                              am very glad to hear of your
Iforthcoming work on the ' Plants of the Chalk,' and hope
Iyou will be able to devote a portion of it to the fossils col

lected by Dr. Debey at Aix-la-Chapelle, for begin to despair

that we shall ever have any account of them unless you

undertake the task.

My friend Professor Iluxley is preparing a paper on

408  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                   CHAP, xxxvnr.

the five new genera of reptiles discovered in the ancient coal
of the county of Kilkenny, in Ireland ; there are eight or
nine species, all of these new, some of them four or five feet
long, of various forms, one of them with small fore feet like

a siren, and abortive hind feet, having the shape of an eel.

    All the genera are of the labyrinthodont family, and

therefore, though they have well-ossified vertebral columns,
their low place in the scale accords well enough with the

theory of progressive development. At the same time, when
you recollect that ten or twelve years ago no single reptile
was known from a rock so ancient as the coal in any part of

the globe, one cannot reflect on the rapidly increasing num
ber of these carboniferous amphibia without being prepared
for the discovery of some more highly organised vertebrata
of the like antiquity.

     Believe me, my dear Heer, ever very faithfully yours,

                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

     To CHARLES DARWIN, ESQ.

     53 Harley Street : March 10, 1866.

I IMy dear Darwin, --Your precious MS. has arrived safe.
will return it registered in a few days.  am much obliged

Ito you for the privilege of reading it ; and in regard to the
notes prepared for the new edition,       am amused to find

how many of the topics are the same as those treated of in

the letters of yourself, Hooker, and Bunbury, in commenting

on the observations by Agassiz of marks of glaciation in the

IOrgan Mountains. By the way, you allude to Hooker's dis

covery of moraines in the Sikhim Mountains, which be

lieve are only about 7° farther from the equator than the

Organ Mountains. It is very interesting to read Hooker's

letter dated 1856, and to see the impression which the MS.
made on him, causing him to feel, as he says, ' shaky as to
species ' so long before the ' Origin ' was published. We
certainly ran no small risk of that work never seeing the

light, until Wallace and others would have anticipated it in
some measure. But it was only by the whole body of doc

trine being brought together, systematised, and launched at

i866.  FOSSIL BOTANY.  409

once upon the public, that so great an effect could have been

wrought in the public mind.

   I have been doing my best to do justice to the astrono
Imical causes of former changes of climate, as think you
Iwill see in my new edition, but am more than ever con
Ivinced that the geographical changes are, as always main
tained, the principal and not the subsidiary ones. If you

snub them, it will be peculiarly ungrateful in you, if you

Iwant to have so much general refrigeration at a former

period. In my winter of the great year, gave you in 1830
cold enough to annihilate every living being. The ice now

Iprevailing at both poles is owing to an abnormal excess of

land, as shall show by calculation. Variations in eccen

tricity have no doubt intensified the cold when certain
geographical combinations favoured them, but only in

exceptional cases, such as ought to have occurred veiy

rarely, as paleontology proves to have been the case.
                                       Ever most truly yours,
                                                             CHARLES LYELL.

                           To SIR CHARLES BUNBURY.

                                                            53 Harley Street : September 3, 1866.

   IMy dear Bunbury, -- have been so absorbed in my
Iproofs and new climate chapters, that have been writing

to no one, but must tell you a piece of botanical news

Iwhich has interested me much. In recasting my chapter on

' Progressive Development,' have stated that there was no
unquestionable case of an Angiosperm so old as the carboni
ferous period. Mr. Carruthers of the British Museum, on
reading my proof, told me that he had just seen in Edin
burgh a specimen from the coal-shale of Granton, which is
an undoubted Monocotyledon, and which has been figured
some years ago in the ' Transactions of the Edinburgh
Botanical Society,' under the name of Pothocites Orantonii,

Dr. Paterson having named it with the approbation of
Greville and other authorities of Auld Reekie. Mr. Kippist,
Librarian of the Linnaean Society, showed me coloured plates
of various species of Pothos, and of allied genera of the
Aroideae, to prove that sometimes the spathe is some way

410  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP, xxxvm.

from the bottom of the flower, and therefore that the

Ibroken-off part may, as Patorson supposes, represent the

spathe. After this shall not despair of your Antholite
being angiospermous. But how rare are such specimens !

Iabout one in a million. Agassiz has written an interesting

paper on the ' Geology of the Amazons,' but regret to say
he has gone wild about glaciers, and has actually announced
his opinion that the whole of the great valley, down to its
mouth in lat. 0, was filled by ice, and dammed up by a
moraine since destroyed by the sea, by which means he

accounts for freshwater deposits such as we find in the
valleys of the Mississippi and Rhine. He does not pretend
to have met with a single glaciated pebble or polished and
striated rock in situ, and only two or three far-transported
blocks, and those not glaciated. As to the annihilation
during the cold of all tropical and extra-tropical plants and
animals, that would give no trouble to one who can create
without scruple not only any number of species at once, but
all the separate individuals of a species capable of being
supported at one time in their allotted geographical pro

vince.

                                   Ever affectionately yours,

                                                              CHAELES LYELL.

                             To DR. JOSEPH HOOKEE.

                                                               73 Hurley Street : October 20, 1866.

   IMy dear Hooker, -- am sure there is some screw loose
Iin all the climate theories now afloat. When send you my
Ithirteenth, or astronomical chapter, you will better under

stand one of the principal difficulties, arising, think, from
the estimates made by Herschel and Poisson of the heat
received by the earth from the sun, as distinct from the

assumed heat of space. If they are right, the difference

between the sun's heat in the northern hemisphere and in
the southern ought to be very great, even with the present
eccentricity, and five times greater, as Croll says, with a
maximum eccentricity, and the winter's cold ought to be in

proportion. But if it were so, the monkeys would never

have lived through the cold of the last period of maximum

i866. EFFECTS OF INQUISITION. 411

Ieccentricity at the tropics. But suspect that the vapour

to which you allude, and on which Tyndall has written so

much, may equalise the heat and cold caused by greater

proximity to, and distance from, the sun.

   I hope you will have patience to read my thirteenth
Ichapter, as know you will tell me frankly what you
Ithink of it. It has cost me a great deal of time, for had

to go to school in astronomy, and moreover many of the

Ithings it was necessary to learn were not to be found in the

ordinary elementary books, and had to write to Airy and

IHerschel.                              should never have

    Without John Moore's assistance,

got on.

         With many thanks,
                          Ever affectionately yours,
                                                     CHAELES LYELL.

         To GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

                                                73 Barley Street, London : February 8, 1867.

   IMy dear Ticknor,--- have been looking through your

' Spanish Literature ' in search of some remarks which 1

had fancied you had made on the effects of the Inquisition

in sacrificing the lives of so many men of superior meiital

power, and the moral and intellectual deterioration of the

ISpanish population which it produced.
But although  have found passages relating to the

mischief done by the systematic persecution persevered in

I Ifor centuries, it strikes me that have missed the place
was in quest of. Possibly it was in some one of Prescott's

I Iworks. At any rate will tell you in what manner was

desirous of applying the exterminating action of the Inqui

sition to the subject I have now in hand.
IfYou have read Darwin on the ' Origin of Species,' and
know what he means by natural selection.  it were pos

sible so to frame the institutions of a country, that the

population should be chiefly kept up by breeding from those

individuals, male and female, which are the best morally

and intellectually ; this selection would tend, according to

Darwinian principles, to improve the race, and if an opposite

412  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. XXXVHT.

system were persevered in an opposite result might be ex
pected. Perhaps the best experiment hitherto made is that
which we owe to the Inquisitors, and the result in regard to
the deterioration of the race is perhaps as satisfactory as
Darwin could desire. Yet even in Spain there have been

so many disturbing causes that the experiment has been

very incomplete. Many aspiring and powerful intellects
naturally went into the Church, and is it not true that
their vows of celibacy were sufficiently set at naught to
allow the children of such ecclesiastics to constitute no

insignificant part of the population ? Can you give me any

facts as to children of eminent ecclesiastics who were ac

knowledged by their parents as snch ? Have you any idea
of the numbers who perished by the hands of the Inquisitors,

and for how many centuries this went on, and what may
have been in round numbers the population of Spain at the
period of the most severe persecution ? Of course a large
number of those who were sacrificed would not have great
claims to superiority, but it would be enough for my purpose

if as a whole they constituted that portion of the people who

were superior as independent thinkers and inquirers, and had

more moral courage and character than the ordinary herd.

     The argument would turn in a great degree on statistics,
and some of the data are not obtainable, especially the

extent to which each generation was recruited from the

clergy. It may be said that although the Spaniards are

doing so little now in literature, and nothing in science,

and producing no great statesmen or men of commanding

genius, yet we cannot be sure that the race has suffered

serious degradation, or that if like Italy they could be set

free, they might not be found as capable as ever of yielding
a crop of great men. But Italy has been kept down by
foreign domination, whereas Spain has had fair play, and

very little meddling from without. It seems to me therefore

that selection has really done its work, and that a race has
been produced as incapable of keeping pace with the progress

of the age, or boldly originating new ideas or questioning
the truth of old ones, as orthodoxy could desire.

                                      Ever affectionately yours,
                                                               CHARLES LYELL.

i867. HUMMING-BIRDS.  413

               Extract of Letter to A. WALLACE, ESQ.

                                                                                                    May 2, 1867.

   I forgot to ask you last night about an ornithological

Ipoint which have been discussing with the Duke of Argyll.

In Chapter V. of his ' Reign of Law ' he treats of humming

birds, saying that Gould has made out about four hundred
species, every one of them very distinct from the other, and
only one instance, in Ecuador, of a species which varies in its
tail-feathers in such a way as to make it doubtful whether

it ought to rank as a species -- an opinion to which Gould
inclines -- or only as a variety or incipient species, as the
Duke thinks. For the Duke is willing to go so far towards

the transmutation theory as to allow that different humming

birds may have had a common ancestral stock, provided it

be admitted that a new and marked variety appears at once
with the full distinctness of sex so remarkable in that genus.

According to his notion the new male variety and the female
must both appear at once, and this new race or species must
be regarded as an ' extraordinary birth.' My reason for

Itroubling you is merely to learn, since you have studied the

birds of South America, and hope collected some humming
birds, whether Gould is right in saying that there are so
many hundred very distinct species without instances of

Ifmarked varieties and transitional forms. this be the case,

would it not present us with an exception to the rule laid
down by Darwin and Hooker, that when a genus is largely

Irepresented in a continuous tract of land, the species of

that genus tend to vary ? In regard to shells have always

found that dealers have a positive prejudice against inter

mediate forms, and one of the most philosophical of them --
now no more -- once confessed to me, that it was very much

 against his trade interest to give any honest opinion that

 certain varieties were not real species, or that certain forms,

 made distinct genera by some conchologists, ought not so to

rank. Nine-tenths of his customers, if told that it was not a

 good genus or good species, would say what they wanted
 was names, not things. Of course there are genera in which

 the species are much better defined than in others, but you

 would explain this, as Darwin and Hooker do, by the greater

414  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                CHAP, xxxvm.

length of time during which they have existed, or the
greater activity of changes, organic or inorganic, which have

taken place in the region inhabited by the generic or family

Itype in question. The manufactory of new species has

ceased or nearly so, and in that case suppose a variety is
more likely to be one of the transitional links which has not

yet been extinguished than the first step towards a new per

manent race or allied species. Sclater gave me Euplocamus
melanotis and E. lineatus as an example of two distinct

species --Tenasserim and Pegu -- which pass through every

Iintermediate variety in the intervening country of Arracan ;

but when asked if it was proved that the two extremes of

Ithe series would not intercross and produce fertile hybrids, he
said the experiment had not been fairly tried.  suppose

we have a good deal to do before we get all the facts which
we shall one day probably have in confirmation of the theory
of transmutation, or of such a divergence as will be accom

panied by the sterility of hybrids. It may require several

hundred thousand years. M'Andrew told me last night

that the littoral shells of the Azores being European, or

Irather African, is in favour of a former continental extension ;

but suspect that the floating of sea-weed containing their
Ieggs may dispense with the hypothesis of the submersion of
1,200 miles of land once intervening.  want naturalists

carefully to examine floating sea-weed and pumice met with
at sea. There should be a microscopic examination of both

these means of transport.

                                       CHARLES LYELL.

     To SIR CHAELES J. T. BUNBURY.

                                             73 Harley Street, London : July 9, 1867.

   IMy dear Bunbury, -- have been reading your essay on

' South American Vegetation ' in ' Fraser ' with great interest

and profit, and am very glad that Kingsley has succeeded

in persuading you to take up your pen again, and let the

public benefit by your store of scientific knowledge. It was
no easy task to render popular the botany of a country, of

Iwhich so few even of the genera are known even to a great
many who are acquainted with European plants.   re

i867. SOUTH AMERICAN FLORA.               413

member Hooker experiencing the same difficulty in his
Himalayan book. But you have managed to make the ·

most of the araucarias and calceolarias and fuchsias, and

by describing the Desfontanea in such a way that one can

see it.

You have put life into the paper by what you have said

of the wide range of some plants, and the discussion whether

they are varieties or species, and by the geographical and

geological speculation, especially the migrations of plants

Ialong the Andes during the glacial period.
        should have liked you to have gone a little more in one

Idirection into the great question of whether species are
derivative, or are primordial creations.  was in hopes yon

would have pointed the moral, when you spoke of two

features in South American botany to which you properly
call attention. First, the manner in which the vegetation as

it goes south from the tropical region of Brazil still con

tinues to be Brazilian, instead of new genera and species fit for
temperate latitudes making their appearance ; and secondly,

Ithe invasion of European immigrants into the Pampas -- a

wonderful fact, and which would not, think, have happened

if plants were specially created for each country instead of

being modified forms of types already there, and dating from

an older geological period. It is marvellous how exotic

Igenera thrive best as a rule, both animals and plants, and

Darwin has, think, well explained why. But perhaps this

would have led you into too wide a digression, even if you

Ihad been as thoroughly imbued with the transmutation
creed as  am beginning to be by writing my second

volume.

          Believe me, my dear Bunbury,

          Ever affectionately yours,

                                          CHARLES LYELL.

                            To CHARLES DARWIN, ESQ.

                                                                 73 Harley Street : August 4, 1867.

   IMy dear Darwin, -- must write a word before starting
Ito-morrow morning for Paris, to thank you for your last

letter, and to say what a privilege feel it to be allowed to

416    SIR CHARLES LYELL.         CHAP. XXXVIIL

read your sheets l in advance. They go far beyond my

anticipations, both as to the quantity of original observation,

and the materials brought together from such a variety of
sources, and the bearing of which the readers of the ' Origin '

will now comprehend in a manner they would not have done

had this book come out first. The illustrations of the

pigeons are beautiful, and most wonderful and telling for

you, and the comparison of the groups with natural families
difficult to divide will be most persuasive to real naturalists.

The rabbits are famously worked out, osteology and all.

I IThe reason have not got on faster is, that have been
Icorrecting the press of my recast of Mount Etna, which

have reviewed twice since my former edition of fourteen

years ago, also the Santorin eruption of 1866, and my grand

INew Zealand earthquake, which produced more permanent
change than any other yet known.  have also had to
rewrite my chapters on the ' Causes of Volcanic Heat,' the
I' Interior of the Earth,' &c. But all this is in the printers'

hands, and can now give myself to variation and selec

tion.

     Believe me, my dear Darwin, ever affectionately yours,

                                  CHARLES LYELL.

                         To the REV. W. SYMONDS.

                                                73 Harley Street, London : October 20, 186".

   I IMy dear Symonds, -- think told you last year that

Huxley received a specimen of his genus Hyperodapodon
(first founded on an Elgin fossil contemporary with Teler-
peton and Stagonolepis) from the New Red of the neighbour
hood of Warwick. The discovery was made just in time to
enable Sir Roderick to cancel and recast some pages of his
new edition of ' Silnria,' in which he had defended his old

Iposition, that the higher sandstones of Elgin were Old Red.

   was pleasantly reminded yesterday of the expedition we
made together to the Elgin district by a discovery which
Huxley had just made, that among some fossils sent from
central India this same Hyperodapodon had made its appear
ance in those beds studied by Hislop, and which had already

            i The Variation o/Animalt and Plantt under Domestication.

i 868. FOSSIL FAUNA. 417

been supposed to be Triassic, because they had afforded us

several Dicynodons and Labyrinthodons.  You remember

that the first Dicynodons found at the Cape of Good Hope

by Bain were conjectured by him to be Triassic, but this

was thought a mere guess until the same genus was found
in India associated with Labyrinthodon. Is it not curious

that the united evidence got from Elgin, Warwick, the Cape,

and central India should leave so little doubt as to the true

age of the beds in all these regions ? Charles Moore has

found land shells about the age of what they call on the

Continent Infra-Lias. The evidence, now that his paper is

being printed, seems strengthening. You of course heard

that my friend Dawson, requested by me to search in that

carboniferous stratum containing Pupa vetusta in abundance,

has found in it a Helix of the sub-genus Zonites. Think

what persistent types Pupa and Helix are thus proved to be,

and how little we know of air-breathers older than the

tertiary which these revelations must convince us existed,

though we continue to be so marvellously ignorant of them.

Believe me, my dear Symonds, ever affectionately yours,

                                        CHARLES LYELL.

                                To DR. BENCE JONES.
                                                                                            April, 1868.

   IMy dear Dr. Bence Jones, -- will endeavour to comply
Iwith your request, to give you in writing my reminiscences

of Faraday during a short time when was associated with

him on a commission of inquiry. We had been requested

by the Government to attend a coroner's inquest, and report

on an unusually fatal colliery accident, which occurred in

September 1844, at Haswell, about seven miles east of

Durham.

Instructions were given us by Sir James Graham, then

Secretary of State for the Home Department, and we were

to inquire into the causes of the explosion, and if possible to

suggest the means of preventing the occurrence of similar

Icatastrophes in future. You will see that it is twenty-four

years since the event happened, and although have occa

sionally spoken to you and others on the subject, you will
make allowance for any shortcomings in my recollections,

VOL. 11.  EE

                                                                                                          I

418    SIR CHARLES LVELL.              CHAP. XXXVIII.

I Iwhen tell you that have no notes to refer to, nor any
letters written at the time. Various incidents, however,

occurred, while we were engaged on this mission, well

Icalculated to draw out Faraday's character, and they made

a lively impression on my mind, the more so as had never

Ihad an opportunity of knowing him except in his laboratory,

and because was not prepared to see him play his part

Iwith so much spirit and self-reliance, when suddenly
launched into a new sphere of action.  had been ac

quainted with him for many years, and yielded to no one in
Imy admiration of his talents and my appreciation of his

scientific eminence ; but had always looked upon him as a

singularly modest and retiring person, and one who would
shrink from the stir and responsibility of such an under
taking as that in which we were about to enter. He had in
truth undertaken the charge with much reluctance, but no

sooner had he accepted it, than he seemed to be quite at

home in his new vocation. In a few hours after he had

agreed to accompany me, we were carried by a fast railway

train to the scene of the catastrophe, and were immediately
introduced to the coroner and his jury, who were in the

midst of their inquest.

     Faraday began, after a few minutes, being seated next

the coroner, to cross-examine the witnesses with as much

tact, skill, and self-possession as if he had been an old

practitioner at the Bar. He seemed in no way put out or

surprised when the most contradictory statements as to fact

and opinion were given in evidence, according to the leaning
which the different witnesses had, whether from a desire to

screen or exculpate the proprietors, or be regarded as

champions of the pitmen. The chief question was whether

any undue considerations of economy had induced the owners

of the mine to neglect such precautions as are customary
and indispensable to the safety of the men employed in the

work.

     We spent a large part of two days in exploring the

subterranean galleries where the chief loss of life had been

incurred, that we might satisfy ourselves whether the means

of ventilation had been duly attended to. We conversed

freely with the workmen and overseers, and Faraday especi-

iS68. REMINISCENCES OF FARADAY.  419

ally questioned them about the use of the Davy-lamp. We
had both of us been much struck with the uneducated condi

tion of the men examined on the inquest, and suspected that

they would not so fully appreciate the dangers to which they
were exposed as workmen who were better instructed. Few
of them could write, and one even of those who had been
promoted to the place of ' master wasteman,' had been
unable the day before to sign his name as witness.

     Among other questions, Faraday asked in what way they
measured the rate at which the current of air flowed in the

mine. They said they would show us. Accordingly one of
them took a small pinch of gunpowder out of a box, as he
might have taken a pinch of snuff, and, holding it between
his finger and thumb, allowed it to fall gradually through

the flame of a candle which he held in the other hand. A

little cloud of smoke began immediately to traverse the space
between two of the loose wooden partitions by which the

gallery we were in was divided into separate compartments.
When the smoke reached the end of the nearest compart

ment, his companion, who had been looking at his watch,
told us how many seconds had transpired, and they then
calculated the number of miles per hour at which the
current of air moved. Faraday admitted that this plan was
sufficiently accurate for their purpose, but, observing the
somewhat careless manner in which they handled their
powder, he asked where they kept their store of that article.

They said they kept it in a bag, the neck of which was tied
up tight. ' But where,' said he, ' do you keep the bag ? '
' You are sitting on it,' was the reply ; for they had given

this soft and yielding seat as the most comfortable one at
hand to the commissioner. He sprang upon his feet, and
in a most animated and impressive style, expostulated with
them for their carelessness, which, as he said, was especially
discreditable to those who should be setting an example of

vigilance and caution to others who were hourly exposed to

the dangers of explosions.
     As it fell to my lot to examine into the geological struc

Iture of the rocks in which the mine was worked, had

engaged several of the men to collect for me the more
abundant fossils. When they brought these to me, chiefly

                                                                            X B2

420             5/A- CHARLES LYELL.    CHAP. xxxvin.

Iplants, and were very inquisitive about them, told them
Iwhat knew of their characters, and how far they were
Iallied to families of living plants.
                                       entered on this the
Imore fully when found that my fellow commissioner was

no less desirous than the men to be informed on the subject.

As I was going away, after having paid the men for their
Itrouble, was about to throw away all the specimens which

had been collected. Faraday, perceiving this, begged me to

wait till the men were out of sight, as he said their feelings

might be hurt if they saw that nothing had proved to be

worth keeping. He had been much pleased with the in

telligent curiosity they had shown about the nature of the

fossils, and equally struck with their entire want of informa

tion respecting them, although it was evident that they had

thought and speculated much on the frequency and meaning
of such remains in the rocks, and had not been satisfied with

the only hypothesis which had been suggested in explana

tion, namely, that they had been washed there at the time

of the Deluge.

Hearing that a subscription had been opened for the

Iwidows and orphans of the men who had perished by the

explosion, spoke to Faraday on the subject, and found

that he had already contributed largely without having said

Ianything about it to me. He apologised for this, saying

that he feared might think it necessary to give as large a
Isum. as himself, whereas
                           ought not to be guided by his

notions on such matters, which would be generally regarded

as peculiar, and which he shared with members of the re

ligious community to which he belonged. In our conversa

tion with the mintrs we had been often embarrassed by the

number of local terms used by them, and by their conflicting

statements as to the methods and precautions commonly

Iadopted in the ventilation and management of coal mines.
  therefore proposed that we should call in to our assistance
an experienced surveyor of mines of my acquaintance, re

siding in a distant part of the country, one who is now no

more, and who, in obedience to our summons, came to us at

once. By his help we were rendered much more indepen

dent in forming a judgment on several points at issue be

tween the proprietors and the men ; but unfortunately our

1868. HAS WELL COLLIERY.        421

new assistant, when his services were ended, undertook with

out communication with us to draw up an elaborate report

to the Government, setting forth extensive schemes of his

own of legislative interference with the working and inspec

tion of all the coal mines in Great Britain. This he would

have sent in to the Secretary of State, as if officially

authorised to do so, had we not heard of his intention in

time to interdict such a proceeding. Presuming on the

kindness with which Faraday had treated him, and the

marked mildness and modesty of his manner, he evidently

thought he might take the lead as if he had been at the

head of the commission, and he must have been surprised at

the firm and decisive manner in which his forwardness was

checked. On our return to town we found the Home Office

besieged with an extraordinary number of letters from in

dividuals, and addresses from local committees formed in

the mining districts, each proposing a different plan for the

prevention of colliery accidents. Many of the schemes were

scientifically unsound, and most of the rest implied such an

outlay of money as if insisted upon by law would have led

to the shutting up of the mines.

    It was natural that Sir James Graham, then fully occu

pied with his ordinary official business, should wish to refer

all these documents to us, while on the other hand we saw

clearly that unless we fixed on some limit to the time we

were willing to give to duties of this kind, we might be in

volved for an indefinite period in controversial correspondence

on such matters which were equally uncongenial to both of

MS. Faraday had been engaged in experimental inquiries

in which he took a deep interest, when he had thought it

right to interrupt them by agreeing to take part in the

commission ; but he explained to me that no pecuniary re

muneration would compensate him for a further suspen

sion of his investigations, and he believed that the improve

ment in the management of coal mines might bo as well or

better promoted by others whom the Government might

employ. We therefore determined that our labours should

cease with the sending in of our report. When this was

Ifinished Faraday asked me to sign first, because my name
stood first in the commission.  begged him not to insist

422   SIR CHARLES LYELL.                     CHAP. xxxvni.

on this, as it would place me in a false position, seeing that

the brunt of the work had unavoidably fallen to his share,

his remarks on the ventilation of mines comprising what
was really valuable and original in the report. In fact, my

contributions had been restricted to a few words on the

geology of the rocks, and some concluding recommendations

that steps should be taken to instruct the workmen in the
elements of those sciences, such as chemistry, pneumatics,

and geology, which were intimately connected with their

occupation. My fellow commissioner had agreed with me

that the safety of the miners would be increased if they re

ceived such instruction, and with more knowledge those

prejudices would disappear which always impede the adop

tion of any change of system. Faraday at last agreed to

sign first. It was in fact by mere accident that my name

stood before his in the commission, Sir Robert Peel having

Isent first to me to know if would go to Haswell, and when

I pointed out to him how much more the questions at issue

would turn on points of chemistry and physics than on

Igeology, he determined to ask Faraday to go also. Through

out the whole proceeding found Faraday willing to take

more than his share of the work and responsibility, and to

Ibe very indifferent as to the amount of credit assigned to
him.  was often astonished at the number of hours in the

Iday for which he was able to keep his mind on the full

stretch, for was aware that two or three years before he

had been obliged to abstain entirely from mental exertion in

consequence of having overtaxed his powers.

Our companionship on this commission left on my mind

a lasting impression of the amiability of his temper and the

Iversatility of his genius.
     From that time saw him as frequently as was consistent

with his rules of secluding himself from general society, and

up to the time of his death he always received me, when we

met, on the footing of an intimate friend.

      Very truly yours,

      CHARLES LYELL.

i 863.  GEOLOGY OF HAMPSHIRE.              423

                       CHAPTER XXXIX.

                            APEIL 1868-NOVEMBER 1868.

ANNIVERSARY MEETING AT GREENWICH OBSERVATORY-- MR. DAWSON'S
     'ACADIA' -- BUCKLE AND MOTLEY -- VISIT TO TKNBY -- ON NATURAL
     SELECTION AND THE MEANING OF COLOUR IN BIRDS -- VISIT TO ST.
     DAVID'S -- SUBMERGED FOREST NEAR TENBY -- ON THE LAW OF CON
      TINUITY.

        CORRESPONDENCE.

        To the REV. W. S. SYMONDS.

                                                                Southend : April 29, 1868.

IMy deai' Symonds, -- have been going over with much

pleasure the geology of the coast sections of Hampshire

between Southampton and Poole, and between Poole and

Swanage. One cannot too often contemplate the numerous

proofs of fresh and shallow water in the dense Purbeck and

Wealden strata, covered as they were afterwards by the deep

sea of the Chalk, and the splendid leaf beds of the Lower

Bagshot with their fan-palms, cinnamon laurels, and ferns,

overlaid by the purely marine Barton clay or Upper Bagshot.

The ferns of these Eocene pipeclays retain not only their

sori, but in each dot or fruit bag you can, under a powerful
microscope, count the spores as distinctly as in the fruit of a

living frond. The Purbeck beds are not only rippled, but the

Icalcareous slabs have preserved on their under side fine casts
of the sun-cracks of the clay beds below.  carefully
examined in the cliff that single dirt bed, or old soil, only six

inches thick, in Durlston Bay near Swanage, in which Brodie

and Beckles found more than a dozen species of mammalia.

There is no discovery which to my mind speaks so eloquently

of the fragmentary nature of the record, and of the know

424         SIR CHARLES LYELL.          CHAP. xxxix.

ledge that may one day be rescued even from the shreds

which have been spared to us, than this thin, ancient layer

at the base of the Middle Purbeck. Whenever you have

an opportunity, visit the Blackmore Museum at Salisbury,
I Iand get Mr. Stevens, the curator, to show it to you. Even

since mentioned it, found some splendid antlers of the

reindeer at Fisherton, that grand repository of a paleolithic
Ifauna.     am delighted at the idea of your being with
ILeonard and me at Tenby.        hope to attend the first half

of the British Association, which will begin at Norwich

August 19.

                         Sincerely yours,
                                           CHARLES LYELL.

                    To PROFESSOR HEER.

                         73 Harley Street, London : June 7, 1868.

     My dear Heer, --Yesterday we had our anniversary

meeting at the Greenwich Observatory, and one of the

astronomers remarked to me, that although the inclination

of the earth's axis must have been constant for such periods

of moderate duration, as for example, a few tens of
thousands of years, yet if you come to millions, there is

Inothing in the facts at present observed in astronomy to
preclude the supposition of a change in the axis.     told

them not to go too fast, for although the flora arctica showed

a luxuriant forest vegetation near to the pole, and vines in

high latitudes, there were as yet no fan-palms, much less a

Phoenix palm, as in the Miocene of Switzerland, so that if

they could place the polar circle under or near the equator

in Miocene times, they might create as many difficulties as

they would remove.
     IWhat you told me in your letter of April 7 of your ' Flora
Baltica ' was very interesting.  got so well acquainted with

the deciduous cypress, or Taxodium distichum, in the swamps

of the Lower Mississippi, that your finding that very species

Iin the brown coal of the north of Europe makes me seem to
understand the state of things which then prevailed.       am

Ionly afraid that a hundred species of these fossils will give
you too much hard work.          am glad you are able to com-

1 868.                     'ACADIA.'                                   425

pare some of the Bovey Tracey species with those of other

regions.
     Believe me, my dear Heer, ever truly yours,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

   IP.S. ought to have thanked you for your beautiful

paper on the ' Chalk of Moletrin in Moravia,' and for the
beautiful plates which illustrate it.

                 To PRINCIPAL DAWSON.

                                               London : July 1, 1868.

     The new edition of your 'Acadia' is a work of which

Iyou may well feel proud, and am much pleased with the
Ire-dedication of the book to me. have not yet had time to
study the chapters on the ' Fossils of the Carboniferous and
                   '
Devonian  Rocks       you  did  well to give a  restoration            of
                 ;

the flora of the latter in the frontispiece, not omitting the

insects. It marks the great step which has been made
in our science in twelve years, and it is remarkable, as you

say, in how many points Acadia is prominent in geology,

even as suspect, the Eosaurus may turn out to be Laby-
        if,

           I

                                           is

                                        I
rinthodont. The Conulus         also a grand addition, and a

wonderful proof of a persistent type.
Hn regard to the antiquity of man, have great faith in

the judgment of the Danish naturalists as to the long dura
tion of the Neolithic period in their country. The extensive

peat bogs have been well searched, and although they can
not draw a precise line between the accumulation of peat in

the last eighteen centuries, and that of pre-historic date,

they can yet form a tolerably correct notion of the relative
importance of the accumulation of the two periods. To
suppose a rotation of crops in the forest trees to have been

brought about by general conflagrations too catastrophic
to suit my notions, and would require some monuments of
the work of fire. The absence in all Scandinavia, where they
have collected so many thousands of implements, of a single

specimen of the paleolithic type of oval hatchets, or spear-
shaped unpolished tools, a very strong negative proof of
man not having entered that country in the ancient period
                           is
                                                      is

                                                                   is
of the mammoth. Farther south the evidence steadily

426  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxxix

augmenting in favour of the great geographical changes
which have taken place since England, France, and other
parts of Europe were inhabited by the earliest fabricators of

the paleolithic tools.
     The Duke of Argyll has argued in an article in ' Good

Words,' that as the stone period of the Esquimaux coincided
in date with the iron period of London and Paris, so the
ancient flint folk north of the Alps may have been contem
porary with men of a more advanced civilisation farther

south, and he wishes to make out that the stone age may be
connected with degradation, and the driving out of a surplus
population into regions having the worst climate. But when
we go south of the Alps, and examine the drift containing
the bones of mammoth and other extinct mammalia, as at
Rome, or near Madrid, or in Sicily, we find stone implements
of the ancient type instead of the monuments of an iron age.
Lately, in the Presidency of Madras, our Indian surveyors have
found on the coast a bed of Laterite at the height of 500 feet

above the sea level, containing quartz hatchets marvellously
similar in size and shape to the flint implements of Amiens.
Certainly there are no signs in warm latitudes of a civilisation
like that of old Nineveh or Egypt having flourished at such a
remotedate as toallow of great subsequent changes in climate,
or in physical geography, or in the mammalian fauna.

    What think you of the alleged discoveries going on in
the American continent, or in the auriferous gravel of Cali
fornia, in which bones of Mastodon, according to Dr. Snell,
together with some implements, were found in the deep

places of Table Mountain ? These old alluviums have in one

respect a more ancient aspect than our higher level valley

gravels, as they belong to a period when the drainage was more
distinct indirection from that of the present rivers. This,

however, would not prove a higher antiquity, because the

overlying basaltic lava shows that great volcanic action was

going on in the same country, which would greatly accelerate
geographical changes. You have done well to point out that
there was a stone and reindeer period in Nova Scotia, only
three hundred years ago, in the latitude of central and

Isouthern France.
     What you have written on the glacial period like much,

i868. BUCKLE AND MOTLEY.                                    427

Iand am sometimes disposed to attribute the numerous lakes
Iof your country to submarine current and ice action, but
Ido not see my way as yet.
                            should like to know what may

be the velocity of these currents at the bottom.

                                                  CHARLES LYELL.

                  To LADY BUNBUEY.

                                                   73 Harley Street : July 26, 1868.

   IDearest Frances, -- have just been installed in my new

chair, which they have adjusted beautifully to my height and

Iother requirements, and when am tired of reclining on the

Isofa which you gave me, shall be glad to indulge in sitting

in this new piece of furniture which you have so kindly

Iadded to my study. Many thanks, dear Frances, for thinking
of such luxuries for me.   have also to thank your husband
for having referred me to Buckle on the ' Conversion of Henri
IV.' It is really curious to compare the parallel passages in

Buckle and Motley. That in Buckle is exceedingly eloquent,

and has of course some truth in but the tone of morality
                           I
in Motley                                    it,
           it is  higher.  only get on with the latter by

snatches, but am very much interested.            agree with
Charles in wondering whether Philip II. could possibly haveI

                                                        is
deceived himself to such an extent as to believe he never

injured any man knowingly. The historian                    evidently

much puzzled, and tries to make out that he thought himself

a  god, and there may be something in that. When Motley

sums up all his misdeeds, rather wondered that he omitted
                           I

                                               a
that glaring act of repudiation of all his heavy pecuniary

obligations which he was guilty of year or two before his

death. The misery he must have caused by that was so

great that might have made him think he had injured

some even among the most orthodox of his subjects. It

helped to explain to me how the military power of Spain

failed to crush the Dutch republic. The narrative of the

polar voyages was very new to me. The siege of Ostend

Ifvery well told such a skilful suppression of uninteresting
                  ;

                                             it,
details.   you have not read do indulge in this history.

           Believe me your affectionate brother,

                                                  CHARLES LYELL.

428               SSfi CHARLES LYELL.               CHAP, xxxix

                  To PRINCIPAL DAWSOX.

                          July73 Harley Street :    31, 1S6S.

     My dear IDawson, -- hope that long before this you hare
                                             of this month, in
got my   letter,  written in the beginning
         spoke    of the first part of your  ' Acadia,' vrhich I
which I
                                                    pleasure and
have since   Ibeen reading steadily with increased
profit, and                                          with equal
             which find Etheridge is reading
satisfaction. It is so full of original observation and sound

Itheoretical views, that it must, think, make its way, and
will certainly be highly prized by the more advanced scien

tific readers.

   I think Huxley's doctrine of Homotaxis ' would never have

been put forth in such strong terms had he been more of a field

geologist. What we have to remember is, that oiir records are

so fragmentary ; that at several intervals all memorials of
minor periods of vast duration, as measured by centuries, may
be wanting ; and on comparing the coal-period of New South
Wales or China with that of Nova Scotia, it is conceivable

that no one stratum or set of strata in one of these regions
may be strictly contemporaneous with any one in the other
region. But the whole may have been formed in all three
areas between the close of the Devonian and the beginning

of the Permian periods. The more our Indian surveyors

advance, the more do they become persuaded that they have

in the Himalaya counterparts of several of our European

subdivisions of the Lias and Oolite, and on comparing the

northern and southern hemispheres, the proofs of real con

temporaneity of similar formations, as opposed to homotaxis,

are growing stronger.

     IYou have done well to give that wonderful section of the
South Joggins in detail.  certainly think that a thickness

of 16,000 feet implies the existence and waste of great

Icontinental areas and of large deltas. The evidence of sub-

aerial conditions is overwhelming, and always think with

pleasure of the privilege of having seen in the Great Dismal

    1 'Similarity of Arrangement.' See Anniversary Address to the Geological
Society, 1862, by Professor Huxley.

i868.  NOVA SCOTIA COAL-MEASURES.                     429

Swamp such accumulations of pure vegetable matter going

Ion, and hundreds of fallen and prostrate trees rotting away.
   am also glad to have observed, near New Madrid, so many
areas where hundreds of erect trees submerged ever since

the earthquake of 1811, are still standing erect and leafless

in the water.

       What amount of subsidence must we imagine to allow of

the superposition of strata 16,000 feet thick ? Must we

Lave a sinking to that amount? In all great deltas the

tendency of conversion into dry land by the deposition of

sediment must be counteracted in those areas where there is

a suspension of such deposition by the condensation of mud

into shale, loose vegetable matter into coal, and loose sand

into more compact sand and sandstone. When, therefore,

fifty generations of your Sigillaria have accumulated un

interruptedly, there will have been a subsidence owing to

the materials below having been gradually pressed down and

packed into a smaller space, quite independently of a general

sinking down of the earth's crust in that quarter. This

may help the coming on of those conditions which produced

I Ithe lagoons in which the Naiadites and Serpula flourished.
        had forgot to say how surprised was that Leslie,
Iwhom
       have seen lately here, should have raised such

strange objections to some of your conclusions. We know

over how vast an area the Appalachian coal-measures ex

tend. Suppose them to be 3,000 feet thick, and that the rate

of subsidence was two and a half feet in a century, as

soon as the river or rivers coming from where the Atlantic
now is filled up a certain space, it would push the delta

farther on ; but if the rate of sinking was five feet instead of

two and a half, the mass of sediment deposited would be

Ifthicker near the old land, instead of a larger area of sea
being reclaimed.       the Nova Scotia coal-measures are

thicker than those of other regions, it does not prove that

the quantity of mud and sand was greater, but that the rate

Iof sinking was such as to cause the deltas to be limited in
horizontal extension.  cannot see what objection there can

be to isolated basins ; there may have been many independent
Ifrivers, like those which enter the Gulf of Mexico.  dif

ferent coal-basins of the United States resemble each other,

430      SIR CHARLES LYELL.          CHAP. xxxix.

Ias presume Leslie means to say, it ought to be a relief to

him to find Nova Scotia is exceptional as to thickness ; for a

general uniformity would be the real puzzle, for it would
imply that corresponding movements in the earth's crust

extended simultaneously over a large part of the northern

hemisphere, of which we have no counterpart iu the present
state of things.

                                                       Ever yours,
                                                        CHARLES LYELL.

         To the KEY. W. S. SYMONDS.

                                                                        Tenby : September 10, 1868.

     My dear Symonds, --As my sister, Mrs. Lyell, is writing

Ito you, she will tell you about my brother's illness and the

consequent uncertainty of our stay here. If he recovers

shall hope to carry out our scheme of seeing something of
the geology of this part of the world with you, and you will

give us as much notice beforehand as j-ou can of your own

intended movements. I should like much to know what you

think of the relations of the strata here, and with those of

Devonshire. The limestone on which Tenby stanc's was

Icalled by De la Beche carboniferous, and the few fossils

which have seen from such as Producins Scoticus, seem to
         I
                 it,
confirm that view. Then the true coal-measures overlie.

The millstone grit have not yet been able to make out,

but there a break in the section of the cliff here between
     is

the mountain limestone and the coal, in which there may be

sandstone and grit which may find in the interior. Below
                     I

the mountain limestone at Manorbier, we saw yesterday

some 500 or 600 feet of vertical red shale and red sandstone,

with some beds of green shale, and a few whitish beds of

quartzose grit this               named by De la Beche Old Red,
     it
                        ;
                              is
which resembles exactly, and though we saw hundreds of

strata finely exposed, we could not see single fossil in it.
                                  a

But at the junction of this formation and the carboniferous

limestone at Skrinkle Haven, nearer to Tenby than Manor-

bier, there are several hundred feet of fossiliferous beds, in

which limestone, red shale, quartzose grit, conglomerate,

blackish shale, alternate again and again, many of the beds

containing teeth and scales of fish, some of them Orthis and

i 868.  VISIT TO TEXBY.                               431

Khinconela, which we have not had time to collect in, and see
Ifwhether the fossils are Carboniferous or Devonian.
                                                      they

are not Devonian, are we to conclude that in going from

Devonshire to Pembrokeshire all the Devonian beds are

Ilost, and nothing but the true Old Bed left between the
Silurian and Carboniferous ?  forgot to say that in the

junction bed there are ripple-marked sand and shrinkage

cracks, showing what shallow water preceded the deep-sea
condition of the carboniferous limestone, in which last we

have seen several corals, especially Caryophylia.

Mr. Smith of Gumfreston says the limestone here is

divisible into three masses, one of them, qy. the uppermost,
characterised by Encrinites, another by Corals, and among

them Lithostrotion basaltiforme.
     Leonard is working away both at the recent shells and

older rocks. The first three days more than fifty species of
the former picked up on the beach, and their number

always increasing. They throw much light on the Crag.

They who study tertiary geology, and who do not begin at

this end, are like children taught Greek and Latin before

Ithey have learned a word of English.
       am summoned to join a party.

        Believe me ever most truly yours,

                                       CHARLES LYELL.

                            To the DUKE OF ARGYLL.

                                                                           Tenby : September 19, 1868.

   IMy dear Duke of Argyll, -- have just read with great
Iinterest your spirited and clearly written article in reply to

Wallace on 'Nidification.'2 If did not feel sure that portions
Iof it will be embodied in some of your future works, should

grudge its being placed in a periodical just struggling into
existence, though it may perhaps be most usefully published

Iin the same journal as the paper which it controverts.
Iobjected in my ' Antiquity of Man ' to what there called
Ithe deification of natural selection, which consider as a

law or force quite subordinate to that variety-making or

    1 ' A Theory of Birds' Neste,' by Alfred R. Wallace. Journal of Travel and
Natural History, No. 2.

432  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxxix.

creative power to which all the wonders of the organic world

must be referred. I cannot believe that Darwin or Wallace

can mean to dispense with that mind of which you speak as
directing the forces of nature. They in fact admit that we

know nothing of the power which gives rise to variation in

Iform, colour, structure, or instinct.
     But before Darwin had written his first work, used to

maintain that there was a meaning and utility in every one

of the marks and shades of colour in the butterfly's wing,

and I still think so. It may be inherited after it has ceased
to be useful or indispensable. The explanation offered by

Darwin of the dull colour of most female birds appears to

me a great step. The assumption that birds and mammalia
of the same species vary in colour both in a wild state and

under domestication is not imaginary, but founded on fact.

A breeder might give rise to a race of white pheasants ; but
natural selection would not allow of such a race, because

they would be too conspicuous, at least under ordinary con
ditions, and in the present state of the world. How far
IIsexual selection is one of the causes of modification of colour
is a point on which never could form any opinion.  was
Isurprised when first saw the importance which Darwin
attached to it. He seemed to me to exaggerate at least its

probable influence. It does not strike me that Wallace's

theory requires that there should be a tendency whether
in cocks or hens to produce bright hues, but merely that in
the course of time, and among the millions which will be born,
individuals will be gifted with plumage of every tint from

the brightest to the most dull, and that those varieties that

are ill suited for the conditions prevailing at any given time

or place will be killed off", while the fittest will survive.
There is no necessity of supposing any consciousness on the

part of the birds of the bad effects which certain conspicuous

colours would produce.
     That we should ever come to know so much of the system

of nature as to be able to give a reason for each particular

variation of colour is more than could be expected; but

Darwin has been making vast progress in this direction, and
the discovery that plants with bright and conspicuous
flowers require the aid of insects to fertilise them, while

i868. NATURAL SELECTION.                                    433

Ithose which are inconspicuous are fertilised by the wind,
appears to me a grand generalisation.           believe he also

finds that the odoriferous plants, and those which afford

honey, require insects for their impregnation.

What you say of hereditary habit being in each individual

as independent of experience or observation as are instincts,

is most true ; but if we could trace such a habit to a remote

progenitor, and show that he acquired it under some new

conditions in the physical world to which he was subjected,

the insight thus gained into the history of the origin of

certain instincts would be a great gain to the naturalist.

     Although the advocates of natural selection often ascribe
too much to that one cause, it has enabled them at any rate

to assign a reason for many phenomena which would never

have been brought to light by those who are satisfied with

saying that all things were pre-ordained to be as they are.

You are certainly not one of that school, and it appears to

me that the reason which you assign why some of the

smallest birds having sombre and neutral tints build dome-

Ishaped or covered nests is very satisfactory, and so far as
Iknow, original, and shall be curious to know whether

Wallace will not be forced to admit that in all these cases

it is a better theory than the one which he had proposed.
    In some of the passages which you have cited from

Wallace you have shown that he is obscure and perhaps

Iillogical. In others the discordance of opinion arises,

suspect, from the fundamental difference of the point from

which each of you start. The assumption of special creation

would make the origin of all things simple ; but if once a

naturalist taking all the geological evidence into account

inclines to the opposite view, that of transmutation, as more

probable, we are led to speculate on the manner in which

the present instincts, habits, structure, and colour came to

be gradually acquired by each species, living under the sur

rounding conditions which are not those that prevailed in

the period immediately antecedent. The transmutationist

may reasonably hope that we shall get to understand more

and more the working of those forces by which nature

brings about changes in the organic and inorganic world.

The part played by natural selection, which was almost en-

VOL. 11.  FF

434                  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxra.

Itirely overlooked by Lamarck, is evidently very- important,

and now indulge a hope that the working of other secon

dary causes, hitherto not attended to, will help to explain
many perplexing phenomena which these who are satisfied
with special creation would never bring to light.

    We are much relieved by hearing this morning from
Arthur Milman a decidedly better account of the Dean of

St. Paul's.

    Believe me, my dear Duke, ever most truly yours,
                                                        CHARLES LYELL.

        To the REV. W. S. SYMONDS.

                                                                    Tenby : September 23. 186S.

IMy dear Symonds, -- have just returned with Leonard

from a very successful expedition to St. David's, where

Dr. Hicks devoted the best part of three days to show us

Isome 2,000 feet of  strata, most of    them fossiliferous, lying
                     ' lingula flags '  of Sedgwick, which last
below the original
have always held to be the only rocks for which the Cam
bridge Professor had any right to claim his name of ' Cam
brian,' as distinguished from Sir Roderick's ' Silurian.'
Within the last two months Dr. Hicks has found in purple
shales mineralogically like those of the Longmynd, organic

remains (a new Lingulella and a bivalve entomostracan )
1,200 feet below the fossils previously discovered. Higher

up in the Lower Cambrian series are twelve genera of Trilo-

bites, &c., like those of Barrande's primordial, but one or two

new forms and many new species ; one species of Para-
Idoxides more than twenty inches in length ; all in the ancient
azoic.  was much pleased with the sight of the raised

beach at the NE. end of Caldy Island, with its pebbles and

littoral shells some fifteen feet above high water mark.

Leonard also took me to a good example of the same beach

at Giltar Point, with littoral shells, and there are three layers
separated by blown sand of full-grown eatable shells at the

Itop of Giltar Point, apparently refuse heaps of the ancient

molluscophagons inhabitants; these, suppose, are nearly 200

feet high. He has also found a raised beach at the top of

i 868.  SUBMERGED FOREST.  435

Merlin's Cave, a cavern in the limestone in the cliff near the

western suburbs of Tenbj.
     When there are raised beaches and submerged forests, it

is difficult enough to restore in imagination the succession
of geographical changes. The difficulty becomes greater
when you have to make due allowance for the relative age
of two other sets of phenomena, viz. the glacial drift and the
lines of lofty cliffs bounding the present sea, and sometimes

Iundermined by the waves.
         made two attempts to dig through the submerged
forest of Amroth at low tide. The first day we went down

five feet without going through the beds containing vegetable
matter. The second day, nearer the cliff, Leonard got to

what seemed a sea beach, after passing through the beds
containing the stumps and roots of trees, at the depth of about
four feet.

     Dr. Hicks says that in the absence of marine shells we
ought not to assume that a bed of clay or mud with sub-

angular and rounded pebbles was an old beach like the

present, because it may have been glacial ' till ' with boulders.
In support of this view he says that the submerged forest of

IWhitesand Bay certainly grew on ' till ' containing glaciated

stones, and remember seeing ' till ' with true arctic shells

at about the level of the sea at the Great Orme's Head, and
there are submerged forests in that neighboiirhood.

   IWhen you say that the old forest extended across the

Bristol Channel, which think highly probable, do you
suppose that the lofty cliffs of Ilfracombe and of Tenby
and its neighbourhood were not only in existence, but were
even of pre-glacial date ?

                     Believe me, my dear Symonds,
                                         Ever most truly yours,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

                            To PROFESSOR HAECKEL.

                                                                         London : November 23, 1868.

   IMy dear Sir, -- have to thank you for your kindness in

sending me a copy of your important work on the ' History
of Creation,' and especially for the chapter entitled ' On

                                                                 TV2

436       .SVA' CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. xxxre.

Lyell and Darwin.' Most of the zoologists forget that

anything was written between the time of Lamarck and the
publication of our friend's ' Origin of Species.'

   I am therefore obliged to you for pointing out how
Iclearly advocated a law of continuity even in the organic

world, so far as possible without adopting Lamarck's theory

of transmutation. 1 believe that mine was the first work

(published in January 1832) in which any attempt had been

made to prove that while the causes now in action continue

to produce unceasing variations in the climate and physical

geography of the globe, and endless migration of species,

there must be a perpetual dying out of animals and plants,

Inot suddenly and by whole groups at once, but one after
another.  contended that this succession of species was

now going on, and always had been ; that there was a con

stant struggle for existence, as De Candolle had pointed out,

and that in the battle for life some were always increasing

their numbers at the expense of others, some advancing,

Iothers becoming exterminated.
     But while taught that as often as certain forms of

animals and plants disappeared, for reasons quite intelligible

to us, others took their place by virtue of a causation which

was beyoud our comprehension ; it remained for Darwin to

accumulate proof that there is no break between the incoming

and the outgoing species, that they are the work of evolution,

and not of special creation.

    It was natural, as you remark, that Cuvier's doctrine of

sudden revolutions in the animate and the inanimate world

should lead not only to the doctrine of catastrophes, such

as Elie de Beaumont's sudden formation of mountain chains,

but to a similar creed in regard to the organic world. A.

D'Orbigny gave us twenty-seven stages or groups of living
beings, all the species in each of which were so distinct that

none of them passed from one to the other stage. Agassiz

still inclined to the same notion, the sudden annihilation of

one set of inhabitants of the globe, and the coming upon
the stage in the next geological period of a perfectly distinct

set. I had certainly prepared the way in this country, in

six editions of my work before the ' Vestiges of Creation '

appeared in 1842, for the reception of Darwin's gradual and

i868. APE ORIGIN OF MAN. 437

Iinsensible evolution of species, and am very glad that you

noticed this, and also the influence of Cuvier's work, which

in an English dress, translated by Professor Jamieson, went

through almost as many editions in this country as in France,
and exercised great authority long after my ' Principles '

began to be popular. No part of your new work has produced

such an effect as the pictures of the embryological state of

Iman and the dog at corresponding ages, and figures of man,
dog, tortoise, and fowl in the embryo.  am surprised to

observe how much even very good naturalists are persuaded

by the evidence of these woodcuts, as if although they pre

viously had admitted the analogy, they had never thoroughly

felt the force of it till they saw the facts as represented by
you. Some of those to whom the ape origin of man is a
very unwelcome doctrine, have tried to lessen the effect of

these woodcuts by saying they must be a little nattered,

like the physiognomies of men and apes given in your
frontispiece, for some of these last are accused of being
caricatures, the artist being supposed to have put a little
too much of the ape into the human, and of the man into

the Simian countenance and features.

   I IFor my own part think would rather have seen the
Iembryological figures in the frontispiece. think they would

have induced a greater number to become readers, and would

have inspired more faith, but perhaps the publisher would

be of a different opinion. It is one of those cases in which

one would like to have the real photographs of each coun

tenance, as there could not then be any cavilling, however

great the resemblance between the two portraits.

                                        CHARLES LYELL.

433  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. XL

                           CHAPTER XL.

                            APKIL 1869-FEBRUARY 1875.

GEOLOGY ON THE COAST OF NORFOLK -- MK. WALLACE'S REVIEW ON X
    SELECTION --GLACIERS SCOOPING OUT LAKE-BASINS -- FOSSIL FlyORA OF
    ALASKA-- ' LIFB OF DANIEL WEBSTER ' --DEATH OF HIS WIFE FOKFAS-
    RHIRE GEOLOGY -- MB. JUDD ON 'GEOLOGY OF MULL' -- HIS DKA.XH D*.
    HOOKER'S LETTER -- Kl'NKRAL -- WESTMINSTER ABBEY -- TRIBI'XK.

    [He made excursions to Norfolk and Suffolk in 1869, and later on
to Westmoreland on his way to Forfarshire, and thence he made an
expedition with Lady Lyell and his nephew to Ross-shire by Iiichna-
damff and Ullapool, returning by the parallel roads of Glen Roy.

     In 1870 he visited Dunster, Minehead, and Ilfracombe in Somer
setshire, and in August went to Scotland, to the Isle of Arran, and
after spending some weeks at Ambleside joined the British A. ssocw-

tion at Liverpool.

    In April 1871 he made a tour in Cornwall, to Tintagel, the Land's

End, and Penzance, and in the following summer he spent some tiuie
in Yorkshire and Westmoreland.

    In April 1872 Sir Charles and Lady Lyell went to the south of
France, to the Caves of Aurignac. In these last journeys, when his

sight and bodily powers had become more enfeebled, he enjoyed the
advantage of the companionship of Mr. Hughes,1 whose zeal for
geology and whose powers of observation rendered him a most useful
as well as agreeable fellow-traveller.

     In the spring of 1873 Sir Charles had the affliction of losing his
beloved wife, hLs companion and helpmate, with whom he had had

forty years of unbroken happiness.
      This severe blow fell heavily on his already broken health, but to

his science alone he felt he must turn, to arouse him for the short
time he had yet to live, and he determined to fulfil what he had
planned with her ; so calling on the friend who had promised again
to accompany them, and with a sister (who devoted herself to him for

      i T. M'Kenna Hughes, Esq., Woodwardian Professor of Geology at the
 University of Cambridge.

i869.  GEOLOGY OF NORFOLK.  439

the rest of his days), he went abroad this autumn, and visited his
friend Professor Heer of Zurich.

    In June 1874 he went to Cambridge, to receive the honorary

degree of LL.D., and that same month was admitted to the freedom
of the Turners' Company in the City of London. He then spent some
weeks in Forfarshire, and found pleasure in visiting some of his
earliest geological haunts, and in finding that his theories of fifty
years past still held good. He invited Mr. Judd 2 to join him, and
went with him to several points of interest.

       On November 5, the fiftieth anniversary of the Geological Society
 Club, of which he had been a member from its foundation, he at

 tended the dinner, and spoke with a vigour which surprised his
 friends.

      His failing eyesight and other infirmities now began to increase

 rapidly, and towards the close of the year he became very feeble.
 But his spirit was ever alive to his old beloved science, and his affec
 tionate interest and thought for those about him never failed. He
 dined downstairs on Christmas Day with his brother's family, but

 shortly after that kept to his room.]

                         CORKESPONDENCE.

                        To SIE CHARLES BUNBUEY.

                                                                           Cromer : April 6, 1869.

   IMy dear Bunbury, -- I will dictate a few lines to you on

the geology which. Leonard and have been seeing since
April, when we went to Aldborough, where we resumed the
work which was interrupted last year by the British Asso
ciation meeting at Norwich.

     From Aldborough we went by Southwold to Lowestoft,
seeing the coast at Kessingland and Pakefield by the way.

It is a great satisfaction to see a continuous section for

miles unbroken of such deposits as one only gets a peep of
in isolated pits in your county, without any means of guess
ing their relative age. We first had this advantage in the
cliff at Easton Bavent, where the yellow sands and gravel

I Ibeds of Lord Stradbroke's park at Henham and Wangford

are well displayed. But wished much could have had
the advantage of walking with you along the Kessingland
and Pakefield cliff, about fifty and sixty feet high, where at

                2 Now Professor of Geology at South Kensington School.

440  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. XL

Ithe base for more than a mile, in a bed of what formerly
Icalled green till, a homogeneous unstratified clay, found

upright plants or shrubs, standing vertical with their roots
in the same green soil (apparently tap-roots), also vertical
and a foot or more long. In one place, near Pakefield, this
lower stratum was laminated, and contained prostrate flat
tened trees, a foot or more in diameter. Over this green.
till, with plants in situ (of which I have kept a few speci
mens to show you), reposes stratified sand many yards thick,
and over this drift, with plicated boulders of chalk, lias with

fossils (Avicula cygnipes), numerous ammonites, belemnites,
pieces of mica-schist, sandstone, greenstone, and other rocks.

It is strange to see this glacial drift covering the bed for a

mile and a half with trees which must have grown in situ,

and must have sunk down so as to allow first the sand, and

then the boulder clay to accumulate over it.
     We could find no shells, freshwater or marine, with the

plants. But in the Norfolk cliffs at Happisburgb, about
sixty feet high, we found a different kind of drift, the
matrix of which is a green clay much resembling in appear
ance, and in being generally without laminae or stratifica
tion, the Pakefield plant-bed, but containing boulders of all
kinds, with numerous pieces of chalk and chalk-flints, many
of the rocks well glaciated. But although, when washed out
of the till, they formed fine piles on the beach, they are so
sparse as not to interfere with the general green colour of
the mass. In a bed of gravel, two feet thick and several
 yards long, in the middle of this green till, we found a bed
 of pebbles like a fragment of an old beach, with a single
valve of Tellina solidula, perfect, and some pieces of Cardium
 edule. In the same green boulder clay, on both sides of
 Happisburgh, we found small pieces of the same Cardium,

 and of what seemed to be Cyprina Islandwa, and one perfect

Ivalve, but usually only small pieces of the Tellina, and no

other shells whatever, in this glacial drift. suppose there
 fore we must set it down as a marine formation ; and under

 neath it, from Happisburgh to Cromer, comes the famous

 lignite bed and submarine forest, which must have sunk

 down to allow of the unquestionable glacial formation being

 everywhere superimposed.

1869.  CHALK PINNACLE.  441

      We found the lignite during a walk along the cliffs this

morning, and were shown the place where prostrate trees
and some stumps of the forest were exposed by some recent
high tides, though they are now buried again under shingle
and sand. We also found ferruginous or reddish-coloured
concretions with dicotyledonous leaves, which, though we

Idid not find them in situ, must, suppose, have come from
Ithe lignite or forest bed, from which suppose Heer might

in time construct a flora to add to the spruce fir, Meny-

svnthes, &c.

    ILeonard and I have just returned from Sherringham,

where found that the splendid old Hythe pinnacle of chalk
 in which the flints were vertical, between seventy and eighty

Ifeet high, the grandest erratic in the world, of which gave

 a figure in the first edition of my ' Principles,' has totally
 disappeared. The sea has advanced on the lofty cliff so
 much in the last ten years, that it may well have carried
 away the whole pinnacle in the thirty years which have

 elapsed since our first visit.
      We are going to-morrow to revisit Mundesley.
              Believe me ever, with love to Frances,

                                                  Affectionately yours,
                                                               CHARLES LYELL.

                           To CHARLES DARWIN, ESQ.

                                                                                                     May 5, 1869.

   I am pleased at the impression which the historical part

of Wallace's review 3 made on you. It reminds me of

Cuvier's daughter, a charming and intelligent girl, telling
me she had been reading my book (vol. i. of ' Principles ')
to her father, and that they had been struck with the
complete antagonism of my views to those which he had

Ipropounded in his ' Theory of the Earth.'
         was always made to feel myself a welcome guest at
Cuvier's soirees, but he never alluded to my book, and but

Ifor Mademoiselle Cuvier's saying she had been reading it to

him in their carriage as they drove out, should never have
known he had seen it.

          1 ' Geological Time and the Origin of Species.' Quarterly Ilecicw.

4i2   SIR CHARLES LYELL.                                          CHAP. XL.

     I quite agree with you that Wallace's sketch of natural
I Iselection is admirable.
                                              wrote to tell him so after had

read the article, and in regard to the concluding theory, 1

reminded him that as to the origin of man's intellectual and

Imoral nature had allowed in my first edition that its in

Itroduction was a real innovation, interrupting the uniform

course of the causation previously at work on the earth.

was therefore not opposed to his idea, that the Supreme

Intelligence might possibly direct variation in a way analo

gous to that in which even the limited powers of man might

Iguide it in selection, as in the case of the breeder and

horticulturist. In other words, as feel that progressive

Idevelopment or evolution cannot be entirely explained by

natural selection, rather hail Wallace's suggestion that

there may be a Supreme Will and Power which may not abdi

cate its functions of interference, but may guide the forces

Iand laws of Nature. This seems to me the more probable

when consider, not without wonder, that we should be per

mitted to give rise to a monstrosity like the pouter pigeon,

and to cause it to breed true for an indefinite number of

generations, certainly not to the advantage of the variety or

I Ispecies so created.                                            thought his
    At the same time
      told Wallace that

arguments, as to the hand, the voice, the beauty and

the symmetry, the naked skin, and other attributes of man,

implying a preparation for his subsequent development,

might easily be controverted ; that a parrot endowed with
the powers of Shakspeare might dictate the ' Midsummer

Night's Dream,' and that Michael Angelo, if he had no

better hand than belongs to some of the higher apes, might

have executed the statue of Lorenzo de' Medici.
     In reply to this and other analogous comments, Wallace
      a: c'tiIotnsbeeeymosndto"mneattuhraatl  isfewleectioonnce"
said                                                              admit the necessity of
any                                                               in developing man, we

have no reason whatever for confining that action to his brain.

On the mere doctrine of chances, it seems to me in the highest

degree improbable that so many points of structure all teud-

Ifing to favour his mental development should concur in man,
and in man alone of all animals.                                  the erect posture, the

freedom of the anterior limbs for purposes of locomotion, the

i869.  GLACIAL LAKE-BASICS.                             443

·powerful and opposable thumb, the naked skin, and the great

symmetry offeree, the perfect organs of speech, and his mental
faculties, calculation of numbers, ideas of symmetry, ofjustice, of
abstract reasoning, of the infinite, of a future state, and many
others, cannot be shown to be each and all useful to man in the
very lowest state of civilisation, how are we to explain their co

Iexistence in him alone of the whole series of organised beings ?

Years ago saw a Bushman boy and girl in London, and the
girl played very nicely on the piano. Blind Tom, the idiot

Ne^ro, had a musical ear or brain, perhaps superior to that of

any living man. Unless you can show me how this rudi

mentary or latent musical faculty in the lowest races can have

been developed by survival of the fittest, can have been of use

Ito the individual or the race, so as to cause those who possessed

it to win in the struggle for life, must believe that some

other power caused that development, and so on with every

other especially human characteristic. It seems to me that \

the onus probandi will lie with those who maintain that man, /

body and mind, could have been developed from a quadru- [
manous animal by natural selection.'
                                                        have
   IAs to the scooping out of lake-basins by glaciers,

had a long, amicable, but controversial correspondence with

I"\Vallace on that subject, and cannot get over (as, indeed,
I have admitted in print) an intimate connection between

the number of lakes of modern date and the glaciation of

the regions containing them. But as we do not know how

ice can scoop out Lago Maggiore to a depth of 2,600 feet, of

which all but 600 is below the level of the sea, getting rid of

Ithe rock supposed to be worn away as if it was salt that had

melted, feel that it is a dangerous causation to admit in

explanation of every cavity which we have to account for,
including Lake Superior. They who use it seem to me to
have it always at hand, like the ' diluvial wave, or the wave
of translation,' or the ' convulsion of nature or catastrophe '

of the old paroxysmists.

   I have just got a letter from Professor Leslie, and an

important paper by him in the American 'Philosophical
Society ' for 1862, and another on a projected map, ·' intended

to illustrate five types of earth-surface in the United States,'

published in 1866. He was formerly a catastrophist, but of

441  SIR CHARLES LVEIX.  CHAP. XL.

late years lie seems to have anticipated Gcikie and Croll in
regard to sub-aeiial denudation, giving, like them, too little
to the sea. But he is a man intimately acquainted with the

Appalachians, and he gives his reasons for not believing that

the ice-sheet has had any hand in eroding the Appalachians.

It has polished the surface, and carried erratics so far as

mid-Pennsylvania, and no farther ; but the surface erosion is
just as great in Southern Pennsylvania and Virginia, &c.,
which was not reached by the ice, and where there is not a
single glacial scratch or groove. He says that the large map
which he has planned will make the ice-scooping of lakes in

the United States appear as absurd as if applied to tropical

Africa or the Albert Nyanza Lake.

                 Believe me ever affectionately yours,

                                                        CHARLES LYELL.

                               To PROFESSOR HEER.

                                                            73 Harley Street : November 4, 1869.

   IMy dear Heer, -- ought sooner to have acknowledged
Ithe receipt of your beautifully illustrated paper from the

' Fossil Flora of Alaska,' which have looked at with more
interest from what you told me in your letter of the light
which it throws on the isothermals of the Miocene period.

     That this flora should have ranged with so little varia
tion over 10° of latitude in the Miocene period, will have
a great bearing on those who are ready with so little
ceremony to shift the place of the earth's axis of rotation
when it suits their theoretical views. The late deep sea
dredging expeditions to the Faroe Islands have shown that
in our northern sea, cold and warm areas occur at the depths
of from 2,000 to 3,000 feet below a surface having a uniform
temperature, and from which such a variation of climate
would not have been expected. These different climates
occur in the same latitudes in areas sometimes fifty, some
times less than twenty geographical miles apart. The
marine fauna consists of distinct species in the cold areas
where the current comes from the North or the Arctic regions,

and in the warm areas where the water is brought from the

South or Gulf-stream. It is only a small proportion of cos-

i870. 'LIFE OF DANIEL WEBSTER:                      445

mopolitan species and genera which are common to the two
distinct climatal areas. Last year they came away with
an idea that the cold areas where the water is about 30°
Fahr. were very barren of organic remains, but a totally
new dredging apparatus has shown that this was a great
error. They have also visited a region 260 miles south of

the island of Ouessant in the Bay of Biscay, where the depth
was 15,000 feet, or within a very few feet of that depth, the
same as the height of Mont Blanc, and they have found
abundance of life of different classes at this enormous

depth.
     As you will soon see more particulars in the ' Proceedings

Iof the Royal Society,' will not attempt to give you more
Iof what have learnt from conversation with the dredgers.

     Believe me, my dear Heer, ever most truly yours,
                                                             OHARLES LYELL.

To GEORGE TICKNOR, ESQ.

                                                                                           May 31, 1870.

IMy dear Ticknor, -- have been reading with great

interest the eloquent passages which you pointed out in the
' Life of Daniel Webster ' by Mr. Curtis. Such eulogies

from two men of such weight, and addressed to a large

public during a man's lifetime, are a splendid monument to

I Ihis memory.                            like to go to bed at
        go out as little as possible, as
nine o'clock, and it is scarce any use to start now for an

evening party till half-past ten o'clock. We were asked to

an evening at the Van de Weyers', to meet the King of the

Belgians, and it was no loss to me to learn that they were

obliged to put off the party because some previous balls had

caused a crack in the wall of their house, and a surveyor

said that an additional weight would bring the rooms down.

The Motleys gave a grand reception to the king in the

Isame street, which Mary went to.                   have been
     But to return to Curtis's ' Life of Webster.'
too busy with my own new edition of the ' Elements of

IGeology,' to be able as yet to do more than turn over the

pages, but was surprised to see in a note at p. 586, that

446          SIR CHARLES L YELL.       CHAP, XL

woman's suffrage was a matter already familiarly discussed

Iin 1852 on your side of the water. We have heard a great

deal of it lately on our side, and though approve of much

in J. S. Mill's ' Subjection of Women,' and have always

Ithought that there was much to rectify in our legislature,
I Iconfess should look with alarm if thought a great exten

sion of suffrage should take place, including women as well

as men. We should never have passed the disestablishment

of the Irish Church, if the vote of the English clergy had

been strengthened by that of all the women whom they

Icould have influenced to oppose it. It would be a formidable

Tory measure, and might, think, delay educational reforms.
But it seems undeniable that property ought to be repre
sented under a system like ours, whether in the hands of

women or men.

         With love to Mrs. Ticknor and Anne,

                                      Yours very affectionately,
                                                         CHARLES LYELL.

             To PROFESSOR HEEE.

                                         73 Harley Street, London : June 13, 1870.

IMy dear Heer, -- A few days ago sent you part of Mr.

President Bentham's address to the Linnaean Society, in

which he disputes all determinations of Proteaceae by fossil

leaves, and says that the few imperfect specimens of fossil

fruits referred to the same order of plants are not sufficient

to prove their former existence in Europe. He does not say

Ito what other order we may suppose that all these leaves, so
like those of Proteaceee, may belong.  suspect from one

expression in his speech, that he thinks we ought to require

more proof because the present countries of the Proteaceae

(the Cape and Australia) are so distant, and so detached
from Europe. But he does not reflect that the Falunian or

Upper Miocene flora must have derived its species direct

or by modification from the Lower Molasse or Older Miocene

(Oligocene) period, and before this time there were Eocene

Proteaceae in Europe ; and still farther back, as at Aix-la-

IChapelle, there was a rich flora in the time of the White
Chalk, comprehending, if  mistake not, Proteaceous

genera  (?)

i870.  ON FOSSIL PLANTS.                           447

Now the land of the Cretaceous period differed so entirely

in its geographical distribution from our present continents,

that the species of plants that you have called Proteaceous,

to whatever family they may have belonged, are as likely to

have spread from Europe to the Cape or to Australia, as to

have travelled from those countries into the European area.

Mr. Bentham must admit that the plants which you and

other botanists have conjectured to be Proteaceous, do not

belong to any of our actual European trees. They once

flourished here, and when they died out they may have

found an habitation elsewhere. As we are certain that they
lived in Europe at the period of the White Chalk, and went
on diminishing in successive tertiary periods till they
became extinct in Europe, it is safer to suppose that they
went from Europe to Southern Africa and Australia, than to

assume that they came from those countries into our area.

For if we were to adopt the latter hypothesis, we must begin

by assuming that there was land in South Africa and

Australia before the White Chalk was formed, of which,

however probable it may be, we have no positive proof, still

less that such land was inhabited by trees which had a

Ifoliage like Proteaceae.

    In conversation told Mr. Bentham that you had often

begun by determining the leaves, and years afterwards dis

covered the fruit, as in the case of the chestnut found in the

North.

   I believe that these determined botanical sceptics do

Ifharm by undervaluing paleontological evidence, and exert
ing themselves to bring it into contempt.  they succeed

in making geologists believe that fossil plants are of little or

no value, this important branch of organic remains will not

be cultivated with the zeal and scientific skill to which it is
I Ientitled.
       wish therefore to make as good a fight as can
in a new edition of my ' Elements,' of which we are going to

print 5,000 copies or more. Any assistance you can give me

will be of real use to the cause.

Believe me, my dear Heer, ever faithfully yours,

                                   CHARLES LYELL.

448        SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. XL

           To DR. HOOKER.

                                            73 Harley Street, London : February 14, 1871.

     IMy dear Hooker, -- got your letter at Barton, and was

Imuch pleased to hear that you had been dipping into the

' Elements,' and were pleased with it and criticising it.
Iwas afraid of alluding to the rarity of lakes on the south

side of the Himalaya, though can quite believe that there

ought to be such lakes if the ice-scooping theory were true,

Ito the extent of accounting for such basins as the Lago
Maggiore, Geneva, &c.  saw yesterday James D. Hague, a

mining engineer of the United States, returned from a

survey of California, who says that the American geologists
have convinced themselves that the great basin between the

Rocky Mountains and the Sierra Nevada, in which the Utah.

Salt Lake, amongst other water-bearing depressions occurs,

was, in comparatively modern tertiary times, a great fresh
water lake, 500 feet deep, and of much larger dimensions
than Lake Superior. If, as they suppose, this lake was

formed chiefly by anticlinal and synclinal folds, connected
with the structure of the adjoining mountain chains, an

analogous origin may be ascribed, in great part at least, to

ILake Superior and many minor lakes.

       found that Charles Bunbury had been marking in your
' Student's Flora ' all the species of flowering plants growing1

in his park, and he was full of .praise of the manner in which

your work was executed after going into much of the details
Iof it.  am reading Mivart's ' Genesis of Species,' and am
I Ionly half through ; it improves greatly as
                               proceed.

thought his first objection, that so many other Ungulata

ought to have long necks as well as the giraffe, a very poor
one against natural selection. But the difficulty about the
eyes of the cuttle-fish, dragon-flies, and man, is very well

put.

           Believe me ever most truly yours,

                               CHARLES LYELL.

   IP.S. am very glad of your hint about ice-shoots or ava
           am convinced they would explain what nothing
Ilanches.

else can, the large boulders and erratics on the lower side
of the Forfarshire tarns.

i 87 i.            MOEL TRYFA EN.      449

                             To SIR CHARLES BUNBURY.

                                                           Crown Hotel, Penrith : August 18, 1871.

   IMy dear Bunbury,-- have been enjoying very much my

tour of inspection, avoiding any regular work, and trying to

Imake it a tour of rest, which is difficult. After being in the

more central region of Buxton, crossed the watershed of
Axe Edge to the county of Cheshire above Macclesfield,
·where Prestwich announced that he had seen marine shells

in the drift at the height of upwards of 1,200 feet. T am

satisfied that the Moel Tryfaen marine fauna is found in the

stratified drift not only at that height, but nearly, if not

quite, at as great an elevation as at Moel Tryfaen, but the
 newly-discovered locality, ascending to nearly 1,400 feet
 inland from Macclesfield, has not been trigonometrically
 measured -- the point is about seventy-four English miles, as
the crow flies, from Moel Tryfaen. Is not this a surprising
 fact? implying that such a great body of land has been
 uplifted in post-pliocene times, for the shells, more than fifty
 in number, are all of recent species, and by no means like
 those of Moel Tryfaen ; as a whole very glacial. The rarity
 of marine shells in intervening tracts is so puzzling. In

Ithe Lake district, though there are stratified drifts 1 .200 feet

 high, could not hfar of a fragment of marine shells any

 more than in the Matlock and Buxton region. Yet if the

 Icountry was now submerged 1,400 feet or more, should

 think the sea would find its way to Chatsworth.
                                           Ever affectionately yours,
                                                               CHARLES LYELL.

                   To PROFERSOR HEEE.

                                            73 Harley Street, London : March 16, 1873.

IMy dear Heer, -- have just seen Mr. Carruthers, who tells
me that he now thinks that the cumulative evidence in

favour of the existence of the order Proteaceae in the Eocene

period in Great Britain is overwhelmingly strong. Two or

tbree years ago, when Bentham published his article denying

that this could be proved by the evidence of any of the fossil

leaves yet discovered, or by any of the cones in the Sheppey

         VOL. II.  GG

450                 SIR CHARLES LYELL.       CHAP. XL

Eocene clays believed by Bowerbank to be Proteaceous, Mr.

ICarrutbers was afraid to adopt sucb opinions, so that am

very glad that the structure of some British tertiary wood.

and a great abundance of Eocene leaves found at Bourne

Imouth, in Hampshire, has converted him to opinions which
you have long held.  was always persuaded that your

opinion would turn out to be correct, but shall be glad to

be able to cite the keeper of the botanical collections in the

British Museum as being convinced that your views are well

founded.

   IYou kindly wish me to tell you of my health and that of

Lady Lyell. As am now half way through my seventy-fifth

year, you will not be surprised to learn that my eyes, which

Ihave always been weak from boyhood, are beginning to fail

me, so that am obliged to depend on other people for

I Iwriting from dictation all my letters to correspondents, and

for reading all the books which study ; but am able
I Ito walk, enjoy life and society in moderation, and if you
could come to England when am at home,       should be

happy to show you hospitality. Your letters are always a

great treat to me.

I[My dear Mr. Heer, am perfectly well, thank you, and

should be very glad to see you again.

                     Very sincerely yours,4

                                       MARY E. LYELL,.]

                     Yours very faithfully,
                                           CHARLES LYELL.

                             To PROFESSOR HEES.

                                             73 Harley Street, London : July 7, 1873.

   IMy dear Heer, -- have to thank you very much for your

last two letters, which have been of extreme interest to me.
Indeed, the determination which you have made of the
cretaceous plants of Greenland and Spitzbergen, sent home
by Professor Nordenskjold, appears to me one of the most
important scientific discoveries which has been made for

     i Note by 3fr. Heer : ' Mad. Lyell starb an 25 April 1873 ; also 5 Wochcn
nacbdem sie obigen geschrieben.'

i 873. DEATH OF HIS WIFE.            451

Isome time. My object in writing to you now is to say that
  am going to make a tour on the Continent with my sister,
and hope about the second or third week in August to be in

Zurich. It would give me so much pleasure to see you, if
you are likely to be there, and if your health is good enough

Ito enable you to accompany me in some short expeditions

such as my own health will allow of. But if, as fear from

Iyour last letter, you may not be equal even to so much of a

geological excursion to Utznach, &c., as hope to accomplish

Iin company with my friend Hughes, now Professor of Geo

logy at Cambridge, shall still trust to my being able to

obtain instructions from you respecting the position and

Inature of the lignite of Utznach, Diirnten, Wetzikon, &c.
        have not written to you since the sudden and unex
pected death on April 24 of my dear wife, with whom you
Iwere so well acquainted, and yon can, am sure, appreciate
Ithe shock which this has given me.
                                     endeavour by daily

work at my favourite science to forget as far as possible the

dreadful change which this has made in my existence. At my

age of nearly seventy-six, the separation cannot be very long,

Ibut as she was twelve years younger, and youthful and vigor

ous for her age, naturally never contemplated my surviving

her, and could hardly believe it when the calamity happened.
A feverish cold carried her off almost without pain or suffer

ing.5

   I Ishould be very glad to hear from you what chance

have of finding you in Zurich or the neighbourhood.

   IIt will be a great pleasure to see an old friend whom

knew in happier days.
                                  Ever affectionately yours,

                                                             CHARLES LYELL.

                           To Miss F. P. COBBE.

                                                             73 Harley Street : July 20, 1873.

   IMy dear Miss Cobbe, -- have been so taken up with my

Geology (a new edition of the ' Student's Elements ' having

I Ito be prepared), that begin to be afraid that shall not
I Ikeep my promise of writing to you before go abroad, if

                                               5 See Appendix B.
                                                                 oo 2

452  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. XL

delay any longer. Your articles on a ' Future State ' in the
' Theological Review ' have interested me much, but thej
confirm my opinion that we are so much out of our depth
when we attempt to treat of this subject, that we gain little

Ibut doubt in such speculation.
        have, however, been much struck with your answer to

Ithose strange opinions thrown out by W. R. Greg in his

chapter on ' Elsewhere,' which is, think, very original and
satisfactory ; for when one looks back forty years, and feels
compunction for many things one has done, it is wonderful
what allowances one makes, because we feel that we are

judging ourselves, and regard our former self with great in
dulgence, while at the same time it is like contemplating a

Idifferent individual.
         am told that the same philosophy which is opposed to

a belief in a future state, undertakes to prove that every one
of our acts and thoughts are the necessary result of antece

Ident events and conditions, and that there can be no such

thing as free-will in man. am quite content that both

Idoctrines should stand on the same foundation, for as I

cannot help being convinced that have the power of exert

ing free-will, however great a mystery the possibility of this

may be, so the continuance of a spiritual life may be true,
however inexplicable or incapable of proof.

   IBut will not weary you with more of my lucubrations,
Iwhich, as am obliged to dictate them to an amanuensis,
Imay appear in a stiffer form than if was able to use niy

Iown pen.

       am told by some that if any of our traditionary beliefs

make us happier, and lead us to estimate hunmnity more

highly, we ought to be careful not to endeavour to establish
any scientific truths which would lessen and lower our esti
mate of man's place in nature ; in short, we should do no-

IthinOf to disturb anvfc man's faith, if it be a delusion which

increases his happiness. But hope and believe that the
discovery and propagation of every truth, and the dispelling
of every error, tends to improve and better the condition of
man, though the act of reforming old opinions and institu

Itions causes so much pain and misery.
        expect to leave town for the Rhine before the end of

T874- RAISED BEACHES IN JURA. 453

this week, and shall be in Switzerland in August. My sister
Katharine is on her way to Innsbruck with Arthur and
Rosamond.

                               Ever most faithfully yours,
                                                             CHARLES LYELL.

                 To the DUKE OF ARGYLL.

                                             Shielhill, Kirriemuir: August 16, 1874.

IMy dear Duke of Argyll, -- was very glad to get your

Iletter, and much interested in the two raised beaches of the
Island of Jura.  have long been thinking that we may be

under a great delusion when we find proofs of upheaval in

ascribing to the movement an almost indefinite lateral ex

tension, whereas all the evidence which we have in regard

to the modern effects of earthquakes runs quite in a contrary

I Idirection.
       wish could feel sure that you have in your library at

IInverary a copy of the eleventh edition of my ' Principles of

Geology,' but on second thoughts have determined to send

you by book-post the second volume, which you can return
to me when you have quite done with it. 1 beg you will

read attentively my account of the earthquake of New Zea

land in 1855.                                        left

   I Imay as well tell you that a few months before

town a diploma was sent to me from a New Zealand Insti

tute, given to me as the author of the most full and correct

account of what happened during that great convulsion, and

Iit was quite clear from letters then received, that the informa

tion had given, derived from authorities peculiarly trust

worthy, had been in no wise impaired by subsequent events

Ior criticisms.                     thought your first
     Having this event in my mind,
Iaddress to the Geological Society peculiarly telling, and

do not see how any one who is willing to interpret the

former changes of the earth's surface by the light of those

now going on can pretend to refer any rock basin to ice-

scooping in preference to such movements as took place
north and south of Cook's Straits in 1855.

    Mr. Judd, whose paper on the ' Geology of the Hebrides '

434  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP, XL.

occupies worthily so large a portion of the August number
of the ' Quarterly Journal of the Geological Society,' has l>een

staying here at my sister's for the last month. Coming
fresh from Naples, Sicily, the Lipari, and Ponza Islands, and
having seen their examples of volcanic eruptions of every
kind mineralogically diversified, from the trachytic to the
basaltic extreme of composition, he finds here in this
county every variety of igneous rock, exhibiting exact

counterparts of modern lavas, from quartz, porphyry of Vol

cano, one of the Lipari group, to dolerite and basalt, such as
you have in Fingal's Cave and other parts of the Western
Islands. The great east and west dyke which traverses this

county, described by me nearly fifty years ago as containing

Iserpentine diallage, greenstone, quartz, porphyry, dolomite

hypersthene, &c., Judd has re-examined, and am happy

to say he finds nothing to alter, and what he has observed
with me bearing on the section given in the ' Geological

Transactions ' for 1826, he also finds quite correct. He re

gards our numerous east and west greenstone dikes cutting
through the old red sandstone, as lavas which filled up rents
which passed vertically through the rocks which they tra

verse, and which, but for the subsequent denudation of 2,000

feet, would end in Puys like those of the carboniferous strata
of Fife, or like Arthur's Seat.

      Have you read in the newly issued volume of our

ISociety's Memoirs the paper by Jamieson of Ellon, on the

 ' Last Stage of the Glacial in North Britain ' ? think it is

 very suggestive, especially the intimate connection pointed
 out between the present excess of rainfall on the western
 side of Scotland as compared with that of the eastern being
 analogous to the excess of glaciation on the corresponding

sides. It seems to show a connection between the present

 meteorological agencies and those of the glacial period
 which may help us to explain the great differences in the
 glacial age of the excess of snow and ice in parts of the

 northern hemisphere not very distant, and it may perhaps
 help to explain how plants and animals of tropical forms

Imanaged to escape being extinguished during the ice age.
      am greatly in hopes that the north and south axes of
 movement, which Judd thinks he is going to establish for

[874-  BELFAST MEETING.                     455

the IVIiocene period, will explain the manner in which the
valleys of Argyllshire and the west of Scotland were con
verted into sea lochs and fiords, so that we shall have to
dispense with the hypothesis of ice action, and exchange it

Ifor that of fire.
           have a great deal more to say, and to ask you to ob
 serve, but shall wait till you have received my book.

      With my compliments to the Duchess of Argyll, believe

 me ever truly yours,

                                                                  CHARLES LYELL.

       To CHARLES DARWIN, ESQ. (dictated).

                                   Shielhill, Kirriemuir, Scotland : September 1, 1874.

       IMy dear Darwin, -- have been intending from day to

day to congratulate you on the Belfast meeting, on which

occasion you and your theory of evolution may be fairly said

to have had an ovation. Whatever criticisms may be made
on Tyndall, it cannot be denied that it was a manly and

fearless out-speaking of his opinions, and no one can

Iwonder that the Belfast clergy of the Calvinistic school, three

or four of them, as suppose you saw, preached against such

Iopinions on the Sabbath in the middle of the scientific week.

It was principally, believe, on the question of the efficacy of

Iprayer, that objection was taken to the tone adopted by

scientific writers of late, though do not remember whether

this was specially alluded to in the President's address ; but
Professor Jellet in one of the churches read what may be

Iconsidered a regular argumentative paper on the efficacy

and propriety of prayer, and was glad to see that although

part of his argument may have been special pleading, yet

he fairly admitted that truth was the chief object to be kept

in sight, and that unless prayer could be shown to be rational

Ino Christian sanction and authority or Scriptural support
ought to have any weight.  have been spending nine days,

for the sake of change of air and sea breezes, on the coast

Ibetween Arbroath and Montrose. Near the latter place saw
the Eev. H. Mitchell, who has contributed a very good
paper on the Old Red Sandstone of this part of the world

to our ' Quarterly Geological Journal.' He showed me his

456  SIff CHARLES LYELL.                                  CHAP. xi_

specimens of crustacean footprints, a long series of tracks,

with the mark of the body trailing along, accompanying
ripple-marks, and beautiful rain-drops. This seemed to

bring Pterygotu* Angliw.8 vividly before one, while the entire

absence of marine shells in our Devonian beds, 10,000 feet

thick, seems confirmatory of their freshwater origin. Perhaps
there were lakes as large as Lake Superior.
                                                          on the ' Five Great
   IMr.                                                   seen), has been stay

Volcanos
     Juodfdthe(wHheobserideims p'oyrtoauntwilpl ahpaevre
ing with me here, and should have much to tell you of
Iwhat I have learnt of our geology. He quite confirmed

what have published about Forfarshire.

     Ever affectionately yours,

                                                          CHARLES LYELL.

                           To the DUKE OP ARGYLL.

                                              Rbislhill, Kirriemuir : September 14, 1874.

     My dear Duke of Argyll, -- The reading of Judd's paper,
and his estimate of the probable height of the five great
volcanic cones of the Hebrides, has left a very grand impres
sion on my mind of those mountains, and when he has fully
worked up the paleontology and shown what a rich succes
sion cf life the primary, secondary, and tertiary strata of those

Iislands exhibit, it will make a wonderfully grand addition to

British, may say to European, geology.
    With regard to your question as to whether the move

ment giving rise to the formation of raised beaches (like

Ithose of the Island of Jura) may not sometimes be of a

local character, may refer to an interesting observation of
Mr. Jamieson of Ellon, to the effect that the twenty-five-foot
beach of the valley of the Forth gradually diminishes in
height as we pass northwards, till in Aberdeenshire it is

only eight feet above the present sea-level.

     In reference to what you say on the outlines of the
mountains in Skye and Rum, Mr. Judd tells me that the

great intrusive masses in the Western Isles (whether com
posed of granite or gabbro), frequently assume a pseudo-
stratified appearance when viewed from a distance. Having
read his paper since you wrote your letter to me, you will

I874. GEOLOGY OF MORVERN.                  457

understand what he means by gabbro, of which the Coolin

Ilills are constituted ; and if you wish for any further expla

nations, he will be happy at any time to give them in

reference to the geology of the Hebrides.
Mr. Judd informs me that he was acquainted with the

existence, though he has not yet visited your interesting

little coal-field in Kintyre. The remarkable point about the

patch of coal strata in Morveru appears to him to be, that

not only is it considerably to the north of any other exposure
of carboniferous strata in the British Islands, but that it

lies on the north-west flank of the great Grampian axis

constituted by the series of granitic intrusions which extend

from Peterhead on the north-east to the Ross of Mull on

the south-west.

   ISince sent you the representation by rubbing of a fossil
Ifrom the coal in Morvern, have heard from Sir Charles
IBunbury, to whom had sent the original specimen, that he

considers it to be Lepidodendron aculeatum, a common coal

species ; he had supposed it to be a Sigillaria. The associated

fossil is, as Judd thought, a Calamite, so that there can be

no doubt of the geological age of the formation.

    Judd quite coincides with you in your views as to the

existence everywhere in the Hebrides of evidences of enor

mous denudation, side by side with equally striking proofs of

grand subterranean movements ; and like yourself, he regards

the contours of the existing surfaces as the product of the

continued working side by side of these two classes of forces.

He was pleased to hear that you had an opportunity of see

ing the remarkable outliers of tertiary basalt resting on

Silurian gneiss (two of which were noticed by Macculloch,
and which have their exact counterparts in the north of

Ireland).  Ever truly yours,
                         CHARLES LYELL.

                           To CHARLES DARWIN, ESQ.

                                            73 Harley Street, London : September 25, 1874.

    My dear Darwin, -- There is no subject to which Judd
oftener referred, and told me he had done so when discussing
volcanic questions with Scrope, than your subsidence of St.

458  SIR CHARLES LYELL.  CHAP. XL

Jago, as being a general law of volcanic regions. The sinking
down referred to by me (' Principles ' vol. ii. 458, ' Student's
Elements,' 149-166), as occurring in New Zealand, and

which has been confirmed by the New Zealand geologists,

Icorroborates your St. Jago experience.

    Just before left Scotland Judd made an excursion to

revisit the Hebrides, and during a ten days' absence dis

covered for the first time carboniferous strata preserved under
some two thousand feet of tertiary basalt in the Island of

IHull, and he brought to me what guessed was a Sigillaria
Iand the cast of a Calamite ; but when sent them to Charles

Bunbury he pronounced them to be Lepidudendron aculeatum

and a Calamite, ordinary carboniferous fossils. All this is

explained by admitting that in the time of the Miocene
volcanos there was a sinking down like that of St. Jago in
the island, near the loftiest cone of that island, and one of

the five great volcanos which he believes to have existed in
the Hebrides, and which may have rivalled the Peak of

Teueriffe in height, in the Miocene period. How much

grandeur the scenery of the Hebrides must have presented
in that same Miocene period, when Madeira was already in

continued action, as well as Porto Santo and the Giant's

Causeway, &c. ! The Duke of Argyll has sent me word that

he has found a fossil Salisburia (now a genus growing in
IJapan) among the fossils of Ardtun in Mull, where he formerly
found Asa platanoides.  wonder whether the cones of the
Hebrides, if they were as high as Etna or the Peak of

Teneriffe before the sinking down which you observed in St.

Jago had taken place, were covered with snow in the Miocene

period, when the vegetation at their base, at Ardtun for

example, was sub-tropical. As there is now a vast differ

ence in the vegetation of the desert region of Etna usually

covered with snow, so in Miocene time it does not follow that

volcanos ten or twelve thousand feet high should not have

had on their summits a flora very different from that at

their base ; but these you will say are idle speculations.

    It is remarkable how perfectly a sinking in Miocene

times, like that which you have supposed or proved for the

Cape de Verde Islands, would in Judd's opinion give a satis
factory solution to the preservation in Mull and in the cliffs

i 874.     HIS DEATH.                               459

on both sides of the Sound of Mull, of those intercalations
of poikilitic, triassic, liassic, oolitic, neocomian, cretaceous,
and newer strata, of which a full account is to be given before

Ithe close of Judd's paper.

     All the work which have done with Judd in Forfarshire

has confirmed me in the belief that the only difference
between Paleozoic and recent volcanic rocks is no more than

we must allow for, by the enormous time to which the pro
ducts of the oldest volcanos have been subjected to chemical
changes such as those which turn an olivine basalt into

serpentine.
                                   Ever affectionately yours,
                                                              CHARLES LYELL.

His death took place on February 22, 1875 (having

had another family bereavement only a fortnight before, in

the unexpected death of his brother Colonel Lyell, who had

been almost daily with him, up to the time of his sudden

and fatal illness).
     Though expected by friends it was deeply felt. Dr.

Hooker 6 wrote to Miss Lyell that same day : --

   I' have just heard the distressing news, and can hardly
Iyet say how much feel it. My loved, my best friend, for

well nigh forty years of my life. To me the blank is fearful,

for it never will, never can be filled up. The most generous

sharer of my own and my family's hopes, joys, and sorrows,

Iwhose affection for me was truly that of a father and brother
combined.  deeply feel for you all ; two such blows to you

and your sisters, and to Mrs. Lyell, surely hardly ever came

Iso rapidly, so remorselessly as it were.
     ' have just headed a memorial to Dean Stanley, praying

that he may be interred in Westminster Abbey, the Dean

having volunteered his hearty assent, and every influence in
his power to have it granted. Sir Edward Ryan first told

me of it, and now joins with me in the earnest hope that

you will allow this tribute to be paid to the most philosophical

           · Now Sir Joseph Hooker, C.B., K.C.S.I.

400  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                CHAP. XL.

and influential geologist that ever lived, and one of the very-

best of men.

    ' The memorial is being signed by Fellows of the Royal,

LinniBan, and Geological Societies, and is most powerful.'
     The following is the memorial in pursuance of which

the body of Sir Charles Lyell was placed in Westminster
Abbey : --

     ' We, the undersigned Fellows of the Royal, the Geo
logical, and the Linnaean Societies, respectfully pray that
the remains of Sir Charles Lyell may be interred in West
minster Abbey. For upwards of half a century he has

exercised a most important influence on the progress of

geological science, and for the last twenty-five years he has

been the most prominent geologist in the world, equally
eminent for the extent of his labours and the breadth of his

philosophical views.

     'JOSEPH HOOKER, President of the  T. H. HUXLEY, F.R.S.

         Koyal Society.                JCHARLES MANBY, F.R.S.
     JOHN EVANS, President of the           CARRICK MOORE, F.R.S.
                                       E. A. PARKES, F.K.S.
         Geological Society.           JOHN PERCY, F.R.S.
                                       JOSEPH PRESTWICH, F.R.S.
     GEORGE J. ALLMAN, President of    A. RAMSAY, F.R.S.
                                       H. HAWLI.VSON, H'.R.S.,Pres. R.G.S.
         the Lmmean Society.           G. OWEN RBES, F.R.S.
     W. G. ADAMS, F.R.S.               EDWARD RYAN, F.R.S.
                                       W. SHARPEY, F.R.S.
     J. M. ABNOTT, F.R.S.
                                       W. SPOTTISWOODE, Tres. R.S.
     GEORGE BUSK, F.U.S.               WARRINGTON SMYTH, F.R.S.

     H. DEBUS, F.R.S.                  THOMAS THOMSON, F.R.S.
                                       JOHN TYNDALL, F.R.S.
     JAS. FERGUSSON, F.R.S.            ALEX. WILLIAMSON, For. Sec. R.S.
     \V. H. FLOWEU, F.R.S.             E. H. BUNBUBY, F.G.S.
     AUGUSTUS W. FRANKS, F.R.S.        L. L. DlLLWYjf, F.L.H., F.G.S.
     FRANCIS GALTOX, F.R.S.            A. GROTE, F.L.S., F.G.S.

     J. H. GLADSTONE, F.R.S.           JOSEPH WHITWORTH.'
     J. A. GRANT, F.R.S.

     W. R. GROVK, F.R.S.

     J. HEYWOOD, F.R.S.

     T. ARCHSR HIRST, F.R.S.
     W. HUGGINS, F.R.S.
     T. MCK. HUGHES, F.R.S.

     The pall-bearers were the Duke of Argyll, Sir Edward
Ryan, Mr. Justice Grove, Professor Huxley, Dr. Hooker,

Mr. John Evans (President of the Geological Society), Mr. J.

Carrick Moore, and the Rev. W. S. Symonds.
     The Dean of Westminster conducted the service.

     The following Sunday the Dean of Westminster preached

i 875.  SERMON BY DEAN STANLEY.                  461

the funeral sermon in the Abbey, of which the following is
an extract: --

     ' Of him who is thus laid to rest, if of any one of our
time, it may be said that he followed truth with a zeal as

sanctified as ever fired the soul of a missionary, and with a

humility as child-like as ever subdued the mind of a simple

scholar. For discovering, confirming, rectifying his con

clusions, there was no journey too distant to undertake.

Never did he think of his own fame or name in comparison

of the scientific results which he sought to establish. From ;
early youth to extreme old age it was to him a solemn

religious duty to be incessantly learning, constantly growing,

fearlessly correcting his own mistakes, always ready to

receive and reproduce from others that which he had not in

himself. Science and religion for him not only were not

divorced, but were one and indivisible.                                                    '

' The instinct which impels us to seek for harmony between i
the highest truths of science and the highest truths of the \
Bible is an instinct far nobler and truer than that which

would seek to part them asunder. In this higher instinct,

he who has departed fully shared. The great religious

problems of our time were never absent from his mind.

The infinite possibilities of nature gave him fresh ground

for his unshaken hope in the unknown, immortal future.

His conviction of the peaceful, progressive combination of

natural causes towards the  formation of our     ogflob"ethfeillewdonhdiemr                   i
with a profound and ever    profounder sense

and the glory of this marvellous universe." yfhe generous
freedom allowed to religious inquiry in the Na.tional Church,

the cause of humanity in the world at large, were to him as

dear as though they were his own personal and peculiar

concern. With that one faithful, beloved, and beautiful
soul, who, till within the last two years of his life, shared

all his joys and         all his sorrows,  al"l  his labours and all his
fame, he walked           the lofty path,        wtrhoidcdhenth"e--vtuhletuprea'tshweayye

hofatthhenojtusste,en",   nor the lion's whelp    and more towards the
                         lightening ever more

perfect day," in which we humbly trust that they are now
at last reunited in the presence of that light which they

both so sincerely sought.'

462  SIR CHARLES LYELL.                                          CHAP. XL.

    He was buried in the nave of the Abbey. A gravestone

of fossil marble from Derbyshire, selected as an appropriate
tribute, bears the following inscription : --

                          CHARLES LYELL

                                BARONET F.R.S.

                                                    AUTHOR OF
                                  ' THE PRINCIPLES OF GEOLOGY '
                          BORN AT KINNORDY IN FORFARSHIRE

                                             NOVEMBER 14 1797

i .. DIED IN LONDON
                                             FEBRUARY 22 1875

      THROUGHOUT A LONG AND LABORIOUS LIFE
        HE SOUGHT THE MEANS OF DECIPHERING
                   THE FRAGMENTARY RECORDS

                      OF THE EARTH'S HISTORY

                IN THE PATIENT INVESTIGATION
            OF THE PRESENT ORDER OF NATURE
     ENLARGING THE BOUNDARIES OF KNOWLEDGE
          AND LEAVING ON SCIENTIFIC THOUGHT

                     AN ENDURING INFLUENCE
            ' O LORD HOW GREAT ARK THY WORKS

              AND THY THOUGHTS ARE VERY DEEP '
                               PSALM XCII. 5.

     A marble bust by Mr. Theed, after the original one by

Gibson, is placed near the grave.

     A few words from one J who had frequent opportunities of

seeing him in his latter years may be appropriate here, as

they are full of comprehension of the child-like simplicity,
and the vigour of intellect combined with a deep earnestness,
which were his chief characteristics :--

     ' The last of the elder generation of our great men of
science, Sir Charles Lyell, leaves behind him the memory
of a character almost ideally representing what such men
should be; so free from egotism, vanity, or jealousy, so
ready to be pleased with every innocent jest or amusement,

so ready to listen patiently to the remarks of those infinitely

below his intellectual calibre, and withal so affectionate

and tender of heart, that no child could be more^ simple ;
and, on the other hand, so filled with reverent entlTcmasm

for the glory and grandeur of the universe to whose stijl

                                         ' Miss F. P. Cobbe.

i875.  TRIBUTE.  463

he devoted himself, and so ready to open his mind to each
new truth, that no man could better deserve the high title

of a true philosopher. Nor did his philosophy, though it
released him from some of the bonds of early prejudice, ever

lead him to renounce those highest truths to which the

lesser ones of science lead up. It was his frequent obser

vation that religious sentiment deserved as much confidence i
as any other faculty of our nature, and in full faith and hope j
in God and immortality he passed calmly into the dark j
valley of age and death.' 8

                                               · See Appendix C.


         APPENDICES.

         APPENDIX A.

         VOL. I. p. 376.

From CAPTAIN BASIL HALL, R.N., to LEONARD
                            HORNER, ESQ.

                                                                     Geneva: September 7, 1833.

My dear Sir, -- Upon the whole T am glad that our admi

rable friend Lyell has disentangled himself from King's

College and the Royal Institution. He will do more for his

science, and for himself, and for us who love both, by

observing and writing, than he could by possibility do by
lecturing alone. Could he do both, it would be better cer

tainly, but if the lectures are to interfere with his publica

tions, and still more with his observations, and his journeys
to see men as well as rocks, it is clearly the wisest plan to

cut the cockneys, and address himself solely to men of science,

or to those who, without that pretension, are capable of

Iunderstanding his most excellent writings.
        think his book by many many degrees the best work,

Inot only on his subject, but on any scientific subject with

which am acquainted. It reduces an intricate, obscure,

and most enormously copious subject, to one which is almost

mathematically arranged, clear and condensed. His genera

lisations are quite inimitable, except by the singular beauty

Iand force of his detailed descriptions and his patient inves

tigation of disputed points ; to which may add the calm,

dispassionate, gentlemanlike style in which he handles, not

one, but every controversial subject which the subject

requires should be discussed. And yet he does this with so

VOL. n.  HH

466 APPENDIX A.

much liveliness both of manner and of diction, and with such
genuine earnestness, that I, for one, cannot help being swept

away with the gentle but irresistible current of his persua
sive eloquence. For, indeed, his book contains the essence

of eloquence ; right reason, extensive and exact knowledge,

cultivated taste, and a disinterested and philosophical desire

to state the matter in such a way that truth may be the

result. There is, moreover, an elegance of fancy through

out, and a touch of humour, or rather of wit, which are in

happy companionship with the simplicity and general

I Ielegance of the composition. It is already, in my apprehen

sion, the first book of the day, and every time read it, aui

filled the more and more with respect for the author's talents

Iand his knowledge, and feel more and more grateful to him
for the pleasure he has given me.  trust he will be able

soon to print a cheaper edition, for the book would soon be

very extensively circulated, if its form and price were such

as to enable the great body of readers to get at it.

    It is the most abominable shame in the world Lyell's

book not being translated into French. Their science is very

much a matter of talk and pretension, and in geology they
believe that beyond their eternal Paris Basin, there is

nothing worth looking at or thinking about. Did you see in

one of the five hundred Eloges on Cuvier, what a Paris savant

said of him. ' It would almost appear,' said the modest
eulogiser, ' as if the Almighty had placed this vast and

wonderful collection of fossil remains for the express purpose

of being discovered and descanted upon by our great country
man ! ' Poor Cuvier ! how little did this ass know of the

taste of the mighty man about whom he was braj ing, to an

audience, who if they had possessed a grain more sense than

the orator, ought to have made a ' fossil remain ' of him

forthwith, by pitching him over the quay into the silt of the

Seine.

        Ever most truly yours,

                                   BASIL HALT..

APPENDIX B.  407

                        APPENDIX B.

                           VOL. II. p. 451.

      [The following Tribute to the Memory of Lady Lyell by George
 8. Hillard, Esq., is so just and true, that it is placed here in order
 that she, who was the constant and cherished companion of her hus
 band for forty years, might be united with him in these volumes.]

       From the Boston (United States) 'Daily Advertiser,'

                                       May 19, 1873.

'DIED IN LONDON, AFTER A SHORT ILLNESS, APRIL 24, MARY ELIZABETH,
        WIFE OF THE CELEBRATED GEOLOGIST, SIR CHARLES LYELL.

      ' There are many hearts in the United States that will be
saddened by the death of this admirable woman. She had
twice visited our country in company with her husband, and
in every part of it had made warm and lasting friends. And
such she could not but make, for she had a rare union of thu
qualities which ensure confidence with those that win affec
tion. Strength and sweetness were hers, both in no common
measure. The daughter of Leonard Horner, and the niece
of Francis Hbrner, in her an excellent understanding had
been carefully trained, and she had that general knowledge
and those intellectual tastes which we expect to find in an
educated Englishwoman : and from her childhood she had
breathed the refining air of taste, knowledge, and goodness.
Her marriage with an eminent man of science gave a
scientific turn to her thoughts and studies, and she became
to her husband not merely the truest of friends and the
most affectionate and sympathising of companions, but a very
efficient helper. She was frank, generous, and true; her
moral instincts were high and pure ; she was faithful and

                                                                             UH 2

                                                                   71V

4fi8 APPENDIX B.

firm in friendship ; she was fearless in the expression of

opinion, without being aggressive; and she had that force

of character and quiet energy of temperament that gave her

the power to do all that she had resolved to do.

    ' All that we have said she might have been, and yet not

have been winning and sweet ; but this she was, and to such

an extent that those who saw her only casually, carried away

hardly any other impression of her. She had more than a

common share of personal beauty ; but had she not been

beautiful she would have been lovely, such was the charm

of her manners, which were the natural expression of warmth

and tenderness of heart, of quick sympathies, and of a tact

us delicate as a blind man's touch. This woman, so widely

informed, so true, so strong, so brave, seemed all compact of

softness, sweetness, and gentleness ; a very flower that had
done no more than drink the sunshine and the dew. In her

smile, her greeting, the tones of her voice, there was a charm

which cannot be described, but which all who knew her have

felt and will recall.

' No tribute to Lady Lyell would be complete that did not

speak of her strong attachment to America and American

friends. Her feelings in this direction were in harmony with

her warmth of heart and her generous spirit. She was a

fervid and enthusiastic friend to America. During the war

there was not a woman or a man in England that stood by

tlie Union and the Government more ardently and fearlessly

than she. Never, at any period, was she silent when

America was disparaged. No one has died in England upon

whose   monument       might be    more appropriately  carved the
words,                 the friend  ot America."
        " Here lies

     ' We have dwelt somewhat upon Lady Lyell's strong
attachment to America, not merely because it entitles her to

the grateful remembrance of all Americans, but because it

was illustrative of her independence of judgment and her

generous and catholic nature. For be it remembered that

she was an Englishwoman, and never for a moment could

have been taken for anything but an Englishwoman ; bat

she came to America with no insular prejudices and no con

ventional standard. She did not look at this great country

with the eye of a lady in waiting. In her view, usages and

                                                                   /

                                                                   "

APPENDIX B.  463

customs were not wrong simply because they were not
English. She saw and appreciated all that was good in us;

and if she saw anything that she could not approve, she was

willing to forget it.
     ' Lady Lyell had reached an age when the end of life

begins to be a natural event, and cannot be called premature ;
but such was her warmth of heart, so fresh were her feeling?,

her faculties so bright, that her death falls upon the hearts
that loved her with the shock of unexpectedness, and in
parting from her, her friends must feel that to them some
thing of the light of life has passed away from earth.'

470 APPENDIX C.

                       APPENDIX C.

                                 VOL. II. p. 463.

    [The following Tributes, written after the death of Sir Charles
Lyell, are extracts from some of the many notices which appeared in

various journals, and are ofleved as being eminently characteristic of
him, and his work.]

' To sketch the life and labours of Sir Charles Lvell

would be much the same thing as sketching the development
of the modern school of British geology during -well-nigh
half a century. The task to which he devoted his noblest

energies was that of establishing the principles of geology

on a sound and philosophical basis. His leading lesson w?s

a belief in the uniformity of the laws of nature : a belief

which led him to argue that by studying the changes which

are being wrought upon the surface of the earth by the

silent action of forces now in operation, we put ourselves in

possession of a key to the interpretation of those ancient
records which it is the special business of the geologist to
decipher. Sir Charles, indeed, developed with singular

success the great truths which were first enunciated by Dr.
Hutton of Edinburgh, and eloquently illustrated by his
friend Professor Playfair. Hutton died in 1797, and it is

curious to note that the same year which witnessed his death
gave birth to one who was destined to expound his doctrines

with such force of argument as to carry them successfully

against all opposition, and establish them as fundamental

principles of the science.
     ' The earliest scientific observations of the young geologist

appear to have been made on the rocks of his native country,

"sinEcdeinwbeurfginhd  that his  first paper, contributed  in 1825 to the
                       Journal   of Science," was one       on a dike of

serpentine  "inPrtihnecipcoleusntyof oGf eFoolorfgayr."  The first volume  of his
celebrated                                               was published in
                                                                            1830.

APPENDIX C.  471

So great has been the popularity of this work, that it has
passed through no fewer than eleven editions ; and during
his last illness, the venerable author was engaged upon a
twelfth.

    ' In casting a glance over the life of Sir Charles Lyell, it
will be seen that he was characterised by singular steadiness

of purpose. The great doctrine of uniforraitarianism which
he advocated in 1830. he nobly supported to the day of his
death, although modified, of course, by the progress of
scientific inquiry. He made everything subordinate to his
one ruling idea, that of establishing the principles of geology
upon a thoroughly logical basis. Nor were his honesty and
boldness less marked than his steadiness and concentration.

A staunch advocate of perfect freedom of scientific opinion,

he fearlessly pushed his principles to their legitimate con
clusions. Having first satisfied himself of the soundness of

his fundamental postulates, and employing a vigorous logic
at each successive step of his reasoning, he cared but little /
whither his conclusions carried him; whether they chanced I
to fall in unison with general belief, or cut directly across
the grain of popular prejudice. Toleration had been taught
him by bitter experience in early life. Like most advanced

thinkers he had suffered keenly from the harsh criticisms of
the narrow-minded ; he had shared the fate which usually
falls to

                        Teachers whose minds move faster than the age,
                     And faster than society's slow flight.

     ' Perhaps the most striking characteristic of Sir Charles
Lyell, was his remarkable mental plasticity-- a power which

made him ever ready to receive new impressions, and never
too proud to correct his old views, or confess to a change in

his previous opinions. Not that he craved for novelty

merely for novelty's sake. But if he considered that fresh

evidence on a given subject justified the alteration of a

previously formed opinion, he frankly turned round and
renounced his old views. This was nowhere more strikingly
seen than in his change of attitude towards the great ques
tion of the Origin of Species after the publication of Mr.
Darwin's epoch-marking work.| Whenever Sir Charles con
 sidered that a case had been! fairly made out, he was too

472 APPENDIX C.

noble to shut his eyes against the evidence, but freely
accepted the new conclusion, even to the overthrow of his

previous work. It was the advancement of the philosophy

of geology, not the advancement of self, that he was con
stantly seeking. To the very last he retained this plasticity
of mind ; a characteristic which led him so freely, yet so
cautiously, to bend before new arguments, and to stretch
his old views to meet the requirements cf modern research ;
thus strikingly unlike so many men of genius, who having
developed in early life to a certain point, are content to
spend the rest of their life in a state of intellectual crystal
lisation.' '

     ' The first generation of geologists has passed away.
Buckland, Conybeare, Sedgwick, Murchison, Phillips, all--
with the exception of the first two --have died within the
last few years ; and now Sir Charles Lyell, full of years and
honours, has been added to the number.

     ' Knowledge has widened all round ; larger views of nature
and the universe have gained credit every where ; and geology
has fully shared in the general expansion. In this process
no one has had a greater share than Sir Charles Lyell.
For he was much more than a mere geologist. He had a
well-trained and philosophic mind, which enabled him to
take large views of every subject presented to his intellect,
to see its various bearings and its points of alliance or con

trast with other ranges of thought. All his work was done

leisurely, fully, and completely, in large books, and not in
fragments of essays and papers ; and every book was abso
lutely finished up to the point which knowledge had reached
when he put it forth. Sir Charles Lyell, in spite of his
great age, has been singularly open to fresh accessions of
knowledge and fresh generalisations from the increasing
store of facts ; and it is no light testimony to the original
soundness of his views, that they have easily admitted an
assimilation of all fresh discoveries and a re-adjustment to

newly-accepted theories. A striking example of this was

given in his late conversion to Mr. Darwin's doctrine of
Natural Selection. Nine editions of the "Principles of

                  i Ey F. W. Kudler in the Academy, February 27, 1875.

                           APPENDIX C.                                    473

Geology " had carried his name and reputation over the
civilised world, and along with it his exposition of the doc

trine of Special Creations. The only explanation which
then seemed possible to him of the perpetual change of life

revealed by successive strata was, that when the material

conditions of any district became so changed that the old
inhabitants died out, a new creative fiat went forth, by
virtue of which the district was again peopled with fresh
inhabitants especially adapted to its new conditions. When,
however, it was shown that causes were at work which

slowly and gradually modified the characters of plants and

animals, so that they became adjusted by a self-adapting

process to the changing circumstances around them, he )
gladly adopted a view which was so much in harmony with

his general principles ; and he put forth a tenth edition, in

which the old theory was formally renounced, and the new ·

one taken up. It was justly characterised by Dr. Hooker,

in his address to the British Association at Norwich, as a

bright example of heroism, that an author could thus '
abandon, " late in life, a theory which he had for forty years '

regarded as one of the foundation-stones of a work that had .

given him the highest      ;p"osaitniodn  it  attainable among             contem
porary scientific writers                      was no less justly         observed

that   the superstructure must be             "vteoryunsdoelridminanedit  coherent
which   could allow the builder thus                                      and sub

stitute   a new foundation," and               yet,  after all, survey his
edifice,  and behold it, " not only           more   secure, but more har

monious in its proportions than it was before." ' 2

     ' Lyell was not only a keen investigator of natural phe
nomena, he was also a shrewd observer of human nature,
and his four interesting volumes of travel in America are
full of clever criticism and sagacious forecasts. His mind,
always fresh and open to new impressions, by sympathy
drew towards it and quickened the enthusiasm of all who
studied nature. Had he done nothing himself, he would
have helped science on by the warmth with which he hailed
each new discovery. How many a young geologist has been

braced up for new efforts by the encouraging words he heard

                               2 From the Guardian, March 3, 1875.

474 APPENDIX C.

from Sir Charles, and how many a one has felt exaggeration
checked, and the faculty of seeing things as they are
strengthened, by a conversation with that keen sifter of the
true from the false !

     ' The little wayside flower, and from early associations
still more the passing butterfly, for the moment seemed to
engross his every thought. But the grandeur of the sea im
pressed him most ; he never tired of wandering along the
shore, now speaking of the great problems of earth's history,
now of the little weed the wave left at his feet. His mind
was like the lens that gathers the great sun into a speck,
and also magnifies the little grain we could not see before.
He loved all nature, great and small.

     ' In the companion of his life, sharing his labour, think
ing his success her own, Sir Charles had an accomplished
linguist who braved with him the dangers and difficulties of

travel, no matter how rough ; the ever-ready prompter when
memory failed, the constant adviser in all cases of difficulty.
Had she not been part of him she would herself have been
better known to fame. The word of encouragement that
he wished to give lost none of its warmth when conve)'ed by
her ; the welcome to fellow-workers of foreign lands had a

grace added when offered through her. She was taken from
him when the long shadows began to cross his path ; but

it was not then he needed her most. When in the vigour of

unimpaired strength he struggled amongst the foremost in
the fight for truth, then she stood by and handed him his
spear or threw forward his shield. He had not her hand to
smooth his pillow at the last, but the loving wife was spared
the pain of seeing him die.

     ' His was a well-balanced, judicial mind which weighed
carefully all brought before it. A large type of intellect --
too rare not to be missed. But it was well that circum
stances did not combine to keep the young laird on his
paternal lands among the hills of Forfarshire : it was well for
science that he was induced to prefer the quieter study of
nature to the subtle bandying of words or the excitement of
forensic life. Failing health had for some time removed
him from debates. Still, to the last his interest in all that

was going on in the scientific world never failed, and nothing

APPENDIX C.  475

pleased him more than an account of the last discussion at
the Geological Society, or of any new work done.' 3

    At a meeting of the Edinburgh Geological Society,
March 4, 1875, the President, Mr. D. Milne Home, said

     ' That since their last meeting they had met with a severe
loss by the death of the distinguished man who held in their
Society the honorary office of patron. Sir Charles Lyell's
death he was sure all of them deeply regretted, not merely
as geologists but as Scotchmen. He was the oldest of a
very distinguished band, who, during the last fifty years,

had done more for geology than had been effected in any

other country. In fact, the very foundations of the science
were, it might be said, laid in the city of Edinburgh by Sir
James Hall, Hutton, Playfair, and Jamieson. Many others,
animated by their example and stirred by the novelty of their

investigations, came forward to help in carrying on this good
work.

     ' But of all the labourers in the geological field who had
done good service, he ventured to say that no one of them,
nor even all of them together, had done so much to extend
the geological edifice and raise it to its present conspicuous
height, as Sir Charles Lyell. How could it be otherwise ?
His whole life after manhood was devoted to geology. He

probably collected more facts and drew more important con
clusions than had ever been done by any other geologist.
His published works formed a treasury of valuable informa

tion, and his method of investigation gave important lessons
which all labourers in the same field would do well to

profit by.

    ' In working out his speculations, Sir Charles Lyell

always endeavoured to obtain a broad basis on which to rest
them. He pointed out the absurdity of drawing conclusions
applicable to the whole earth from phenomena observable
only in one country. To attain that object he himself tra

velled, hammer in hand, over half the earth's surface. In

search of facts he visited more than once almost every
country in Europe ; and was twice in North America and

Canada.

                    t From Nature, March 4, 1875. By Prof. Hughes.

476 APPENDIX C.

' The great ends he accomplished were due to methodical

industry, to delight in making a discovery, to love of truth,

and to untiring perseverance.  These were the simple

weapons with which he fought the battle of life, and by

means of which he amassed for the benefit of his race a rich

store of truths previously unknown, and laid up for himself

a reputation which would long endure. He had mentioned

the love of truth as one of the motives by which Lyell was

inspired. That feeling was in him so strong and sacred that

whenever he discovered he was in error, whether error of

fact or of inference, he never was happy till he had an

opportunity of publicly avowing and correcting it.
     ' Sir Charles Lyell visited Scotland last year, and went to

his paternal estate of Kinnordy, in Forfarshire, in the
neighbourhood of the Sidlaw Hills and the more lofty
Grampian range, witli which, as a boy, he had been familiar.

He there took the opportunity of revisiting some of the

haunts of his earlier days, and the spots where the love of

his favourite science had first been imbibed, and had the

satisfaction of feeling that all through his life he had been

faithful to his first love, and under its impulse had done

service to the world, and also done credit to the land of his

birth.' 4

           4 From the Sautunan, March 5, 1875.

APPENDIX D.                                    477

APPENDIX D.

BEQUEST TO THE GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.

Extract from, and Codicil to, the Will of the late Sir Charles
                                  Lyell, Bart.

I give to the Geological Society of London the die
executed by Mr. Leonard Wyon of a medal to be cast in

bronze and to be given annually and called the Lyell Medal,
and to be regarded as a mark of honorary distinction and as

an expression on the part of the governing body of the

ISociety, that the medallist (who may be of any country or
either sex) has deserved well of the science.  further give

to the said Society the sum of two thousand pounds (free of
legacy duty) to be paid to the President and Treasurer for

Ithe time being, whose receipt shall be a good discharge to

my Executors ; and direct the said sum to be invested in

the name of the said Society or of the Trustees thereof in

such securities as the Council shall from time to time think

proper, and that the annual interest arising therefrom shall
be appropriated and applied in the following manner : -- Not

less than one third of the annual interest to accompany the

medal, the remaining interest to be given in one or more

portions at the discretion of the Council for the encourage

ment of geology or of any of the allied sciences by which

they shall consider geology to have been most materially

advanced, either for travelling expenses or for a memoir or

paper published or in progress, and without reference to the

sex or nationality of the author or the language in which

Iany such memoir or paper shall be written.

     And declare that the Council of the said Society shall
be the sole judges of the merits of the memoirs or papers for

 478 APPENDIX D.

 which they may vote the Medal and Fund from time to

 time.

    IAnd direct that the legacy hereinbefore given to the

 said Society, shall be paid out of such part of my personal
 estate as may be legally applicable to the payment of such

 bequests.

    IAs a Codicil to my Will dated January 1874, in which
Idirected that the Medal should be awarded annually by the

Council of the Geological Society, think it would be pre
ferable that, instead of requiring it and the interest of the
2,0001. to be given annually, 1 should leave it to the discre
tion of the Council to suspend the awarding of the Medal
for one year, as it may sometimes be a source of embarrass

ment when there are several medals to bestow, to be forced

to find a fit recipient. In this case the Council would have

in the year following a larger sum from the interest of the
2,0001., as well as two medals, to give away --which might
be an advantage, because it has sometimes happened that
two persons have been jointly engaged in the same explora
tion in the same country, or perhaps on allied subjects in
different countries, and the Council may think that the
labours of both of them may deserve to be crowned by a mark
of their approbation. In this case a medal may be given to
each, with such proportion of the interest as the Council may
decide, always not being less to each medal than one third
of the annual interest of the 2,000/. as directed in my Will.

                           APPENDIX E.                            479

                           APPENDIX E.

GEOLOGICAL PAPERS AND WORKS BY SIR CHAKLES LYELL.

' On a recent Formation of Freshwater Limestone in Forfarshire, and on

some recent Deposits of Freshwater Marl,' Geological Socitty't Transactions,

1825.

     ' On Serpentine Dyke in Forfarshire,' Edinburgh Journal of Science, 1825.
     'On various Scientific Institutions in England,' Quarterly Review, 1825.
     ' On Fossil Bones of the Elephant and other Animals found near Salisbury,'

Geological Society's Proceedings, 1 826.
    'On the Strata of the Plastic ('lay Formation between Christchurch,

Hants, and Studlaud Bay, Dorset,' Geological Society's Tnimactiont, 1826.
     'On the Freshwater Strata of Hordwell t'liff, Beacon Cliff, aud Barton

Cliff, Hampshire,' Geological Society's Transactions, 1826.
     Review of Scrope's ' Geology of Central France,' Quarterly Renew,

1827.

     ' Lyell and Murchison on Excavation of Valley.",' Edinburgh New Philo
sophical Journal, 1820.

     ' Lyell and Murchison on Lacustrine Deports of Cantal,' Annalet det

Sciences Naturelles, 1829.                    Formation  of Aix in Provence,'
     ' Murchison and Lyell on Frenh water                     January, 18.30.

Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, 182!'.
      ' PRINCIPLES OF GEOLOOY,' vol. i. 8vo.

,, ,, ,, ,, 11. ,,                                       ,, 18oL.
,, ,, ,, ,, i. 2nd edition, 8vo.                         ,, 1832.

,, ,, ,, ,, 11.                               ,,         ,, 1833.

,, ,, ,, ,, iii. 1st edition, 8vo.                       May 1833.

              ,, ,,,,      New edition (called the third) of the whole
work, in four vols. 12mo.                                                        May 1834.

     ' On Freshwater Formation of Cerddgne in the Pyrenees,' Magazine of
A'atural History, 1834.
' On the Proofs of a gradual Rising of the Land in certain Parts of

Sweden, The Bakerian Lectuie,' Philosophical Transactions, 1834.

' On the Change of Level of the Land and Sea in Scandinavia/ British

Association Report, 1834.

'PRINCIPLES OP GEOLOGY,' 4th edition, four vols; 12mo. June 1835.

' On Relative Ages of Crag in Norfolk and Suffolk,' Magazine of A'atural
History, 1835.

480 APPENDIX E.

     ' On the Cretaceous and Tertiary Strata of the Danish Islands of Seeland

and Mocn,' 1835.
     ' On the Occurrence of Fossil Vertebrae of Fish of the Shark Family in

Loess of the Rhine,' Geological Proceedings, 1835.
     ' Address as President of the Geological Society,' J836.

             » >»  » i> 1837.

'PRINCIPLES OP GEOLOGY,' 5th edition, in four vols. 12mo., March

1837.

     ' On Phenomena connected with the Junction of Granitic and Transition

Rocks near Christiania in Norway,' British Association Report, 1837.
     ' On Vertical Lines of Flint, traversing" Horizontal Strata of Chalk near

Norwich,' British Association Report, 1838.
    ' ELEMENTS of GEOLOGY,' 1st edition, in one vol., July 1838.
     ' On the Occurrence of Graptolites in the Slate of Galloway,' Geological

Proceedings, 1838.
     ' Remarks on Captain Bayfield's Canada Shells,' Geological Transactions,

1839.

     ' On Remains of Mammalia in the Crag and London Clay of Suffolk,'

British Association Report, 183! I.
      ' On Sandpipes in Chalk near Norwich,' Philosophical Mngaane, 1839.
     ' On Fossil Teeth of Leopard, Bear, &c. at Newbourn, Suffolk,' Annalt of

Katural History, 1839.
     ' On Fossil Quadrumana, Marsupials, Ac., in London Clay, near Wood-

bridge, Suffolk,' AnnalK of Natural History IV., 1839.

     ' PRINCIPLES OP GEOLOGY," 6th edition, three vols. 12mo., June 1840.
     ' On Ancient Sea-cliffs in the Valley of the Seine in Normandy,' Britieh

Auociation Report, 1840.
     ' On the Boulder Formation and Mud Cliffs of Eastern Norfolk,' Geological

Magasint., 1840.
     ' On the Geological Evidence of the former Existence of Glaciers in Forfar-

shire,' Geological Proceedings, 1840.                Annalt  of Natural
     ' On the Genus Conus in the Lias of Normandy,'

JMory VI., 1840.

' On the Faluns of the Loire,' Geological Society's Proceedings, 1841.

' On the Freshwater Fossil Fishes of Mundesley as determined by Agassiz,'

Geological Society's Proceedings, 1841.
    ' Remarks on the Silurian Strata between Aymestry and Wenlock,'

Geological Society's Proceedings, 1841.
    'Notes on the Silurian Strata near Christiania in Norway,' Geological

I'roceedings, 1841.
     ' ELEMENTS OF GEOLOGY,' 2nd edition, in two vols. 12mo., June 1841.

     'On the Carboniferous and Older Rocks of Pennsylvania,' 1841.
    ' On the Recession of the Falls of Niagara,' Geological Society's Proceeding*,

1842.
     ' On the Elevated Beaches and Boulder Formations of the Canadian Lakes

and Valley of St. Lawrence,' Geological Society's Proceedings, 1842.
     ' On Fossil Foot-printa of Birds, Connecticut,' Geological Society t Proceed

ings, 1842.

          APPENDIX E.  481

    ' On the Tertiary Formations in Virginia,' Oeological Society's Proceed

ings, It 42.

     ' On Tertiary Strata of Martha's Vineyard,' Geological Society's Pro

ceedings, 1843.

     'On Mastodon at Big-hone-Lick, Kentucky,' Geological Society's Proceed

ings, 1843.
     ' On Coal and Gypsum of Nova Scotia,' Geological Society's Proceedings,

1843.

     ' On Loess of the Rhine,' Edinburgh Philosophical Journal, 1843.
     ' On Chalk of New Jersey,' Geological Journal, 1844.
     'On Age of Plumbago and Anthracite at Worcester, Massachusetts,'

1844.

     ' Report on Haswell Colliery, Lyell and Faraday,' Geological Journal,

1844.

     'On Miocene Strataof Maryland, Virginia,' &c., Geological Journal, 1845.
      ' On White Limestone, and Eocene Formations of Virginia, Carolina,
 &c.,' Geological Journal, 1845.
      'On Lava-currents, Auvergne,' Geological Journal, 1846.
      ' TRAVELS isr NORTH AMERICA,' with Geological Observations, two vols.,

 1845.

      ' On Coal-Field of Tuscaloosa, Alabama,' Silliman's Journal, 1846.
      ' On Alabama Coal-fields,' Geological Journal, 1846.
      ' On Newer Deposits of Southern States, Claiborne,' Geological Journal,

 1846.

      ' On Fossil Foot-prints, allied to Cheirotherium, in Pennsylvania,' Geolo
 gical Journal, 1846.

      ' On Delta of Mississippi,' Lecture to the British Association, 1846.
       ' PRINCIPLES OF GEOLOGY,' 7th edition, in one vol. 8vo., February 1847.
      'Age of Volcanos in Auvergne, as determined by Fossil Mammalia,'
 Lecture at Royal Institution, 1847.
      ' On Structure and Probable Age of Coal-field of James River, Virginia,'

  Geological Society, 1847.

      ' On Craters of Denudation, with Observations on the Structure and

 Growth of Volcanic Cones,' Geological Society's Proceedings, 1840.
      ' On Recent Foot-prints on Red Mud in Nova Scotia,' Geological Journal,

  1849.

    'A SECOND VISIT TO THE UNITED STATES op NORTH AMERICA,' two

  vols., 1849.
       'Lecture on Delta of Mississippi at the Royal Institution,' 1840.
       ' PRINCIPLES OP GEOLOGY,' 8th edition, in one vol. 8vo.. Mny 1850.
       ' On Forests of Erect Fossil Trees in Coal Strata of North America,'

 Lecture at. Royal Institution, 1850.
        ' President's Address to Geological Society of London,' 1850.

     ' ELEMENTS OF GEOLOGY,' 3rd edition (or Manual of Elementary
Geology), in one vol. 8vo., January 1851.

     ' On Impressions of Rain-drops in Ancient and Modern Strata,' Lecture
at Rvyal Institution, 1851.

VOL. II.  II

482 APPENDIX E.

' On Fossil Rain-marks of the Recent Triassic and Carboniferous Periods,'

Geological Quarterly Journal, 1851.

' On Blackheath Pebble-bed, and on Certain Phenomena in the Geology of

the Neighbourhood of London,' Royal Institution's Proceedings, 1851.
     ' ELEMENTS OF GEOLOGY,' 4th edition (or Manual), in one vol. 8vo.,

January 1852.

'On Tertiary Strata of Belgium and French Flanders,' Geological

Journal, 1852.

     ' PRINCIPLES OF GBOLOOY,' 9th edition, in one vol. 8vo., June 1853.
     ' On Remains of Dendrerpeton and Land Shells in Nova Scotia, by Sir C.

Lyell and J. W. Dawson, with Notes by Wyman,' Quarterly Geological

Journal, 1863.

'On Geology of Madeira,' Quarterly GeologicalJournnl, 1853.    Lecture.
' ELEMENTS OF GEOLOGY,' one vol. Svo., February 1855.
' On Erratic Blocks West of Massachusetts,' Royal Institution

1855.

    ' On Successive Changes in Temple of Serapis,' Royal Institution Lecturt,

1856.

     ' On Stony Lava on Steep Slopes on Etna,' Royal Society's Proceeding'.,

1858.

     ' On Consolidation of Lava and on Volcanos,' Royal Institution Lecture,

1859.

' ANTiami OF MAN,' in one vol. 8vo., 1st edition, February 1863.
                                             April 1863.
       ,,       ,,  ,,               2nd ,,

       ,, ,, ,, 3rd ,, November 1863.
' ELEMENTS OF GEOLOGY,' 6th edition, in one vol. 8vo., January 1865.
' PRINCIPLES OF GEOLOGY,' 10th edition, in two vols. 8vo., the first in

November 1866, the second in 1868.

'STUDENT'S ELEMENTS OF GEOLOGY,' one vol. 12mo., 1871.

·PRINCIPLES OF GEOLOGY,' llth edition, in two vols. 8vo., January 1872.

' ANTIQUITY OF MAN,' 4th edition, one vol. 8vo., January 1873.

                       INDEX.

                          AAR                                  BUN

A\ AR-FALL, i. 86                           Basle, i. 77
        Aberfeldy, i. 48                    Kayley, Dr., i. 18, 25. 26, 27, 29, 30
Academy dinner, ii. 375                     Beaumont, Elie de, i. 272, 273, 274,
wEgean Sea, i. 27                              347 ; ii. 3, 4, 43, 243
Aga.ssiz, Louis, i. 457; ii. 104, 128,      Beaumont, Uustave de, ii. 150
                                            Heck, Dr., ii. 13, 16, 22
    154,159. 169, 181, 401                  Bell, Sir Charles, i. 346

Airlie, Lord, i. 48, 1:10, 345              I'.entham. George, ii. 447, 450
   -- Lady, i. 124, 135                     Berne, i. 89

Aletsch Lake, ii. 403                       Berzelius, i. 427, 452
Allen, John, ii. 7                          Bezzi, Sigmor, ii. 286
                                            Bibliotheque du Roi, i. 62
Alpbach, i. 85                              Bologna, i. 108
American politics, ii. 54, 57, 63, 67,      Bonaly Tower, ii. 26
                                            Bonn, i. 319, 389, 398, 456
    85, 96                                  Boott, Dr. Francis, ii. 212
Ammonites Bucklandi, i. 40                  F.iirromean Isles, i. 99
Anning, Mary, i, 153, 247, 250              Botany, ii. 55, 99, 162, 199, 216, 2:il,
·Antiquity of Man,' ii. 341                    313,415
Apennines, crossing the, i. 109
Arago, i. 128                               Botany, fossil, ii. 93, 145, 192, 210,
Ardtornish, i. 52
                                                241. 246, 409
Argyll, Duke of, letters to, ii. 846,       Boue, i. 321 ; ii. 229
                                            Bowstead, Dr., i. 405
    431,453. 456                            Brera Gallery, i. 99
Arno, fossils from Val d', i. 206           Brieg, i. 98
Arnold, Dr. Jose h, i. 41, 42, 4S, 44,      British Association, ii. 23, 42, 45, flO,

    53, 55                                      54, 76, 129

Arpenaz, Cascade d\ i. 68                   British Critic Review, ii. 4
Arveiron, river, i. 74, 75                  Broderip, William, i. 169, :!57
Athenaeum Club, i. 263                      Broglie, Duchpsse de, i. 14H
Auvergne geology, i. 185, 201, 238          Brongniart, Alexander, i. 124,130, 15')
Ava fossils, i. 176                         Brooke, Rajah, ii. 279
Awe, Loch, i. 49                            Brougham, Lord, i. 170; ii. 21
                                            Brown, Robert, i. 313, 218; ii. 145,
                    CHARLES, i.  178, 361,
BABB36A4G, E3,85; ii. 11, 13,    30, 88;

letters to, i. 387, 395, 403 ; ii. 9, 53,       284

    89                                          Brewster, Sir David, ii. 13
Backe-hiisten, i. 421                           Buckland, Rev. Dr .,
Bagneres de Luchon, i. 291                                              i.  I362l.,  43, 44, 53,
Balmoral, ii. 156                                   115, 120, 155,157,                 164, 177,

                                                276, 388
                                            Buckle's 'Historyof Civilisation.'!!. 279
Barcelona, i. 280                           Bullock's Museum, i. 40
Barino, Alexander, i. 9, 54

Barrande, ii. 222-225                       Bunbury, Sir Charles, letters to, ii. 88,
Bartley Lodge, Hants, i. 2, 3, 7, 10
                                                92, 132, 137, 145, 146, 158, 165, 173,

                                           ii2

484 INDEX.

                             BUN                                                     FAR

    198, 205, 20S, 211, 230, 238, 281,                   Croll, ii. 407
   334, H38, 344, 349, 377, 402, 40'J,
   414, 439, 441, 44!)                                   Cuming, collector           of shells, 348
Bnnbury, Lady, letters to, ii. 1!)6,                     Curtis, John, 16.           162. 171, 179 ii.
    313,322, 358, 427                                    Cuvier,  i.                                                206
llimsen, Chevalier, ii. 139, 167, 341                                    i.
liunsen, Professor, ii. 244
Busk, George, ii. 199                                                                                        i.
I'.yron, Lord, i. 105                                                                                            :
                                                                  62, 125, 126. 127, 128, 133,

                                                            134, 136, 249, 300, 307

                                                                           Professor,            403
                                                         DANDIEanLt,e,      ii. 135         i.
                                                                                                         i.
                                                                                                                          :
                                                         Darwin Charles. Letters to. 474
C, DI1SOXA coal-basin, i. 202                               ii. 20, 43, 325. 353, 362, 364, 38:i.
                                                            384, 408,415,441, 455,457
       Cal»is, i. 57                                     D'Aubuisson, 275, 276
                                                                           i. i.
Camb.^ge, i. 107                                         navies. Rev. R. 8.,        i.
Campagnaof Home, ii. 275
Cantal, fossils of, i. 191                                                             i. 3,

                                                                                                   4,
                                                                                                        9,
                                                         Davy, Sir Humphry, 46, 47
                                                         Davy, Lady, IS0"

Carnac in Normandy, i. 276                               Dawson, Principal, ii. 180; letters to,
Carnot, i. 130
Camithers, ii. 449                                           185, 280, 332. 338, 425, 428
Cartoons of Raffael, ii. 175
Casa Inglese, Etna, ii. 305                              Debey, Dr., ii. 240
Castlereagh, Lord, i. 136                                De Candolle, 244. 245
Catalonia, excursion into, i. 279, 283                   De Koninck, ii. 161
                                                         De la Beche, ii. 120, 282i. i. i.

Catalpa, i. 99                                           Deshayes, 246, 249, 252,302, 306, 45Si.i. i.
Catania, i. 219, 221                                     Desor,' ii. 250i.
Canraine, i. 241, 245                                    D'Espagne, Count, 285
                                                         Dochart river, 48
Cave, Yorkshire, i. 120                                  Domo d'Ossola, 98
Chalmers, Dr., i. 331                                    Donkin, Sir Rufane,
                                                                                          i.
                                                                                              9

Chamonni, i. 67, 70, 75                                  Dranse, devastations of, 91, 95        i.
Chantrey, Sir Francis, i. 161, 166,353,
                                                         Drummond, Thomas, lot              i.

    367                                                  Due d'Angouli'me, 129
Chateau of Clarens. i. 90                                Duvan, 128, 149
Cheirothcrium, ii. 102

Chess, i. 28, 44                                         EASTLEdAiKnbEu,rghSir   Charles,           ii.     137
CMllon, Castle of, i. 90                                                        Review,'            ii.     122
· Christ abel.'i. 36
Christian, Prince, i. 412, 416 ; ii. 16                     '
Clark, Sir James, ii. 157, 369, 371
                                                                                                      i.
                                                         Education in America, ii. 189
                                                         Egerton, Sir Philip, letters to,                           265 ·
Classicus paper, i. 21, 22, 2(i, 29                         ii. 73, 79, 90, 104
Clarendon, Lord, ii. 117. 119
Clathrarinm Lyelli, i. 161, 177                          Ehrenberg, ii. 291
Cobbe, Miss P., letter to, ii. 451                       Electric telegraph, ii. 13, 14, 180
Cock burn. Lord, 332, 335. 363F.'                        Elsa, lacustrine formation, 207
Cole, Lord, letters to, 453i.                            Kmbley, 13                                 ; i.
                                                                  i.
                                                                       i
                                    i.                   Entomology,       13, 17, 162, 167, 16*
Co'enso, Bishop, ii. 359, 360          i. i.
                                                            171, 173, 179, 195, 224, 279 ii. 206.
C.ileridpe, 37, 163                                      223
            i. i. i.
Cnnrhology, 311                                          Erskine, Lord, ii.
                      i.                                                   i.
                                i.                                                  7

                                                                                       i.
C  mde d'Espagne, 280, 285                               Kscher von der Linth, ii. 236, 225, 265

Conybeare, Kev. \V. D.,                       151, 252,  Ksmenard, Madame,                  147, 149
                                                         Etna, Mount, 217; ii. 303
   253, 256, 259,310                                     Evolution, ii. 332

Cooke, Captain, 268, 275, 300, 301
                          i.

Copley, Lord Lyndhurst, 167                              Ewald, ii. 230
('oral Islands, theory of, ii. 12                        Exhibition, Hyde Park,
Cortachie, 48                                            -- New York, ii. 187               ii.  171,       173
Costa, Professor, i.213
                                                         ,

Couvercle,            73
Cowdray Castle,                                          FALC31O9N, 3E3R5, Dr., ii. 238, 254,
Crawford, John,           i. i. i.  18
Croft, Sir John,                                         Faraday, Michael, ii. 89, 138, 417
                                  176
                                  126, 134

                                    INDEX.                                         485

                          FER                                INV

Ferrara, i. 107                           HALL, Captain Basil, i. 158, 310,
F£russac, Baron de, i. 139, 303           --,     349, 376;   ii. 49
Fingal's grave, i. 49                                        i. 158
Finhaven, i. 48                                Sir James,
Fire-flies, i. 102                        -- , James, State geologist, ii. 184
Fitton, Dr., i. 115, 122, 253, 319, 363,  Hallam, Henry, ii. 81. 1V8, 141
                                          llartung, George, ii. 15)1 ; letters to,
    387 ; ii. 40, 142 ; letter to, 47
Fleming, Rev. Dr., letters to, i. 178,       202, 232, 273, 282, 283

     179, 263, 255, 256, 259, 263, 311,   Hartz, geology of, ii. 162
                                          Haswell Colliery, ii. 90, 417
    315, 328, 396, *44 ; ii. 71, 208,     Hambleton Hills, i. 45, 46
                                          Haeckel, Professor, letter to, ii. 4X5
     225                                  Head, Sir Edmund, ii. 178, 182
                                          Headlam, Dr., i. 46
Florence,!. 110, 111
Fontainebleau, i. 64                      Heathcote, Sir Thomas,      i. 13
Forbes, Edward, letter to, ii. 106;       -- , Mrs., i. 13, 359
                                          Heer, Professor Oswald, ii. 173, 208,
    from, 110; death of, 155, 201,            237, 246, 346,349; letters to, 210,

--2, 0J4. D., ii. 264, 271                   350, 401, 406, 424, 444, 446, 449, 450
                                          Helderberg war, ii. 57
Forchhammer, Prof., i. 410, 413           Helmsley, i. 45
 Forfar, slate quarries, i. 48            Henslow, Professor, i. 366 ; ii. 208
 Fowler, Dr., i. 13                       Herschel, Sir John, i. 181, 251, 356;
 Fresh water formation, Central France,       letters to, 200, 449, 464, 470; ii.

    i. 184

                                              11, 404

                                          Highclere, i. 161
                                          Holland, Lord, ii. 8
GARDGeAfle, ,  lake of,  i.  101          -- , Lady, ii. 9
                i. 434
Gemellaro, i. 217; ii. 298                Hooker, Sir William, i. 40, 178, 181,
Gastaldi, ii. 263                            348;  ii. 43, 153
Geinitz, ii. 220, 224                     --, Sir  Joseph, ii.
                                                                146,  153,   19B,  45it  ;

Gemmi, i. 97                                  letters to, 204, 214, 32fi, 327, 361,

Geneva, i. 67                                 378, 410, 448
Getroz glacier, i. 93                     Horner, Leonard, i. 170; letters to,
Giant's Causeway, ii. 74
Gibbon, i. 76                                257, 404, 405, 436 ; ii. 23, 37, 39, 41,

                                              54, 60, 91, 98, 102, 105, 148, 155,

Gibson, ii. 277                               156, 160, 164, 178, 184, 191, 193,

Giesbach, i. 85                               198, 203, 205, 217, 220, 227, 233,
Gilford's ' Juvenal,' i. 34
                                              239, 243, 245, 249, 253, 255, 268,

Giotto's frescoes, i. 203                 --  268, 281, 350, 352,     356
                                              , Mrs., letter to, ii.  323
Glacier de Bosson, i. 69, 73              --, Miss, letters to, i. 319, 330. 339
Glaciers, ii. 250, 255                    Horner, Miss Susan, letters to, ii. 156,

Goldau valley, i. 80

Gormire lake, i. 46                           175, 275, 333
                                          Horsfield, Dr., i. 350
Graham island, i. 329
Granite in Norway, ii. 21                 Humboldt, Alexander von, i. 43, 12;"i,
Gray, Professor Asa, ii. 341, 361
Greenough, G. B., i. 252, 327, 362            126, 141, 146, 378
Grenville, Lord, i. 34                    Humming-birds, ii. 413
Greville, Dr. Robert K., i. 333           Itutton, Dr., ii. 41, 48, 49, 281
                                          Huxley, T. H., ii. 335, 351, 356, 3U3,

Grimsel, i. 86, 87, 97                        366
Grindelwald, i. 88
                                          ICEBERGS, ii. 95, 103
Grove, Sir William, letters to, ii. 176,  J. Ichthyosaurus, discovery of, i. 153
Grylli, i. 95
                                          Igmatius, letters of, ii. 167
    177                                   Indian Mutiny, ii. 273
                                          Inglis, Sir Robert, ii. 144
Gnidotti, Professor, i. 205               Insects, fossil, i. 195
Guilding, Rev. Lausdown, i. 32, 04,       Inverquharity, i. 341

    55

Giimbel ii. 234
Gutbier, ii. 221, 224

4S6 L\DEX.

                              1NV                            MOD
lona, i. 51
Ischia, i. 209, 210, 211, 213                  Lyell, Lady, letters to, i. 407 ; ii. 73,

TACQUKMONT'S letters, ii. 10                       190, 285, 302, 366. 368, 371
f) Jamicson, Professor, i. 46                  -- Caroline, letters to, i. 172, 179,191,
.lanlin des Pinnies, i. 5(1. 61, 63
Jeffrey, Francis, i. 159; ii. 155                  195, 205, 221, 251, 278, 291. 300,
Jones, Dr. Bunco, letter to, ii. 417               308; ii. 10, 13, 103, 206, 223, 326,
Judd, Professor, ii. 456
Jumns, ii. I'M                                     357
Jura, i. 6C                                    -- Kleanor, letters to, i. 156, 163, 197,

                                                   213, 262, 267, 285, 389; ii. 15,18,

                                               --  138, 346

                                               --  Fanny, letters to,  i. 227,  280, 392
                                                   Leonard, letters              248, 347,
                                                                       to, ii.

                                                  379
                                               -- Maria, letter to, i. 389
                                               -- Marianne, letters to, i. 112, 162,

KEMKBinLgE's,  Miss, i.  268           361         166, 171, 193, 207, 216, 238, 248,
               College   lectures, i.
                                                   275, 295, 301, 312, 317, 397 ; ii. 64.

Kingsley, Bev. Charles, letter to, ii.             74. 79, 94, 95, 139, 149, 272, 339,

336                                               378

Kinnordy, i. 1, 2, 10, 39, 47                  -- Sophia, letters to, ii. 7, 24, 50, 316
                                               -- Thomas, U.N., i. 2, 3, 7, 10, 30;
Kirriemuir quarry, i. 48
Knighthood, ii. 148                               letter to, ii. 345
                                               Lyndhurst, Lord, ii. 320

             MAGGIORE, i. 9!*                  MACA18U9L. A27Y9,,331T. B., ii. 33, 115, 154,

LAOIOjuke basins, ii. 443                      Macculloch, i. 159
                                               Mackenzie, Sir George, i. 156
Lamarck, ii. 365
Lim-downe, Lord, ii. 115, 116, 118,            -MMaadlleetir,a,J.iiL. .,19i0i. 54
                                                    Mrs., i. 360, 371, 385
     135, 143, 148                             Malmaison, i. 60
                                               Manfrini Palace, i. 106
U-i Plane, le Marquis de,i. 128 ; ii. 222      Mansel's liaiupton Lectures, ii. 321
Latin verses, i. 25                            Mantell, Dr. Gideon, letters to, i. 114,
i.aufi'en, castle of, i. 78
Le Coq, Monsieur, i. 187                           116,117, 119,120, 151, 153, 160, I64,
Leonhard, Professor von, i. 390, 400
Lepsius, ii. 164                                   168, 173, 175, 177, 246. 252, 253, 25S,
Lewi«, George Cornewall, ii. 115                   261, 264, 306, 316, 318. 329, 3«7,
Liber Argent ens, i. 434
Limestone of Wincholsea, i. 119                    388, 395, 401, 442, 443, 447, 455,
l.imuua Borealis, ii. 18, 132, 146                 462, 470, 471 ; ii. 58, 148
I.inna'us, i. 17, 431                          Mars, Mademoiselle, ii. 25
Lockhart, John, i. 165, 352
-- , Mrs., i. 166, 181. 357, 362               Martigny.i. 91. 94. 96
Lonsdale, William, i. 349; ii. 47, 160,        Martineau, Harriet, ii. 147
                                               Mason, Laing, i. 47
    233                                        Matterhorn, ii. 262
                                               Merde Glace, i. 71
Louis XVIII., i. 59, 61                        Merian, Professor P., ii. 245
                                               Merivale, Herman, i. 381 ; ii. 114,
Louis Philippe, ii. 139
Lough, sculptor, ii. 141                           279
Louvre, i. 63, 64                              Messina, ii. 296
Lowell, John A., ii. 65, 80, 91, 173           Meyer, Hermann von, ii. 242, 245
Lyell, Charles, senior, letters to, i.         Meyringen, i. 85, 87
                                               Midhurst, i. 18, 30, 32, 34, 35, 42
   ':ia, 34, 35, 36, 37, 40, 42, 52. 54, 117,  Milan, i. 99, 100
    122, 123, 125, 126, 129, 132, 134,         Miller, Hugh, ii. 134, 205

     135, 137, 140, 143, 147. 149, 153.        Milman, Rev. Dean, i. 263 ; ii. 8, 29,
     154, 165, 169, 180,182,183,185, 188,
                                                   32. 114, 117, 126, 360
    199, 202, 244, 288,393, 400, 472 ; ii.     Mitscherlich, ii. 203
                                               Modern causes, i. 169
    28. 29, 101, 114, 115, 120, 123, 129,
    135, 152
Lyell, Mrs., his mother, letters to, i.
    136, 189, 292, 3'M, 398

                                                 INDEX.                                                      487

                         MOE                                                          SAL

Moel Tryfaen, ii. 377, 379, 449                                    Pere la Chaise, 62
Moon, i. 410                                                       Petworth marble, 121
Mont Blanc, i. 67                                                  Phillips, Professor, ii. 40, 281
Mont Dore, i. 185, 190, 452                                        Pichon, Madame, 132, 135, 138
Montlosier, Count de, i. 188                                       -- Monsieur, 135, 138, 146, 149
Mont Pleureur, i. 93, 94                                           Pillans, Professor, 333
Montret, Baron C. de, i. 133, 138                                    ,,  i.
Moore, John Carrick, letter to, ii.                                Plesiosaurus,i. i. 153
                                                                                  i.

                                                                                     i. i. i. i.
                                                                                                     i.
                                                                   Politics, French, 145
                                                                   -- American, ii, 62, 84, 97
--  77      letter to, ii. 163
     Miss,                                                         Pompeii, 214

Mount Lebanon glacier moraines, ii.                                Pontgibaud excavations, 186
                                                                   Prescott, W. H., memoirs of, ii. 359,
    329
Mull, i. 52                                                            382
                                                                   Prevost, Constant, 134, 137, 144, 153,
Murchison, Sir Roderick, i. 164, 184,                                                   i.
   189, 197, 350, 357, 359, 373 ; letters
                                                                      247, 248, 257, 302
    to, 181, 210, 232, 234, 236, 239, 242                          Prince Albert, ii. 148, 156, 158, 171,

Murray, John, letter to, ii. 353                                       175, 190, 334, 353
Murray of Simprim, i. 267, 301, 346                                Prince of Wales, ii. 157
                                                                   Princess Alice, ii. 369, 374
                                                                     Principles of Geology,' 258, 269
                Sir Charles,           ii.       ii,                     i.
                William, i.           327                                      i. i.
                                                                  '                    i.

                                                                                              i.
NAP--IE, RSir,                              273                    Puycerda, 278, 286

-- , Macvey, i. 333                                                Puy de Dome, 192
                                                                   Puy en Velay, 193
Naples, i. 215
Napoleon, picture by Haydon, 62,                                   Pyrenees geology, 297

     124                                                                                   REVIEW,' 300  i.
                                                                    QUAQRuTeeEnR, LtYhe, ii. 33, 142, 373, 375
Natural Selection, ii. 363                                         Quenstedt.ii. 236
Necker, 246, 351
            i.
                      i.

                              5,
                                   i.
Nelson, Lord,            45, 49
Neptune, Temple of, 214
Niagara Falls, ii. 58, 61
Nicolosi, ii. 303                                                  RAFFRLajEahS,BrSoior kSet,aimi. f3o8rd3, 55
                                                                                                         i.
                                                                   Ramsay, Sir James, 30, 39, 48, 64,
Nismes,         96
            i.
              i. 1

                                  i.
Norfolk Crag, ii. 41                                                  340            i.              10
Northampton, Lord, 230, 237, 241                                   Redcliffe, Dr.,        7,
Norway, prosperity of, ii. 19                                                                 8, i.
Norwich, 41, 43; ii. 42
Nova Scotia, ii. 180                                               Redoute, 143, 147i.

                                                                   Reform Bill, 383
                                                                                  i.

                                                 '                   Reign of Law,' ii. 413

                                                                   Repudiation, ii. 67
                                                                   Rhone glacier, 87
OBAONe,rst«d4,9,    52                                             Ricasoli, 237, 240
                      449
'                                                                        i.          i. 3, i.
          i.                                                                 i.          i. i. 6,

              i.                                                                 i.
                         i.
                                i.
Ogilvie, Captain, 154, 157                                         Righi, 80, 83
Gibers, Professor, ii. 21
Olot, 281, 283, 284, 200, 326                                      Ringwood,                     10

                                                                   Ripple-mark, 299
Origin of Species,' ii. 325, 437                                   Ritten earth-columns, ii. 405
Osborne, ii. 190, 367                                                                              470 ii. 31, 33, 34
                                                                   Rogers, Samuel,                   ;

Owen. Professor, ii. 93, 145                                           114, 123, 125, 136
Oxford, 32
                                                                   Rome, 112, 209; ii. 275
                                                                   Romney Marsh, 117
         i.                                                              i.
            i. i.                                                             i.
                 i.                                                Rossberg, 80
PADPUaAle,rmo1, 02,  i.    107                                     Rosse, Lord, ii. 76
                         226
                                                                   Royal Society, ii. 145
Palmieri, ii. 292                                                  Russell, Lord John, ii. 156
Paretto, 242.
                                                                   Ryan, Sir Edward, ii. 142, 459
Paris, 59, 149

Peel, Sir Robert, ii. 51, 139, 141
Pengelly, William, letters to, ii. 382,
                                                                                      i.
                                                                                           7,
                                                                                                8,
                                                                   SALISSaBlzUbuRrgY,, ii. 260 10, 17
    402

488 INDEX.

SAR                                                                     WIN
                                             Tertiary classificaticn, ii. 23
Sarnen, i. 84                                Theatres in America, ii. 133
Sarum, Old, i. 9, 10, 13                     Ticknor, George, letters to, ii. 66, 80,
scacchhi, ii. 203, 274, 296
                                                 84, 87, 91, 94, 118, 121, 124, 128.
Scharfhausen, i. 78                              132, 134, 154, 167, 170, 171, 187,
                                                 278, 318, 320, 329, 340, 351, 359,
Schmerling, i. 401                               382, 411, 445
                                             Tractarianism, ii. 171
School-light, i. 20
                                             Transmutation theory, ii. 361
Schumacher, Professor, i. 408                Trevelyan, Sir Walter, ii. 201
Scott, Sir Walter, i. 165, 359               Turner, Dawson, i. 32, 40, 42, 43, 44,
Scrope, George Poulett, i. 163, 170 ;
                                                 53, 356
   letters to, 268, 272, 273, 283, 296,
                                             Tyndall, Dr., ii. 455
    304, 309                                 Tyndrum, i. 49
Sedgwick, Rev. Adam, i. 199,251,256,
                                             ITNIFORMITY doctrine, ii. 2
   269, 374 ; letters to, 450, 457, 460,     U Universities, ii. 87, 127, 143
   ii. 2, 10 ; letters to, 35, 72
Sembranchier, i. 92 96                       Upsala, i. 430
Serapis, Temple of, ii. 290
Seward, Hon. William H., ii. 56                             Bove, ii. 315
Shielhill. bridge of, i. 48                  V'ALVdaelllais, i. 98
Sidlaw Hills geology, i. 154                 Van Breda, Professor, i. 148
Siena fossils, i. 241                        Venice, i. 103, 195
Senior, Nassau, ii. 172                      Verona, i. 101
                                             Versailles,!. 144
Simplon, i. 98                               Vesuvius, i. 212 ; ii. 292
Sismonda, Professor Angelo, ii. 145,         Vicenza, i. 102
                                             Villele, Minister of France, i. 227,
   268
                                                 295
Slavery, ii. 100                             Vivarrais, i. 194, 283
Smith, Sir James Edward, i. 41               Viviani, i. 242, 243, 246
-- , Sydney, ii. 30, 122                     Von Buch, i. 451, 455 ; ii. 21, 24, 48,
Smyth, Admiral, i. 172, 370
-- ,~Mrs. i. 167                                  194, 204
f-oleure quarries, ii. 249                    Von Hoff, i. 269, 272
Somerville, Mrs., i. 180, 322, 325,           Von Oeynhausen, i. 333
                                              Vosges Mountains, i. 391
   352, 366, 373 ; ii. 273
Somma, ii. 274, 293                          WALL4A13CE, Alfred, letter to, ii.
Species, doctrine of, ii. 215
Spedding, T. S., i. 167, 379 ; letter to,     Warburton, Henrv, i. 122
                                              Webster, Daniel, 185
   ii. 375                                    \Vedel-Jarlsberg, Count, ii. 20
Stael, Madame de, i. 321, 325 ; ii. 126       Wellington, Duke of, ii. 114
                                              \Vhately, Dr., ii. 76, 149
Staffa, i. 49, 55                       ii.   Wheatstone, Professor, ii. 13, 14
St. Bernard, i. 96                            Whewell, fiev. W., 272, 312, 351,

Ktalden earth-pillars, ii. 404                   355; ii. 11, 32, 38, 127; letters to.
Stanley, Dr., Bishop of Norwich,                  11,32, 38, 127
                                              White, Rev. Blanco, ii. 92, 94, 68
   42, 121                                    Wight, 120i.
-- , Rev. A. P., Dean of Westminster,         Winchelsea, 119i.
                                              Winchester, 18, 21, 26
   ii. 143, 368, 459                                            'ii.
Stockholm, i. 426, 429                                               i.
Stokes, Charles, i. 247, 274, 357,                                                            1

    368
Stur, Professor, ii. 228

Sully's country house, ii. 27
Superga, ii. 267
Symonds, Rev. W. S., ii. 206; letters

    to. 337, 376, 416, 423, 430, 434

J.rpABQIONI, Professor, i. 206
       Telescope of Lord Rosse, ii. 76

                                 INDEX.                              489

                         WIT                                    ZWE
Wittenbach, Dr., i. 89
Wollaston, Dr., i. 115, 238      IYARMOUTH geology, 42, 63
-- , ii. 208, 211, 223, 282
Worms, city of, i. 399           LytERZMuAricThT,,   ii. 259
Wrottesley, Sir John, i. 81, 83                     i. 79
Wyman, Dr., ii. 183, 186
                                 Zwerglethurm, ii. 271

                                 THE ENP.

                     LONDON I PHIXTED BY
RPOTTHWOOOE AND CO., NEW-STRKKT

               AND PAaUAHUTT STRUT

