Sir William Herschel, his life and works; by Edward S. Holden.

Holden, Edward Singleton, 1846-1914.
New York, C. Scribner's sons, 1881.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/wu.89097320287

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
SirHEWSHidenoirgwllslldiceaaehtrmoendnl
SIR WILLIAM HERSCHEL

           HIS LIFE AND WORKS
TUROANFWSFEURRBERDARTYO
(C
'S'.\KD : ,T. '.T.DF.X

 ll

          · V." V(>K\
Sir William Herschel

     HIS LIFE AND WORKS

                                                    BY

               EDWARD SL.v*f"tHOOLLDDEEN

                  United States Naval Observatory, Washington

            CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS

                               743 and 745 Broadway
                                                  1881
                Copyright, 1880,
Bv CHARLES SCRIBNER'S SONS.

                 PRESSCP 1. J. LITTLE & CO.,
        NOSi 10TO 30 ASTOH PLACE, NEW YORK.
E 4r

              PREFACE.

         In the following account of the life and
     works of Sir William Herschel, I have

       been obliged to depend strictly upon data

      already in print --the Memoir of his sister,

       his own scientific writings and the memoirs
      and diaries of his cotemporaries. The re

      view of his published works will, I trust, be
     of use. It is based upon a careful study of

       all his papers in the Philosophical Transac
       tions and elsewhere.

        A life of Herschel which shall be satis

      factory in every particular can only be writ
      ten after a full examination of the materials
       which are preserved at the family seat in
      England ; but as two generations have passed
       since his death, and as no biography yet exists
       which approaches to completeness, no apol
      ogy seems to me to be needed for a conscien
vi Preface.

tious attempt to make the best use of the
scanty material which we do possess.

   This study will, I trust, serve to exhibit so

much of his life as belongs to the whole pub

lic. His private life belongs to his family,
until the time is come to let the world know

more of the greatest of practical astronomers
and of the inner life of one of its most pro

found philosophers, --of a great and ardent

mind, whose achievements are and will re
main the glory of England.
CONTENTS

                              CHAPTER L         PAGE
                                                       1
Early Years; i 738-1 772,

                             CHAPTER II.        33
Life in Bath ; 1772-1782

                             CHAPTER III.       68
Life at Datchet, Clay Hall, and Slough ; 1782-

         1822,

                            CHAPTER IV.
Review of the Scientific Labors of Herschel, . 118

Bibliography,                                         215
Index of Names                                       235

                                          vii
              LIFE AND WORKS

                                                         OF

   William Herschel.

                 CHAPTER I.

               EARLY YEARS; 1738-1772.

   Of the great modern philosophers, that
one of whom least is known, is William

Herschel. We may appropriate the words

which escaped him when the barren region
of the sky near the body of Scorpio was
passing slowly through the field of his great
reflector, during one of his sweeps, to ex
press our own sense of absence of light and

knowledge : Hier ist wahrhaftig ein Loch im

Himmel.

                        11
2 Life and Works

   Herschel prepared, about the year 1818,

a biographical memorandum, which his sister

Carolina placed among his papers.
   This has never been made public. The

only thoroughly authentic sources of infor
mation in possession of the world, are a letter

written by Herschel himself, in answer to a

pressing request for a sketch of his life, and

the Memoir and Correspondence of Caroline
Herschel (London, 1876), a precious me

morial not only of his life, but of one which
otherwise would have remained almost un
known, and one, too, which the world could ill

afford to lose. The latter, which has been
ably edited by Mrs. Mary Cornwallis Her
schel,* is the only source of knowledge in

regard to the early years of the great astron
omer, and together with the all too scanty
materials to be gained from a diligent search
through the biography of the time, affords
the data for those personal details of his life,
habits, and character, which seem to com

plete the distinct, though partial conception

   * Wife of Major John Herschel, of the Royal Engineers,
grandson of Sir William.
          of William HerscheL                                        3

of him which the student of his philosophical:
writings acquires.
                                     it,
   The letter referred to was published in the
Gottingen Magazine of Science and Litera

ture, III., 4, shortly after the name of Her-

schel had become familiar to every ear

through his discovery of Uranus, but while
the circumstances of the discovery, and the
condition of the amateur who made were

still entirely unknown.

   The editor (Lichtenberg) says

   " Herr Herschel was good enough to send me, some
time since, through Herr Magellan, copies of his Dis

sertations on Double Stars, on the Parallax of the Fixed

Stars, and on a new Micrometer. In the letter which

conveyed to him my thanks for his gift, requested
I

            is
                     aa

                                     it

                                         I

                                                                                 it
him to note down few facts in regard to his life, for

publication in this magazine, since various accounts, more
or less incorrect, had appeared in several journals. In

answer, received very obliging letter from him, and

what follows that portion of relating to my request,

which was sent me with full permission to make

public."            " Datchet, near Windsor,

  "I was born    a                                   Nov. 15, 1783.    My

father, who was   in Hanover, November, 1738.                        same
                     musician, destined me to the
4 Life and Works

profession, hence I was instructed betimes in his art.

That I might acquire a perfect knowledge of the theory
as well as of the practice of music, I was set at an early

age to study mathematics in all its branches --algebra,

conic sections, infinitesimal analysis, and the rest.

   "The   insatiable desire for knowledge thus awakened

resulted  next in a course of languages ; I learned
French,
          English, and Latin, and steadfastly resolved

henceforth to devote myself wholly to those sciences

from the pursuit of which I alone looked for all my
future happiness and enjoyment. I have never been

either necessitated or disposed to alter this resolve. My

father, whose means were limited, and who consequently

could not be as liberal to his children as he would

have desired, was compelled to dispose of them in one

way or another at an early age ; consequently in my fif

teenth year I enlisted in military service, only remaining
Iin the army, however, until
                              reached my nineteenth

year, when I resigned and went over to England.
" My familiarity with the organ, which I had carefully

mastered previously, soon procured for me the position

of organist in Yorkshire, which I finally exchanged for a

similar situation at Bath in 1766, and while here the pe

culiar circumstances of my post, as agreeable as it was

lucrative, made it possible for me to occupy myself once

more with my studies, especially with mathematics.

When, in the course of time, I took up astronomy, I de

termined to accept nothing on faith, but to see with my

own eyes everything which others had seen before me.
of William Herschel.  5

Having already some knowledge of the science of

Ioptics, resolved to manufacture my own telescopes,
and after many continuous, determined trials, I finally

succeeded in completing a so-called Newtonian instru

ment, seven feet in length. From this I advanced to
one of ten feet, and at last to one of twenty, for I had

fully made up my mind to carry on the improvement of

my telescopes as far as it could possibly be done. When

I had carefully and thoroughly perfected the great in
strument in all its parts, I made systematic use of it in

my observations of the heavens, first forming a deter

mination never to pass by any, the smallest, portion of
them without due investigation. This habit, persisted

in, led to the discovery of the new planet {Georgium

Sidus). This was by no means the result of chance, but
a simple consequence of the position of the planet on

that particular evening, since it occupied precisely that

spot in the heavens which came in the order of the

minute observations that I had previously mapped out
for myself. Had I not seen it just when I did, I must

inevitably have come upon it soon after, since my tele

Iscope was so perfect that was able to distinguish it

from a fixed star in the first minute of observation.
    " Now to bring this sketch to a close. As the king had

expressed a desire to see my telescope, I took it by his

command to Greenwich, where it was compared with

the instruments of my excellent friend, Dr. Maskelyne,

not only by himself, but by other experts, who pro

nounced it as their opinion that my instrument was
6 Life and Works

superior to all the rest. Thereupon the king ordered
that the instrument be brought to Windsor, and since it
there met with marked approval, his majesty graciously

awarded me a yearly pension, that I might be enabled to

relinquish my profession of music, and devote my whole
time to astronomy and the improvement of the tele
scope. Gratitude, as well as other considerations speci
fied by me in a paper presented to the Royal Society,

Iof which am a member, has induced me to call the

new planet Georgium Sidus.

     " ' Georgium Sidus. --jam nunc assuesce vocari.' --( Virgil.)

And I hope it will retain the name."

   We know but little of the family of Her-
schel. The name is undoubtedly Jewish,
and is found in Poland, Germany, and Eng
land. We learn that the ancestors of the
present branch left Moravia about the be

ginning of the XVI Ith century, on account

of their change of religion to Protestantism.
They became possessors of land in Saxony.

Hans Herschel, the great-grandfather of
William, was a brewer in Pirna (a small
town near Dresden). Of the two sons of
Hans, one, Abraham (born in 165 1, died
of William Herschcl.  7

1 71 8), was employed in the royal gardens at
Dresden, and seems to have been a man of

taste and skill in his calling. Of his eldest
son, Eusebius, there appears to be little trace
in the records of the family. The second
son, Benjamin, died in infancy; the third,

Isaac, was born in 1707 (Jan. 14), and was

thus an orphan at eleven years of age.
Isaac was the father of the great astrono

mer.

   He appears to have early had a passionate

fondness for music, and this, added to a dis

taste for his father's calling, determined his
career. He was taught music by an oboe-
player in the royal band, and he also learned

the violin. At the age of twenty-one he

studied music for a year under the Cappel-
meister Pabrich, at Potsdam, and in Au

gust, 1 731, he became oboist in the band of

the Guards, at Hanover. In August, 1732,
he married Anna Ilse Moritzen. She ap

pears to have been a careful and busy wife
and mother, possessed of no special faculties

which would lead us to attribute to her care
any great part of the abilities of her son.
8 Life and Works

She could not herself write the letters which
she sent to her husband during his absences

with his regiment. It was her firm belief

that the separations and some of the sorrows
of the family came from too much learning ;
and while she could not hinder the education
of the sons of the family, she prevented
their sisters from learning French and danc

ing. It is but just to say that the useful

accomplishments of cooking, sewing, and the
care of a household, were thoroughly taught
by her to her two daughters. The father,
Isaac, appears to have been of a different
mould, and to him, no doubt, the chief intel
lectual characteristics of the family are due.

His position obliged him to be often absent

from Hanover, with his regiment, but his
hand appears to have been always present,
smoothing over difficulties, and encouraging
his sons to such learning and improvement
as was to be had.

   His health was seriously injured by the ex

posures of the campaigns, and he was left,
after the Seven Years' War, with a broken

constitution.
    of William Herschel.                                 9

   After his final return home, in 1 760, his
daughter gives this record of him--

"Copying music employed every vacant moment,

even sometimes throughout half the night. . . . With

my brother [Dietrich] -- now a little engaging creature
of between four and five years old--he was very much

pleased, and [on the first evening of his arrival at home]

before he went to rest, the Adempken (a little violin)

...was taken from the shelf and newly strung, and the daily
lessons immediately commenced.  I do not recol

lect that he ever desired any other society than what

he had opportunities of enjoying in many of the parties

where he was introduced by his profession, though far

from being of a morose disposition ; he would frequently

encourage my mother in keeping up a social inter

course among a few acquaintances, whilst his afternoon

hours generally were taken up in giving lessons to some

scholars at home, who gladly saved him the troublesome

exertion of walking. . . . He also found great pleas
ure in seeing Dietrich's improvement, who, young as he

was, and of the most lively temper imaginable, was always

ready to receive his lessons, leaving his little companions

with the greatest cheerfulness to go to his father, who was

so pleased with his performances that he made him play

a solo on the Adempken in Rake's concert, being placed

on a table before a crowded company, for which he was

very much applauded and caressed, particularly by an

English lady, who put a gold coin in his little pocket.

1*
IO Life and Works

   " It was not long before my father had as many schol

ars as he could find time to attend. And when they as

sembled at my father's to make little concerts, I was fre

quently called to join the second violin in an overture,
for my father found pleasure in giving me sometimes a
lesson before the instruments were laid by, after practis

ing with Dietrich, for I never was missing at those

hours, sitting in a corner with my knitting and listening
all the while."

Here, as in all her writing, Carolina is

simple, true, direct to awkwardness, and un

consciously pathetic even in joy.

The family of Isaac and Anna Herschel

consisted of ten children. Six of these lived

to adult age. They were :

   1. Sophia Elizabeth; born 1733, married

Griesbach, a musician in the Guard, by

whom she had children. Five of her sons

were afterwards musicians at the court, in

England, where they obtained places through

the influence of William.
   2. Henry Anton Jacob; born 1734, No

vember 20.                   astronomer) ;

   4. Frederic William (the

born 1738, November 15.
of William Herschel.              11

   6. John Alexander; born 1745, Novem

ber 13.

   8. Carolina Lucretia ; born 1 750, March

16.

   10. Dietrich; born 1755, September 13.

   Of this family group, the important figures

to us are William, Alexander, and Caro

lina.

Jacob was organist at the Garrison Church

of Hanover in 1753, a member of the Guards'

band in 1755, and first violin in the Hanover

Court Orchestra in 1759. Afterwards he

joined his brother William in Bath, but again

returned to Hanover. In 1771 he published

in Amsterdam his Opus
a                                 set of six quar

                      I.,

                               a
tettes, and later, in London, he published

two symphonies and six trios. He appears to

have been clever musician, and his letters

to his younger brother William are full of

discussion on points of musical composition,

etc. He died in 1792.
   Dietrich, the youngest brother, shared in

the musical abilities of his family, and when

only fifteen years old was so far advanced as
to be able to supply his brother Jacob's place
12 Life and Works

in the Court Orchestra, and to give his les
sons to private pupils. There is no one of
the family, except the eldest daughter, whom
we do not know to have possessed marked
ability in music, and this taste descended
truly for four generations. In the letters of
Chevalier Bunsen,* he describes meeting, in

1847, the eldest granddaughter of William
Herschel, who, he says, " is a musical genius."

   Three members of the family, William,
Alexander, and Carolina, formed a group

which was inseparable for many years, and

while the progress of the lives of Alexander
and Carolina was determined by the energy
and efforts of William, these two lent him an

aid without which his career would have been

strangely different. It is necessary to under

stand a little better the early life of all three.
   The sons of the Herschel family all at

tended the garrison school in Hanover until
they were about fourteen years old. They
were taught the ordinary rudiments of knowl

edge -- to read, to write, to cipher --and a

                                            * Page 127.
of William Herschel.  - 13

knowledge of French and English was added.

William especially distinguished himself in

his studies, learning French very rapidly, and
studying Latin and arithmetic with his mas
ter out of hours. The household life seems

to have been active, harmonious, and intelli

gent, especially during the presence of the
father, who took a great delight in the rapid
progress of all his sons in music, and who
encouraged them with his companionship in
their studies and in their reading on all intel

lectual subjects.

   From the Memoir of Carolina, on which

we must depend for our knowledge of this
early life, we take the following paragraph :

   " My brothers were often introduced as solo perform
ers and assistants in the orchestra of the court, and I

remember that I was frequently prevented from going to

sleep by the lively criticism on music on coming from a

concert, or by conversations on philosophical subjects,

which lasted frequently till morning, in which my father

was a lively partaker and assistant of my brother Wil

liam, by contriving self-made instruments. . . . Often

I would keep myself awake that I might listen to their

animating remarks, for it made me so happy to see them

so happy. But generally their conversation would branch
                   Life and Works

out on philosophical subjects, when my brother William

and my father often argued with such warmth that my
mother's interference became necessary, when the names

Leibnitz, Newton, and Euler sounded rather too loud

for the repose of her little ones, who ought to be in
school by seven in the morning. But it seems that on
the brothers retiring to their own room, where they

shared the same bed, my brother William had still a

great deal to say ; and frequently it happened that when
he stopped for an assent or reply, he found his hearer

was gone to sleep, and I suppose it was not till then that

he bethought himself to do the same.
    " The recollection of these happy scenes confirms me

in the belief, that had my brother William not then

been interrupted in his philosophical pursuits, we should
have had much earlier proofs of his inventive genius.

My father was a great admirer of astronomy, and had

some knowledge of that science ; for I remember his

taking me, on a clear frosty night, into the street, to
make me acquainted with several of the most beautiful
constellations, after we had been gazing at a comet

which was then visible. And I well remember with

what delight he used to assist my brother William in

his various contrivances in the pursuit of his philosoph
ical studies, among which was a neatly turned 4-inch
globe, upon which the equator and ecliptic were engraved
by my brother."

   The mechanical genius was not confined
of William Herschel.  15

to William, for we read that Alexander
used often to "sit by us and amuse us and

himself by making all sorts of things out of

pasteboard, or contriving how to make a
twelve-hour cuckoo clock go a week." This
ability of Alexander's was turned later to

the best account when he became his brother

William's right hand in the manufacture of

reflectors, eye-pieces, and stands in England.
His abilities were great, and a purpose which

might otherwise have been lacking was sup

plied through the younger brother's ardor in
all that he undertook.

   His musical talent was remarkable ; he
played " divinely " on the violoncello. He
returned to Hanover in 1816, where he lived

in comfortable independence, through the
never-failing generosity of his brother, until

his death in 182 1. A notice of him in a Bris

tol paper says: "Died, March 15, 1821, at
Hanover, Alexander Herschel, Esqr., well
known to the public of Bath and Bristol as a

performer and elegant musician ; and who for
forty-seven years was the admiration of the
frequenters of concerts and theatres of both
1 6 Life and Works

those cities as' principal violoncello. To the
extraordinary merits of Mr. Herschel was

united considerable acquirement in the superi

or branches of mechanics and philosophy, and

his affinity to his brother, Sir William Her

schel, was not less in science than in blood."
   We shall learn more of the sister, Caro

lina, as time goes on. Now in these early

years she was a silent and persistent child,

growing up with a feeling that she was un-
cared for and neglected, and lavishing all her
childish affection, as she did all that of her

womanly life, on her brother William.

Throughout her long life, "my brother" was

William, "my nephew" his son.
   The brothers Jacob and William were,

with their father, members of the band of

the Guards in 1755, when the regiment was

ordered to England, and they were absent
from Hanover a year.

   William (then seventeen years old) went

as oboist, and out of his scanty pay brought
back to Hanover, in 1756, only one memento

of his stay--a copy of Locke On the Human

Unolerstanding.
                of William Herschel.

   He appears to have served with the Guard
during part of the campaign of 1757. His
health was then delicate, and his parents "de
termined to remove him from the service-- a

step attended by no small difficulties." *

   This " removal " was hurriedly and safely
effected, so hurriedly that the copy of Locke

was not put in the parcels sent after him to
Hamburg by his mother ; " she, dear wo
man, knew no other wants than good linen

and clothing."

   Thus, at last, the young William Her

schel, the son of an oboe-player in the
King's Guard, is launched in life for himself,
in the year 1757, at the age of nineteen.

   All his equipment is the " good linen and

clothing," a knowledge of French, Latin, and
English, some skill in playing the violin, the
organ, and the oboe, and an "uncommon pre
cipitancy" in doing what there is to be done.

   * Memoir of Carolina. Herschel, p. 10. Sir George Airy,
Astronomer Royal, relates in the Academy that this " removal "

was a desertion, as he was told by the Duke of Sussex that on the

first visit of Herschel to the king, after the discovery of the Geor-
gium Sidus, the pardon of Herschel was handed to him by the

king himself, written out in due form.
1 8 Life and Works

   A slender outfit truly; but we are not to

overlook what he said of himself on another
occasion. " I have, nevertheless, several re
sources in view, and do not despair of suc
ceeding pretty well in the end."

   From 1757 to 1760 -- three years -- we
know nothing of his life. We can imagine
what it was. His previous visit to England

had given him a good knowledge of the lan
guage, and perhaps a few uninfluential ac
quaintances. On his return he would natu
rally seek these out, and, by means of his

music, he could gain a livelihood. We first

hear of him as charged with the organization

of the music of a corps of the militia of Dur

ham, under the auspices of the Earl of

Darlington. " La maniere dont il remplit

cette mission, le fit connaitre avantageuse-
ment." * The nature of the service of these
militia corps, which were then forming all
over England, is well described in the Auto
biography of Gibbon. Every county-gen
tleman felt constrained to serve his country,

  * Fetis ; Biographic universelle des musiciens, tome V. (1839) P-

141.
of William Herschel.           19

and the regimental mess-rooms were filled

with men of rank and fashion.
   In 1760 we hear of him again. He has

attracted the notice of those about him.

"About the year 1760, as Miller* was dining at Pon-

tefract with the officers of the Durham militia, one of

them, knowing his love of music, told him they had a

young German in their band as a performer on the haut

boy, who had only been a few months in England, and

yet spoke English almost as well as a native, and who

was also an excellent performer on the violin ; the officer

added that if Miller would come into another room,

this German should entertain him with a solo. The in

vitation was gladly accepted, and Miller heard a solo

of Giardini's executed in a manner that surprised him.

He afterwards took an opportunity of having some pri

vate conversation with the young musician, and asked

him whether he had engaged himself for any long period

to the Durham militia. The answer was, ' Only from

month to month.' ' Leave them, then,' said the organist,

I' and come and live with me.  am a single man, and

think we shall be happy together ; and, doubtless, your

merit will soon entitle you to a more eligible situation.'

The offer was accepted as frankly as it was made, and

the reader may imagine with what satisfaction Dr. Mil-

  * Dr. Miller, a noted organist, and afterwards historian of Don-

caster.
20 Life and Works

ler must have remembered this act of generous feeling

when he hears that this young German was Herschel,

the Astronomer. ' My humble mansion,' says Miller,

' consisted, at that time, but of two rooms. However,

Ipoor as was, my cottage contained a library of well-

chosen books ; and it must appear singular that a

foreigner who had been so short a time in England

should understand even the peculiarities of the language

so well as to fix upon Swift for his favorite author.'
    " He took an early opportunity of introducing his new

friend at Mr. Cropley's concerts ; the first violin was

Iresigned to him ; ' and never,' says the organist, ' had
heard the concertos of Corelli, Geminiani, and Avi-

son, or the overtures of Handel performed more chaste

ly, or more according to the original intention of the

composers, than by Mr. Herschel. I soon lost my

companion ; his fame was presently spread abroad ; he

had the offer of pupils, and was solicited to lead the

public concerts both at Wakefield and Halifax. A new

organ for the parish church of Halifax was built about

this time, and Herschel was one of the seven candidates

for the organist's place. They drew lots how they were

to perform in succession. Herschel drew the third, the
second fell to Dr. Wainwright of Manchester, whose
finger was so rapid that old Snetzler, the organ-builder,

ran about the church exclaiming : 'Te tevel7 te tevel ! Jie

run over te keys like one cat ; he will not give my piphes room
for to shpeak.' ' During Mr. Wainwright's perform

Iance,' says Miller, ' was standing in the middle aisle
                of William Herschel.                          2I

with Herschel. ' What chance have you,' said I, ' to

follow this man ? ' He replied, ' I don't know ; I am

sure fingers will not do.' On which he ascended the

organ loft, and produced from the organ so uncommon a

fulness, such a volume of slow, solemn harmony, that I

could by no means account for the effect. After this
short ex tempore effusion, he finished with the Old Hun
dredth psalm-tune, which he played better than his op

ponent.

 I" 'Ay, ay,' cried old Snetzler, 'tis/i is very goot, very

goot indeet; vil luf tish man, for he gives my piphes room
for to shpeak.' Having afterwards asked Mr. Herschel

by what means, in the beginning of his performance, he

produced so uncommon an effect, he replied, ' I told you

fingers  would  not  do    '  and  producing  two  pieces of  lead
                         !

Ifrom his waistcoat pocket, ' one of these, ' said he, '

placed on the lowest key of the organ, and the other

upon the octave above ; thus by accommodating the

harmony, I produced the effect of four hands, instead

of two.' " *

   The dates in this extract are not so well
defined as might be wished. Herschel had
certainly been more than a few months in
England at the time of his meeting with Dr.

Miller, which was probably about 1760.

The appointment as organist at Halifax was

* The Doctor ; by Robert Southey, edition of 1848, p. 140.
it22 Life and Works

                                                                           it.in 1 765, and the pupils and public concerts
must have filled up the intervening five
years. During a part of this time he lived
in Leeds, with the family of Mr. Bulman,
whom he afterwards provided with a place
as clerk to the Octagon Chapel, in his usual

generous manner.

   All during his life he was placing some of

the less fortunate and energetic members of
his family.

  We cannot be too grateful to Dr. Mil

ler, who, seeing his opportunity, used
Their frank friendship does honor to both.
Herschel's organ-playing, which no doubt

had been begun when his brother was the
organist of the garrison chapel at Hanover,
must have been perfected at this time,
and was through his organ-playing that

he was able to leave the needy life in York

shire.

   He was sure to have emerged sooner or

later, but every year spared to him as a

struggling musician was a year saved to As

tronomy.
    During all this period, a constant corre
of William Herschel.  23

spondence was maintained between the family
at Hanover and the absent son.

   Many of William's letters were written in

English, and addressed to his brother Jacob,
and treated of such subjects as the Theory of
Music, in which he was already far advanced.

   His little sister was still faithful to the

memory of her dearest brother, and his
father, whose health was steadily declining,

became painfully eager for his return. In
1764 (April 2), he returned to Hanover on
a very brief visit. He was attached to Eng

land, he was prospering there, and he had

no inclination towards returning to a life in

Hanover. His sister says :

   " Of the joys and pleasures which all felt at this long-
wished-for meeting with my --let me say my dearest --
brother, but a small portion could fall to my share ; for
with my constant attendance at church and school, be

sides the time I was employed in doing the drudgery of
the scullery, it was but seldom I could make one in the

group when the family were assembled together.
    " In the first week, some of the orchestra were invited

to a concert, at which some of my brother W illiam's

compositions, overtures, etc., and some of my eldest
brother Jacob's were performed, to the great delight of
24 Life and Works

my dear father, who hoped and expected that they
would be turned to some profit by publishing them, but
there was no printer who bid high enough.

   " Sunday, the 8th, was the -- to me --eventful day of

my confirmation, and I left home not a little proud

and encouraged by my dear brother William's appro
bation of my appearance in my new gown."

   The engagement of Herschel at Halifax
did not long continue. In 1766 he obtained

an advantageous engagement as oboist at
Bath, and soon after the position of organist
at the Octagon Chapel was offered to him

and accepted. This was a great and impor

tant change.
    Bath was then, as now, one of the most

beautiful cities in England, and the resort of
the fashion and rank of the kingdom, who

came to take the waters. It is beautifully sit

uated on both sides of the Avon, and has
many fine walks and public buildings. The
aspect of the city is markedly cheerful and
brilliant, owing to the nature of the white
stone of which the principal houses are built,
and to the exquisite amphitheatre of hills in
which they lie.
   of William Herschel.                                25

   The society was then gay and polite, and
Herschel was at once thrown into a far

more intelligent atmosphere than that he

had just left in Yorkshire. It was easy to

get new books, to see new faces, to hear

new things. The Assembly Rooms (built in
1 771) were noted for their size and elegance ;
the theatre was the best out of London.

   His position as organist of the fashionable
chapel placed him in the current. His

charming and engaging manners made him

friends. His talents brought him admirers

and pupils, and pupils brought him money.*
    He began in 1 766 a life of unceasing activ

ity, which continued. In 1768 he published
in London a symphony (in C) for two vio

lins, viola, bass, two oboes, and two horns,

and in the same year two military concertos

for two oboes, two horns, two trumpets, and
two bassoons.f He wrote pieces for the

* He frequently gave thirty-five and thirty-eight lessons a week

to pupils at this time.    A search for these in London has led me

  f According to Fetis.    who is usually very accurate, is here mis
to the belief that Fetis,

taken, and that these writings are by Jacob Herschel.

2
26 Life and Works

harp, glees, " catches," and other songs for
the voice. One of these, the Echo Catch, was

published and had even considerable vogue.

   A competent musical critic writes to me of this work :
" The counterpoint is clear and flowing, and is managed
with considerable taste and effect. It would be difficult

to explain the great cleverness shown in the construction
of this Catch without diagrams to illustrate the movements

of the parts. It is certainly an ingenious bit of musical

writing."

   When he left Bath (in 1 782), many of
these musical writings were lost, in his great
haste to take up his new profession. One,
specially, his sister remembers to have written
out for the printer, " but he could not find a
moment to send it off, nor to answer the print

er's letters." This was a four-part song, "In

thee I bear so dear a part." He wrote very
many anthems, chants, and psalm-tunes for
the excellent cathedral choir of the Octagon
Chapel. Unfortunately, most of this music

is not now to be found.

   A notice of Herschel's life which ap

peared in the European Magazine for 1 785,
January, gives a very lively picture of his life
             of William Herschel.                                                       27

at this time, and it is especially valuable as
showing how he appeared to his cotempo-
raries.

" Although Mr. Herschel loved music to an excess,

and made a considerable progress in he yet determined
a

            .

                                      if it,

                                                  it
                                                     it,

                                                                                     a
with a sort of enthusiasm to devote every moment he

could spare from business to the pursuit of knowledge,

which he regarded as the sovereign good, and in which

he resolved to place all his views of future happiness in

life." .  .

" His situation at the Octagon Chapel proved                                            very

profitable one, as he soon fell into all the public busi

ness of the concerts, the Rooms, the Theatre, and the

oratorios, besides many scholars and private concerts.

This great run of business, instead of lessening his

propensity to study, increased   so that many times,

after fatiguing day of fourteen or sixteen hours spent

in his vocation, he would retire at night with the great

est avidity to unbend the mind,  may be so called,

with a few propositions in Maclaurin's Fluxions, or

other books of that sort."

  It was in these years that he mastered

Italian and made some progress in Greek.

   " We may hazard a natural conjecture respecting the

course of Herschel's early studies. Music conducted

him to mathematics, or, in other words, impelled him to
2 8 Life and Works

study Smith's Harmonics. Now this Robert Smith
was the author of A Complete System of Optics, a masterly

work, which, notwithstanding the rapid growth of that

branch of the science, is not yet wholly superseded. It
seems to us not unlikely that Herschel, studying the

Harmonics, conceived a reverence for the author, who
was at that time still living, so that from the Philosophy

of Music he passed to the Optics, a work on which
Smith's great reputation chiefly rested ; and thus unde

signedly prepared himself for the career on which he
was shortly about to enter with so much glory." *

   There is no doubt that this conjecture is a
true one. The Optics of Dr. Smith is one
of the very few books quoted by Herschel
throughout his writings, and there is every
evidence of his complete familiarity with its

conclusions and methods ; and this famili
arity is of the kind which a student acquires
with his early text-books. One other work

he quotes in the same way, Lalande's As

tronomy, and this too must have been deeply
studied.

   During the years 1 765-1 772, while Her

schel was following his profession and his

                   * Foreign Quarterly Review, volume 31. ·
of William Herschel.  29

studies at Bath, the family life at Hanover
went on in much the same way.

   In 1765 his father Isaac had a stroke of
paralysis, which ended his violin-playing for

ever, and forced him to depend entirely upon
pupils and copying of music for a livelihood.

He died on March 22, 1767, leaving behind
him a good name, and living in the affection

ate remembrance of his children and of all

who knew him.

   Carolina had now lost her best friend,
and transferred to her brother William the

affection she had before divided between

him and her father.

   " My father wished to give me something like a pol
ished education, but my mother was particularly deter
mined that it should be a rough, but at the same time

a useful one ; and nothing farther she thought was
necessary but to send me two or three months to a
sempstress to be taught to make household linen. . . .
My mother would not consent to my being taught
French, and my brother Dietrich was even denied a
dancing-master, because she would not permit my learn
ing along with him, though the entrance had been paid
for us both ; so all my father could do for me was to in
dulge me (and please himself) sometimes with a short
                  Life and Works

lesson on the violin, when my mother was either in good

humor or out of the way. Though I have often felt

myself exceedingly at a loss for the want of those few

accomplishments of which I was thus, by an erroneous
though well-meant opinion of my mother, deprived, I

could not help thinking but that she had cause for wish
ing me not to know more than was necessary for being

*******useful in the family ; for it was her certain belief that

my brother William would have returned to his country,
and my eldest brother not have looked so high, if they

had had a little less learning.

   " But sometimes I found it scarcely possible to get

through with the work required, and felt very unhappy that
no time at all was left for improving myself in music or

fancy work, in which I had an opportunity of receiving

some instruction from an ingenious young woman whose
parents lived in the same house with us. But the time
wanted for spending a few hours together could only be

obtained by our meeting at daybreak, because by the

Itime of the family's rising at seven, was obliged to be
Iat my daily business. Though had neither time nor

means for producing anything immediately either for

show or use, I was content with keeping samples of all

possible patterns in needlework, beads, bugles, horse

hair, etc., for I could not help feeling troubled some
times about my future destiny ; yet I could not bear the

idea of being turned into an Abigail or housemaid, and
thought that with the above and such like acquirements,
          of William Herschcl.                  31

with a little notion of music, I might obtain a place as

governess in some family where the want of a knowledge
of French would be no objection."

  A changoe was soon to come in her life
too ; her brother William wrote to propose

that she should join him at Bath --

. . . " to make the trial,  if,  by his instruction, might
                                    if,

                                            aI
not become useful singer for his winter concerts and
;

       a
oratorios he advised my brother Jacob to give me some
lessons by way of beginning but that after trial of
                            ;

                             it
two years, we should not find answer our expectation,

he would bring me back again. This at first seemed to

be agreeable to all parties, but by the time had set my
                                         I

heart upon this change in my situation, Jacob began to
turn the whole scheme into ridicule, and, of course, he

never heard the sound of my voice except in speaking,

and yet was left in the harassing uncertainty whetherI
I

was to go or not.II  resolved at last to prepare, as far as

lay in my power, for both cases, by taking, in the first

place, every opportunity, when all were from home, to
imitate, with gag between my teeth, the solo parts of
   ;a
concertos, shake and all, such as had heard them play
                            I
                               I

                                      I
on the violin in consequence had gained a tolerable

execution before knew how to sing.       next began to

knit ruffles, which were intended for my brother Wil

liam, in case remained at home --else they were to be
   I

Jacob's. For my mother and brother D. knitted as
                                         I

many cotton stockings as would last two years at least."
32 Life and Works

   In August, 1772, her brother arrived at
Hanover, to take her back to England with
him. The journey to London was made be
tween August 1 6th and 26th, and soon after
they went together to Herschel's house,
No. 7 New King's Street, Bath.
of William Herschel.  33

                 CHAPTER II.

              LIFE IN BATH; I 772-I 782.

  It was to a busy life in Bath that Her

schel took his sister Carolina, then twenty-

two years old. She was a perfectly untried
girl, of very small accomplishments and out
wardly with but little to attract. The basis
of her character was the possibility of an un
changing devotion to one object ; for the
best years of her life this object was the

happiness and success of her brother Wil

liam, whom she profoundly loved. Her love
was headstrong and full of a kind of obsti

nate pride, which refused to see anything

but the view she had adopted. As long as

her life continued to be with her dearest
brother, all was well with her. She had a
noble aim, and her heart was more than full.

                        2*
34 Life and Works

Later on, this very singleness of character
brought her other years of wretchedness. It
is necessary to understand the almost span
iel-like allegiance she gave, in order to com-
prehend the value which her services were
to Herschel. She supplied him with an aid
which was utterly loyal, entire, and devoted.
Her obedience was unquestioning, her rev
erence amounted almost to adoration. In
their relation, he gave everything in the way
of incentive and initiative, and she returned
her entire effort loyally.

   At first her business was to gain a knowl

edge of the language, and to perfect herself
in singing, so that she might become a so
loist in the concerts and oratorios which he

was constantly giving.
   In the beginning it was not easy.

   . . . "As the season for the arrival of visitors to the

baths does not begin till October, my brother had leisure
to try my capacity for becoming a useful singer for his
concerts and oratorios, and being very well satisfied with

my voice, I had two or three lessons every day, and the

hours which were not spent at the harpsichord, were em
ployed in putting me in the way of managing the family.
of William Herschcl.  35

. . . On the second morning, on meeting my brother

at breakfast, he began immediately to give me a lesson in
English and arithmetic, and showed me the way of book

...ing and keeping accounts of cash received and laid

out. By way of relaxation we talked of astron

omy and the bright constellations with which I had

made acquaintance during the fine nights we spent on

the postwagen travelling through Holland.

   " My brother Alexander, who had been some time in

England, boarded and lodged with his elder brother,
and, with myself, occupied the attic. The first floor,

which was furnished in the newest and most handsome
style, my brother kept for himself. The front room, con
taining the harpsichord, was always in order to receive
his musical friends and scholars at little private concerts

Ior rehearsals. . . . Sundays received a sum for the

weekly expenses, of which my housekeeping book (writ
ten in English) showed the amount laid out, and my

purse the remaining cash. One of the principal things

required was to market, and about six weeks after com

ing to England I was sent alone among fishwomen,
butchers, basket-women, etc., and I brought home what
ever in my fright I could pick up. . . . My brother

Alex., who was now returned from his summer engage

ment, used to watch me at a distance, unknown to me,
till he saw me safe on my way home. But all attempts
to introduce any order in our little household proved
vain, owing to the servant my brother then had. And
what still further increased my difficulty was, that my
36 Life and Works

brother's time was entirely taken up with business, so

that I only saw him at meals. Breakfast was at seven

o'clock or before -- much too early for me, who would

rather have remained up all night than be obliged to rise

at so early an hour. . . .                            I
   " The three winter months passed on very heavily.

had to struggle against heimwehe (home sickness) and
low spirits, and to answer my sister's melancholy letters

on the death of her husband, by which she became a

widow with six children. I knew too little English to

derive any consolation from the society of those who

Iwere about me, so that, dinner-time excepted, was en

tirely left to myself."

    So the winter passed.

   " The time when I could hope to receive a little more

of my brother's instruction and attention was now draw
ing near ; for after Easter, Bath becomes very empty,
only a few of his scholars, whose families were resident in

the neighborhood, remaining. But I was greatly disap

pointed ; for, in consequence of the harassing and fa
tiguing life he had led during the winter months, he used
to retire to bed with a basin of milk or glass of water,
and Smith's Harmonics and Optics, Ferguson's As
tronomy, etc., and so went to sleep buried under his
favorite authors ; and his first thoughts on rising were
how to obtain instruments for viewing those objects
himself of which he had been reading. There being in
of William Herschel.                     37

one of the shops a two-and-a-half-foot Gregorian tele

scope to be let, it was for some time taken in requisition,

...and served not only for viewing the heavens, but forIt
making experiments on its construction.

soon appeared that my brother was not contented with

knowing what former observers had seen, for he began

...to contrive a telescope eighteen or twenty feet long (I
believe after Huyghens' description).    I was

much hindered in my musical practice by my help being

continually wanted in the execution of the various con

trivances, and I had to amuse myself with making the

tube of pasteboard for the glasses, which were to arrive

from London, for at that time no optician had settled at

Bath. But when all was finished, no one besides my

brother could get a glimpse of Jupiter or Saturn, for the
great length of the tube would not allow it to be kept in a
straight line. This difficulty, however, was soon removed

by substituting tin tubes. . . . My brother wrote to

inquire the price of a reflecting mirror for (I believe)
a five or six foot telescope. The answer was, there were

none of so large a size, but a person offered to make

one at a price much above what my brother thought

proper to give. . . . About this time he bought of a

Quaker, resident at Bath, who had formerly made at

tempts at polishing mirrors, all his rubbish of patterns,

tools, hones, polishers, unfinished mirrors, etc., but all

for small Gregorians, and none above two or three

inches diameter.
   " But nothing serious could be attempted, for want
38 Life and Works

of time, till the beginning of June, when some of my
brother's scholars were leaving Bath ; and then, to my

sorrow, I saw almost every room turned into a work

shop. A cabinet-maker making a tube and stands of

all descriptions in a handsomely furnished drawing-

room ; Alex, putting up a huge turning machine (which

he had brought in the autumn from Bristol, where he
used to spend the summer) in a bedroom, for turning
patterns, grinding glasses, and turning eye-pieces, etc.
At the same time music durst not lie entirely dormant
during the summer, and my brother had frequent re

hearsals at home, where Miss Farinelli, an Italian

singer, was met by several of the principal performers
he had engaged for the winter concerts."

   Finally, in 1 774, he had made himself a Gre
gorian telescope,* and had begun to view the
heavens. He was then thirty-six years old.

   The writer in the European Magazine de
scribes this period :

   " All this time he continued his astronomical observa

tions, and nothing now seemed wanting to complete his
felicity, but sufficient leisure to enjoy his telescopes, to
which he was so much attached, that at the theatre he
used frequently to run from the harpsichord to look at
the stars, during the time between the acts."

   * Probably on the model of one of Short's Gregorian telescopes,
which were then the best instruments of the kind.
of William Herschel.  39

   In an extract from his Journal No. i, now

at the rooms of the Royal Society, may be
seen a copy of his first observation of the
Nebula of Orion, on March 4, 1774. This
was made with his five-and-a-half-foot Gre

gorian reflector.

   It was at this time (1775), between the

acts of the theatre, that he made his first re
view of the heavens, with a Newtonian tele

scope, of an aperture of four and a half inches
and a magnifying power of 222 times. This
telescope was one of the first made by him
self; The review consisted of the examina

tion of every star in the sky of the first,
second, third, and fourth magnitudes, and of
all planets visible. There are no records
of these observations now extant, and they

are noteworthy only as a preparation for

more serious work.

   He was carrying out his resolve to see
everything for himself. His assiduity may

be judged of by the fact that between 1774

and 1 781 Herschel had observed a single
object -- the Nebula of Orion--no less than

fourteen times.
40 Life and Works

   The success of his first telescopes incited
him to new efforts. His house became a
complete aiclicr, where everything that could
tend to excellence in this manufacture was
tried and re-tried a hundred different ways.
When a difficulty arose, experiments were
begun which continued till it was conquered.
When a success was gained, it was prose
cuted to the utmost.

   In 1775 the first seven-foot reflector was
made, in 1777 a ten-foot was finished, in 1778
a " very good " ten-foot took its place. It
must not be thought that the telescopes men
tioned were the only ones completed. On
the contrary, they were but the best ones
selected out of many.

   In 1774 a new house had been engaged,
which had "more room for workshops," and
whose roof gave space for observing. The
grass-plat near it was soon utilized to hold
the stand of a twenty-foot telescope, which
he had even then projected. His projects
were unending, no success was final ; his
mind was at the height of activity ; his whole
effort was thrown into every undertaking.
of William Herschel.  4i

   The mirrors for all these telescopes were
made by hand. Every portion of the grind
ing down to rough dimensions, the shaping
to something near the correct form, the pol
ishing till the accurately exact curves were

obtained, all this must be done by hand.

The machines for the purpose were not in

vented until 1788.*

   Alexander and William worked to

gether at this, but most of the work was
done by the latter. The sister's part was

to attend in the workshop and lend a hand
wherever and whenever it was needed.

. . . " My time was taken up with copying music

and practising, besides attendance on my brother when

polishing, since by way of keeping him alive I was con

stantly obliged to feed him by putting the victuals by bits
into his mouth. This was once the case when, in order

to finish a seven-foot mirror, he had not taken his hands

from it for sixteen hours together. In general he was

never unemployed at meals, but was always at those
times contriving or making drawings of whatever came

   * For a description of the main points of Herschel's processes
of making reflectors, which will illustrate his strong mechanical
talents, see Encyclopedia Britannica, eighth edition, article Tele

scope.
                  Life and Works

in his mind. Generally I was obliged to read to him

whilst he was at the turning-lathe, or polishing mirrors,
Dan Quixote, Arabian Nights' Entertainment, the novels of

Sterne, Fielding, etc. ; serving tea and supper without

interrupting the work with which he was engaged, . . .

and sometimes lending a hand. I became, in time, as

useful a member of the workshop as a boy might be to
his master in the first year of his apprenticeship. . . .

But as I was to take a part the next year in the oratorios,

I had, for a whole twelvemonth, two lessons per week

from Miss Fleming, the celebrated dancing-mistress, to
drill me for a gentlewoman (God knows how she suc
ceeded). So we lived on without interruption. My

brother Alex, was absent from Bath for some months

every summer, but when at home he took much pleasure
in executing some turning or clockmaker's work for his

brother."

   News from Hanover put a sudden stop,
for a time, to all these labors. The mother

wrote, in the utmost distress, to say that Diet
rich had disappeared from his home, it was

supposed with the intention of going to In
dia "with a young idler not older than him
self." His brother immediately left the lathe
at which he was turning an eye-piece in co
coa-nut, and started for Holland, whence he
proceeded to Hanover, failing to meet his
of William Herschel.  43

brother, as he expected. Meanwhile the sis

ter received a letter to say that Dietrich

was " laid up very ill " at an inn in Wapping.

Alexander posted to town, removed him to

a lodging, and, after a fortnight's nursing,
brought him to Bath, where, on his brother

William's return, he found him being well

cared for by his sister.
    About this time another change was made

to the house 19 New King Street, which was
the last move in Bath. It was here that the
Georgium Sidus was discovered.

   The music still went on. The oratorios of

the Messiah, Judas Maccabeus, and Samson
were to be performed under Herschel's di

rection, with an orchestra of nearly one hun
dred pieces. The scores and vocal parts of

these Carolina copied with her own hands,

and the soprani were instructed by her, she
being the leading soloist. Along with the
 music went the astronomy. Not only were

 new telescopes made, but they were made

 for immediate use.

    The variable star Mira Ceti was observed,

 and a long series of lunar observations begun.
44 Life and Works

   "In 1779, 1780, and 1781 I measured the heights of

about one hundred mountains of the moon, by three dif
ferent methods.

   " Some of these observations are given in Philosophical

Transactions, vol. LXX., but most remain uncalculated in

my journal till some proper opportunity." *

   While Herschel was measuring these lu

nar mountains, in December, 1779, he made
by chance an acquaintance of much value to

him. Dr. William Watson, a Fellow of

the Royal Society, distinguished for his re
searches in electricity, happened to see him
at his telescope, and this led to a visit and

an invitation to Herschel to join the Philo
sophical Society of Bath, then forming. This

he gladly did, and it was of use to him in
many ways.

   He there formed acquaintance with men of
his own way of thinking, and he himself be
came known. Better than all, he learned to

   * These have never been published, nor is it likely at this
day, when our measuring instruments are so greatly improved, that
they would be of any material value to science, although of in

terest as giving the proofs of Herschel's assiduity and skill. He

was always more than the maker of telescopes, for he was never
content until they were applied to the problems of astronomy.

                                                                                               I
of William Herschel.  45

measure himself with other men, and by his

early papers read to the Society, he gained
skill in putting his thoughts before his hear

ers. This skill he never lost, and the merely
literary art of his memoirs would make his

papers remarkable without their other mer

its. He is always clear, and in his early pa

pers especially, he appeals to his particular

audience --the Royal Society -- in a way

which shows that he is conscious of all its

weaknesses as well as of its dignity. Later,

his tone slightly changed. He became less

anxious to win his audience, for he had be

come an authority. This knowledge lent a

quiet strength to his style, but never induced
the slightest arrogance of spirit or manner.

   The Bath Philosophical Society has left no
printed proceedings. Herschel was one of

its earliest members, and many papers were
communicated to it by his hand. These ap
pear to have been of a very miscellaneous
nature. Some of them at least would be of

the highest interest to us now.

   In the Philosophical Transactions ior 1789,
p. 220, Herschel tells us that he communi
is,46 Life and Works

cated to that Society " certain mathemat
ical papers " relating to central forces other
than the force of gravity, which are or may
be concerned in the construction of the

sidereal heavens. This early idea was still
entertained by Herschel in 1789, and the

mathematical papers referred to must be con
tained in the Minutes of the Society, which
on its dissolution were torn from the Minute-
book and returned to the writers.

   The earliest published writing of Her
schel is the answer to the prize question in
the "Ladies' Diary" for 1779, proposed by

the celebrated Landen, namely :

    " The length, tension, and weight of a musical string
being given, it is required to find how many vibrations it
will make in a given time, when a small given weight is
fastened to its middle and vibrates with it."

   In the Philosophical Transactions of the
Royal Society for 1780, are two papers of
his. The title of the first Astronomical Ob
servations on the Periodical Star in Collo Ceti,

by Mr. William Herschel, of Bath. This

was communicated to the Society by Dr.
of William Herschel.  47

William Watson, Jr., and was read May
ii, 1780, at the same time as the other paper
on the mountains of the moon. It is to be

noted that Herschel was at this time plain

"Mr. William Herschel, of Bath." It was
only in 1786 that he became "Dr. Her
schel," through the Oxford degree of LL.D.

   Neither of these two papers is specially

remarkable on its purely astronomical side.

The problems examined were such as lay

open before all, and the treatment of them

was such as would naturally be suggested.
   The second of these two contained, how

ever, a short description of his Newtonian

telescope, and he speaks of it with a just pride :
" I believe that for distinctness of vision this

instrument is perhaps equal to any that was

ever made." He was, at least, certain of

having obtained excellence in the making of

his instruments.

   In his next paper, however, read Janu

ary 11, 1 78 1, a subject is approached which

shows a different kind of thought. It is the

first obvious proof of the truth of the state

ment which he made long afterwards (181 1),
48 Life and Works

when he said : " A knowledge of the con

struction of the heavens has always been the

ultimate object of my observations."

The title of this paper was Astronomical

Observations on the Rotation of the Planets

round their A xes, made with a view to deter

mine whether the Earth's diurnal motion is

perfectly equable. Here the question is a

difficult and a remote one, and the method

adopted for its solution is perfectly suitable in

principle. It marks a step onward from mere

observations to philosophizing upon their re

sults. In practical astronomy, too, we note

an advance. Not only are his results given,

but also careful estimates of the errors to be

feared in them, and a discussion of the

sources of such errors. The same volume of

the Philosophical Transactions which con

tains this paper, also contains another, Ac-

cotmt of a Comet, read April 26, 1 781. This

comet was the major planet Uranus, or, as

Herschel named  Gcorgium Sidus. He
1

    78

           it

                               it,

                                                    I

                                                                      in
had found on the night of Tuesday, March

13, 1. "In examining the small stars

the neighborhood of H Geminorum, per
of William Herschel.  49

ceived one that appeared visibly larger than
the rest ; being struck with its uncommon
appearance, I compared it to H Geminorum
and the small star in the quartile between

Auriga and Gemini, and finding it so much

larger than either of them, I suspected it to
be a comet." The " comet " was observed

over all Europe. Its orbit was computed by
various astronomers, and its distance from

the sun was found to be nineteen times that

of our earth. This was no comet, but a new
major planet. The discovery of the amateur
astronomer of Bath was the most striking
since the invention of the telescope. It had
absolutely no parallel, for every other major

planet had been known from time immemo

rial.*

   The effect of the discoveries of Galileo

  * Arago has implied that if Herschel had directed his telescope

to Uranus only eleven days earlier than he did, this discovery
would have escaped him, since at that time (March 2, 1781) the
planet was at its station, and had no motion relative to the star.
This is an entire misconception, since the new planet was detected
by its physical appearance, and not by its motion. Does any one

suppose that " a new and singular star" like this would have been

once viewed and then forgotten ?

                            3
50 Life and Works

was felt almost more in the moral than in

the scientific world. The mystic number of

the planets was broken up by the introduc

tion of four satellites to Jupiter. That Venus

emulated the phases of our moon, overthrew
superstition and seated the Copernican the
ory firmly. The discovery of " an innumer

able multitude of fixed stars " in the Milky
Way confounded the received ideas. This

was the great mission of the telescope in

Galileo's hands.
   The epoch of mere astronomical discovery

began with the detection of the large satel
lite of Saturn by Huyghens, in 1655. Even
then superstition was not dead. Huyghens
did not search for more moons, because by
that discovery he had raised the number of
known satellites to six,* and because these,
with the six planets, made " the perfect num
ber twelve."

   From 1 67 1 to 1684 Cassini discovered
four more moons revolving about Saturn.
Since 1684 no new body had been added to

        * Four of Jupiter, one of the earth, and one of Saturn.
of William Hcrschel.  51

the solar system. It was thought complete

for nearly a century.
   In England, the remarkable discoveries of

Bradley (1727-62) had been in the field of

practical astronomy, and his example had
set the key-note for further researches.

France was just about beginning the brill

iant period of her discoveries in mathemat

ical astronomy, and had no observatory
devoted to investigations like Herschel's,

with the possible exception of Darquier's
and Flaugergues'. The observatories of
Schroeter and Von Hahn, in Germany,
were not yet active. The field which Her-
schel was created to fill was vacant, the
whole world over. It was especially so in
England. The Royal Observatory at Green
wich, under Maskelyne, a skilful observer,

whose work was mostly confined to meridian
observations, was no rival to a private obser
vatory like Herschel's. The private obser

vatories themselves were but small affairs ;

those of the king, at Kew, of Dr. Wilson,
at Glasgow, of Mr. Aubert, at Loampit
Hill, of the Count von Bruhl, in London,
52 Life and Works

being perhaps the most important. The
whole field was open. What was perhaps
more remarkable, there was in England, dur
ing Herschel's lifetime, no astronomer, pub
lic or private, whose talents, even as an ob
server, lay in the same direction.

   It hardly need be said that as a philoso

pher in his science, he had then no rival, as

he has had none since. His only associates

even, were Michell and Wilson.*

   Without depreciating the abilities of the
astronomers of England, his cotemporaries,

we may fairly say that Hersciiel stood a

great man among a group of small ones.
   Let us endeavor to appreciate the change

effected in the state of astronomy not only

  * John Michell had been a member of the Royal Society since

1760 : he died in 1793. He was a philosophical thinker, as is
shown by his memoirs on the distances of the stars, and by his in
vention of the method for determining the earth's density. It is
not certain that he was personally known to Herschel, although
his writings were familiar to the latter.

   Alexander Wilson was Prof essor of Astronomy at Glasgow, and

is chiefly known to us by his theory of the nature of the solar spots,
which was adopted and enlarged by Herschel. He died in 1786 ;

but the families of Wilson and Herschel remained close friends.
of William Herschel.             53

in England but in the whole world, simply

by the discovery of Uranus. Suppose, for

example, that the last planet in our system

had been Saturn. No doubt Herschel

would have gone on. In spite of one and

another difficulty, he would have made his

ten-foot, his twenty-foot telescopes. His

forty-foot would never have been built, and

the two satellites which he found with it

might not have been discovered.  Certain
ly Mimas would not have been.
                                 His re

searches on the construction of the heavens

would have been made ; those were in his

brain, and must have been ultimated. The

mass of observations of Saturn, of Jupi

ter, of Mars, of Venus, would have been

made and published. The researches on the

sun, on the "invisible rays" of heat, on
comets and nebulae --all these might have

been made, printed, and read.

   But these would have gone into the Philo

sophical Transactions as the work of an ama
teur astronomer, " Mr. Herschel, of Bath."

They would have been praised, and they

would have been doubted. It would have
54 Life and Works

taken a whole generation to have appreci
ated them. They would have been se
verely tried, entirely on their merits, and
finally they would have stood where they

stand to-day-- unrivalled. But through what

increased labors these successes would have

been gained ! It is not merely that the pat

ronage of the king, the subsidies for the

forty-foot telescope (,£4,000), the compara

tive ease of Herschel's life would have been
lacking. It is more than this. It would
have been necessary for him to have created

the audience to which he appealed, and
to have conquered the most persistent of

enemies --indifference.
   Certainly, if Herschel's mind had been

other than it was, the discovery of Uranus,
which brought him honors from every scien
tific society in the world, and which gave
him authority, might have had a hurtful
effect. But, as he was, there was nothing
which could have aided his career more than

this startling discovery. It was needed for
him. It completed the solar system far more

by affording a free play to a profoundly phil
of William Herschel.  55

osophical mind, than by occupying the va
cant spaces beyond Saturn.

   His opportunities would have been pro
foundly modified, though his personal worth

would have been the same.

       " The Star that from the zenith darts its beams,

            Visible though it be to half the earth,
            Though half a sphere be conscious of its brightness,
           Is yet of no diviner origin,
           No purer essence, than the One that burns
           Like an untended watchfire, on the ridge
            Of some dark mountain ; or than those that seem
            Humbly to hang, like twinkling winter lamps,
            Among the branches of the leafless trees."

   To show how completely unknown the pri
vate astronomer of Bath was at this time, I

transcribe a sentence from Bode's account of
the discovery of Uranus.

  "In the Gazette LiMraire of June, 1781, this worthy-

man is called Mersthel ; in Julius' Journal Encyclope"-
dique, Hertschel ; in a letter from Mr. Maskelyne
to M. Messier, Herthel ; in another letter of Mas-
kelyne's to Herr Mayer, at Mannheim, Herrschell ;
M. Darquier calls him Hermstel. What may his
name be ? He must have been born a German." *

   * Berliner yahrbuch, 1784, p. 211. In the Connaissance des Tems

for 1784 he is called " Horochelle."
56 Life and Works

   This obscurity did not long continue.
The news spread quickly from fashionable
Bath to London. On the 6th of December,
1 781, Herschel was elected a Fellow of the
Royal Society, to which he was formally
"admitted" May 30, 1782. He was forty-

three years old.
   He also received the Copley medal in 1781

for his " discovery of a new and singular
star." *

   . . . " He was now frequently interrupted by vis
itors who were introduced by some of his resident schol

ars, among whom I remember Sir Harry Engelfield,

Dr. Blagden, and Dr. Maskelyne. With the latter he

* At the presentation Sir Joseph Banks, the President of the Royal

"InSociety, said :  the name of the Royal Society I present to you

this gold medal, the reward which they have assigned to your suc

cessful labors, and I exhort you to continue diligently to cultivate

those fields of science which have produced to you a harvest of so

much honor. Your attention to the improvement of telescopes has

already amply repaid the labor which you have bestowed upon them ;

but the treasures of the heavens are well known to be inexhaustible.

Who can say but your new star, which exceeds Saturn in its distance

from the sun, may exceed him as much in magnificence of attend

ance ? Who knows what new rings, new satellites, or what other

nameless and numberless phenomena remain behind, waiting to

reward future  industry and improvement    "

                                         ?
              of William Herschel.  57

was engaged in a long conversation, which to me sounded

like quarrelling, and the first words my brother said after

he was gone were : ' That is a devil of a fellow.' .

  " I suppose their names were often not known, or

were forgotten ; for it was not till the year 1782 or
..."1783 that a memorandum of the names of visitors was
thought of."  My brother now applied himself

to perfect his mirrors, erecting in his garden a stand

for his twenty-foot telescope ; many trials were neces

sary before the required motions for such an unwieldy

machine could be contrived. Many attempts were made

by way of experiment before an intended thirty-foot

telescope could be completed, for which, between whiles

(not interrupting the observations with seven, ten, and
twenty-foot, and writing papers for both the Royal and

Bath Philosophical Societies), gauges, shapes, weight, etc.,

of the mirror were calculated, and trials of the compo

sition of the metal were made. In short, I saw noth

ing else and heard nothing else talked of but these

things when my brothers were together. Alex, was al

ways very alert, assisting when anything new was going
forward, but he wanted perseverance, and never liked to

confine himself at home for many hours together. And

so it happened that my brother William was obliged to

make trial of my abilities in copying for him catalogues,

tables, etc., and sometimes whole papers which were lent

him for his perusal. Among them was one by Mr.

Michell and a catalogue of Christian Mayer, in Latin,

which kept me employed when my brother was at the

3*
58 Life and Works

telescope at night. When I found that a hand was

sometimes wanted when any particular measures were to
be made with the lamp micrometer, etc., or a fire to be
kept up, or a dish of coffee necessary during a long

night's watching, I undertook with pleasure what others

might have thought a hardship. . . . Since the

discovery of the Georgium Sidus [March 13, 1781], I

believe few men of learning or consequence left Bath

before they had seen and conversed with its discoverer,
and thought themselves fortunate in finding him at home

on their repeated visits. Sir William Watson was

almost an intimate, for hardly a day passed but he had
something to communicate from the letters which he
received from Sir Joseph Banks, and other members of
the Royal Society, from which it appeared that my
brother was expected in town to receive the gold
medal. The end of November was the most precarious

season for absenting himself. But Sir William Wat

son went with him, and it was arranged so that they

set out with the diligence at night, and by that means
his absence did not last above three or four days, when

my brother returned alone, Sir William remaining with

his father.
    " Now a very busy winter was commencing ; for my

brother had engaged himself to conduct the oratorios

conjointly with Ronzini, and had made himself answer
able for the payment of the engaged performers, for his
credit ever stood high in the opinion of every one he had

to deal with. (He lost considerably by this arrange
of William Herschel.                                                    59

ment.) But, though at times much harassed with busi
ness, the mirror for the thirty-foot reflector was never

out of his mind, and if a minute could but be spared in

going from one scholar to another, or giving one the slip,

he called at home to see how the men went on with the
furnace, which was built in a room below, even with the

garden.
   " The mirror was to be cast in a mould of loam, of

which an immense quantity was to be pounded in a

mortar and sifted through a fine sieve. It was an end

less piece of work, and served me for many an hour's

exercise ; and Alex, frequently took his turn at                        for
it I
                     awe were all eager to do something towards the great
                                                         it
                                                                   it,undertaking. Even Sir William Watson would some

times take the pestle from me when he found me in the

work-room, where he expected to find his friend, in

whose concerns he took so much interest that he felt

much disappointed at not being allowed to pay for the
metal. But do not think my brother ever accepted

pecuniary assistance from any one of his friends, and on
this occasion he declined the offer by saying was paid
for already.

   " Among the Bath visitors were many philosophical

gentlemen who used to frequent the levees at St. James's,

when in town. Colonel Walsh, in particular, informed
my brother that from conversation he had had with
His Majesty, appeared that in the spring he was to
come with his seven-foot telescope to the king. Similar

reports he received from many others, but they made no
6o Life and Works

great impression nor caused any interruption in his oc
cupation or study, and as soon as the season for the con
certs was over, and the mould, etc., in readiness, a day
was set apart for casting, and the metal was in the fur
nace. Unfortunately it began to leak at the moment
when ready for pouring, and both my brothers and the
caster, with his men, were obliged to run out at opposite
doors, for the stone flooring (which ought to have been
taken up) flew about in all directions as high as the
ceiling. Before the second casting was attempted, every
thing which could insure success had been attended to,
and a very perfect metal was found in the mould.

    " But a total stop and derangement now took place,
and nearly six or seven months elapsed before my
brother could return to the undisturbed enjoyment of
his instruments and observations. For one morning in

Passion Week, as Sir William Watson was with my

brother, talking about the pending journey to town, my
eldest nephew arrived to pay us a visit, and brought the
confirmation that his uncle was expected with his instru
ment in town. . . . We had not one night in the
week, except Friday, but what was set apart for an ora
torio either at Bath or Bristol. Soon after Easter, a new
organ being erected in St. James's Church, it was opened
with two performances of the ' Messiah ; ' this again took
up some of my brother's time." . . .

   In May of 1 782 Herschel went to London.

   " But when almost double the time had elapsed which
          of William Herschel.  61

my brother could safely be absent from his scholars,
Alex., as well as myself, were much at a loss how to an
swer their inquiries, for, from the letters we received, we
could learn nothing but that he had been introduced to
the king and queen, and had permission to come to the
concerts at Buckingham House, where the king con
versed with him about astronomy."

   It was during his absence at this time that

the three following letters were written and

received :

" Dear Lina :--

  " I have had an audience of His Majesty this morn
ing, and met with a very gracious reception. I pre

sented him with the drawing of the solar system, and

had the honor of explaining it to him and the queen.

My telescope is in three weeks' time to go to Richmond,

and meanwhile to be put up at Greenwich, where I shall

accordingly carry it to-day. So you see, Lina, that

you must not think of seeing me in less than a month.

I shall write to Miss Lee myself ; and other scholars
who inquire for me, you may tell that I cannot wait on

them till His Majesty shall be pleased to give me leave

to return, or rather to dismiss me, for till then I must

Iattend.  will also write to Mr. Palmer to acquaint

him with it.

  " I am in a great hurry, therefore can write no more at

present. Tell Alexander that everything looks very
62 Life and Works

likely as if I were to stay here. The king inquired

after him, and after my great speculum. He also gave
me leave to come to hear the Griesbachs play at the

private concert which he has every evening. My having

seen the king need not be kept a secret, but about my

staying here it will be best not to say anything, but only

that I must remain here till His Majesty has observed

the planets with my telescope.

  " Yesterday I dined with Colonel Walsh, who inquired

after you. There were Mr. Aubert and Dr. Maske-
lyne. Dr. Maskelyne in public declared his obliga

tions to me for having introduced to them the high

powers, for Mr. Aubert has so much succeeded with

them that he says he looks down upon 200, 300, or 400
with contempt, and immediately begins with 800. He

has used 2,500 very completely, and seen my fine double

stars with them. All my papers are printing, with the

postscript and all, and are allowed to be very valuable.

You see, Lina, I tell you all these things. You know
Ivanity is not my foible, therefore need not fear your

censure.  Farewell.

                I" am, your affectionate brother,

                                              " Wm, Herschel.

" Saturday Morning,
        " probably May 25, 1782."
of William Hcrschel.                                                                         63

                 TO MISS HERSCHEL.

" Dear Lina :--  " Monday Evening, jfune 3, 17S2.

" I pass my time between Greenwich and London

agreeably enough, but am rather at a loss for work that

I like. Company is not always pleasing, and I would
Imuch rather be polishing a speculum. Last Friday

was at the king's concert to hear George play. The

king spoke to me as soon as he saw me, and kept me in

conversation for half an hour. He asked George to

play a solo-concerto on purpose that I might hear him ;

and George plays extremely well, is very much im

proved, and the king likes him very much. These two

Ilast nights have been star-gazing at Greenwich with

Dr. Maskelyne and Mr. Aubert. We have compared

our telescopes together, and mine was found very supe

rior to any of the Royal Observatory. Double stars

which they could not see with their instruments I had

the pleasure to show them very plainly, and my mechan

ism is so much approved of that Dr. Maskelyne has

already ordered a model to be taken from mine, and a

stand to be made by it to his reflector. He however,
I
    I

                          is

                                               !

                                        it
                                                                a

                                                                                        is,
now so much out of love with his instrument that he be

gins to doubt whether deserves new stand.

   " am introduced to the best company. To-morrow
  dine at Lord Palmerston's, next day with Sir Joseph

Banks, etc., etc. Among opticians and astronomers

nothing now talked of but what they call my great dis

coveries. Alas this shows how far they are behind,
64 Life and Works

Iwhen such trifles as have seen and done are called

great. Let me but get at it again ! I will make such
telescopes, and see such things -- that
                                         will endeavor
I
                 I:to do so."

                                           iIs,TO MISS HERSCHEL.

                                                                   it" Dear Carolina --" J«iy 3, 1782.
                                                                                         a
" have been so much employed that you will not

wonder at my not writing sooner. The letter you sent

me last Monday came very safe to me. As Dr. Watson
has been so good as to acquaint you and Alexander

with my situation, was still more easy in my silence to

you. Last night the King, the Queen, the Prince of

Wales, the Princess Royal, Princess Sophia, Princess

Augusta, etc., Duke of Montague, Dr. Heberden, M.

de Luc, etc., etc., saw my telescope, and was very

fine evening. My instrument gave general satisfaction.

The king has very good eyes, and enjoys observations

with telescopes exceedingly.
   " This evening, as the king and queen are gone to

Kew, the princesses were desirous of seeing my tele

scope, but wanted to know  was possible to see with
I

                               if
                                      it

                                                                                    it
out going out on the grass, and were much pleased when

they heard that my telescope could be carried into any

place they liked best to have it. About eight o'clock

was moved into the queen's apartments, and we waited

some time in hopes of seeing Jupiter or Saturn. Mean

while showed the princesses, and several other ladies

who were present, the speculum, the micrometers, the
of William Herschel.  65

movements of the telescopes, and other things that

seemed to excite their curiosity. When the evening ap

peared to be totally unpromising, I proposed an artificial

Saturn as an object, since we could not have the real

one. I had beforehand prepared this little piece, as I

guessed by the appearance of the weather in the after

noon we should have no stars to look at. This being

accepted with great pleasure, I had the lamps lighted up

which illuminated the picture of a Saturn (cut out in
pasteboard) at the bottom of the garden wall. The

effect was fine, and so natural that the best astronomer

might have been deceived. Their royal highnesses and

other ladies seemed to be much pleased with the arti

fice.

   " I remained in the queen's apartment with the ladies

till about half after ten ; when in conversation with them

I found them extremely well instructed in every subject

 that was introduced, and they seemed to be most amia

ble characters. To-morrow evening they hope to have

 better luck, and nothing will give me greater happiness
 than to be able to show them some of those beautiful

 objects with which the heavens are so gloriously orna

 mented.

   Carolina's diary goes on :

   " Sir William Watson returned to Bath after a fort

night or three weeks' stay. From him we heard that my
brother was invited to Greenwich with the telescope,
66 Life and Works

where he was met by a numerous party of astronomical
and learned gentlemen, and trials of his instrument were
made. In these letters he complained of being obliged
to lead an idle life, having nothing to do but to pass be

tween London and Greenwich. Sir William received

many letters, which he was so kind as to communicate to

us. By these, and from those to Alexander or to me,

we learned that the king wished to see the telescope at
Windsor. At last a letter, dated July 2, arrived from
Therese, and from this and several succeeding ones we
gathered that the king would not suffer my brother to
return to his profession again, and by his writing several
times for a supply of money we could only suppose that
he himself was in uncertainty about the time of his
return.

   " In the last week of July my brother came home, and
immediately prepared for removing to Datchet, where

he had taken a house with a garden and grass-plat an
nexed, quite suitable for the purpose of an observing-

place. Sir William Watson spent nearly the whole

time at our house, and he was not the only friend who

truly grieved at my brother's going from Bath ; or feared
his having perhaps agreed to no very advantageous
offers ; their fears were, in fact, not without reason. . . .
The prospect of entering again on the toils of teaching,
etc., which awaited my brother at home (the months of
leisure being now almost gone by), appeared to him an
intolerable waste of time, and by way of alternative he
chose to be royal astronomer, with a salary of ,£200 a
of William Herschel.  67

year. Sir William Watson was the only one to whom

the sum was mentioned, and he exclaimed, ' Never
bought monarch honor so cheap ! ' To every other in

quirer, my brother's answer was that the king had pro

vided for him."

   On the 1st of August, 1782, the family re
moved to Datchet. The last musical duty-
was performed on Whit-Sunday, 1782, in St.
Margaret's Chapel, Bath, when the anthem
for the day was of Herschel's own compo

sition.

   The end of the introductory epoch of his
life is reached. Henceforth he lived in his

observatory, and from his forty-fourth year
onwards he only left it for short periods to
go to London to submit his classic memoirs
to the Royal Society. Even for these oc

casions he chose periods of moonlight, when
no observations could be made.

   He was a private man no longer. Hence

forth he belongs to the whole world.
68 Life and Works

               CHAPTER III.

LIFE AT DATCHET, CLAY HALL, AND SLOUGH J
                               1782-1822.

   The new house at Datchet, which was oc

cupied from 1782 till 1785, was a source of

despair to Carolina Herschel, who looked

upon its desolate and isolated condition with

a housekeeper's eyes. This was nothing to

her brother, who gayly consented to live
upon " eggs and bacon," now that he was

free at last to mind the heavens. The ruin

ous state of the place had no terrors in his
eyes, for was there not a laundry which would
serve as a library, a large stable which was
just the place for the grinding of mirrors,
and a grass-plat for the small twenty-foot
reflector ?

   Here they set to work at astronomy; the
of William Herschel.                          69

brother with the twenty-foot, the sister aid
ing him, and at odd times sweeping for

comets. In the course of her life she dis

covered no less than eight, and five of these
were first seen by her.

   In 1787 Herschel wrote his paper "On

three Volcanoes in the Moon," which he had

observed in April of that year. In this he

mentions previous observations of the same

sort. I do not remember that the following

account of these has ever been put on record

in English. Baron von Zach writes from

London to Bode :*

..." Probably you have heard also of the volcanoes in  I
the moon, which Herschel has observed.

will give you an account of it as I heard it from his own

lips. Dr. Lind, a worthy physician in Windsor, who

has made himself known through his two journeys in
China, and who is a friend of our Herschel's, was with

his wife one evening on a visit to Herschel in Datchet

[1783, May 4]. On this evening there was to be an oc-
cultation of a star at the moon's dark limb. This was

observed by Herschel and Doctor Lind. Mrs. Lind

wished also to see what was occurring, and placed her

self at a telescope and watched attentively.

* Bode's Jahrbuch, 1788, p. 144.
70 Life and Works

" Scarcely had the star disappeared before Mrs. Lind

thought she saw it again, and exclaimed that the star

had gone in front of, and not behind the moon. This

provoked a short astronomical lecture on the question,

but still she would not credit  because she saw differ
a
                         it,

                                                            .
ently. Finally Herschel stepped to the telescope, and

in fact he saw bright point on the dark disc of the

moon, which he followed attentively. It gradually be

came fainter and finally vanished."                            ..

   The life at Datchet was not free from its                       a

annoyances.

   " Much of my brother's time was taken up in going,
when the evenings were clear, to the queen's lodge, to
show the king, etc., objects through the seven-foot. But
when the days began to shorten, this was found impos
sible, for the telescope was often (at no small expense
and risk of damage) obliged to be transported in the
dark back to Datchet, for the purpose of spending the
rest of the night with observations on double stars for
second catalogue. My brother was, besides, obliged to
be absent for a week or ten days, for the purpose of
bringing home the metal of the cracked thirty-foot mir
ror, and the remaining materials from his work-room.
Before the furnace was taken down at Bath, a second
twenty-foot mirror, twelve inches diameter, was cast, which
happened to be very fortunate, for on the ist of January,
1783, a very fine one cracked by frost in the tube.
of William Herschel.                          71

I. . . " In my brother's absence from home    was,

of course, left alone to amuse myself with my own

thoughts, which were anything but cheerful. I found I

was to be trained for an assistant astronomer, and, by
way of encouragement, a telescope adapted for ' sweep

ing,' consisting of a tube with two glasses, such as are
Icommonly used in a ' finder,' was given me.
                                              was 'to

sweep for comets,' and I see, by my journal, that I began

August 22d, 1782, to write down and describe all re

Imarkable appearances saw in my ' sweeps,' which were

horizontal. But it was not till the last two months of the

same year that I felt the least encouragement to spend

the star-light nights on a grass-plot covered with dew or

hoar-frost, without a human being near enough to be

within call. I knew too little of the real heavens to be

able to point out every object so as to find it again,

without losing much time by consulting the Atlas. But

all these troubles were removed when I knew my brother

to be at no great distance making observations, with his

various instruments, on double stars, planets, etc., and

when I could have his assistance immediately if I found
a nebula or cluster of stars, of which I intended to give a
catalogue; but, at the end of 1783, I had only marked

fourteen, when my sweeping was interrupted by being

employed to write down my brother's observations with

the large twenty-foot. I had, however, the comfort to

see that my brother was satisfied with my endeavors to

assist him when he wanted another person either to run

to the clocks, write down a memorandum, fetch and
72 Life and Works

carry instruments, or measure the ground with poles, etc.,
etc., of which something of the kind every moment would
occur. For the assiduity with which the measurements
on the diameter of the Georgium Sidus, and observations
of other planets, double stars, etc., etc., were made, was
incredible, as may be seen by the various papers that
were given to the Royal Society in 1783, which papers
were written in the daytime, or when cloudy nights inter
fered. Besides this, the twelve-inch speculum was per
fected before the spring, and many hours were spent at
the turning-bench, as not a night clear enough for ob
serving ever passed but that some improvements were
planned for perfecting the mounting and motions of the
various instruments then in use, or some trials were made
of new constructed eye-pieces, which were mostly exe
cuted by my brother's own hands. Wishing to save his
time, he began to have some work of that kind done by
a watchmaker who had retired from business and lived
on Datchet Common; but the work was so bad, and the
charges so unreasonable, that he could not be employed.

It was not till some time afterwards, in his frequent visits

to the meetings of the Royal Society (made in moonlight
nights), that he had an opportunity of looking about for
mathematical workmen, opticians, and founders. But
the work seldom answered expectation, and it was kept,

to be executed with improvements by Alexander dur

ing the few months he spent with us.
    " The summer months passed in the most active

preparation for getting the large twenty-foot ready
of William Hcrschel.                                 73

against the next winter. The carpenters and smiths of

Datchet were in daily requisition, and, as soon as pat

terns for tools and mirrors were ready, my brother went

to town to have them cast, and, during the three or four

months Alexander could be absent from Bath, the mir

rors and optical parts were nearly completed.
   " But that the nights after a day of toil were not given

to rest, may be seen by the observations on Mars, of

which a paper, dated December i, 1783, was given to the

Royal Society. Some trouble, also, was often thrown

away, during those nights, in the attempt to teach me to

remeasure double stars with the same micrometers with

...twenty-foot was given me for that purpose.
which former measures had been taken, and the small

                                                     I

had also to ascertain their places by a transit instrument

lent for that purpose by Mr. Dalrymple ; but, after

many fruitless attempts, it was seen that the instrument

was, perhaps, as much in fault as my observations."

   In 1783 Herschel says :

  " I have now finished my third review of the heavens.

The first was made with a Newtonian telescope some
thing less than seven feet focal length, a power of 222,

and an aperture, of four and a half inches. It extended

only to stars of the first, second, third, and fourth magni
tudes. My second review was made with an instrument
much superior to the other, of 85.2 inches focus, 6.2

inches aperture, and power 227. It extended to all the

                        4
74 Life and Works

stars of Harris's maps and the telescopic ones near

them, as far as the eighth magnitude. The Catalogue of
Double Stars and the discovery of the Georgium Sidus,
were the results of that review. The third was with the
same instrument and aperture, but with a power of 460.
This review extended to all the stars of Flamsteed's

Catalogue, together with every small star about them, to

the amount of a great many thousands of stars. I have,

many a night, in the course of eleven or twelve hours
of observation, carefully and singly examined not less
than 400 celestial objects, besides taking measures, and
sometimes viewing a particular star for half an hour

together."

The fourth review began with the twenty-

foot, in 1784.                    of sweeps  when the
   " My brother began his series

instrument was yet in a very unfinished state, and my

Ifeelings were not very comfortable when every moment

was alarmed by a crack or fall, knowing him to be ele

vated fifteen feet or more on a temporary cross-beam, in

stead of a safe gallery. The ladders had not even their

braces at the bottom ; and one night, in a very high

wind, he had hardly touched the ground before the whole

apparatus came down. Some laboring men were called

up to help in extricating the mirror, which was, fortu

nately, uninjured, but much work was cut out for car

Ipenters next day.  could give a pretty long list of

accidents which were near proving fatal to my brother as
of William Herschel.  75

well as myself. To make observations with such large
machinery, where all around is in darkness, is not unat

tended with danger, especially when personal safety is
the last thing with which the mind is occupied ; even
poor Piazzi did not go home without getting broken
shins by falling over the rack-bar.

   " In the long days of the summer months many ten

and seven foot mirrors were finished ; there was nothing
but grinding and polishing to be seen. For ten-foot,
several had been cast with ribbed backs, by way of ex

periment, to reduce the weight in large mirrors. In my

leisure hours I ground seven-foot and plain mirrors from

rough to fining down, and was indulged with polishing
and the last finishing of a very beautiful mirror for Sir

William Watson.
    " An account of the discoveries made with the twenty-

foot and the improvements of the mechanical parts of

the instrument during the winter of 1785 is given with
the catalogue of the first 1,000 new nebulae. By which
account it must plainly appear that the expenses of these
improvements, and those which were yet to be made in
the apparatus of the twenty-foot (which, in fact, proved
to be a model of a larger instrument), could not be sup
plied out of a salary of ^200 a year, especially as my
brother's finances had been too much reduced during

the six months before he received his first quarterly pay
ment of fifty pounds (which was Michaelmas, 1782).
Travelling from Bath to London, Greenwich, Windsor,
backwards and forwards, transporting the telescope, etc.,
76 Life and Works

breaking up his establishment at Bath and forming a
new one near the court, all this, even leaving such per
sonal conveniences as he had for many years been used
to, out of the question, could not be obtained for a
trifle ; a good large piece of ground was required for
the use of the instruments, and a habitation in which he
could receive and offer a bed to an astronomical friend,
was necessary after a night's observation.

   " It seemed to be supposed that enough had been

done when my brother was enabled to leave his profes
sion that he might have time to make and sell tele
scopes. The king ordered four ten-foot himself, and
many seven-foot besides had been bespoke, and much
time had already been expended on polishing the mirrors
for the same. But all this was only retarding the work
of a thirty or forty foot instrument, which it was my
brother's chief object to obtain as soon as possible ; for
he was then on the wrong side of forty-five, and felt how
great an injustice he would be doing to himself and to
the cause of astronomy by giving up his time to making
telescopes for other observers.

   " Sir William Watson, who often in the lifetime of

his father came to make some stay with us at Datchet,
saw my brother's difficulties, and expressed great dis
satisfaction. On his return to Bath he met, among the
visitors there, several belonging to the court, to whom he
gave his opinion concerning his friend and his situation
very freely. In consequence of this, my brother had

soon after, through Sir J. Banks, the promise that
of William Herschel.  77

^2,000 would be granted for enabling him to make him

self an instrument.
    " Immediately every preparation for beginning the

great work commenced. A very ingenious smith (Cam

pion), who was seeking employment, was secured by my

brother, and a temporary forge erected in an upstairs

room."

   The sale of these telescopes of Herschel's
must have produced a large sum, for he had

made before 1795 more than two hundred
seven-feet, one hundred and fifty ten-feet,

and eighty twenty-feet mirrors. For many
of the telescopes sent abroad no stands were
constructed. The mirrors and eye- pieces

alone were furnished, and a drawing of the

stand sent with them by which the mirrors

could be mounted.

   In 1785 the cost of a seven-foot telescope,

six and four-tenths inches aperture, stand,

eye-pieces, etc., complete, was two hundred
guineas, a ten-foot was six hundred guineas,
and a twenty-foot about 2,500 to 3,000 guin

eas. He had made four ten-foot telescopes
like this for the king. In 1787 Schroeter

got the mirrors and eye-pieces only for a four
78 Life and Works

and-threc-quarter-inch reflector for five guin
eas ; those for his seven-foot telescope were

twenty-three guineas. Later a seven-foot tel
escope, complete, was sold for one hundred
guineas, and the twenty-five-foot reflector,
made for the Madrid observatory, cost them

75,000 francs = $15,000.* It was ordered in

1796, but not delivered for several years,

the Spanish government being short of

money. For a ten and a seven foot tel

escope, the Prince of Canino paid ,£2,310.

   Von Magellan writes to Bode concern

ing a visit to Herschel : f

" I spent the night of the 6th of January at Her-

schel's, in Datchet, near Windsor, and had the good luck

to hit on a fine evening. He has his twenty-foot New

tonian telescope in the open air and mounted in his gar

den very simply and conveniently. It is moved by an

...assistant, who stands below it. . . . Near the instru
ment is a clock regulated to sidereal time.     In the

room near it sits Herschel's sister, and she has Flam-

steed's Atlas open before her. As he gives her the

word, she writes down the declination and right ascen

sion and the other circumstances of the observation. In

* Zach's Monatlick Correspondenz, 1802, p. 56.

f Bode's Jahrbuch, 1788, p. 161.
of William Herschel.                       79

this way Herschel examines the whole sky without

omitting the least part. He commonly observes with a

magnifying power of one hundred and fifty, and is sure

that after four or five years he will have passed in re

view every object above our horizon. He showed me

the book in which his observations up to this time are

Iwritten, and am astonished at the great number of

them. Each sweep covers 2° 15' in declination, and
he lets each star pass at least three times through the

field of his telescope, so that it is impossible that any-

thing can escape him. He has already found about 900
Idouble stars and almost as many nebula?.
                                           went to bed

about one o'clock, and up to that time, he had found

that night four or five new nebulas. The thermometer

in the garden stood at 130 Fahrenheit ; but, in spite of

this, Herschel observes the whole night through, except

that he stops every three or four hours and goes in the

room for a few moments. For some years Herschel

has observed the heavens every hour when the weather is

clear, and this always in the open air, because he says

that the telescope only performs well when it is at the

same temperature as the air. He protects himself against

the weather by putting on more clothing. He has an

excellent constitution, and thinks about nothing else in

the world but the celestial bodies. He has promised me

in the most cordial way, entirely in the service of astron

omy, and without thinking of his own interest, to see to the

Itelescopes have ordered for European observatories, and

he will himself attend to the preparation of the mirrors."
So Life and Works

   It was at this time, 1 783, May 8, that
Hersciiel married. His wife was the daugh
ter of Mr. James Baldwin, a merchant of
the city of London, and the widow of John
Pitt, Esq. She is described as a lady of

singular amiability and gentleness of charac
ter. She was entirely interested in his sci
entific pursuits, and the jointure which she
brought removed all further anxiety about

money affairs. They had but one child, John
Frederick William, born March 7, 1792.*

   The house at Datchet became more and

  * Through Sir John Herschel there is preserved to us an inci

dent of his early boyhood, which shows the nature of the training

his young mind received in the household at Slough.

Walking with his father, he asked him ' ' What was the oldest of

all  things    "  The father replied, after the Socratic manner, ' ' And

             ?

what do you suppose is the oldest of all things ? " The boy was not

successful in his answers, whereon the old astronomer took up a

small stone from the garden walk : " There, my child, there is the

Ioldest of all the things that certainly know." On another occa

sion the father asked his son, " What sort of things do you think
are most alike ? " The boy replied, "The leaves of the same tree

are most like each other." "Gather, then, a handful of leaves

from that tree," rejoined the philosopher, "and choose two which
are alike." --Monthly Notices Royal Astronomical Society, vol. xxxii.,

page 123.
of William Herschel.  81

more unfit for the needs of the family, and
in June, 1785, a move was made to Clay
Hall, in Old Windsor. The residence here
was but short, and finally a last change was
made to Slough on April, 3d, 1786.

   The ardor of the work during these years
can be judged of by a single sentence from

Carolina Herschel's diary :

   " The last night at Clay Hall was spent in sweeping
till daylight, and by the next evening the telescope stood
ready for observation at Slough."

   From 1786 until his death, Herschel re

mained at Slough ; his life, truly speaking,

was in his observatory.

   It is indeed true, as Arago has said in his

eloquent tribute to him : " On peut dire
hardiment du jardin et de la petite maison de
Slough, que c'est le lieu du monde ou il a
ete fait le plus de decouvertes. Le nom de
ce village ne perira pas ; les sciences le
transmettront religieusement a nos derniers

neveux."

   Herschel's first contribution to the Phil

osophical Transactions was printed in the

                      4*
82 Life and Works

volume for 1780, his last in that for 18 18.

Of these thirty-nine volumes, there are only

two (1813 and 181 7) which contain no paper
from his hand, and many volumes contain

more than one, as he published no less than

sixty-eight memoirs in this place.

   And yet it must not be thought that his

was an austere and prave existence. Music,

which he loved to enthusiasm, was still a de

light to him. All the more that his devo

tion was free. The glimpses which we get

of his life with his friends show him always

cheerful, ardent, and devoted. Even in his

later years, he had not lost a " boyish ear
                        "
nestness  to  explain      his  simplicity  and the
                       ;

charm of his manner struck every one.

   " Hersciiel, you know, and everybody

knows, is one of the most pleasing and well-

bred natural characters of the present age,"

says Dr. Burney, who had opportunity to

know.

The portrait which is given in the frontis

piece must have been painted about this time

(1788), and the eager, ardent face shows his

inner life far better than any words can do.
of William Herschel.  83

   Even in his scientific writings, which every
thing conspired to render grave and sober,
the almost poetic nature of his mind shows
forth. In one of his (unpublished) note
books, now in the Royal Society's library, I

found this entry :

   "640th Sweep --November 28, 1786. --The nebula of

IOrion, which saw by the front view, was so glaring and
Ibeautiful that could not think of taking any place of

its extent."

   He was quite alone under the perfectly si
lent sky when this was written, and he was
at his post simply to make this and other
such observations. But the sky was beauti
ful to him, and his faithful sister, Carolina,

sitting below, has preserved for us the words
as they dropped from his lips.

   On the nth of January, 1787, Herschel

discovered two satellites to Uranus.

   After he had well assured himself of their

existence, but before he communicated his

discovery to the world, he made this cru

cial test. He prepared a sketch of Uranus

attended by his two satellites, as it would ap
84 Life and Works

pear on the night of February 10, 1787, and
when the night came, " the heavens displayed
the original of my drawings, by showing in
the situation I had delineated them the Geor
gian planet attended by two satellites. I con
fess that this scene appeared to me with ad
ditional beauty, as the little secondary plan
ets seemed to give a dignity to the primary
one which raises it into a more conspicuous
situation among the great bodies of the solar
system." . . .

   In a memoir of 1789, he has a few sen
tences which show the living way in which

the heavens appeared to him :

   " This method of viewing the heavens seems to throw
them into a new kind of light.

   " They are now seen to resemble a luxuriant garden,
which contains the greatest variety of productions in dif
ferent flourishing beds ; and one advantage we may at

least reap from it that we can, as were, extend the

range of our experience to an immense duration. For
      not almost the same thing whether we live succes

sively to witness the germination, blooming, foliage, fe
cundity, fading, withering, and corruption of plant, or
whether vast number of specimens selected from every
is                                     it
   it
                                                       a
                                  is,

a
               of William Herschel.                                    85

stage through which the plant passes in the course of
                                                                    "
its existence  be brought  at  once  to                our  view
                                                                  ?

   The thought here is no less finely ex
pressed than it is profound. The simile is
perfect, if we have the power to separate

among the vast variety each state of being
from every other, and if the very luxuriance
of illustration in the heavens does not bewil

der and overpower the mind. It was precisely
this discriminating power that Herschel

possessed in perfection.
   There is a kind of humor in the way he

records a change of opinion :

   " I formerly supposed the surface of Saturn's ring to

be rough, owing to luminous points like mountains seen
on till one of these was kind enough to venture off the
edge of the ring and appear as satellite."
it,
                                                    a

   In 1782 he replies with a certain concealed

sharpness to the idea that he used magnify
ing powers which were too high. There
tone almost of impatience, as he were con
scious he was replying to criticism based
on ignorance
               :

                                          a

                                        if

                                                                      is
                                                                          a
86 Life and Works

   " We arc told that we gain nothing by magnifying too

much. I grant it ; but shall never believe I magnify
too much till by experience I find that I can see better

with a lower power." (1782.)

   By 1 786, when he returns to this subject,
in answer to a formal request to explain his
use of high magnifiers, he is quite over any
irritation, and treats the subject almost with
playfulness :

   " Soon after my first essay of using high powers with

the Newtonian telescope, I began to doubt whether an

opinion which has been entertained by several eminent
authors, ' that vision will grow indistinct when the optic
pencils are less than the fiftieth part of an inch,' would

hold good in all cases. I perceived that according to
Ithis criterion was not entitled to see distinctly with a

power of much more than about 320 in a seven-foot tele
scope of an aperture of six and four-tenths inches, whereas

in many experiments I found myself very well pleased with

magnifiers which far exceeded such narrow limits. This
induced me, as it were, by way of apology to myself for

Iseeing well where ought to have seen less distinctly, to

make a few experiments."

   It is needless to say that these experiments
of William Herschel.  87

proved that from the point of view taken by

Herschel, he was quite right, and that his

high powers had numerous valuable applica

tions. He goes on to say :

   " Had it not been for a late conversation with some of

Imy highly esteemed and learned friends, might proba

bly have left the papers on which these experiments were
recorded, among the rest of those that are laid aside,

when they have afforded me the information I want."

   The last sentence seems to be a kind of
notice to his learned friends that there is
yet more unsaid. As a warning to those
to whose criticisms he had replied, he gives
them this picture of the kind of assiduity
which will be required, if some of his obser
vations on double stars are to be repeated :

   " It is in vain to look for these stars if every circum

stance is not favorable. The observer as well as the in
strument must have been long enough out in the open

air to acquire the same temperature. In very cold

weather an hour at least will be required." (1782.)

   We may gain some further insight into his
character from the following chance extracts
from his writings :
88 Life and Works

  I" have all along had truth and reality in view as the

sole object of my endeavors." (1782.)

  " Not being satisfied when I thought it possible to
obtain more accurate measures, I employed [a more

delicate apparatus]." (1783.)

  " To this end I have already begun a series of obser

vations upon several zones of double stars, and should

the result of them be against these conjectures, I shall

be the first to point out their fallacy." (1783.)

   "There is a great probability of succeeding still far
ther in this laborious but delightful research, so as to be
able at last to say not only how much the annual paral
lax is not, but how much it really is." (1782.)

   The nature of his philosophizing, and the
limits which he set to himself, may be more
clearly seen in further extracts :

   " By taking more time [before printing these observa

tions] I should undoubtedly be enabled to speak more

confidently of the interior construction of the heavens,
and of its various nebulous and sidereal strata. As an
apology for this prematurity it may be said that, the end
of all discoveries being communication, we can never be

too ready in giving facts and observations, whatever we
may be in reasoning upon them." (1785.)
of William Herschel.                                    89

   " In an investigation of this delicate nature we ought
to avoid two opposite extremes. If we indulge a fanci

ful imagination, and build worlds of our own, we must

not wonder at our going wide from the path of truth
and nature. On the other hand, if we add observation

to observation without attempting to draw not only cer

tain conclusions but also conjectural views from them,

we offend against the very end for which only obser

Ivations ought to be made.  will endeavor to keep a

Iproper medium, but if should deviate from that, I

could wish not to fall into the latter error." (1785.)

   " As observations carefully made should always take

Ithe lead of theories, I shall not be concerned if what

have to say contradicts what has been said in my last

paper on this subject." (1790.)

   No course of reasoning could be more sim

ple, more exact, more profound, and more
beautiful than this which follows :

   " As it has been shown that the spherical figure of a
cluster is owing to the action of central powers, it fol

lows that those clusters which, ceteris paribus, are the
most complete in this figure, must have been the longest
exposed to the action of these causes. Thus the matu
rity of a sidereal system may be judged from the disposi
tion of the component parts.

    " Hence planetary nebute may be looked on as very
90 Life and Works

aged. Though we cannot see any individual nebula
pass through all its stages of life, we can select particu
lar ones in each peculiar stage." (1789.)

   There is something almost grandiose and
majestic in his statement of the ultimate des
tiny of the Galaxy :

                       " To him the fates were known

                Of orbs dim hovering on the skirts of space."

   " -- Since the stars of the Milky Way are permanently

exposed to the action of a power whereby they are irre
sistibly drawn into groups, we may be certain that from
mere clustering stars they will be gradually compressed,
through successive stages of accumulation, till they come
up to what may be called the ripening period of the
globular form, and total insulation ; from which it is
evident that the Milky Way must be finally broken up
and cease to be a stratum of scattered stars.

   " The state into which the incessant action of the clus
tering power has brought it at present, is a kind of chro

nometer that may be used to measure the time of its
past and future existence ; and although we do not
know the rate of going of this mysterious chronometer,
it is nevertheless certain that since the breaking up of

the Milky Way affords a proof that it cannot last forever,
it equally bears witness that its past duration cannot be
admitted to be infinite." (1814.)
of William Herschel.  91

   Herschel's relations with his cotempora-

ries were usually of the most pleasant char

acter, though seldom intimate. This peace

was broken but by one unpleasant occur

rence. In the Philosophical Transactions for
1 792, Schroeter had communicated a series

of observations made with one of Her

schel's own telescopes on the atmospheres of

Venus, the Moon, etc. It was not only an

account of phenomena which had been seen ;
it was accompanied by measures, and the
computations based on these led to heights
and dimensions for mountains on Venus

which were, to say the least, extravagant.
The adjective will not seem too strong when
we say that the very existence of the moun

tains themselves is to-day more than doubt

ful.

   The appearances seen by Schroeter were

described by him in perfectly good faith, and

similar ones have been since recorded. His

reasoning upon them was defective, and the
measures which he made were practically

valueless. This paper, printed in the Trans
actions of the Royal Society, to which
92 Life and Works

Sciiroeter had not before contributed, ap
pears to have irritated Herschel.

    No doubt there were not wanting mem
bers of his own society who hinted that on
the Continent, too, there were to be found

great observers, and that here, at least, Her
schel had been anticipated even in his own

field. I have always thought that the me

moir of Herschel which appeared in the next

volume of the Transactions (1793), Obser
vations on the Planet Venus, was a rejoinder
intended far more for the detractors at home

than for the astronomer abroad. The re
view is conceived in a severe spirit. The

first idea seems to be to crush an opposition

which he feels. The truth is established,

but its establishment is hardly the first ob

ject.

   It seems as if Herschel had almost al

lowed himself to be forced into a position of
arrogance, which his whole life shows was en

tirely foreign to his nature. All through the
review he does not once mention Schroeter's
name. He says :
of William Herschcl.  93

   " A series of observations on Venus, begun by me in
April, 1777, has been continued down to the present time.

. . . The result of my observations would have been

communicated long ago if I had not flattered myself with

the hope of some better success concerning the diurnal
motion of Venus, which has still eluded my constant

attention as far as concerns its period and direction.

I. . . Even at this present time should hesitate to

give the following extracts if it did not seem incumbent

on me to examine by what accident I came to overlook

mountains in this planet of such enormous height as to ex

ceed four, five, or even six times the perpendicular height
of Chimboraco, the highest of our mountains.
The same paper contains other particulars concerning

IVenus and Saturn. All of which being things of which

have never taken any notice, it will not be amiss to show,
by what follows, that neither want of attention, nor a de
ficiency of instruments, would occasion my not perceiv
ing these mountains of more than twenty-three miles in

height, this jagged border of Venus, and these flat,

spherical forms on Saturn."

   The reply of Schroeter (1795) is temper
ate and just. It does him honor, and he

generously gives full justice to his critic.

   It would hardly be worth while to mention

this slight incident if it were not that during

these years there certainly existed a feeling
94 Life and Works

that Herschel undervalued the labors of his

cotemporaries.

   This impression was fostered no doubt by
his general habit of not quoting previous
authorities in the fields which he was work

ing.

  A careful reading of his papers will, I

think, show that his definite indebtedness
to his cotemporaries was vanishingly small.

The work of Michell and Wilson he al

ludes to again and again, and always with
appreciation. Certainly he seems to show a

vein of annoyance that the papers of Chris
tian Mayer, De novis in coelo sidereo phce-
nomenis (1779), and Beobachttmgen von Fix-

sterntrabantcn (1778), should have been
quoted to prove that the method proposed

by Herschel in 1782 for ascertaining the

parallax of the fixed stars by means of ob
servations of those which were double, was
not entirely original with himself.

    There is direct proof that it was so,* and
if this was not forthcoming it would be un-

                 * Memoir of Caroline Herschel, p. 42.
of William Herschel.  95

necessary, as he has amply shown in his
Catalogue of Double Stars. One is reminded
of his remarks on the use of the high magni

fying powers by the impatience of his com

ments.

   His proposal to call the newly discovered

minor planets asteroids (1802) was received
as a sign that he wished to discriminate be
tween the discoveries of Piazzi and Olbers
and his own discovery of Uranus*

   He takes pains to quietly put this on one

side in one of his papers, showing that he
was cognizant of the existence of such a feel

ing.

   I am tempted to resurrect from a deserved
obscurity a notice of Herschel's Observations
on the Two Lately Discovered Celestial Bodies

  * " Of late years these expectations have been more than accom

plished by the discovery of no fewer than four planetary bodies,

almost all in the same place ; but so small that Dr. Herschel re

fuses to honor them with the name of planets, and chooses to call
them asteroids, though for what reason it is not easy to determine,

unless it be to deprive the discoverers of these bodies of any pre

tence for rating themselves as high in the list of astronomical dis

coverers as himself." -- History of the Royal Society, by Thomas
Thomson, p. 358. This work was published in 1812, and there
fore during the lifetime of Herschel.
96 Life and Works

(Philosophical Transactions, 1802), printed in
the first volume of the Edinburgh Review,
simply to show the kind of envy to which
even he, the glory of England, was subject.

    The reviewer sets forth the principal re
sults of Herschel's observations, and, after
quoting his definition of the new term aste
roid, goes on to say :

   " If a new name must be found, why not call them by

some appellation which shall, in some degree, be de
scriptive of, or at least consistent with, their properties ?
Why not, for instance, call them Concentric Comets, or

Planetary Comets, or Cometary Planets J or, if a single

term must be found, why may we not coin such a phrase
as Planetoid or Cometoid ? "

   Then follows a general arraignment of
Herschel's methods of expression and
thought, as distinguished from his powers of
mere observation. This distinction, it may
be said, exists only in the reviewer's mind ;

there was no such distinction in fact. If ever

a series of observations was directed by pro

found and reasonable thought, it was Her

schel's own.
of William Herschel.  97

   " Dr. Herschel's passion for coining words and idi

oms has often struck us as a weakness wholly unworthy
of him. The invention of a name is but a poor achieve
ment for him who has discovered whole worlds. Why,
for instance, do we hear him talking of the space-penetrat

ing power of his instrument --a compound epithet and

metaphor which he ought to have left to the poets, who,

in some future age, shall acquire glory by celebrating his

name. The other papers of Dr. Herschel, in the late

volumes of the Transactions, do not deserve such par
ticular attention. His catalogue of 500 new nebula?,
though extremely valuable to the practical astronomer,
leads to no general conclusions of importance, and
abounds with the defects which are peculiar to the Doc
tor's writings -- a great prolixity and tediousness of nar
ration --loose and often unphilosophical reflections, which

give no very favorable idea of his scientific powers, how
ever great his merit may be as an observer -- above all,
that idle fondness for inventing names without any man
ner of occasion, to which we have already alluded, and a

*******use of novel and affected idioms.
   " To the speculations of the Doctor on the nature of

the Sun, we have many similar objections ; but they are
all eclipsed by the grand absurdity which he has there
committed, in his hasty and erroneous theory concerning
the influence of the solar spots on the price of grain.
Since the publication of Gulliver's voyage to Laputa,
nothing so ridiculous has ever been offered to the world.

                       5
98 Life and Works

We heartily wish the Doctor had suppressed   it ; or, if
                                                in lan
determined to publish  that he had detailed
       is

                                ; it,

                                   it

                                              is

                                                it

                                                                      it
                                                                            a
guage less confident and flippant."

One    almost ashamed to give space and

currency to a forgotten attack, but yields

kind of perspective and              instructive and

perhaps useful to view Herschel's labors

from all sides, even from wrong and envious

ones.

The study of the original papers, together

with knowledge of the circumstances
       a
                                                                          a in
which they were written, will abundantly
show that Herschel's ideas sprung from

profound meditation of the nature of things

in themselves. What the origin of trains of

thought prosecuted for years may have been

we cannot say, nor could he himself have ex

pressed it. A new path in science was to be

found out, and he found it.          was not in his
I
                                  it

                                  It

                                                                                                                                      ;
closet, surrounded by authorities, but under

the open sky, that he meditated the construc

tion of the heavens. As he says, " My situa

tion permitted me not to consult large libra

ries; nor, indeed, was       very material for

as intended to view the heavens myself,
of William Herschel.  99

Nature, that great volume, appeared to me
to contain the best catalogue."

   His remarkable memoirs on the invisible

and other rays of the solar spectrum were re
ceived with doubt, and with open denial by
many of the scientific bodies of Europe.
The reviews and notices of his work in this

direction were often quite beyond the bounds

of a proper scientific criticism ; but Her
schel maintained a dignified silence. The

discoveries were true, the proofs were open
to all, and no response was needed from him.

He may have been sorely tempted to reply,
but I am apt to believe that the rumors that

reached him from abroad and at home did

not then affect him as they might have done

earlier. He was at his grand climacteric,

he had passed his sixty-third year, his tem
per was less hasty than it had been in his
youth, and his nerves had not yet received
the severe strain from whose effects he suf

fered during the last years of his life.

We have some glimpses of his personal
IOO Life and Works

life in the reminiscences of him in the Diary
and Letters of Madame D'Arblay, who knew

him well :

   " 1786. -- In the evening Mr. Herschel came to tea.

I had once seen that very extraordinary man at Mrs.

de Luc's, but was happy to see him again, for he has not
more fame to awaken curiosity than sense and modesty
to gratify it. He is perfectly unassuming, yet openly
happy, and happy in the success of those studies which
would render a mind less excellently formed presump
tuous and arrogant.

   " The king has not a happier subject than this man,
who owes it wholly to His Majesty that he is not wretched;
for such was his eagerness to quit all other pursuits to
follow astronomy solely, that he was in danger of ruin,

when his talents and great and uncommon genius at

tracted the king's patronage. He has now not only his
pension, which gives him the felicity of devoting all his
time to his darling study, but he is indulged in license
from the king to make a telescope according to his new
ideas and discoveries, that is to have no cost spared in its
construction, and is wholly to be paid for by His Majesty.

   " This seems to have made him happier even than the
pension, as it enables him to put in execution all his
wonderful projects, from which his expectations of future

discoveries are so sanguine as to make his present exist

ence a state of almost perfect enjoyment. Mr. Locke
himself would be quite charmed with him.
of William Herschel.                                 101

   " He seems a man without a wish that has its object
in the terrestrial globe. At night Mr. Herschel, by the
king's command, came to exhibit to His Majesty and the

royal family the new comet lately discovered by his sis

ter, Miss Herschel ; and while I was playing at piquet

with Mrs. Schwellenburg, the Princess Augusta came
into the room and asked her if she chose to go into the

garden and look at it. She declined the offer, and the

Iprincess then made it to me. was glad to accept it for

all sorts of reasons. We found him at his telescope.
The comet was very small, and had nothing grand or

striking in its appearance ; but it is the first lady's comet,

Iand was very desirous to see it. Mr. Herschel then

showed me some of his new discovered universes, with

all the good humor with which he would have taken the

same trouble for a brother or a sister astronomer ; there

is no possibility of admiring his genius more than his

 gentleness."

   " 1786, December yith. --This morning my dear father
carried me to Dr. Herschel. That great and very ex

traordinary man received us almost with open arms.

He is very fond of my father, who is one of the council of
...the Royal Society this year, as well as himself.
                                                     At

this time of day there was nothing to see but his instru
...ments ; those, however, are curiosities sufficient.
                                                          I

wished very much to have seen his sister, . . . but

she had been up all night, and was then in bed."

"1787, September. -- Dr. Herschel is a delightful man ;
102 Life and Works

so unassuming with his great knowledge, so willing to
dispense it to the ignorant, and so cheerful and easy in
his general manners, that, were he no genius, it would be
impossible not to remark him as a pleasing and sensible
man."

   " 1788, October 7,d. -- We returned to Windsor at noon,
and Mrs. de Luc sent me a most pressing invitation to
tea and to hear a little music. Two young ladies were
to perform at her house in a little concert. Dr. Her.
schel was there, and accompanied them very sweetly
on the violin ; his new-married wife was with him, and
his sister. His wife seems good-natured ; she was rich,

too ! and astronomers are as able as other men to dis
cern that gold can glitter as well as stars."

DR. BURNEY TO MADAME D'ARBLAY.

a* * * * *  " Chelsea College,
                   " September 28, 1798.

  " I drove through Slough in order to ask at Dr. Her-

schel's door when my visit would be least inconvenient
to him-- that night or next morning. The good soul

*******was at dinner, but came to the door himself, to press me

to alight immediately and partake of his family repast ;

and this he did so heartily that I could not resist.
" I expected (not knowing that Herschel was mar-
of William Herschcl.  103

ried) only to have found Miss Herschel; but there was

a very old lady, the mother, I believe, of Mrs. Her

schel, who was at the head of the table herself, and a
Scots lady (a Miss Wilson, daughter of Dr. Wilson, of
Glasgow, an eminent astronomer), Miss Herschel, and
a little boy. They rejoiced at the accident which had

Ibrought me there, and hoped would send my carriage

away and take a bed with them. They were sorry they

had no stables for my horses.

  I" We soon grew acquainted -- mean the ladies and I

--and before dinner was over we seemed old friends just

met after a long absence. Mrs. Herschel is sensible,
good-humored, unpretending, and well bred ; Miss Her
schel all shyness and virgin modesty ; the Scots lady

sensible and harmless ; and the little boy entertaining,

promising, and comical. Herschel, you know, and

everybody knows, is one of the most pleasing and well-

bred natural characters of the present age, as well as the

greatest astronomer.

   " Your health was drunk after dinner (put that into

your pocket), and after much social conversation and a

few hearty laughs, the ladies proposed to take a walk, in

order, I believe, to leave Herschel and me together.

We walked and talked round his great telescopes till it

grew damp and dusk, then retreated into his study to

*******philosophize.
  " He made a discovery to me, which, had I known it

sooner, would have overset me, and prevented my read
io4 Life and Works

ing any part of my work.* He said that he had almost
always had an aversion to poetry, which he regarded as
the arrangement of fine words, without any useful mean
ing or adherence to truth ; but that when truth and sci
ence were united to these fine words, he liked poetry
very well."

                       1798, December 10.

DR. BURNEY TO MADAME D'ARBLAY.

" Herschel has been in town for short spurts, and

back again two or three times, leaving Mrs. Herschel

behind (in town) to transact law business. I had him

here two whole days."

   The reading of the manuscript of the Poetical His
tory of Astronomy was continued, " and Herschel was

so humble as to confess that I knew more of the his

tory of astronomy than he did, and had surprised him

with the mass of information I had got together.

   " He thanked me for the entertainment and instruc

tion I had given him.  ' Can anything be   grander    '  and
                                                    ?

all this before he knows a word of what I have said of

himself-- all his discoveries, as you may remember, being

kept back for the twelfth and last book."

  * Poetical History of Astronomy : this work was nearly completed,
but was never published. The whole of it was read to Herschel,

in order that BURNEY might have the benefit of his criticism on its

technical terms.
               of William Herschcl.

           DR. BURNEY TO MADAME D'ARBLAY.

                            " Slough, Monday morning. July 22, 1799,

                                       in bed at Dr. Herschel's, half-past

                            Ifive, where can neither sleep nor lie

                                            idle.

  " My Dear Fanny I:-- believe I told you on Friday
that I was going to finish the perusal of my astronomical

*******verses to the great astronomer on Saturday.
   " After tea Dr. Herschel proposed that we two should

retire into a quiet room in order to resume the perusal of
my work, in which no progress has been made since last
December. The evening was finished very cheerfully ;
and we went to our bowers not much out of humor with
each other or the world. . . . After dinner we all

agreed to go to the terrace [at Windsor] -- Mr., Mrs., and
Miss H., with their nice little boy, and three young

Iladies. Here I met with almost everybody wished and

*******expected to see previous to the king's arrival.
  " But now here comes Will, and I must get up, and

make myself up to go down to the perusal of my last
book, entitled Herschel. So good-morrow."

                                                         "Chelsea, Tuesday.

   " Not a moment could I get to write till now. . . .

I must tell you that Herschel proposed to me to go
io6 Life and Works

with him to the king's concert at night, he having per

mission to go when he chooses, his five nephews (Gries-

bachs) making a principal part of the band.            'And,'
'Isays he,
            know you will be welcome.' "

   An intimacy was gradually established be
tween Herschel and Dr. Burney. They

saw each other often at the meetings of the

Royal Society, and Herschel frequently

stayed at the doctor's house. " On the first

evening Herschel spent at Chelsea, when I
called for my Argand lamp, Herschel, who

had not seen one of those lamps, was sur

prised at the great effusion of light, and im

mediately calculated the difference between

that and a single candle, and found it six
teen to one." *

   In 1793 we find Herschel as a witness for
his friend James Watt, in the celebrated
case of Watt vs. Bull, which was tried in
the Court of Common Pleas. And from
Muirhead's Life of Watt, it appears that
Herschel visited Watt at Heathfield in

1 8 10.

            Memoirs of Dr. Burney, vol. iii., p. 264.
of William Herschcl.

   A delightful picture of the old age of Her-

schel is given by the poet Campbell,*

whose nature was fitted to perceive the

beauties of a grand and simple character like

Herschel's :

                                          " [Brighton], September 15, 1813.

  . . . . " I wish you had been with me the day be

Ifore yesterday, when you would have joined me, am

sure, deeply in admiring a great, simple, good eld man--

Dr. Herschel. Do not think me vain, or at least put

up with my vanity, in saying that I almost flatter myself
I have made him my friend. I have got an invitation,

and a pressing one, to go to his house ; and the lady who

...introduced me to him, says he spoke of me as if he
would really be happy to see me.  I spent all

Sunday with him and his family. His son is a prodigy

in sciences, and fond of poetry, but very unassuming.

. . . Now, for the old astronomer himself. His sim

plicity, his kindness, his anecdotes, his readiness to ex

plain -- and make perfectly conspicuous too--his own

sublime conceptions of the universe are indescribably

charming. He is seventy-six, but fresh and stout ; and

there he sat, nearest the door, at his friend's house, al

ternately smiling at a joke, or contentedly sitting without
share or notice in the conversation. Any train of con-

  * Life and Letters of Thomas Campbell, edited by William
Beattie, vol. ii., p. 234.
io8 Life and Works

versation he follows implicitly ; anything you ask he
labors with a sort of boyish earnestness to explain.

  I" was anxious to get from him as many particulars as
I could about his interview with Buonaparte.* The

latter, it was reported, had astonished him by his astro
nomical knowledge.

   " ' No,' he said, ' the First Consul did surprise me by his

quickness and versatility on all subjects ; but in science
he seemed to know little more than any well-educated
gentleman, and of astronomy much less for instance than

our own king. His general air,' he said, ' was something
like affecting to know more than he did know.' He was

high, and tried to be great with Herschel, I suppose,

'Iwithout success ; and remarked,' said the astronomer,

' his hypocrisy in concluding the conversation on astron
omy by observing how all these glorious views gave

proofs of an Almighty Wisdom.' I asked him if he

thought the system of Laplace to be quite certain, with

regard to the total security of the planetary system from
the effects of gravitation losing its present balance ? He
said, No ; he thought by no means that the universe was
secured from the chance of sudden losses of parts.

    " He was convinced that there had existed a planet be
tween Mars and Jupiter, in our own system, of which the
little asteroids, or planetkins, lately discovered, are in
dubitably fragments ; and ' Remember,' said he, ' that

   * This interview must have taken place in 1802, during Her-
schel's journey to Paris. We have no other record of it.
of William Herschel.                                iog

though they have discovered only four of those parts,
there will be thousands -- perhaps thirty thousand more --

yet discovered.' This planet he believed to have been

lost by explosion.
   " With great kindness and patience he referred me, in

the course of my attempts to talk with him, to a theorem
in Newton's ' Principles of Natural Philosophy ' in

which the time that the light takes to travel from the sun

is proved with a simplicity which requires but a few steps
in reasoning. In talking of some inconceivably distant

bodies, he introduced the mention of this plain theorem,

to remind me that the progress of light could be measured

in the one case as well as the other. Then, speaking of

himself, he said, with a modesty of manner which quite

overcame me, when taken together with the greatness of

the assertion : ' I have looked further into space than ever
Ihuman being did before me.
                             have observed stars, of

which the light, it can be proved, must take two millions

of years to reach this earth.'

  " I really and unfeignedly felt at this moment as if I had

been conversing with a supernatural intelligence. ' Nay,
more,' said he, ' if those distant bodies had ceased to

exist two millions of years ago, we should still see them,

as the light would travel after the body was gone.             '
                                                    ..

These were Herschel's words ; and if you had heard

him speak them, you would not think he was apt to tell

more than the truth.

  " After leaving Herschel I felt elevated and over

come ; and have in writing to you made only this memo
I IO Life and Works

randum of some of the most interesting moments of my
life."

    Campbell's conscientious biographer ap
pears to have felt that the value of this
charminof account of his interview with Her-
schel was in its report of astronomical facts
and opinions, and he adds a foot-note to
explain that " Herschel's opinion never
amounted to more than hypothesis having

some degree of probability. Sir John Her-
sciiel remembers his father saying, ' If that

ifhypothesis were true, and the planet de

stroyed were as large as the earth, there

must have been at least thirty-thousand such

fragments,' but always as an hypothesis -- he

was never heard to declare any degree of
conviction that it was so."

   For us, the value of this sympathetic ac
count of a day in Herschel's life is in its

conception of the simplicity, the modesty,
the " boyish earnestness," the elevation of

thought and speech of the old philosopher;
and in the impression made on the feelings,
not the mind, of the poet, then thirty-five

years old.
of William Herschel.                  111

   In a letter to Alison, Campbell reverts

with great pleasure to the day spent with

Herschel :

*******" Sydenham, December 12, 1813.

" My dearest Alison : --
  " I spent three weeks with my family at Brighton, in

charming weather, and was much pleased with, as well as

benefited by, the place. There I met a man with whom

you will stare at the idea of my being congenial, or hav
...ing the vanity to think myself so -- the great Herschel.
He is a simple, great being.  I once in my life

looked at Newton's Principia, and attended an astro

nomical class at Glasgow ; wonderful it seemed to my

self, that the great man condescended to understand my

questions ; to become apparently earnest in communi
cating to me as much information as my limited capacity
and preparation for such knowledge would admit. He

invited me to see him at his own abode, and so kindly

Ithat could not believe that it was mere good breeding ;
Ibut a sincere wish to see me again.
                                      had a full day

with him ; he described to me his whole interview with
Buonaparte ; said it was not true, as reported, that
Buonaparte understood astronomical subjects deeply,

but affected more than he knew.

   " In speaking of his great and chief telescope, he said

with an air, not of the . least pride, but with a greatness
112 Life and Works

and simplicity of expression that struck me with won

der, ' I have looked further into space than ever human

*******being did before me. I have observed stars, of which

the light takes two millions of years to travel to this

globe.' I mean to pay him a reverential visit at Slough,

as soon as my book is out, this winter."

   In 1807 Carolina Herschel has this en

try in her diary :

   " October 4. -- My brother came from Brighton. The

same night two parties from the Castle came to see the
comet, and during the whole month my brother had not
an evening to himself. As he was then in the midst of
polishing the forty-foot mirror, rest became absolutely
necessary after a day spent in that most laborious work ;
and it has ever been my opinion that on the 14th of Oc
tober his nerves received a shock of which he never got
the better afterwards."

    In the spring of 1808 he was quite seri
ously ill ; but in May the observing went on
again. In 1809 and 1810 his principal inves
tigations were upon physical subjects (New
ton's rings), and in 181 1 the only long series
of observations was upon the comet of that
year. After 181 1 the state of Herschel's
of William Herschel.  "3

health required that his observations should
be much less frequent. Much of the time
after 181 1 he was absent, and his work at

home consisted largely in arranging the re
sults of his previous labors, and in computa

tions connected with them. All through the
years 1814 to 1822, Herschel's health was
very feeble. The severe winter of 1813-14
had told materially upon him. In 1814,

however, he undertook to repolish the
forty-foot mirror, but was obliged to give it

over.

   He now found it necessary to make fre
quent little excursions for change of air and
scene. His faithful sister remained at home,

bringing order into the masses of manu
script, and copying the papers for the Royal

Society.
    She was sick at heart, fearing that each

time she saw her brother it would be the last.
In 18 18 she says :

  I" Feb. 1 1, went to my brother and remained with him

till the 23d. We spent our time, though not in idleness,
in sorrow and sadness. He is not only unwell, but low in

spirits."
ii4 Life and Works

  In 1818 (December 16), Herschel went to
London to have his portrait painted by Ar-

taud. While he was in London his will was

made.*

   In 1 8 19 there is a glimmer of the old-time
light. In a note Herschel says :

  " Lina :-- There is a great comet. I want you to assist
me. Come to dine and spend the day here. If you can

come soon after one o'clock, we shall have time to pre-

   * The will of Herschel was dated December 17th, 1818.
   " The personal effects were sworn under £6,000. The copyhold

and other lands and tenements at Upton-cum-C'halvey, in the County
of Bucks, and at Slough, he decrees to his son, with £25,000 in
the 3 per cent. Reduced Annuities. £2,000 are given to his brother

Joiiann Dietrich, and annuities of £100 each to his brother
Johann Alexander and to his sister Carolina ; £20 each to his

nephews and nieces, and the residue (with the exception of astro
nomical instruments, telescopes, observations, etc., which he declares
to have given, on account of his advanced age, to his son for the

purpose of continuing his studies) is left solely to Lady Her
schel." -- Gentleman's Magazine, vol. xcii., 1822, p. 650.

   It is not necessary to say here how nobly Sir John Herschel
redeemed the trust confided in him. All the world knows of his Sur

vey of the Southern Heavens, in which he completed the review of
the sky which had been begun and completed for the northern hea
vens by the same instruments in his father's hands. A glance at
the Bibliography at the end of this book will show the titles of sev

eral papers by Sir John, written with the sole object of rendering

his father's labors more complete.
of William Herschel.

pare maps and telescopes.  I saw its situation last night.

It has a long tail.
  " July 4, 1819."

   This note has been carefully kept by his
sister, and on it she has written : " I keep
this as a relic. Every line now traced by the

hand of my dear brother becomes a treasure

to me."

   So the next three years passed away. Sir

William * was daily more and more feeble.

He spent his time in putting his works in

order, but could devote only a few moments

each day to this. His sister says :

" Aug. nth, 12th, 13th, and 14th [1822], I went as usual

to spend some hours of the forenoon with my brother.

  "Aug. 15th. -- I hastened to the spot where I was wont
to find him, with the newspaper which I was to read to
him. But instead I found Mrs. Monson, Miss Bald

win, and Mr. Bulman, from Leeds, the grandson of my

Ibrother's earliest acquaintance in this country.  was

informed my brother had been obliged to return to his

Iroom, whither flew immediately. Lady H. and the

housekeeper were with him, administering everything

  * He was created a knight of the Royal Hanoverian Guelphic
Order in 1816, and was the first President of the Royal Astronomical
Society in 1821, his son being its first Foreign Secretary.
n6 Life and Works

which could be thought of for supporting him. I found

him much irritated at not being able to grant Mr. Bul-

man's request for some token of remembrance for his

Ifather. As soon as he saw me, was sent to the library

to fetch one of his last papers and a plate of the forty-

Ifoot telescope. But for the universe could not have

looked twice at what I had snatched from the shelf, and

when he faintly asked if the breaking up of the Milky

Way was in  said Yes,' and he looked content.
I                                             ;
     iIt,
                                                it
                                '
cannot help remembering this circumstance               I
                                              was the

last time was sent to the library on such an occasion.

That the anxious care for his papers and workrooms

never ended but with his life, was proved by his frequent

whispered inquiries they were locked and the key safe,
I

                if
of which took care to assure him that they were, and
the key in Lady Herschel's hands.

   " After half an hour's vain attempt to support himself,

my brother was obliged to consent to be put to bed,

leaving no hope ever to see him rise again."

   On the 25th of August, 1822, Herschel

died peacefully at the age of eighty-four

years.

   His remains lie in the little church at Up

ton, near Windsor, where a memorial tablet

has been erected by his son.       The epitaph
as follows *
            :

                                                                            is

            * Bode's Jahrbuch, 1823, p. 222.
        of William Herschel.

                          H. S. E.
     Gulielmus Herschel Eques Guelphicus

         Hanoviae natus Angliam elegit patriam
         Astronomis setatis suae praastantissimis

                       Merito annumeratus
               Ut leviora sileantur inventa
           Planetam ille extra Saturni orbitam

                           Primus detexit
               Novis artis adjumentis innixus
              Quae ipse excogitavit et perfecit

                  Coelorum perrupit claustra
     Et remotiora penetrans et explorans spatia

                 Incognitos astrorum ignes
     Astronomorum oculis et intellectui subjecit

                  Qua sedulitate qua solertia
                Corporum et phantasmatum
         Extra systematis nostri fines lucentium

                       Naturam indagaverit
             Quidquid paulo audacius conjecit

               Ingenita temperans verecundia
              Ultro testantur hodie aequales
               Vera esse quae docuit pleraque
     Siquidem certiora futuris ingeniis subsidia

                    Debitura est astronomia
                     Agnoscent forte posteri
            Vitam utilem innocuam amabilem
Non minus felici laborum exitu quam virtutibus
                   Ornatam et vere eximiam
         Morte suis et bonis omnibus deflenda
' Nec tamen immatura clausit

     Die XXV Augusti A. D. CIDI3CCCXXII
             ^Etatis vero suae LXXXIV.
                  Life and Works

                CHAPTER IV.

    REVIEW OF THE SCIENTIFIC LABORS OF
                    WILLIAM HERSCHEL.

   In this chapter I shall endeavor to give

such explanations as will enable the general
reader to follow the course of discovery in
each branch of astronomy and physics, reg
ularly through the period of Herschel's life,
and up to the state in which he left it.

   A more detailed and precise account,

which should appeal directly to the profes
sional astronomer, will not be needed, since

Arago has already fulfilled this want in his

" Analyse de la vie et des travaux de Sir Wil

liam Herschel^ published in 1842. The
few misconceptions there contained will be

easily corrected by those to whom alone
they are of consequence. The latter class of
          of William Herschel.            1 1g

readers may also consult the abstracts of Her-

schel's memoirs, which have been given in

' lA Subject-index and a Synopsis of the Scien
tific Writings of Sir William Herschel"
prepared by Dr. Hastings and myself, and

published by the Smithsonian Institution.
   An accurate sketch of the state of astrono

my in England and on the Continent, in the

years 1 780-1820, need not be given. It will

be enough if we remember that of the chief

observatories of Europe, public and private,

no one was actively devoted to such labors

as were undertaken by Herschel at the very

beginning of his career.

His observations on variable stars, indeed,

were  in  the  same  line  as  those  of  Pigott
                                                                    ;

Flaugergues and Darquier, in France, had

perhaps preceded him in minute scrutiny of

the sun's surface, etc. ; but, even in that de
partment of observation, he at once put an

immense distance between himself and others

by the rapid and extraordinary advances in

the size and in the excellence of his tele

scopes. Before his time the principal aids
to observation were the Gregorian and New
120 Life and Works

tonian telescopes of Short, and the small
achromatics of Dollond.*

   We have seen, in what goes before, how

his patient zeal had succeeded in improving
upon these. There was no delay, and no
rest. Steadily the art of making reflectors
was urged forward, until he had finally in his
hands the forty-foot telescope.

   It must be admitted that this was the

limit to which the manufacture of powerful
telescopes could be pushed in his generation.
The optical and mechanical difficulties which
prevented a farther advance required time
for their solution ; and, indeed, some of these
difficulties are scarcely solved at this day.

It may fairly be said that no reflector larger

than three feet in aperture has yet realized
our expectations.

   * James Short, F.R.S. (1710-1768), and John Dollond, F.R.S.

(1706-1761), were the most celebrated makers of telescopes of their

day. The six-foot Newtonian reflectors of Short (aperture 9.4
inches), and the forty-six-inch achromatics of Dollond (aperture 3.6

inches), were highly esteemed. The Royal Observatory of Green
wich possessed, in 1765, one of each class. In a comparative trial

of Short's telescope, at Greenwich, and one of Herschel's first

telescopes, the latter was adjudged greatly superior.
   of William Herschel.                         121

The Improvement of Telescopes and Opticalit itit
                                            it
                         Apparatus.it,

   It will be of interest to give in this place

some connected account of the large forty-
foot reflector, of four feet aperture, made by

Herschel. Its history extends from 1785
to 181 1. Its manufacture was considered by
his cotemporaries as his greatest triumph. As

a machine, it was extremely ingenious in all
its parts, as may be seen from the elaborate
description and plates of it published in the
Philosophical Transactions for 1795. One
of its mirrors certainly had good definition,
for, by means of the two small satellites of
Saturn {Mimas and Enceladus) were discov
ered, and these discoveries alone would make

    famous. Perhaps more was expected of

    by the public in general than absolutely
performed. Its merits were after a while

decried," and Herschel even felt obliged to

state why he did not always employ in his

observations. His reasons were perfectly

valid, and such as any one may understand.

The time required to get so large machine
                                    a

6
122 Life and Works

into working order was a serious tax ; it re
quired more assistants than his twenty-foot
telescope, and he says, " I have made it a
rule never to employ a larger telescope when
a smaller will answer the purpose."

   It still remains as a remarkable feat of en

gineering and an example of great optical

and mechanical skill. It led the way to the
large reflectors of Lord Rosse, some sixty

years later, and several of the forty-foot tele
scopes of the present day even have done
less useful work. Its great feat, however,
was to have added two satellites to the solar
system. From the published accounts of it
the following is taken :

  " When I resided at Bath I had long been acquainted

with the theory of optics and mechanics, and wanted
only that experience so necessary in the practical part of

Ithese sciences. This acquired by degrees at thai place,
where in my leisure hours, by way of amusement, I made

several two-foot, five-foot, seven-foot, ten-foot, and twenty-
foot Newtonian telescopes, beside others, of the Grego
rian form, of eight, twelve, and eighteen inches, and two,

three, five, and ten feet focal length. In this way I

made not less than two hundred seven-foot, one hundred
               of William Herschel.                    123

and fifty ten-foot, and about eighty twenty-foot mirrors,

not to mention the Gregorian telescopes.*

  I"The number of stands invented for these tele

scopes it would not be easy to assign. . . . In 178 1

I began to construct a thirty-foot aerial reflector, and hav

ing made a stand for  cast the mirror thirty-six inches
                      iIt,
                              I

                                             I

                                                                          it
                                                                                     a
in diameter. This was cracked in cooling.        cast

second time, and the furnace had built in my house

broke."

   Soon after, the Georgian planet was discov
ered, and this interrupted the work for a time.

" In the year 1783 finished           very good twenty-foot
               it, a

                      I
                                  Ia
reflector with large aperture, and mounted upon the
                                           ;
plan of my present telescope. After two years' obser
                                             it
vation with      the great advantage of such apertures

appeared so clearly to me that recurred to my former
intention of increasing them still further and being
now sufficiently provided with experience in the work
which wished to undertake, the President of the Royal
I

             is
Society, who always ready to promote useful under

it,takings, had the goodness to lay my design before the

king. His Majesty was graciously pleased to approve
of and with his usual liberality to support with his
                                           it

royal bounty.

   * At least one of these telescopes had the principal mirror made
of glass instead of metal. --Philosophical Transactions, 1803.
124 Life and Works

   I" In consequence of this arrangement  began to con

struct the forty-foot telescope about the latter end of

1785.* The woodwork of the stand and machines for

giving the required motions to the instrument were im

mediately put in hand. In the whole of the apparatus

Inone but common workmen were employed, for made

drawings of every part of by which was easy to ex
               I

                      ;

                            it,
                                              it

                                                     I
ecute the work, as constantly inspected and directed

every person's labor though sometimes there were not

less than forty different workmen employed at the same

time. While the stand of the telescope was preparing,

also began the construction of the great mirror, of which

I  inspected the casting, grinding, and polishing, and the

work was in this manner carried on with no other inter

ruption than that occasioned by the removal of all the

apparatus and materials from where then lived, to my
                                      I
present situation at Slough.
                                                                               is
   * The following extract from Fourier's Eloge of Herschel

of interest in this connection. The sum first appropriated by the

king was £2,000. This was afterwards raised to £4,000, and a sum

of £200 yearly was given for maintenance.                       un

   " L'histoire doit conserver jamais la re'ponse de ce prince
                  ?] a                                 '
e'tranger celebre [Lalande qui le remerciait des sommes consi'

derables accorde'es pour les progris de l'astronomie.      Jefais les

                                                                     ;a

                                                                                     ;
depenses de la guerre,' dit le roi, parcequ'elles sont necessaires
                  il
                                   '
quant celles des sciences, m'est agreable des les ordonner      leur
objet ne coute point des larmes, et honore 1'humanite. "
   a

            :
   Lalande's own account a little different. He saysis    the king

exclaimed " Ne vaut-il pas mieux employer son argent   a  cela qu'A

faire tuer des hommes "
               ?
of William Herschel.                                           125

"Here, soon after my arrival, I began to lay the

foundation upon which by degrees the whole structure

was raised as it now stands, and the speculum being

highly polished and put into the tube, I had the first view
through it on February 19, 1787. I do not, however, date

the completing of the instrument till much later. For

the first speculum, by a mismanagement of the person

who cast came out thinner on the centre of the back
I
than was intended, and on account of its weakness would
      it
not permit a good figure to be given to it.
       it I
  "A second mirror was cast January 26, 1788, but
                a a it,                                        it,
cracked in cooling. February 16 we recast                                it it
              I                                                and
                                  a
                                         aproved to be of proper degree of strength. October
                                   I
                                                           it
24 was brought to pretty good figure and polish, and
  observed the planet Saturn with it. But not being sat

isfied, continued to work upon till August 27, 1789,

when was tried upon the fixed stars, and found
                                                               I
                                                                    I

                                                                              it
to give pretty sharp image. Large stars were a little

affected with scattered light, owing to many remaining

scratches on the mirror. August the 28th, 1789, having

brought the telescope to the parallel of Saturn, dis

covered sixth satellite of that planet, and also saw the

spots upon Saturn better than had ever seen them be

fore, so that may date the finishing of the forty-foot

telescope from that time."

   Another satellite of Saturn was discovered1
with the forty-foot on the 7th of September

(1789). It was used for various observations
it,126 Life and Works

so late as 1811. On January 19, of that

year, Herschel observed the nebula of Orion
with it. This was one of his last observa

tions.

   The final disposition of the telescope is
told in the following extract from a letter of
Sir John Herschel's to Mr. Weld, Secretary
of the Royal Society :

                                        " Collingwood, March 13, 1847.

   . . . "In reply to your queries, respecting the

forty-foot reflecting telescope constructed by my father,

I have to state that King George III. munificently de

frayed the entire cost of that instrument (including, of
course, all preparatory cost in the nature of construction
of tools, and of the apparatus for casting, grinding, and
figuring the reflectors, of which two were constructed), at
a total cost of ^4,000. The woodwork of the telescope
being so far decayed as to be dangerous, in the year 1839

I pulled it down, and piers were erected on which the

tube was placed, that being of iron and so well preserved,
that, although not more than one-twentieth of an inch
thick, when in the horizontal position it sustained within
it all my family, and continues to sustain inclosed within

    to this day, not only the heavier of the two reflectors,
but also all the more important portions of the machinery.
. . . The other mirror and the rest of the polishing
apparatus are on the premises. The iron grinding tools
of William Herschel.  12J

and polishers are placed underneath the tube, let into the
ground, and level with the surface of the gravelled area
in which it stands." . . .

   The closing of the tube was done with
appropriate ceremony on New-Year's-Day,

1840, when, after a procession through it by

the family at Slough, a poem, written by Sir
John, was read, the machinery put into its

present position, and the tube sealed.
   The memoir on the forty-foot telescope

shows throughout that Herschel's prime

object was not the making of the telescope
itself, but that his mind was constantly di
rected towards the uses to which it was to be

put--towards the questions which he wished

it to answer.

   Again and again, in his various papers, he

returns to the question of the limit of vision.

As Bessel has said :

   " The naked eye has its limit of vision in the stars of
the sixth magnitude. The light of fainter stars than these
does not affect the retina enough for them to be seen. A
very small telescope penetrates to smaller, and, in gen
eral, without doubt, to more distant stars. A more pow

erful one penetrates deeper into space, and as its power
128 Life and Works

is increased, so the boundaries of the visible universe are
widened, and the number of stars increased to millions
and millions. Whoever has followed the history of the

series of Herschel's telescopes will have observed this.
But Herschel was not content with the bare fact, but

strove ever to know how far a telescope of a certain con

struction and size could penetrate, compared with the
naked and unassisted eye. These investigations were
never for the discovery of new facts concerning the
working of his instruments ; it was for the knowledge of
the distribution of the fixed stars in space itself that he

strove. . . . Herschel's instruments were designed

to aid vision to the last extent. They were only sec
ondarily for the taking of measures. His efforts were
not for a knowledge of the motions, but of the constitu
tion and construction of the heavenly bodies."

   Besides the stands for his telescopes, which

were both ingenious and convenient, Her
schel devised many forms of apparatus for
facilitating the art of observation. His mi

crometers for measuring position angles, his
lamp micrometer, the method of limiting
apertures, and the methods he used for view
ing the sun may be mentioned among these.

   Points in practical astronomy are consid
ered all through the years of observation.
of William Herschel.  129

A reference to his original papers will show

how numerous, how varied, and how valuable

these are. I cannot forbear quoting here the
account of a precaution observed during his
examination of the belts on Saturn (1794).

   It is the most striking example of how
fully Herschel realized that the eye of the

observer is a material part of the optical ap
paratus of astronomy. Simple as this prin
ciple may appear, it was an absolute novelty

in his day.

   In making these observations, he says :

  I" took care to bend my head so as to receive the pic
ture of the belt in the same direction as I did formerly.

This was a precaution that occurred to me, as there was

a possibility that the vertical diameter of the retina might

be more or less sensitive than the horizontal one."

   Astronomers will recognize in this the first
suggestion of the processes which have led

to important results in the hands of Dr. Otto
Struve and others in the comparison of the

measures of double stars by different observ

ers, each of whom has a personal habit of
observation, which, if not corrected, may

                        6*
                  Life and Works

affect his results in the way which Herschel

was striving to avoid.

Researches on the Relative Brightness of the

               Stars: Variable Stars.

   No research of Herschel's was more labo

rious than the elaborate classification of the
stars according to their comparative bright
ness, which he executed during the years

1796 to 1799. It was directly in the line of
his main work--to find out the construction

of the heavens.
   His first paper had been upon the variable

star Mira Ceti. Here was a sun, shining by

its native brightness, which waxed and waned

like the moon itself. This star is periodic.
It is for a long period invisible to the unas
sisted eye. Then it can just be seen, and in
creases in brightness for a little over a month,
and attains a maximum brilliancy. From this
it decreases for nearly three months, and after
becoming invisible, remains so for five or six
months. Its whole period is about 333 days.
Are all other stars constant in brightness ?
of William Herschel.  131

The example of Mira Ceti and of other

known variables makes this at least doubtful.

But the sun itself may vary for all that we

know. It is a simple star like the rest.

   This question of variability in general is

an important one, then. It can only be test

ed by making accurate catalogues of the rel
ative brilliance of stars at various times, and

by comparing these. No such general cat
alogue existed before Herschel's time, and

led by the discrepancies in isolated cases,

which he found between his own estimates

and those of his predecessors, he made from
observation a series of four catalogues, in

which were set down the order of sequence
of the stars of each constellation.

   The method adopted by Herschel was

perfectly simple in principle, though most la

borious in practice. Suppose any number of

stars, A, B, C, D, E, . . . etc., near enough
to each other to be well compared. The

process consists simply in writing down the
names of the stars, A, B, C, etc., in the order
of their relative brightness. Thus if for a
group of eight stars we have found at one
132 Life and Works

epoch A, B, C, D, E, F, G, H, and if at
another time the order was A, B, C, D, F,
E, G, H, symptoms of variability are point

ed out. Repeated observations, where the

same star is found in different sequences,
will decide the question. Thus, for the stars
visible to the naked eye, we know exactly the

state of the sky in Herschel's day, now near
ly a century ago. Any material change can
not escape us. These catalogues have been
singularly overlooked by the observers of our
generation who have followed this branch of
observation, and it was not till 1876 that they

received proper attention and a suitable re
duction (at the hands of Mr. C. S. Pierce).

   We owe to Herschel the first trustworthy

account of the stars visible to the naked eye,

and since the date of his labors (about 1800)

we have similar views published by Arge-
LANDER (1839), HEIS (1848), ArGELANDER
and Schonfeld (1857), Gould (i860 and
1872), and Houzeau (1875). Thus his la

bors have been well followed up.

   In the prosecution of this work Herschel

found stars whose light was progressively
of William Herschel.  133

diminishing, others which regularly increased,
one star whose light periodically varies (a
Herculis), and at least one star (55 Herculis)
which has utterly disappeared. On October

10, 1781, and April 1 1, 1782, he observed this
latter star, but in May, 1791, it had totally

vanished. There was no trace remaining.

   The discovery of the variability of a Her

culis was a more important one than would
at first sight appear. Up to that time the
only variable stars known were seven in
number. Their periods were four hundred
and ninety-four, four hundred and four, three

hundred and thirty-four, seven, six, five, and
three days. These periods seemed to fall

into two groups, one of from three hundred
to five hundred days, the other compara
tively much shorter, of three to seven days.
a Herculis came to occupy the middle place

between these groups, its period being about

sixty days.

   The cause of these strange and regular va

riations of brightness was supposed by Her

schel to be the rotation of the star bodily on
an axis, by which revolution different parts
134 Life and Works

of its surface, of different brilliancy, were suc
cessively and periodically presented to us.

This explanation it might have been difficult

to receive, when the periods of the known
variables were so markedly various in length.

His own discovery came to bridge over the

interval, and quite confirmed him in his belief.

He returned to the subject of the revolution

of stars about their axes again and again, and
connected it with the revolution of satellites.

   He found that the satellites of Jupiter

and one of Saturris periodically changed in
brightness, and by quite simple means show
ed that their periods of rotation were at least
approximately the same as their periods of
revolution about their primaries. In this
case, as in every other, he considered a dis
covery in each and every one of its possible
bearings. There are no instances where he
has singularly overlooked the consequences
of his observations.

              Researches on Double Stars.

   The double stars were the subject of Her-
schel's earliest and of his latest papers. In
       of William Herschel.                                       135

1 782 he published his " Catalogue of Double
Stars" and his last published memoir (1822)

was on the same subject.

   The question of determining the parallax

of stars first brought Herschel to the dis
covery of double stars. If two stars, A and

B, appear very close together, and in re
                 BB
                      is

                                                   a
                                                          if,

                                                                  B,
ality, the star  very many times more dis

tant from the earth than A, although seen

along the same line of sight, then the revolu

tion of the earth in its orbit will produce

changes in the relative situation of A and

and, in fact,    will describe  small orbit

about A, due to this revolution. This idea
had been proposed by Galileo, and meas

ures on this plan had been made by Long,
with negative results. But Herschel, in re

viewing their work, declares that the stars
chosen by Long were not suitable to the pur

                 necessary, among other things,
pose.  It

             is
                                  B
                                         is

                                                      it
                                                              is
to the success of this method, that should

be certain that the star  really very much

more distant than the star A. The only

general test of the distance of stars                             their

brilliancy, and Herschel decided to use only
I36 Life and Works

stars for this research which had two compo

nents very greatly different in brightness. A

must be very bright (and presumably near to
us), and B must be very close to A, and very
faint (and thus, presumably, very distant).

   It was in the search for such pairs of stars
that the Catalogue of Double Stars (1782) was
formed. Herschel's first idea of a double

star made such pairs as he found, to consist
of two stars accidentally near to each other.

A was near to us, and appeared projected in

a certain place on the celestial sphere. B
was many times more distant, but, by chance,
was seen along the same line, and made with

A an optical double. If the two stars were

at the same distance from the earth, if they
made part of the same physical system, if
one revolved around the other, then this

method of gaining a knowledge of their dis
tance failed. Even in his first memoir on the

subject, a surmise that this latter state might

occur in some cases, was expressed by Her-
schel. The notes on some of the pairs de

clare that a motion of one of them was suspect

ed. But this motion might be truly orbital --of
of William Herschel.  137

one star about the other as a centre --or it

might simply be that one star was moving by
its own proper motion, and leaving the other

behind. It was best to wait and see. The

first Catalogue of Double Stars contained two
hundred and three instances of such associa

tions. These were observed from time to

time, and new pairs discovered. The paper of

Michell, " An Inquiry into the probable Pa

rallax and Magnitude of the Fixed Stars, from
the Quantity of Light which they Afford, and
the Particular Circumstances of their Situ

ation" (1767), was read and pondered. By
1802 Herschel had become certain that

there existed in the heavens real pairs of stars,
both at the same distance from the earth,

which were physically connected with each

other. The arguments of Michell have

been applied by Bessel to the case of one of
Herschel's double stars, in much the same

order in which the argument ran in Her

schel's own mind, as follows :

   The star Castor (a Geminoruwi) is a

double star, where A is of the second, and B
of the fourth, magnitude. To the naked eye
                  Life and Works

these two appear as one star. With a tele

scope this is seen to be two stars, some 5"

apart. In the whole sky there are not above
fifty such stars as the brighter of the two,
and about four hundred of the brilliancy of B.
These fifty and four hundred stars are scat

tered over the vault of heaven, almost at

random. No law has yet been traced by
which we can say that here or here there
shall be a bright star like A, or a fainter one
like B. In general the distribution appears
to be fortuitous. How then can we account
for one of the four hundred stars like B placed

so close to one of the fifty like A ?

   The chances are over four hundred thou

sand to one that the association in position

is not accidental. This argument becomes

overwhelming when the same association is
found in many other cases. There were two
hundred and three doubles in the Catalogue
of 1782 alone, and many thousands are now
known.

   By a process like this, Herschel reached

his grand discovery of true binary systems,

where one sun revolves about another. For
of William Herschel.  139

he saw that if the two stars are near together
in space, they could not stand still in face of
each other, but that they must revolve in true

orbits. Here was the discovery which came

to take the place of the detection of the paral

laxes of the fixed stars.

   He had failed in one research, but he was

led to grand conclusions. Was the force

that these distant pairs of suns obeyed, the

force of gravitation ? This he could not
settle, but his successors have done so. It
was not till about 1827 that Savary, of the
Paris Observatory, showed that one of Her-
schel's doubles was subjected to the law of

gravitation, and thus extended the power of
this law from our system to the universe at

large. Herschel himself lived to see some

of his double stars perform half a revolution.

  Of Herschel's discoveries, Arago thinks
this has "le plus d'avenir." It may well be

so. The laws which govern our solar system
have been extended, through his researches,
to regions of unknown distance. The binary
stars will afford the largest field for research

into the laws which govern them, and to
140 Life and Works

gether with the clusters and groups, they will
give a firm basis by which to study the distri
bution of stars in general, since here we have
the great advantage of knowing, if not the
real distance of the two stars from the earth,
at least that this distance is alike for both.

      Researches on Planets and Satellites.

   After Herschel's first publication on the
mountains of the Moon (1780), our satellite
appears to have occupied him but little. The

observation of volcanoes (1787) and of a
lunar eclipse are his only published ones.

The planets Mercury, Venus, Mars, and Ju

piter, although they were often studied, were
not the subjects of his more important me
moirs. The planet Saturn, on the contrary,
seems never to have been lost sight of from
the time of his first view of it in 1772.

   The field of discovery always appears to be
completely occupied until the advent of a
great man, who, even by his way of putting

old and familiar facts, shows the paths along

which discoveries must come, if at all. This
of William Herschel.  141

faculty comes from profound reflection on the
nature of the subject itself, from a sort of

transmuting power which changes the words

of the books into the things of reality. Her-

schel's paper on Saturn, in 1790, is an ad

mirable example of this.

   Herschel's observations on Saturn began
in 1772. From 1790 to 1808 he published

six memoirs on the figure, the ring, and the

satellites of this planet. The spheroidal

shape of the ball was first discovered by him,
and we owe much of our certain knowledge
of the constitution of the rings to his work.
The sixth and seventh satellites, Mimas and

Enceladus, were discovered by him in 1789.

The periods of rotation of the ball and of the
ring were also fixed. In his conclusions as to

the real figure of the rings, there is a degree
of scientific caution which is truly remarka

ble, and which to-day seems almost excessive.

   In his paper of 1792, Herschel shows that
the most distant satellite of Saturn -- Japetus
-- turns once on its axis in each revolution

about its primary, just as our moon does.
He says of this :
142 Life and Works

  " I cannot help reflecting with some pleasure on the

discovery of an analogy which shows that a certain
uniform plan is carried on among the secondary planets
of our solar system ; and we may conjecture that proba
bly most of the satellites are governed by the same law ;
especially if it be founded on such a constmction of
their figure as makes them more ponderous towards their
primary planets."

I believe the last suggestion to have been

the first statement of the possible arrange

ment of matter in satellites, which was after

wards so forcibly maintained by Hansen in

his theory of the moon. Hansen's researches

show the consequences of such an arrange

ment, although they do not prove its exist

ence.

  It should be recorded that the explanation

which is to-day received of the belts and

bands upon Jupiter,  believe, first found in
1

              iIs,
Herschel's memoir on Venus (1793). His

memoir of 797, on the changeable brightness

of the satellites of Jupiter, has already been

referred to. The times of the rotation of the

satellites on their axes was first determined

by Herschel from these observations, which
of William Herschel.  143

also contain accounts of the curious, and as

yet unexplained, phenomena attending their

appearances on the disc of the planet.

   Herschel discovered in January, 1787, the

two brighter satellites of Uranus, now called
Oberon and Titania. They are among the

faintest objects in the solar system. A later

discussion of all his observations led him to

the belief that there were four more, and he

gives his observations and computations in

full. He says that of the existence of ad
ditional satellites he has no doubt. Of these

four, three were exterior to the most distant

satellite Oberon, the other was "interior" to

 Titania.

   It was not until 1834 that even Oberon and
Titania were again observed (by Sir John

Herschel) with a telescope of twenty feet,

similar to that which had discovered them,

and not until 1847 was the true state of this

system known, when Mr. Lassell discovered
Ariel and Umbriel, two satellites interior to
 Titania, neither of which was Herschel's
"interior" satellite. In 1848 and later years
Mr. Lassell, by the aid of telescopes con
144 Life and Works

structed by himself, fully settled the fact
that only four satellites of this planet ex
isted. In 1874 I examined the observa
tions of Herschel on his supposed " inte
rior " satellite, thinking that it might be
possible that among the very few glimpses of
it which he recorded; some might have be

longed to Ariel and some to Umbriel, and

that by combining rare and almost accidental
observations of two satellites which really ex
isted, he had come to announce the existence
of an " interior " satellite which had no exist
ence in fact. Such I believe to be the case.

In 1801, April 17, Herschel describes an

interior satellite in the position angle 189°,

distant 18" from the planet. At that instant
Umbriel, one of Mr. Lassell's satellites, was

in the position 191°, and distant 21" from
Uranus, in the most favorable position for
seeing it. The observation of 1794, March

27, may belong to Ariel. At the best the

investigation is of passing interest only, and
has nothing to do with the question of the

discovery of the satellites. Herschel dis

covered the two brighter ones, and it was
of William Herschel.   145

only sixty years later that they were properly

re -observed by Mr. Lassell, who has the

great honor of having added as many more,
and who first settled the vexed question of
satellites exterior to Oberon, and this with a

reflecting telescope made by himself, which is
unequalled by any other of its dimensions.

    Researches on the Nature of the Sun.

   In the introduction to his paper on the
Nature and Construction of the Sun and
Fixed Stars (1795), Herschel recounts
what was known of the nature of the sun at
that time. Newton had shown that it was

the centre of the system ; Galileo and his

successors had determined its rotation, the
place of its equator, its real diameter, mag
nitude, density, distance, and the force of

gravity on its surface. He says :

" I should not wonder  considering all this, we were
7

                     if,

                                                                                                                             ;
induced to think that nothing remained to be added

and yet we are still very ignorant in regard to the inter
nal construction of the sun." " The spots have been
146 Life and Works

supposed to be solid bodies, the smoke of volcanoes, the
scum floating on an ocean of fluid matter, clouds, opaque
masses, and to be many other things." " The sun itself
has been called a globe of fire, though, perhaps, meta

phorically." " It is time now to profit by the observa

tions we are in possession of. I have availed myself of

the labors of preceding astronomers, but have been in
duced thereto by my own actual observation of the solar
phenomena."

   Herschel then refers to the theories ad
vanced by his friend, Prof. Wilson, of Glas
gow, in 1774. Wilson maintained that the

spots were depressions below the sun's atmos
phere, vast hollows as it were, at the bases of
which the true surface of the sun could be
seen.

   The essence of his theory was the exist
ence of two different kinds of matter in
the sun : one solid and non-luminous --the
nucleus -- the other gaseous and incandescent
--the atmosphere. Vacant places in the at
mosphere, however caused, would show the

black surface of the solid mass below. These

were the spots. No explanation could be
given of the faculcs, bright streaks, which ap
           of William Herschel.           147

pear on the sun's surface from time to time ;
but his theory accounted for the existence of

the black nuclei of the spots, and for the ex
istence of the penumbrce about these. The

penumbra of a spot was formed by the

thinner parts of the atmosphere about the

vacancy which surrounded the nucleus.

   This theory of Wilson's was adopted by

Herschel as a basis for his own, and he

brought numerous observations to confirm

in the modified shape which he gave to it.

According to Herschel, the sun consisted
it,
                     a

                                                      a

                                                        a

                                                                                                                                     :

                                                                                        is
                                                                                                       a
of three essentially different parts. First,

there was  solid nucleus, non - luminous,

cool, and even capable of being inhabited.

Second, above this was an atmosphere proper;

and, lastly, outside of this was layer in which

floated the clouds, or bodies which gave to

the solar surface its intense brilliancy

   " According to my theory, dark spot in the sun
place in its atmosphere which happens to be free from
luminous decompositions " above it.

   The two atmospheric layers, which will
be of varying thickness about a spot, will
148 Life and Worts

account for all the shades of darkness seen
in the penumbra. Ascending currents from
the solar surface will elevate certain regions,
and may increase the solar activity near by,
and will thus give rise to faculse, which Her-
schel shows to be elevated above the gen

eral surface. It will not be necessary to give

a further account of this theory. The data
in the possession of the modern theorist is a
thousand-fold that to be derived from Her-
schel's observations, and, while the subject of
the internal construction of the sun is to-day
unsettled, we know that many important, even
fundamental, portions of his theory are un

tenable. A remark of his should be re

corded, however, as it has played a great
part in such theories :

    " That the emission of light must waste the sun, is not
a difficulty that can be opposed to our hypothesis. Many
of the operations of Nature are carried on in her great
laboratory which we cannot comprehend. Perhaps the
many telescopic comets may restore to the sun what is
lost by the emission of light."

   Arguments in favor of the habitability of
both sun and moon are contained in this
of William Herschel.                                                                                 149

paper ; but they rest more on a metaphysical
than a scientific basis, and are to-day justly
forgotten.

Researches on the Motion of the Sun and of

             the Solar System in Space.

   In 1782 Herschel writes, in regard to

some of his discoveries of double stars :

I" These may serve another very important end.

will just mention though  foreign to my present
a
       it,

            it a
                      it

                            a is
                                                           a

                                                                                                  ;
purpose. Several stars of the first magnitude have been

observed or suspected to have proper motion hence

we may surmise that our sun, with all its planets and

comets, may also have  ...motion towards some particular
point of the heavens.           If this surmise should

have any foundation,   will show itself in                                                         series of

some years in kind of systematical parallax, or change,

due to the motion of the whole solar system."

   In 1783 he published his paper On the                                                             a

Proper Motion of the Solar System, which

contained the proofs of his surmises of a year
before. That certain of the stars had in fact

proper motion had been well established by

the astronomers of the eighteenth century.
 150 Life and Works

 After all allowances had been made for the

 effects of precession and other displacements
 of a star's position which were produced by
 motions of the earth, it was found that there
were still small outstanding differences which

must be due to the motion of the star itself --
its proper motion. The quantity of this mo

tion was not well known for any star when
Herschel's researches began. Before they
were concluded, however, Maskelyne had de

duced the proper motions of thirty-six stars

-- the fundamental stars, so called -- which
included in their number Sirius, Procyon,

A returns, and generally the brightest stars.

   It is a priori evident that stars, in general,

must have proper motions, when once we ad
mit the universality of gravitation. That
any fixed star should be entirely at rest would
require that the attractions on all sides of it
should be exactly balanced. Any change in
the position of this star would break up this
balance, and thus, in general, it follows that
stars must be in motion, since all of them
cannot occupy such a critical position as has

to be assumed. If but one fixed star is in
of William Herschel.  151

motion, this affects all the rest, and we cannot

doubt but that every star, our sun included, is
in motion by an amount which varies from

small to great. If the sun alone had a motion,

and the other stars were at rest, the conse

quence of this would be that all the fixed stars
would appear to be retreating en masse from
that point in the sky towards which we were
moving. Those nearest us would move more

rapidly, those more distant less so. And in

the same way, the stars from which the solar
system was receding would seem to be ap

proaching each other. If the stars, instead

of being quite at rest, as just supposed, had
motions proper to themselves, then we should
have a double complexity. They would still
appear to an observer in the solar system
to have motions, and part of these motions
would be truly proper to the stars, and part
would be due to the advance of the sun itself

in space.

   Observations can show us only the result

ant of these two motions. It is for reason

ing to separate this resultant into its two

components. At first the question is to de
            Life and Works

termine whether the results of observation

indicate any solar motion at all. If there is

none, the proper motions of stars will be

directed along all possible lines. If the sun

does truly move, then there will be a general

agreement in the resultant motions of the

stars near the ends of the line along which
it moves, while those at the sides, so to

speak, will show comparatively less system

atic effect. It is as if one were riding in the

rear of a   railway train and watching the
rails over  which it has just passed. As
we recede
            from any point, the rails at that

point seem to come nearer and nearer to

gether.

   If we were passing through a forest, we

should see the trunks of the trees from which

we were going apparently come nearer and

nearer together, while those on the sides of
us would remain at their constant distance,

and those in front would grow further and
further apart.

   These phenomena, which occur in a case
where we are sensible of our own motion,

serve to show how we may deduce a motion,
of William Herschel.  153

otherwise unknown, from the appearances

which are presented by the stars in space.

   In this way, acting upon suggestions which

had been thrown out previously to his own

time by Lambert, Mayer, and Bradley,
Herschel demonstrated that the sun, to

gether with all its system, was moving through
space in an unknown and majestic orbit of

its own. The centre round which this mo
tion is directed cannot yet be assigned. We
can only know the point in the heavens to
wards which our course is directed -- " the

apex of solar motion."

   By a study of the proper motions assigned

by Maskelyne to the brighter stars, Her

schel was able to define the position of the
solar apex with an astonishing degree of ac
curacy. His calculations have been several

times repeated with the advantage of modern
analytical methods, and of the hundred-fold
material now at our disposition, but noth
ing essential has been added to his results of
1805, which were based upon such scanty
data ; and his paper of 1 782 contains the an
nouncement of the discovery itself.

                        7*
154 Life and Works

   His second paper on the Direction and Ve

locity of the solar system (1805) is the best
example that can possibly be given of his mar
vellous skill in reaching the heart of a matter,
and it may be the one in which his philo
sophical powers appear in their highest exer

cise. For sustained reflection and high phil
osophic thought it is to be ranked with the
researches of Newton in the Principia.

Researches on the Construction of the Heavens.

Herschel's papers on the Construction of

the Heavens, as he named extended over
       it

            is

                               it
                                               it,

                                                  is
                                                                    is

                                                                                                                                               :
his whole scientific life. By this he specially

means the method according to which the

stars, the clusters, the nebulae, are spread

through the regions of space, the causes that
have led to this distribution, and the laws to

which  subjected.

No single astronomical fact  unimportant

in the light which  may throw on the

scheme of the whole, and each fact to be

considered in this light. As an instance
his discovery of the variable star a Hercu
of William Herschel.  155

lis, which has a period of sixty days, was val
uable in itself as adding one more to the
number of those strange suns whose light is
now brighter, now fainter, in a regular and
periodic order. But the chief value of the
discovery was that now we had an instance
of a periodic star which went through all its
phases in sixty days, and connected, as it
were, the stars of short periods (three to
seven days) with those of very long ones
(three hundred to five hundred days), which
two groups had, until then, been the only

ones known. In the same way all his re

searches on the parallaxes of stars were not
alone for the discovery of the distance of any
one or two single stars, but to gain a unit
of celestial measure, by means of which the
depths of space might be sounded.

   Astronomy in Herschel's day considered

the bodies of the solar system as separated
from each other by distances, and as filling a
cubical space. The ideas of near and far, of up
and down, were preserved, in regard to them,
by common astronomical terms. But the vast
number of stars seemed to be thought of, as
15° Life and Works

they appear in fact to exist, lying on the sur
face of a hollow sphere. The immediate fol

lowers of Bradley used these fixed stars as

points of reference by which the motions
within the solar system could be determined,

or, like Lacaille and Lalande, gathered

those immense catalogues of their positions
which are so indispensable to the science.

Michell and Herschel alone, in England,

occupied their thoughts with the nature and

construction of the heavens --the one in his
study, the other through observation.* They

were concerned with all three of the dimen
sions of space.

   In his memoir of 1784, Herschel says :

    " Hitherto the sidereal heavens have, not inadequately
for the purpose designed, been represented by the con
cave surface of a sphere, in the centre of which the eye
of an observer might be supposed to be placed.

    * The memoirs on the parallaxes of stars, written by various as
tronomers from 1750 to 1800, were mainly directed to the improve
ment of the methods, or to the discovery of the parallax of some

particular star. For example, Lacaille's observations of Sifius, at

 the Cape of Good Hope, had resulted in a parallax of 9" for that
star -- a quantity over forty times too large.
of William Herschel.                          157

   " It is true the various magnitudes of the fixed stars

even then plainly suggested to us, and would have better
suited, the idea of an expanded firmament of three di

mensions ; but the observations upon which I am now

going to enter still farther illustrate and enforce the ne

cessity of considering the heavens in this point of view.

In future, therefore, we shall look upon those regions into

which we may now penetrate by means of such large
telescopes, as a naturalist regards a rich extent of ground
or chain of mountains containing strata variously inclined
and directed, as well as consisting of very different ma
terials. The surface of a globe or map, therefore, will
but ill delineate the interior parts of the heavens."

   Herschel's method of study was founded     it,
                                                    a
on a mode of observation which he called

star-gauging. It consisted in pointing a pow

erful telescope toward various parts of the

heavens, and ascertaining by actual count
how thick the stars were in each region.

His twenty-foot reflector was provided with
such an eye-piece that, in looking into he
saw a portion of the heavens about 15' in di
ameter. A circle of this size on the celestial

sphere has about one quarter the apparent
surface of the sun, or of the full moon. On

pointing the telescope in any direction,
158 Life and Works

greater or less number of stars were visible.
These were counted, and the direction in
which the telescope pointed was noted.
Gauges of this kind were made in all parts
of the sky, and the results were tabulated in
the order of right ascension.

   The following is an extract from the gauges,
and gives the average number of stars in each
field at the points noted in right ascension
and north polar distance :

  R. A.              N. P. D.      R. A.     N. P. D.

IIH. M.             78° to 80°.  h. M.      92° to 94°.
               6  No. of Stars.           No. of Stars.
                                 is IO
12 3i                      3-1                    9-4
                          3-4    15 22          10.6
12 44                     4.6    15 47          10.6
12 49                     3-9    16 8            12. 1
13 5                      3-8    16 25          13.6
14 3°                     3-6    16 37          18.6

   In this small table, it is plain that a differ
ent law of clustering or of distribution ob

tains in the two regions. Such differences
are still more marked, if we compare the ex

treme cases found by Herschel, as R. A.
of William Herschel.  159

= i9h 4im, N. P. D. = 740 33', number of
stars per field = 588 ; and R. A. = i6h 10TM
N. P. D. = 1 1 30 4', number of stars = 1.1.

   The number of stars in certain portions is
very great. For example, in the Milky Way,

near Orion, six fields of view promiscuously

taken gave no, 60, 70, 90, 70, and 74 stars
each, or a mean of 79 stars per field. The

most vacant space in this neighborhood gave

60 stars. So that as Herschel's sweeps were

two degrees wide in declination, in one hour

(15°) there would pass through the field of
his telescope 40,000 or more stars. In some

of the sweeps this number was as great as

1 16,000 stars in a quarter of an hour.

   When Herschel first applied his telescope

to the Milky Way, he believed that it com

pletely resolved the whole whitish appear

ance into small stars. This conclusion he
subsequently modified. He says :

   " It is very probable that the great stratum called the
Milky Way is that in which the sun is placed, though

perhaps not in the very centre of its thickness.
   " We gather this from the appearance of the Galaxy,

which seems to encompass the whole heavens, as it cer
i6o Life and Works

tainly must do if the sun is within it. For, suppose a
number of stars arranged between two parallel planes,
indefinitely extended every way, but at a given consid
erable distance from each other ; and calling this a
sidereal stratum, an eye placed somewhere within it will
see all the stars in the direction of the planes of the
stratum projected into a great circle, which will appear
lucid on account of the accumulation of the stars, while
the rest of the heavens, at the sides, will only seem to be
scattered over with constellations, more or less crowded
according to the distance of the planes, or number of
stars contained in the thickness or sides of the stratum.

  " If the eye were placed somewhere without the stra

tum, at no very great distance, the appearance of the
stars within it would assume the form of one of the
smaller circles of the sphere, which would be more or
less contracted according to the distance of the eye ;
and, if this distance were exceedingly increased, the
whole stratum might at last be drawn together into a
lucid spot of any shape, according to the length, breadth,
and height of the stratum.

    "Suppose that a smaller stratum should branch out
from the former in a certain direction, and that it also
is contained between two parallel planes, so that the eye
is contained within the great stratum somewhere before
the separation, and not far from the place where the
stiata are still united. Then this second stratum will
not be projected into a bright circle like the former, but
it will be seen as a lucid branch proceeding from the
                  of William Herschel.      161

first, and returning into it again at a distance less than a

semicircle. If the bounding surfaces are not parallel

planes, but irregularly curved surfaces, analogous appear

ances must result."

The Milky Way, as we see presents the
                       a
                                it,

                                         a
aspect which has been just accounted for, in

its general appearance of girdle around the

heavens and in its bifurcation at certain

point, and Herschel's explanation of this

appearance, as just given, has never been

seriously questioned. One doubtful point

remains are the stars scattered all through
       ?

               :
space or are they near its bounding planes,

or clustered in any way within this space so

as to produce the same result to the eye as
                       ?
uniformly distributed
                                                        if

Herschel assumed that they were nearly

equably arranged all through the space in

question. He only examined one other ar

rangement, viz., that of a ring of stars sur

rounding the sun, and he pronounced against

such an arrangement, for the reason that

there             absolutely nothing in the size or
it
            is
brilliancy of the sun to cause us to suppose

to be the centre of such a gigantic sys
l62 Life and Works

tern. No reason, except its importance to us
personally, can be alleged for such a supposi
tion. Every star will have its own appear
ance of a Galaxy or Milky Way, which will
vary according to the situation of the star.

   Such an explanation will account for the
general appearances of the Milky Way and
of the rest of the sky, supposing the stars
equally or nearly equally distributed in space.
On this supposition, the system must be
deeper where the stars appear most nu

merous.

   Herschel endeavored, in his early me

moirs, to explain this inequality of distribu
tion on the fundamental assumption that the
stars were nearly equably distributed in space.

If they were so distributed, then the num

ber of stars visible in any gauge would show
the thickness of the stellar system in the di
rection in which the telescope was pointed.

At each pointing, the field of view of the in

strument includes all the visible stars situ
ated within a cone, having its vertex at the
observer's eye, and its base at the very limits
of the system, the angle of the cone (at the
of William Herschel.  163

eye) being 15'. Then the cubes of the
perpendiculars let fall from the eye, on the
plane of the bases of the various visual
cones, are proportional to the solid contents

of the cones themselves, or, as the stars are

supposed equally scattered within all the
cones, the cube roots of the numbers of stars

in each of the fields express the relative

lengths of the perpendiculars. A section of

the sidereal system along any great circle can
be constructed from the data furnished by

the gauges in the following way :
   The solar system is within the mass of

stars. From this point lines are drawn along
the different directions in which the gauging
telescope was pointed. On these lines are
laid off lengths proportional to the cube
roots of the number of stars in each gauge.
The irregular line joining the terminal
points will be approximately the bounding
curve of the stellar system in the great circle
chosen. Within this line the space is nearly
uniformly filled with stars. Without it is

empty space. A similar section can be con

structed in any other great circle, and a
164 Life and Works

combination of all such would give a repre

sentation of the shape of our stellar system.
The more numerous and careful the observa

tions, the more elaborate the representation,

and the 863 gauges of Herschel are suffi

cient to mark out with great precision the

main features of the Milky Way, and even to

indicate some of its chief irregularities.

   On the fundamental assumption of Her

schel (equable distribution), no other con

clusion can be drawn from his statistics but

the one laid down by him.

   This assumption he subsequently modified

in some degree, and was led to regard his
gauges as indicating not so much the depth

of the system in any direction, as the cluster

ing power or tendency of the stars in those

special regions. It is clear that if in any given

part of the sky, where, on the average, there
are ten stars (say) to a field, we should find a
certain small portion having 100 or more to

afield, then, on Herschel's first hypothesis,
rigorously interpreted, it would be necessary

to suppose a spike-shaped protuberance di
rected from the earth, in order to explain
of William Herschel.  165

the increased number of stars. If many such

places could be found, then the probability is
great that this explanation is wrong. We
should more rationally suppose some real in

equality of star distribution here. It is, in

fact, in just such details that the method of

Herschel breaks down, and a careful ex

amination of his system leads to the belief
that it must be greatly modified to cover
all the known facts, while it undoubtedly
has, in the main, a strong basis.

   The stars are certainly not uniformly dis
tributed, and any general theory of the side
real system must take into account the varied
tendency to aggregation in various parts of

the sky.

   In 181 7, Herschel published an impor

tant memoir on the same subject, in which
his first method was largely modified, though
not abandoned. Its fundamental principle
was stated by him as follows :

   " It is evident that we cannot mean to affirm that the

stars of the fifth, sixth, and seventh magnitudes are
really smaller than those of the first, second, or third, and
that we must ascribe the cause of the difference in the
1 66 Life and Works

apparent magnitudes of the stars to a difference in their
relative distances from us. On account of the great
number of stars in each class, we must also allow that
the stars of each succeeding magnitude, beginning with
the first, are, one with another, further from us than
those of the magnitude immediately preceding. The
relative magnitudes give only relative distances, and can
afford no information as to the real distances at which
the stars are placed.

   " A standard of reference for the arrangement of the

stars may be had by comparing their distribution to a
certain properly modified equality of scattering. The

equality which I propose does not require that the stars

should be at equal distances from each other, nor is it
necessary that all those of the same nominal magnitude
should be equally distant from us."

   It consisted in allotting a certain equal por

tion of space to every star, so that, on the
whole, each equal portion of space within the
stellar system contains an equal number of
stars. The space about each star can be con
sidered spherical. Suppose such a sphere to
surround our own sun. Its radius will not
differ greatly from the distance of the near
est fixed star, and this is taken as the unit of
distance.
    of William Herschel.     167

   Suppose a series of larger spheres, allis,
drawn around our sun as a centre, and having
the radii 3, 5, 7, 9, etc. The contents of the  5

spheres being as the cubes of their diameters,7.

the first sphere will have 3x3x3 = 27 times

the volume of the unit sphere, and will there

fore be large enough to contain 27 stars ; the
second will have 125 times the volume, and
will therefore contain 125 stars, and so on

with the successive spheres. For instance,

the sphere of radius 7 has room for 343 stars,
but of this space 125 parts belong to the
spheres inside of it; there therefore, room
for 218 stars between the spheres of radii

and

   Herschel designates the several distances

of these layers of stars as orders the stars
between spheres and are of the first
order of distance, those between and of

the second order, and so on. Comparing the
room for stars between the several spheres
with the number of stars of the several mag

nitudes which actually exists in the sky, he
found the result to be as follows
    1

                     3
                                         3;
                                                          5

                          :
1 68 Life and Works

Order of Dis    Number of                    Magnitude.   Number of
       tance.                                            Stars of that
               Stars there is                    I
                Room for.                                 Magnitude.
                                                     2
                                      26            3               17
                                                                   57
                                 98                4             206
3 218                                                            454
4 386                                                5       1,161
5 602                                               6
6 866                                                7       6,103
7 1,178                                                      6,146

8 I.S38

The result of this comparison                            is,that

the order of magnitudes could indicate the                          is, if

distance of the stars, would denote at first
                                             a it
gradual and afterward a very abrupt con
a
densation of them, at and beyond the region
  If
of the sixth-magnitude stars.

      we assume the brightness of any star to

be inversely proportional to the square of

its distance, leads to scale of distance difit
ferent from that adopted by Herschel, so

that sixth-magnitude star on the common
a

scale would be about of the eighth order of

distance according to this scheme -- that

we must remove star of the first magni
                                          a

tude to eight times its actual distance to
of William Herschel.  169

make it shine like a star of the sixth mag

nitude.

   On the scheme here laid down, Herschel

subsequently assigned the order of distance
of various objects, mostly star-clusters, and
his estimates of these distances are still

quoted. They rest on the fundamental hy

pothesis which has been explained, and the
error in the assumption of equal intrinsic
brilliancy for all stars affects these estimates.

It is perhaps probable that the hypothesis

of equal brilliancy for all stars is still more
erroneous than the hypothesis of equal dis
tribution, and it may well be that there is a

very large range indeed in the actual dimen
sions and in the intrinsic brilliancy of stars at
the same order of distance from us, so that

the tenth-magnitude stars, for example, may
be scattered throughout the spheres which

Herschel would assign to the seventh,

eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, twelfth, and
thirteenth magnitudes. However this may

be, the fact remains that it is from Her-
schel's groundwork that future investiga
tors must build. He found the whole sub

                            8
1 70 Life and Works

ject in utter confusion. By his observations,
data for the solution of some of the most
general questions were accumulated, and in
his memoirs, which Struve well calls " im
mortal," he brought the scattered facts into
order and gave the first bold outlines of a
reasonable theory. He is the founder of a
new branch of astronomy.

Researches for a Scale of Celestial Measures.
              Distances of the Stars.

   If the stars are supposed all of the same

absolute brightness, their brightness to the
eye will depend only upon their distance

from us. If we call the brightness of one
of the fixed stars at the distance of Sir-

ius, which may be used as the unity of dis
tance, 1, then if it is moved to the distance
2, its apparent brightness will be one-fourth ;
if to the distance 3, one-ninth ; if to the
distance 4, one-sixteenth, and so on, the ap
parent brightness diminishing as the square
of the distance increases. The distance may
be taken as an order of magnitude. Stars
     of William Herschel.  171

is,at the distances two, three, four, etc., Her

schel called of the second, third, and fourth

magnitudes.
   By a series of experiments, the details of

which cannot be given here, Herschel deter

mined the space-penetrating power of each of
his telescopes. The twenty-foot would pen
etrate into space seventy-five times farther
than the naked eye ; the twenty-five foot,

ninety-six times; and the forty-foot, one hun

dred and ninety-two times. If the seventh-

magnitude stars are those just visible to the
naked eye, and if we still suppose all stars to
be of equal intrinsic brightness, such seventh-
magnitude stars would remain visible in the
forty-foot, even if removed to 1,344 times
the distance of Sirhis (1,344 = 7 x 192). If,
further, we suppose that the visibility of a
star is strictly proportional to the total inten
sity of the light from it which strikes the eye,
then a condensed cluster of 25,000 stars of
the 1,344th magnitude could still be seen in
the forty-foot at a distance where each star
would have become 25,000 times fainter, that

    at about 158 times the distance of Sirhis
is is,172 Life and Worksa

      (158x158 = 24,964). The light from theit

      nearest star requires some three years toitIt
      reach the earth. From a star 1,344 timesit
      farther it would require about 4,000 years,
a     and for such a cluster as we have imagined

      no less than 600,000 years are needed. That
          the light by which we see such group has

      not just now left it. On the contrary, has
      been travelling through space for centuries
      and centuries since first darted forth.

         the ancient history of such groups that we
      are studying now, and was thus that Her-
      schel declared that telescopes penetrated
      into time as well as into space.

         Other more exact researches on the rela
      tive light of stars were made by Herschel.
      These were only one more attempt to obtain

          scale of celestial distances, according to
      which some notion of the limits and of the
      interior dimensions of the universe could be

      gained. Two telescopes, exactly equal in

      every respect, were chosen and placed side
      by side. Pairs of stars which were exactly
      equal, were selected by means of them. By
      diminishing the aperture of one telescope
of William Herschel.  173

directed to a bright star, and keeping the
other telescope unchanged and directed to a
fainter star, the two stars could be equalized
in light, and, from the relative size of the
apertures, the relative light of this pair of
stars could be accurately computed, and so
on for other pairs. This was the first use of
the method of limiting apertures. His gen
eral results were that the stars of the first
magnitude would still remain visible to
the naked eye, even if they were at a dis
tance from us twelve times their actual dis

tance.

   This method received a still further devel
opment at his hands. He did not leave it
until he had gained all the information it
was capable of giving. He prepared a set of

telescopes collecting 4, 9, 16, etc. (2 x 2, 3 X3,
4 x 4, etc.), times as much light as the naked
eye. These were to extend the determina

tions of distance to the telescopic stars. For

example, a certain portion of the heavens
which he examined contained no star visible

to the naked eye, but many telescopic stars.
We cannot say that no one of these is as
174 Life and Works

bright in itself as some of our first-magni
tude stars. The smallest telescope of the
set showed a large number of stars ; these
must, then, be twice as far from us, on the

average, as the stars just visible to the naked
eye. But first-magnitude stars, like Sirius,
Procyon, Arcturns, etc., become just visible
to the eye if removed to twelve times their
present distance. Hence the stars seen in
this first telescope of the set were between
twelve and twenty-four times as far from us
as Arcturus, for example.

   "At least," as Herschel says, "we are

certain that if stars of the size and lustre
of Sirius, Arcturus, etc., were removed into
the profundity of space I have mentioned,
they would then appear like the stars
which I saw." With the next telescope,
which collected nine times more light than
the eye, and brought into view objects three
times more distant, other and new stars

appeared, which were then (3x12) thirty-

six times farther from us than Arcturus.
In the same way, the seven-foot reflector

showed stars 204 times, the ten-foot 344
of William Herschel.  175

times, the twenty-foot 900 times farther
from us than the average first-magnitude

star. As the light from such a star requires

three years to reach us, the light from the

faintest stars seen by the twenty-foot would

require 2,700 years (3 x 900).

   But Herschel was now (181 7) convinced

that the twenty-foot telescope could not pen

etrate to the boundaries of the Milky Way ;

the faintest stars of the Galaxy must then

be farther from us even than nine hundred

times the distance of Arcturus, and their

light must be at least 3,000 years old when
it reaches us.

    There is no escaping a certain part of the

consequences established by Herschel. It is

indeed true that unless a particular star is of

the same intrinsic brightness as our largest
stars, this reasoning does not apply to it ; in

just so far as the average star is less bright
than the average brightness of our largest

stars, will the numbers which Herschel ob

tained be diminished. But for every star of
which his hypothesis is true, we may assert
that his conclusions are true, and no one
1 76 Life and Works

can deny, with any show of reason, that, on
the whole, his suppositions must be valid.
On the whole, the stars which we call faint
are farther from us than the brighter ones ;
and, on the whole, the brilliancy of our
brightest and nearest stars is not very far
from the brilliancy of the average star in

space. We cannot yet define the word very

by a numerical ratio.

   The mctJiod struck out by Herschel was

correct ; it is for his successors to look for
the special cases and limitations, to answer

the question, At a certain distance from us,

what are the variations which actually take
place in the brilliancy and the sizes of stars ?

The answer to this question is to be found

in the study of the clusters of regular forms,
where we knozv the stars to be all at the same
distance from us.

      Researches on Light and Heat, Etc.

   Frequently in the course of his astro

nomical work, Herschel found himself con

fronted by questions of physics which could
of William Herschel.  177

not be immediately answered in the state of

the science at that time. In his efforts to find

a method for determining the dimensions of
the stellar universe, he was finally led, as has
been shown, to regard the brightness of a
star as, in general, the best attainable meas
ure of its distance from us. His work, how
ever, was done with telescopes of various di

mensions and powers, and it was therefore
necessary to find some law for comparing the
different results among themselves as well as
with those given by observations with an

unassisted eye. This necessity prompted an

investigation, published in 1800, in which,
after drawing the distinction between abso

lute and intrinsic brightness, Herschel gave

an expression for the space-penetrating power
of a telescope. The reasoning at the base

of this conception was as follows.

   The ratio of the light entering the eye

when directed toward a star, to the whole

light given out by the star, would be as the
area of the pupil of the eye to the area of
the whole sphere having the star as a centre
and our distance from the star as a radius.

                        8*
1 78 Life and Works

If the eye is assisted by a telescope, the ratio

is quite different. In that case the ratio of
the light which enters the eye to the whole
light, would be as the area of the mirror or

object-glass to the area of the whole sphere
having the star as a centre and its distance
as a radius. Thus the light received by the
eye in the two cases would be as the area of
the pupil is to the area of the object-glass.

For instance, if the pupil has a diameter of

two-fifths of an inch, and the mirror a diam
eter of four inches, then a hundred times

as much light would enter the eye when
assisted by the telescope as when unarmed,
since the area of the pupil is one-hundredth
the area of the objective.

   If a particular star is just visible to the

naked eye, it will be quite bright if viewed
with this special telescope, which makes it
one hundred times more brilliant in appear

ance. If we could move the star bodily

away from us to a distance ten times its
present distance, we could thus reduce its

brightness, as seen with the telescope, to
what it was at first, as seen with the eye
of William Herschcl.  179

alone, i. e., to bare visibility. Moving the
star to ten times its present distance would
increase the surface of the sphere which it
illuminates a hundred-fold. We cannot move

any special star, but we can examine stars
of all brightnesses, and thus (presumably) of
all distances.

   Herschel's argument was, then, as follows :

Since with such a telescope one can see a
star ten times as far off as is possible to the
naked eye, this telescope has the power of
penetrating into space ten times farther than
the eye alone. But this number ten, also,
expresses the ratio of the diameter of the
objective to that of the pupil of the eye,
consequently the general law is that the
space -penetrating power of a telescope is
found by dividing the diameter of the mir

ror in inches by two-fifths. The diameter of

the pupil of the eye (two-fifths of an inch)

Herschel determined by many measures.
   This simple ratio would only hold good,

however, provided no more light were lost
by the repeated reflections and refractions in
the telescope than in the eye. That light
i8o Life and Works

must be so lost was evident, but no data ex

isted for determining the loss. Herschel

was thus led to a long series of photometric
experiments on the reflecting powers of the
metals used in his mirrors, and on the

amount of light transmitted by lenses. Ap

plying the corrections thus deduced experi
mentally, he found that the space-penetrat
ing power of his twenty-foot telescope, with
which he made his star-gauges, was sixty-one
times that of the unassisted eye, while the
space-penetrating power of his great forty-
foot telescope was one hundred and ninety-
two times that of the eye. In support of

his important conclusions Herschel had an

almost unlimited amount of experimental
data in the records of his observations, of

which he made effective use.

   By far the most important of Herschel's
work in the domain of pure physics was pub

lished in the same year (1800), and related

to radiant heat. The investigation of the

space-penetrating powers of telescopes was
undertaken for the sole purpose of aiding him
in measuring the dimensions of the stellar
of William Herschel.  181

universe, and there was no temptation for him
to pursue it beyond the limits of its imme
diate usefulness. But here, though the first
hint leading to remarkable discoveries was a
direct consequence of his astronomical work,
the novelty and interest of the phenomena
observed induced him to follow the investi
gation very far beyond the mere solution of
the practical question in which it originated.

   Having tried many varieties of shade-
glasses between the eye-piece of his telescope
and the eye, in order to reduce the inordi
nate degree of heat and light transmitted by
the instrument when directed towards the

sun, he observed that certain combinations

of colored glasses permitted very little light
to pass, but transmitted so much heat that
they could not be used ; while, on the other
hand, different combinations and differently
colored glasses would stop nearly all the
heat, but allow an inconveniently great

amount of light to pass. At the same time

he noticed, in the various experiments, that
the images of the sun were of different

colors. This suggested the question as to
182 Life and Works

whether there was not a different heating;
power proper to each color of the spectrum.
On comparing the readings of sensitive therit
mometers exposed in different portions of an
intense solar spectrum, he found that, begini.
ning with the violet end, he came to the  is,
maximum of light long before that of heat,
which lay at the other extremity, that near
the red. By several experiments appeared
that the maximum of illumination, e., the

yellow, had little more than half the heat of
the full red rays and from other experi
ments he concluded that even the full red
fell short of the maximum of heat, which,
perhaps, lay even a little beyond the limits
of the visible spectrum.

" In this case," he says, " radiant heat will at least

partly, not chiefly, consist,     may be permitted the
if                           ;

                              iIf

                                      a
                                         is

                                            is
expression, of invisible light that to say, of rays com
ing from the sun, that have such momentum * as to be

unfit for vision. And admitting, as highly probable,

that the organs of sight are only adapted to receive

impressions from particles of certain momentum,         it
                               a

    * Herschel accepted, as did all his cotemporaries,  the New

tonian or corpuscular theory of light.
of William Herschel.               183

explains why the maximum of illumination should be in
the middle of the refrangible rays ; as those which have
greater or less momenta are likely to become equally
unfit for the impression of sight."

   In his second paper on this subject, pub
lished in the same year, Herschel describes

the experiments which led to the conclusion

given above. This paper contains a remark

ably interesting passage which admirably il

lustrates Herschel's philosophic method.

" To conclude, if we call light, those rays which illumi

nate objects, and radiant heat, those which heat bodies,

it may be inquired whether light be essentially different

from radiant heat ? In answer to which I would suggest

that we are not allowed, by the rules of philosophizing,

...to admit two different causes to explain certain effects, if
they may be accounted for by one.  If this be

a true account of the solar heat, for the support of which

I appeal to my experiments, it remains only for us to

admit that such of the rays of the sun as have the refran-

gibility of those which are contained in the prismatic

spectrum, by the construction of the organs of sight, are
admitted under the appearance of light and colors, and

that the rest, being stopped in the coats and humors of the

eye, act on them, as they are known to do on all the other

parts of our body, by occasioning a sensation of heat."

We now know that the reasoning and con
                   Life and Works

elusion here given are entirely correct, but
they have for their basis only a philosophical
conception, and not a series of experiments
designed especially to test their correctness.
Such an experimental test of this important
question was the motive for a third and last

paper in this department of physics. This

paper was published in volume ninety of the
Philosophical Transactions, and gave the re
sults of two hundred and nineteen quantita
tive experiments.

    Here we are at a loss to know which to

admire most --the marvellous skill evinced in

acquiring such accurate data with such inad
equate means, and in varying and testing
such a number of questions as were sug

gested in the course of the investigation --or

the intellectual power shown in marshalling
and reducing to a system such intricate and

apparently self-contradictory phenomena. It

is true that this discussion led him to a dif
ferent conclusion from that announced in the
previous paper, and, consequently, to a false
conclusion ; but almost the only escape from
his course of reasoning lay in a principle
of William Herschel.  185

which belongs to a later period of intellec

tual development than that of Herschel's

own time.

   Herschel made a careful determination of

the quantitative distribution of light and of
heat in the prismatic spectrum, and discov
ered the surprising fact that not only where
the light was at a maximum the heat was
very inconsiderable, but that where there
was a maximum exhibition of heat, there was

not a trace of light.

   " This consideration," he writes, " must alter the form of
our proposed inquiry ; for the question being thus at least
partly decided, since it is ascertained that we have rays
of heat which give no light, it can only become a subject
of inquiry whether some of these heat-making rays may
not have a power of rendering objects visible, superadded
to their now already established power of heating bodies.
This being the case, it is evident that the onus probandi
ought to lie with those who are willing to establish such
an hypothesis, for it does not appear that Nature is in
the habit of using one and the same mechanism with any
two of our senses. Witness the vibration of air that

makes sound, the effluvia that occasion smells, the par

ticles that produce taste, the resistance or repulsive pow

ers that affect the touch --all these are evidently suited

to their respective organs of sense."
                  Life and Worksit,

   It is difficult to see how the fallacy of this;

aargument could have been detected by any
       aaone not familiar with the fundamental physi
ological law that the nature of a sensation is
in nowise determined by the character of the
agent producing but only by the character
of the nerves acted upon but, as already in
timated, this law belongs to a later epoch

than the one we are considering. Herschel
thus finally concluded that light and radiant

heat were of essentially different natures, and
upon this supposition he explained all of the
phenomena which his numerous experiments
had shown him. So complete and satisfac
tory did this work appear to the scientific
world, that for long time the question was
looked upon as closed, and not until thirty-
five years later was there any dissent. Then

the Italian physicist, Melloni, with instru

mental means thousand times more deli

cate than that of Herschel, and with a far

larger store of cognate phenomena, collected
during the generation which had elapsed,
to serve as guide, discovered the true law.
This, as we have seen, was at first adopted
of William Herschel.  187

by Herschel on philosophical grounds, and

then rejected, since he did not at that time
possess the key which alone could have en
abled him to properly interpret his experi

ments.

   It is well to summarize the capital discov

eries in this field made by Herschel, more
particularly because his claims as a discov

erer seem to have been strangely overlooked
by historians of the development of physical
science. He, before any other investigator,

showed that radiant heat is refracted accord

ing to the laws governing the refraction of
light by transparent media ; that a portion
of the radiation from the sun is incapable
of exciting the sensation of vision, and that
this portion is the less refrangible ; that the
different colors of the spectrum possess very
unequal heating powers, which are not pro
portional to their luminosity ; that sub
stances differ very greatly in their power
of transmitting radiant heat, and that this
power does not depend solely upon their
color ; and that the property of diffusing
heat is possessed to a varying degree by dif
i88 Life and Works

ferent bodies, independently of their color.
Nor should we neglect to emphasize, in this
connection, the importance of his measure
ments of the intensity of the heat and light
in the different portions of the solar spec

trum. It is the more necessary to state Her-

schel's claims clearly, as his work has been

neglected by those who should first have done

him justice. In his " History of Physics,"
Poggendorff has no reference to Herschel.
In the collected works of Verdet, long

bibliographical notes are appended to each

chapter, with the intention of exhibiting the
progress and order of discovery. But all of
Herschel's work is overlooked, or indexed

under the name of his son. One little refer

ence in the text alone shows that his very
name was not unknown. Even in the great

work of Helmholtz on physiological optics,
Herschel's labors are not taken account of.

   It is easy to account for this seemingly
strange neglect. Herschel is known to this
generation only as an astronomer. A study

of his memoirs will show that his physical
work alone should give him a very high
of William Herschel.  189

rank indeed, and I trust that the brief sum
maries, which alone can be given here, will

have made this plain.

   We may conclude from the time expended,

the elaborate nature of the experiments in
volved, and the character of the papers de
voted to their consideration, that the portion

of Herschel's researches in physics which

interested him to the greatest degree, was
the investigation of the optical phenomena

known as Newton's rings. In 1792 he ob
tained the two object-glasses of Huyghens,

which were in the possession of the Royal
Society, for the purpose of repeating New
ton's experiments, and in 18 10 he read the
last of his three papers on the subject.

   Sir Isaac Newton had given some of his

most vigorous efforts to the study of the phe
nomena of interference of light, which are ex
emplified in the colors of thin and of thick

plates. The colors of thin plates are most

conveniently studied in the regular form
which they present when produced by a thin
plate of air, limited on one side by a plane
190 Life mid Works

polished surface, and on the other by a
spherical surface of long radius, such as the
exterior surface of a convex lens, for exam

ple. The colors are then arranged in concen

tric circles, and, though others had so pro
duced them before Newton, these rings have,
ever since the publication of his remarkable
work, been known by his name.

   To explain the phenomena, Newton was

obliged to supplement his theory of the
corpuscular nature of light, by supposing
that the inconceivably minute particles con
stituting light are not always equally suscep
tible of reflection, but that they have period
ically recurring " fits of easy reflection " and

of " easy transmission." This conception,

though by no means unphilosophical, seemed

to Herschel too artificial and improbable

for ready acceptance, and his effort was to
supply a more probable explanation.

    The developments of optical science have

justified Herschel in his objections, but we

cannot accord to him any considerable part
in making clear the true nature of the phe
nomenon. Indeed, it must be recognized that
of William Herschel.  191

his position was distinctly less advanced than
that of Newton. That great philosopher an
nounced the true law governing the relation
between the color and the thickness of the

film. Herschel did not recognize such a re
lation. Newton showed exactly how the

phenomenon depended upon the obliquity at

which it was viewed. Herschel found no

place in his theory for this evident varia

tion.

   In the series of experiments described in
the first paper on this subject, Herschel mis

took the locus of a certain set of rings which

he was observing. This mistake, though so
slight as hardly to be detected without the

guidance of the definite knowledge acquired
in later times, not only vitiated the conclu

sion from the experiments, but gave an erro
neous direction to the whole investigation.

To him these experiments proved that New

ton's conception of a periodic phenomenon
was untenable. Thus cut loose from all

hypothesis, his fertility in ideas and ingenuity
in experimentation are as striking as ever.
He tried the effect of having a polished
192 Life and Works

metal as one of the surfaces limiting the thin
plate of air. Observing the so-called " blue
bow " of Newton at the limit of total reflec
tion in a prism, he was led to the discovery
of its complement, the " red bow " by refrac
tion. Here he thought he had found the
solution of his problem, and attributed the
rings to the reflection of the light which
passed through in the red bow. Though
mistaken, he had presented to the world of
science two experiments which have since
played very prominent parts in the undula-
tory theory of light, namely, the rings formed
upon polished metal, and the bands produced
by a thin plate near the critical angle.

   As in his later researches upon the nature

of radiant heat, he was wrong in his conclu

sions, and perhaps with less excuse. His
experiments were skilfully devised and most
ingenious. His philosophizing was distinctly
faulty. We can see not only that he was

wrong, but exactly where he began to go

wrong. Yet these papers are full of interest

to the physicist, and by no means deserve the
neglect into which they have fallen.
of William Hersckel.  193

  Researches on the Dimensions of the Stars.

   Herschel examined a number of bright

stars, using extremely high magnifying pow
ers, in order to determine whether the stars

have sensible dimensions. In a good tele

scope stars present round and pretty uni

formly illuminated disks. If these disks re

ally represent the angular diameter of the
stars, they should admit of magnifying, like

other objects ; but, instead of this, Herschel

found that they appeared smaller as the tele

scopic power was increased. He accordingly
called the disk of light seen in the telescope
a spurious disk. This singular phenomenon
gave its discoverer a ready criterion for de
termining whether a small bright body has an

appreciable size, or only impresses the sense -
of sight by virtue of its intrinsic brightness.

If the first were the case, the apparent size

would increase with increased magnifying
power, while, if the angular dimensions were
inappreciable, the apparent size would, on
the contrary, diminish with additional mag

nifying. An occasion for using this criterion

                            9
i94 Life and Works

came in the first years of this century, with
the discovery of three small planets having

orbits lying between those of Mars and Jupi

ter. Herschel gave the name Asteroids to
these bodies. As the appropriateness of this

term had been violently assailed, the dis
covery of Juno, in 1804, the third one of the
group, led to a careful experimental study of
the defining power of the telescope used, and
of the laws governing the phenomena of spu
rious disks.

   With a telescope of about nine inches in
aperture, Herschel found that if Juno sub

tended an angle greater than a quarter of a
second of arc, a certain indication of the

fact would have shown itself in the course of

the experiments. This conclusion was a jus
tification of the name Asteroid, since the

appearance of the new planet was strictly
stellar. On other grounds, a better name

might have been selected.

   In the paper giving the results of the ex

periments, the phenomena of the spurious
disks are very completely described ; but
they did not attract the attention which they
     of William Hcrschel.  195

deserved, and they only became an object ofic,
especial interest to students of physics when
they were again studied by the famous

German optician Fraunhofer, a generation

later.

   Incidentally the experiments are of interest,

as yielding us a measure of the excellence of
Herschel's telescopes, and a measure which

is quite independent of the keenness of his
vision. From them we may be sure that the
efficiency of the nine-inch mirror used was

not sensibly less than that of the highest

theoretically attainable excellence. In this
connection, too, we may refer to the Philo
sophical Transactions for 1 790, pp. 468 and
475, where Herschel gives observations of
both Enceladus and Mimas seen in contact
with the ball of Saturn. I have never seen

so good definition, telescopic and atmospher
    as he must have had on these occasions.

Researches on the Spectra of the Fixed Stars.

   The spectroscope was applied by Secchi

to the study of the spectra of the fixed stars
196 Life and Works

visible to the naked eye in the years 1863
to 1866. He examined the nature of the
spectrum of each of the larger stars, and
found that these stars could be arranged in

three general classes or types. His results

have been verified and extended by other
astronomers, and his classification has been
generally accepted. According to Secchi,
the lucid stars may be separated into three
groups, distinguished by marked differences
in their spectra. Secchi's Type I. contains

stars whose spectra are like those of Sirius,
Procyon, and a Lyrce ; his Type 1 1, stars like

A returns and Aldebaran ; his Type III.

stars like a Orionis.

   Herschel also made some trials in this
direction. In the Philosophical Transactions

for 1814 (p. 264), he says:

   " By some experiments on the light of a few of the
stars of the first magnitude, made in 1798, by a prism
applied to the eye-glasses of my reflectors, adjustable to

any angle and to any direction, I had the following

analyses :

   " The light of Sirius consists of red, orange, yellow,
green, blue, purple, and violet, a Orionis contains the
of William Herschel.  197

same colors, but the red is more intense, and the orange
and yellow are less copious in proportion than they are
in Sinus. Procyon contains all the colors, but propor
tionately more blue and purple than Sirius. Arcturus
contains more red and orange, and less yellow in propor
tion than Sirius. Aldebaran contains much orange and

very little yellow, a Lyra contains much yellow, green,

blue, and purple."

   Here the essential peculiarities of the spec
trum of each of the stars investigated by

Herschel is pointed out, and if we were to use

his observations alone to classify these stars

into types, we should put Sirius and Procyon
into one type of stars which have " all the
colors" in their spectra; Arcturus and Aldeb
aran would represent another group of stars,

with a deficiency of yellow and an excess of
orange and red in the spectrum ; and a
Orionis would stand as a type of those stars
with an excess of red and a deficiency of
orange, a Lyrce would represent a sub-group
of the first class.

   Herschel's immediate object was not clas

sification, and his observations are only re
corded in a passing way. But the fact re
198 Life and Works

mains that he clearly distinguished the essen
tial differences of the spectra of these stars,
and that he made these observations in sup
port of his statement that the fixed stars,
" like the planets, also shine with differently

colored light. That of Archirus and Aldcb-

aran, for instance, is as different from the

light of Sirius and Capella as that of Mars

and Saturn is from the light of Venus and
Jupiter."

   Of course, no special discovery can be
claimed for him on these few instances. We

can see, however, a good example of the
manner in which he examined a subject from
every side, and used the most remote evi
dence exactly in its proper place and time.

Researches on the Variable Emission of Light

               and Heat from the Sun.

   It is certainly a remarkable fact that Her-
schel was the first observer to recognize the

real importance of the aperture or diameter
of a telescope. Before his time it was gen
erally assumed that this element only con
of William Herschel.  199

ditioned the amount of light transmitted to
the eye, or, in other words, merely deter
mined the brightness of the image. Hence
the conclusion that if an object is sufficiently
bright, the telescope may be made as small
as desired without loss of power. Thus, in

observing the sun, astronomers before Her
schel had been accustomed to reduce the

aperture of their telescopes, in order to
moderate the heat and light transmitted.
Scheiner, it is true, nearly two centuries be
fore the time we are considering, had in
vented a method for observing the sun with
out danger, still employing the full aperture.
This was by projecting the image of the sun
on a white screen beyond the eye-piece, the
telescope being slightly lengthened. For
special purposes this ingenious method has
even been found useful in modern times,

though for sharpness of definition it bears

much the same relation to the more usual

manner of observing, that a photographic pic
ture does to direct vision.

   Although Herschel saw the advantages of

using the whole aperture of a telescope in
200 Life and Works

such observations, the practical difficulties in

the way were very great. We have noted

his attempts to find screens which would ef
fectively cut off a large portion of the heat

and light without impairing vision, and have

considered, somewhat in detail, the remark

able discoveries in radiant heat to which

these attempts led him. His efforts were not

unsuccessful.  A green glass smoked, and a

glass cell containing a solution of black writing

ink in water--were found to work admirably.

   Thus provided with more powerful instru

mental means than had ever been applied to

the purpose, Herschel turned his attention

to the sun. In a very short time he ex

hausted nearly all there was to be discov

ered, so that since the publication of his last

paper on this subject, in 1801, until the

present time, there has been but a single

telescopic phenomenon, connected with the

physical appearance of the sun, which was
unknown to Herschel. That phenomenon

is the frequent occurrence of a darker central

shade or kernel in large spots, discovered by
Dawes about 1858.
of William Herschel.  20I

   Herschel, though observing a hundred

and ninety years after the earliest discovery
of sun spots, seems to have been the first to

suspect their periodic character. To estab

lish this as a fact, and to measure the period,
was left for our own times and for the inde

fatigable observer Schwabe. The probable

importance of such a period in its relation to
terrestrial meteorology was not only clearly

pointed out by Herschel, but he even at

tempted to demonstrate, from such data as
were obtainable, the character of this influ

ence.

   Perhaps no one thing which this great phi
losopher has done better exhibits the catho
lic character of his mind than this research.
When the possible connection of solar and
terrestrial phenomena occurred to him as a
question to be tested, there were no avail
able meteorological records, and he could
find but four or five short series of observa

tions, widely separated in time. To an ordi

nary thinker the task would have seemed
hopeless until more data had been collected.
But Herschel's fertile mind, though it could

                      9*
202 Life and Works

not recall lost opportunities for solar obser

vations, did find a substitute for meteorologi

cal records in the statistics of the prices of

grain during the various epochs. It is clear

that the price of wheat must have depended

upon the supply, and the supply, in turn,

largely upon the character of the season.

The method, as ingenious as it
   ;                                     failed in

            it

                                 a
                                    is,
Herschel's hands on account of the paucity

of solar statistics but has since proved of

value, and has taken its place as recognized

method of research.

a      Researches on Nebulez and Clusters.

   When Herschel first began to observe the

nebuloe in 1774, there were very few of these

objects known. The nebulae of Orion and
Andromeda had been known in Europe only

  little over a hundred years.
   In 1784 Messier published a list of sixty-
eight such objects which he had found in his
searches for comets, and twenty-eight nebulae

had been found by Lacaille in his observa

tions at the Cape of Good Hope. In the
of William Herschel.  203

mere discovery of these objects Herschel
quickly surpassed all others. In 1786 he

published a catalogue . of one thousand new

nebula?, in 1 789 a catalogue of a second thou

sand, and in 1802 one of five hundred. In

all he discovered and described two thousand

five hundred and eight new nebulae and

clusters. This branch of astronomy may
almost be said to be proper to the Her-
schels, father and son. Sir John Herschel

re-observed all his father's nebulae in the

northern hemisphere, and added many new
ones, and in his astronomical expedition to
the Cape of Good Hope he recorded almost
an equal number in the southern sky.

   Of the six thousand two hundred nebulae
now known the Herschels discovered at least
eight-tenths. The mere discovery of twenty-
five hundred nebulae would have been a brill

iant addition to our knowledge of celestial

statistics.

   Herschel did more than merely point out

the existence and position of these new
bodies. Each observation was accompanied
by a careful and minute description of the
204 Life and Works

object viewed, and with sketches and diagrams
which gave the position of the small stars in
it and near it.*

   As the nebulae and clusters were discov

ered they were placed in classes, each class
covering those nebulae which resembled each
other in their general features. Even at the

telescope Hersciiel's object was not discov

ery merely, but to know the inner constitu-

   * Thus the position of small stars critically situated in the centre,
or on the edges of the nebulas was always noted. Many of the de
scriptions arc given in the published papers, but the publication of
the diagrams would be an immense help to this branch of astron
omy. D'Arrest in his reduction of Hersciiel's nebula observa

tions (1856) writes : " Gewiss ware es vom hochsten Interesse fiir

die Entwickelung, welche hoffcntlich auch dieser Zweig der beo-

bachtenden Astronomic zuklinftig erhalten wird, wenn die Her-

SCHEL'schen Beobachtungen in der AusfUhrlichkeit in welcher sie,
verschiedenen Andeutungen zufolge, handschriftlich vorhanden
sind, veroffentlicht wlirden. Es schliesst sich dieser Wunsch in
Bctreff der Nebelflecken lebhaft an den an, welcher, schon vor
eincm Jahrzehnt nach Veroffentlichung der 400 noch unedirten
star-gauges von gewichtigerer Seite her geaussert wurde." In this
all must agree who have a knowledge of the direction in which we
must look for advances in the difficult and important questions of
the distance, the motions, and the changes of the nebulae. Almost
the only aid to be looked for from the older observations must come
from such diagrams, and we may safely say that the publication of
this priceless material, just as it stands, would carry our exact data
back from 1833 to 1786, or no less than forty-seven years.
of William Herschel.  205

tion of the heavens. His classes were ar
ranged with this end, and they are to-day
adopted. They were :

     Class I. " Bright nebulae (288 in all).

               II. " Faint nebulae (909 in all).

            III. "Very faint nebulae (984 in

                               all).

               IV. " Planetary nebulae, stars with

                             burs, with milky cheve-
                               lure, with short rays, re
                               markable shapes, etc. (79
                               in all).
                  V. " Very large nebulae (52 in all).

              VI. "Very compressed and rich

                               clusters of stars (42 in all).

           VII. "Pretty much compressed

                               clusters (67 in all).

          VIII. "Coarsely scattered clusters

                               of stars " (88 in all).

   The lists of these classes were the store
houses of rich material from which Herschel

drew the examples by which his later opinions
on the physical conditions of nebulous matter
were enforced.

   As the nebulae were discovered and classi
206 Life and Works

fied they were placed upon a star-map in
their proper positions (1786), and, as the dis
coveries went on, the real laws of the distri

bution of the nebulae and of the clusters over

the surface of the sky showed themselves

more and more plainly. It was by this
means that Herschel was led to the an

nouncement of the law that the spaces rich

est in nebula; are distant from the Milky Way,
etc. By no other means could he have de
tected this, and I believe this to have been

the first example of the use of the graphical
method, now become common in treating
large masses of statistics.

   It is still in his capacity of an observer--
an acute and wise one -- that Herschel is

considered. But this was the least of his
gifts. This vast mass of material was not
left in this state : it served him for a step

ping-stone to larger views of the nature and
extent of the nebulous matter itself.

   His views on the nature of nebulae under
went successive changes. At first he sup

posed all nebulae to be but aggregations of

stars. The logic was simple. To the naked
of William Herschel.                                          207

eye there are many groups of stars which apit is,
pear nebulous. Praescpe perhaps, the best
                                                             a
example. The slightest telescopic power ap
a it
plied to such groups alters the nebulous ap
pearance, and shows that comes from the                 a
combined and confused light of discrete stars.             a
Other groups which remain nebulous in
aseven-foot telescope, become stellar in a ten-
                        a
foot. The nebulosity of the ten-foot can be
                           1
resolved into stars by the twenty-foot, and so
                                         it
on. The nebulae which remained still unre

solved, was reasonable to conclude, would

yield to higher power, and generally nebula
was but group of stars removed to great
distance. An increase of telescopic power
was alone necessary to demonstrate this.*

   " Nebulas can be selected so that an insensible grada

tion shall take place from coarse cluster like the Plei

ades down to milky nebulosity like that in Orion, every
intermediate step being represented. This tends to con
firm the hypothesis that all are composed of stars more

or less remote."

  * Long after Herschel had abandoned this idea, continued
current among astronomers. The successes of Lord Rosse's tele

scope perpetuated to the middle of the nineteenth century an erro
neous view which Hersciiei. had given up in 791.
208 Life and Works

So, at first, Herschel believed that his

twenty-foot telescope was of power sufficient

to fathom the Milky Way, that
       1                                                               to see

            it

                                             it,
                                                                  is,
through   and beyond  and to reduce all

its nebulosities to true groups of stars.

   In 791 he published a memoir on Nebulous
Stars, in which his views were completely
changed. He had found a nebulous star, the
sixty-ninth of his Class IV., to which his
reasons would not apply. In the centre of

was a bright star around the star was
it

                                                                          ;

                                                              It a
halo gradually diminishing in brightness from

the star outward, and perfectly circular.

was clear the two parts, star and nebula,

were connected, and thus at the same distance

from us.

   There were two possible solutions only.
Either the whole mass was, first, composed

of stars, in which case the nucleus would be

enormously larger than the other stars of its

stellar magnitude elsewhere in the sky, or

the stars which made up the halo indefinitely

small or, second, the central nucleus was in

deed a star, but a star surrounded with " shin
;

                                                                a

ing fluid, of a nature totally unknown to us."
of William Herschel.  209

   The long strata of nebulae, which he had

before described under the name of " tele

scopic Milky Ways," might well be accounted

for by masses of this fluid lying beyond the
regions of the seventh-magnitude stars. This

fluid might exist independently of stars. If

it is self-luminous, it seems more fit to pro

duce a star by its condensation, than to de

pend upon the star for its own existence.
Such were a few of the theorems to which his
discovery of this nebula led him. The hy

pothesis of an elastic shining fluid existing

in space, sometimes in connection with stars,

sometimes distinct from them, was adopted

and never abandoned. How well the spec

troscope has confirmed this idea it is not

necessary to say. We know the shining fluid

does exist, and in late years we have seen

the reverse of the process imagined by Her
schel. A star has actually, under our eyes,

become a planetary nebula, and the cycle of

which he gave the first terms is complete.

   In five separate memoirs (1802, 181 1, 1814,
1817, and 18 1 8) Herschel elaborated his
views of the sidereal system. The whole ex
2 IO Life and Works

tent of his views must be gained from the
extended memoirs themselves. Here only
the merest outline can be given.

   In 1802 there is a marshaling of the va
rious objects beyond our solar system. The
stars themselves may be insulated, or may
belong to binary or multiple systems, to clus
ters and groups, or to grand groups like the
Milky Way. Nebulae may have any of the

forms which have been described; and, in
181 1, he gives examples of immense spaces
in the sky covered with diffused and very
faint nebulosity. " Its abundance exceeds
all imagination." * These masses of nebular
matter are the seats of attracting forces,
and these forces must produce condensation.
When a nebula has more than one prepon
derating seat of attracting matter, it may in
time be divided, and the double nebulae have

    " These have never been re-observed. They should be sought
 for with a powerful refractor, taking special precautions against the
 illumination of the field of view from neighboring bright stars.
 Herschel's reflectors were specially open to illusions produced
 in this way. His observations probably will remain untested
 until some large telescope is used in the way he adopted, i. e., in

 sweeping.
of William Herschel.  211

had such an origin. When nebulae appear to
us as round masses, they are in reality globu
lar in form, and this form is at once the effect

and the proof of a gravitating cause.
   The central brightness of nebulae points

out the seat of the attraction ; and the com

pleteness of the approximation to a spherical
form points out the length of time that the
gravitating forces have been at work. Those
nebulae (and clusters) which are most perfect
in the globular form, have been longest ex

posed to central forces. The planetary neb
ulae are the oldest in our system. They must

have a rotatory motion on their axes.
    By progressive condensation planetary neb

ulae may be successively converted into bright
stellar nebulae, or into nebulous stars, and

these again, by the effects of the same cause,

into insulated or double stars. This chain of

theorems, laid down in the memoir of 181 1, is

enforced in 18 14 with examples which show
how the nebulous appearance may grow into

the sidereal. Herschel selects from the

hundreds of instances in his note-books, neb

ulae in every stage of progress, and traces the
2 I 2 Life and Works

effect of condensation and of clustering power
through all its course, even to the final break

ing up of the Milky Way itself.
   The memoirs of 1817 and 1818 add little

to the general view of the physical constitu
tion of the heavens. They are attempts to
gain a scale of celestial measures by which we
may judge of the distances of the stars and
clusters in which these changes are going on.

   There is little to change in Herschel's

statement of the general construction of the

heavens. It is the groundwork upon which we

have still to build. Every astronomical dis
covery and every physical fact well observed
is material for the elaboration of its details or

for the correction of some of its minor points.

As a scientific conception it is perhaps the

grandest that has ever entered into the hu

man mind. As a study of the height to which

the efforts of one man may go, it is almost
without a parallel. The philosopher who will
add to it to-day, will have his facts and his

methods ready to his hands. Herschel pre

sents the almost unique example of an eager
observer marshaling the multitude of single
of William Herschel.  213

instances, which he himself has laboriously
gathered, into a compact and philosophic

whole. In spite of minor errors and defects,

his ideas of the nature of the sidereal uni

verse have prevailed, and are to-day the unac
knowledged basis of our every thought upon
it. Some of its most secret processes have
been worked out by him, and the paths which
he pointed out are those along which our ad
vances must be made.

   In concluding this condensed account of
Herschel's scientific labors, it behoves us to
remember that there was nothing due to ac
cident in his long life. He was born with
the faculties which fitted him for the gigantic

labors which he undertook, and he had the
firm basis of energy and principle which kept
him steadily to his work.

    As a practical astronomer he remains with
out an equal. In profound philosophy he has
few superiors. By a kindly chance he can be
claimed as the citizen of no one country. In

very truth his is one of the few names which
belong to the whole world.
       BIBLIOGRAPHY.

I.-- List of the Published Writings of Wil

        liam Herschel on Astronomical Sub
        jects.

                       [In chronological order.]

IN.B. -- In general, translations and abstracts of those which appeared
in periodicals are not noticed Itere.  liave made exceptions in the

more important cases.

[Solution of a prize question.  See this book, page 46.]

                                         Ladies' Diary, 1779.

Astronomical observations on the periodical star in Collo Ceti.
                                              Phil. Trans., 1780, p. 338.

Astronomical observations relating to the mountains of the

moon.                                  Phil. Trans., 1780, p. 507.

Astronomical observations on the rotation of the planets
       round their axes, made with a view to determine whether

the earth's diurnal motion is perfectly equable.
                                       Phil. Trans., 1781, p. 115.

Account of a comet.    [Dated 13th March, 1781. This was
       Uranus. ]                 Phil. Trans., 1781, p. 492.

On the parallax of the fixed stars.

                                       Phil. Trans., 1782, p. 82.

Catalogue of double stars.
                         Phil. Trans., 1782, p. 112 : translation in
                            Bode's Jahrbuch, 1786, p. 187.

                                                  215
2 1 6 Bibliography.

Description of a lamp micrometer and the method of using it.
                                              Phil. Trans., 1782, p. 163.

A paper to obviate some doubts concerning the great magni

fying powers used.  Phil. Trans., 1782, p. 173.

A letter from William Herschel, Esq., F.R.S., to Sir

      Joseph Banks, Bart., P.R.S.
                                                 Phil. Trans., 1783, p. 1.

Aus einem Schreiben des Hrn. Herschel an mich [Bode],

      datirt London, den I3ten August, 1783.

[This is a letter forwarding Herschel's memoir on the Par

      allax of the Fixed Stars, etc.]
                                       Bodes Jahrbuch, 1786, p. 258.

On the diameter and magnitude of the Georgium Sidus, with

a description of the dark and lucid disk and periphery

micrometers.        Phil. Trans., 1783, p. 4.

On the proper motion of the sun and solar system, with an

       account of several changes that have happened among

      the fixed stars since the time of Mr. Flamsteed.
                                              Phil. Trans., 1783, p. 247.

                            Bodes Jahrbuch, 1787, p. 194, p. 224.

Astronomische Nachrichten und Entdeckungen, aus einem
       französischen Schreiben desselben an mich [Bode], datirt
       Datchet, nahe bey Windsor, den 18. May, 1784.

[This letter is on the subject of the use of high magnifying
       powers, and gives a rdsume of his recent papers.]
                                       Bode's Jahrbuch, 1787, p. 211.

On the remarkable appearances at the polar regions of the
      planet Mars, the inclination of its axis, the position of its

       poles and its spheroidical figure ; with a few hints relat

       ing to its real diameter and atmosphere.
                                              Phil. Trans., 1784, p. 233.
                Bibliography.  217

Account of some observations tending to investigate the con

      struction of the heavens.

                                          Phil. Trans., 1784, p. 437.
[Bode's Jahrbuch, 1788, p. 246, has a summary of this

      paper by Baron VON Zach. See, also, Bode's Jahrbuch,

1794, p. 213.]

Catalogue of double stars.

                            Phil. Trans., 1785, p. 40.

On the construction of the heavens.
                                          Phil. Trans., 1785, p. 213.

                   Bode's Jahrbuch, 1788, p. 238. See, also,

                                same, 1787, p. 213, and 1794, p. 213.

Aus einem Schreiben des Hrn. Herschel an mich [Bode],
      datirt Clay Hall, nahe bey Windsor, den 20. Jul., 1785.

[This is a letter forwarding two memoirs, and giving the.
      prices of telescopes ]
                                    Bode's Jahrbuch, 1788, p. 254.

Catalogue of one thousand new nebulas and clusters of stars.

                                          Phil. Trans., 1786, p. 457.
                           Bode's Jahrbuch, 1791, p. 157, and

                                       same, 1794, p. 213.

Investigation of the cause of that indistinctness of vision
      which has been ascribed to the smallness of the optic

pencil.                     Phil. Trans., 1786, p. 500.

Remarks on the new comet [1786, II.].

                                                  Phil. Trans., 1787, p. 4.
[Letter from Herschel to Bode on the discovery of two sat

      ellites to Uranus, dated Slough, 1787, Feb. 11.]
                                   Bode's Jahrbuch, 1790, p. 253.

An account of the discovery of two satellites revolving round
      the Georgian planet.
                                          Phil. Trans., 1787, p. 125.
                                    Bode's Jahrbuch, 1791, p. 255.

                              10
2 1 8 Bibliography.

An account of three volcanoes in the moon.
                                              Phil. Trans., 1787, p. 229.

                                   Bodes Jahrbuch, 1791, p. 255.

Note on M. MECHAIN's comet.  [1787, L] [Added to preced
       ing paper.]           Phil. Trans., 1787, p. 232.

On the Georgian planet and its satellites.
                                          Phil. Trans., 1788, p. 364.

                                   Bodc's Jahrbuch, 1793, p. 104.

Observations on a comet [1788, II.].
                                          Phil. Trans., 1789, p. 151.

Catalogue of a second thousand of new nebulas and clusters of
       stars, with a few introductory remarks on the construc

tion of the heavens.         Phil. Trans., 1789, p. 212.

                      Bodes Jahrbuch, 1793, p. 104.

                                                      Also, same, 1794, p. 150.
Account of the discovery of a sixth and seventh satellite of

      the planet Saturn, with remarks on the construction of

its ring, its atmosphere, its rotation on an axis, and its

spheroidical figure.           Phil. Trans., 1790, p. I.
                      Bode's Jahrbuch, 1793, p. 239 ;

                      same, 1796, p. 88 ; 1797, p. 249.

On the satellites of the planet Saturn, and the rotation of

its ring on an axis.         Phil. Trans., 1790, p. 427.

On nebulous stars properly so called.
                                               Phil. Trans., 1791, p. 71.

                                        Bode's Jahrbuch, 1801, p. 128.

On the ring of Saturn and the rotation of the fifth satellite

upon its axis.               Phil. Trans., 1792, p. 1.

                      Bode's Jahrbuch, 1796, p. 88.
                Bibliography.                                      2ig

Miscellaneous observations.

[Account of a comet], p. 23 [1792, I.].

[On the periodical appearance off Cett], p. 24.

[On the disappearance of the 55th Herculis], p. 26.
[Remarkable phenomenon in an eclipse of the moon], p. 27.

                                           Phil. Trans,, 1792, p. 23.

Observations on the planet Venus.
                                              Phil. Trans., 1793, p. 201.

Observations of a quintuple belt on the planet Saturn.
                                           Phil. Trans., 1794, p. 28.

                                        Bode's Jahrbuch, 1798, p. 90.

Account of some particulars observed during the late eclipse

of the sun.     [1793, September 5th.]

                                     Phil. Trans., 1794, p. 39.

On the rotation of the planet Saturn upon its axis.
                                            Phil. Trans., 1794, p. 48.

                                        Bodes Jahrbuch, 1798, p. 74.

On the nature and construction of the sun and fixed stars.
                                                Phil. Trans., 1795, p. 46.

                       Bode's Jahrbuch, II. Suppl. Band, p. 65.

Description of a forty-foot reflecting telescope.

                                          Phil. Trans., 1 795, p. 347.
                  Bode's Jahrbuch, III. Suppl. Band., p. 238.

Additional observations on the comet. [1796,I.]                    131.
                                              Phil. Trans., 1796,
                                           p.

On the method of observing the changes that happen to the;
       fixed stars with some remarks on the stability of the
      light of our sun. To which added catalogue of com
      parative brightness for ascertaining the permanency of
      the lustre of stars.

                                              Phil. Trans., 1796, 166.
                                       Bode^s Jahrbuch, 1809, 201.
                is
                                 a
                                                      p. p.
220 Bibliography.

On the periodical star a Herculis; with remarks tending

       to establish the rotatory motion of the stars on their axes ;
       to which is added a second catalogue of the comparative
       brightness of the stars.

                                              Phil. Trans., 1796, p. 452.
                                    Dode's Jahrbuch, 1809, p. 201.

A third catalogue of the comparative brightness of the stars,
     with an introductory account of an index to Mr. Flam-

       STEED'S observations of the fixed stars, contained in the
      second volume of the Historia Ccelestis. To which are

      added several useful results derived from that index.
                                              Phil. Trans., .1797, p. 293.

                                    Bode's Jahrbuch, 1810, p. 143.

Observations of the changeable brightness of the satellites

     of Jupiter, and of the variation in their apparent magni

       tudes, with a determination of the time of their rotatory
      motions on their axes. To which is added a measure of

       the diameter of the second satellite, and an estimate of

       the comparative size of all the four.
                                              Phil. Trans., 1797, p. 332.

                                       Bode's Jahrbuch, 1801, p. 103.

On the discovery of four additional satellites of the Georgium

Sidus. The retrograde motion of its old satellites an

nounced, and the cause of their disappearance at certain

distances  from the planet explained.
                                      Phil. Trans., 1798, p. 47.

                            Bode's Jahrbuch, 1801, p. 231.

A fourth  catalogue  of the comparative brightness of the stars.
                                       Phil. Trans., 1799, P- 121 .

                               Bode's Jahrbuch, 1810, p. 143.

On the power of penetrating into space by telescopes, with a
       comparative determination of the extent of that power in
       natural vision, and in telescopes of various sizes and

       constructions, illustrated by select observations.
                                         Phil. Trans., 1800, pp. 49~85-

                                       Bode's Jahrbuch, 1804, p. 231.
      Bibliography.  221

Investigation of the powers of the prismatic colors to heat
      and illuminate objects, with remarks that prove the dif

ferent refrangibility of radiant heat. To which is added

an inquiry into the method of viewing the sun advan

tageously with telescopes of large apertures and high

magnifying powers.  Phil. Trans., 1800, pp. 255-283.
                      Bodes Jahrbuch, 1804, p. 89.

Experiments on the refrangibility of the invisible rays of the

sun.

                    Phil. Trans., 1800, pp. 284-292.
                      Bodes Jahrbuch, 1804, p. 89.

Experiments on the solar and on the terrestrial rays that

occasion heat, with a comparative view of the laws by

which light and heat, or rather the rays that occasion

them, are subject, in order to determine whether they are

the same or different.
                  Phil. Trans., 1800, pp. 293-326, 437-538.

                      Gilbert Annal., X. (1802), pp. 68-78 ;
                           same, XII. (1803), pp. 521-546.

Observations tending to investigate the nature of the sun, in
      order to find the causes or symptoms of its variable emis
       sion of light and heat, with remarks on the use that may
       possibly be drawn from solar observations.
                                      Phil. Trans., 1801, pp. 265-318.
              Bode's Jahrbuch, 1805, p. 218, and 1806, p. 113.

Ueber den 7 Nebelfleck der Isten classe des Herschel'schen
      Verzeichniss, und ueber Ceres und Pallas, vom Herrn

     Doctor Herschel, aus zwey Briefen desselben.
                                       Bode's Jahrbuch, 1805, p. 211.

Additional observations tending to investigate the symptoms
      of the variable emission of the light and heat of the sun,
      with trials to set aside darkening glasses by transmitting
      the solar rays through liquids, and a few remarks to re
      move objections that might be made against some of the
      arguments contained in the former paper.
                                     Phil. Trans., 1801, pp. 354-362.
222 Bibliography.

Observations on the two lately discovered celestial bodies

     [ Ceres and Pallas]. Phil. Trans., 1802, pp. 213-232.
     Nicholson Journal, IV. (1808), pp. 120-130, 142-148.

Catalogue of five hundred new nebulas, nebulous stars,

       planetary nebula:, and clusters of stars, with remarks on

       the construction of the heavens.
                                      Phil. Trans., 1802, pp. 477-528.
                                       Dode's Jahrbuch, 1807, p. 113.

Observations of the transit of Mercury over the sun's disk, to
       which is added an investigation of the causes which often

       prevent the proper action of mirrors.
                                      Phil. Trans., 1803, pp. 214-232.

Account of the changes which have happened during the last
      twenty-five years in the relative situation of double stars,
      with an investigation of the cause to which they are

owing.         Phil. Trans., 1803, pp. 339-382.
        Bodes Jahrbuch, 1808, pp. 154-178.

Continuation of the account of the changes that have hap

       pened in the relative situation of double stars.
                                      Phil. Trans., 1804, pp. 353-384.

                                   Bode's Jahrbuch, 1808, p. 226.

Aus einem Schreiben des Herrn Doctor Herschel, datirt

      Slough, bey Windsor, den 31. May, 1804.

[Relates to his theory of the relation between the solar radia
      tion and the price of wheat.]
                                       Bode's Jahrbuch, 1808, p. 226.

Experiments for ascertaining how far telescopes will enable

us to determine very small angles, and to distinguish

the real from the spurious diameters of celestial and
terrestrial objects, with an application of the results of

those experiments to a  series of observations  on the na
ture and magnitude of                           discovered
                        Mr. Harding's lately

star [Juno (1804),].    Phil. Trans., 1805, pp. 31-70.
                  Bibliography.                               223

On the direction and velocity of the motion of the sun and
       solar system.

                                  Phil. Trans., 1805, pp. 233-256.
                    Bode's Jahrbuch, IV. Suppl. Band, p. 67.

Observations on the singular figure of the planet Saturn.
                                       Phil. Trans., 1805, pp. 272-280.
                                    Bode's Jahrbuch, 1809, p. 197.

On the quantity and velocity of solar motion.

                                   Phil. Trans., 1806, pp. 205-237.
                                    Bode's Jahrbuch, 181 1, p. 224.

Observations and remarks on the figure, climate, and atmos
      phere of Saturn and its ring.

                                   Phil. Trans., 1806, pp. 455-467.
                 Gilbert Annal., XXXIV. (1810), pp. 82-105.

                                       Bode's Jahrbuch, 1810, p. 228.

Experiments for investigating the cause of the colored con

     centric rings discovered by Sir I. Newton between two

      object-glasses laid one upon another.

                                   Phil. Trans., 1807, pp. 180-233.
      Annal.de Chimie, LXX., 1809, pp. 154-181, 293-321;

                                       same, LXXI., 1809, pp. 5-40.

Observations on the nature of the new celestial body [ Vesta]
      discovered by Dr. OLBERS, and of the comet which was
      expected to appear last January in its return from the

sun. [1806, II.]  Phil. Trans., 1807, pp. 260-266.

Observations of a comet [1807,  made with view to in
is
                              I.]
                                                           a
vestigate its magnitude and the nature of its illumination,
to which added an account of a new irregularity lately
perceived in the apparent figure of the planet Saturn.
                             Phil. Trans., 1808, pp. 145-163.
Gilbert Annal., XXXVI. (1810), pp. 389-393-
Zach, Monat. Corresp., XX. (1809), pp. 512-514-
224 Bibliography.

Continuation of experiments for investigating the cause of
      colored concentric rings and other appearances of a
       similar nature.
                                   Phil. Trans., 1809, pp. 259-302.

Supplement to the first and second part of the paper of ex

       periments for investigating the cause of colored concen
       tric rings between object-glasses, and other appearances
       of a similar nature.

                                      Phil. Trans., 1810, pp. 149-177.
                        Gilbert Annal., XLVI., 1814, pp. 22-79.

Astronomical observations relating to the construction of the
      heavens, arranged for the purpose of a critical examina

tion, the result of which appears to throw some new

light upon the organization of the celestial bodies.
                               Phil. Trans., 181 1, pp. 269-336.

            Journ. tie Phys., LXXV., 1812, pp. 121-167.

Observations of a comet, with remarks on the construction

of its different parts [1811, I.].
                          Phil. Trans., i8r2, pp.
                          Phys., LXXVII.,                 1 15-143.
Zach,         Jonrn. tie  XXVIII., 1813, pp.  1813, pp.   125-135.
                                              455-469.    558-568.
       Monat. Corresp.,

                          Bode's Jahrbuch, 1816, p. 185.

Observations of a second comet, with remarks on its con

struction [181 1, II.].              Trans.,
                              Phil.  XXXV.,
       Nicholson          Journ.,             1812,  pp.  229-237.
                                              1813,  pp.  193-199.

                          Bode's Jahrbuch, 1816, p. 203.

Astronomical observations relating to the sidereal part of the          \
      heavens, and its connection with the nebulous part,
      arranged for the purpose of a critical examination.
                                      Phil. Trans., 1814, pp. 248-284.
                                Bode's Jahrbuch, 1818, pp. 97-118.

A series of observations of the satellites of the Georgian
     planet, including a passage through the node of their

      orbits, with an introductory account of the telescopic ap

      paratus that has been used on this occasion, and a final
                   Bibliography.  225

exposition of some calculated particulars deduced from

the observations.       Phil. Trans., 1815, pp. 293-362.
                   Bodes Jahrbuch, 1819, p. 232-242.

Astronomical observations and experiments tending to inves

tigate the local arrangement of the celestial bodies in

space, and to determine the extent and condition of the

Milky Way.         Phil. Trans., 181 7, pp. 302-331.

                   Bode's Jahrbuch, 1821, p. 149.

Astronomical observations and experiments selected for the

purpose of ascertaining the relative distances of clusters
of stars, and of investigating how far the power of our

telescopes may be expected to reach into space, when di

rected to ambiguous celestial objects.
                               Phil. Trans., 1818, pp. 429-470.

On the places of one hundred and forty-five new double stars

(1821).  Mem. Roy. Ast. Soc, 1, 1822, pp. 166-181.

II.-- List of Works relating to the Life and
        Writings of William Herschel.

                        [Arranged alphabetically by authors.]

  N.B. -- In general, the notices of his life to be found in Encyclope
dias of Biography, etc., are not included here.

Arago (F.)

    Analyse de la vie et des travaux de Sir William Her
        schel [from Annuaire du Bureau des Longitudes ,

          1842]. Paris, 1843. i8mo.
            [See also the Annuaire for 1834, for an account of

              Herschel's work on double stars.]

Arago (F.)
     Biographies of Distinguished Scientific Men. Translated

        by Admiral W. H. Smyth, Rev. B. Powell, and Rob

       ert Grant, Esq. Herschel.

                First series, p. 258. Boston, 1859. 8vo.
                        10*
226 Bibliography.

Arago (F.)

    Herschel. [Translated from the French.]

              Smithsonian Report. 1870, p. 197. 8vo.

Auwers (A.)

    William HERSCHEL's Verzeichnisse von Nebelflecken

         und Sternliaufen bearbeitet von A. AUWERS.
              From tlie Konigsberg Observations. 1862. Folio.

Bessel (F. W.)                  [From the Konigsberger Allge

    Sir William Herschel.

nuine Zeitung, I, 1843, No. 37, et seq., reprinted in his]
Abhandlungen, vol. iii., p. 468. Leipzig, 1876. 4to.

D'Arrest (H. L.)

    Verzeichniss von Sir William Herschel's Nebelflecken

         erster und vicrter Classe, aus den Beobachtungen be-
          rechnet und auf 1850 reducirt.

            Abhandlungen dcr Math. Phys. Classe der K. Sachs
                 Gesells.d. Wissenschaften, Band iii. [1857], p. 359.

Dunlcin (E.)                                  F.R.S.,   1738-
     Obituary Notices of Astronomers, p. 86.

          Sir William Herschel, K.C.H.,

                      1822.

London, 1879. i2mo.

Fetis (F. J.)
   Biographie universelle des Musiciens [Article HERSCHEL].
              Paris, 1835-37. 8vo.

Forbes (J. D.)i.,
    Sir William Herschel [being \ 2 of Dissertation vi.].

              Encyclopaedia Britannica, eighth edition.
            Vol. Dissertations, p. 838.

Fourier (J.)           de  Sir  William  Herschel,  prononce
     Eloge historique
dans la seance publique de l'Academie royale des sci

ences  le     Juin, 1824.

           7

Histoire de l'Academie Royale des Sciences de Tln-

stitut de France, tome vi., annde 1823, lxi.        p.
                      Bibliography.                                          227

Harding (C. L.)       Herschel's     Untersuchungen                    über die
     Des Herrn Dr.
            der Sonnenstrahlen, aus dem englischen über
    Natur
    setzt.  Erstes Heft. [Translations from Phil. Trans.,

    1800] Celle, 1801. i6mo.

Hastings (C. S.)      and  Hastings.

        See Holden

Herschel (Carolina.)                 L[1X78X6V, IIII..,]
An  Account of a new Comet.

     Phil. Trans., 1787, vol.                             p.  1.

Herschel (Carolina.)  Discovery      of a Comet.a         [1793,
An  Account of the     1794, vol.                        p.p. 1.
                                     LXXXIV.,
      Phil. Trans.,                                           I.]

Herschel (Carolina.)                 of Comet.                [179S,   II.]
     An Account of the Discovery                                 131.
                                     LXXXVI.,
           Phil. Trans., 1796, vol.

Herschel (Carolina.)          from Flamsteed'S                    observations
    Catalogue of Stars taken
    contained in the second volume of his Historia Cm-
    leslis, and not inserted in the British Catalogue to
                                      ;
                                                                                           ;
    which added a collection of errata which should be
            is
    noticed in the same volume with remarks by W.

    Herschel. London, 1798. Folio.

Herschel (Carolina.)  74inStdeernr eHnisFtl.amCstgtle. eBdrsit,vovnordkeonmemn ekne.ine

Verzeichniss von
     beobachtungen

    Bode's Jahrbuch, 1806, 255.
                                     p.
                                                            p. 8,

                                                                   p.

                                                                                          ;
[Herschel (Carolina.)]                                                 64 also,
              [Notice of her Life.]
              Monthly Notices Roy. Ast. Soc, vol.                 120.
                 Memoirs Roy. Ast. Soc, vol. 17,

[Herschel (Carolina.)]               of  Caroline                 Herschel.
     Memoir and Correspondence
    By Mrs. John Herschel. With portraits. London,
    1876. i2mo.
228 Bibliography.

Herschel (J. F. W.)                                           Britannica, eighth

    Article Telescope, in Encyclopaedia

edition.       fe[aTthuirsesarotifclSeir(iWllusiltlriaatmed)  gives most of the im
portant
                                                              Herschel's manner

of grinding and polishing specula.]

Herschel (J. F. W.)

     Catalogue of Nebulas and Clusters of Stars. [General and

        systematic reduction of all Sir W. Herschel's obser

          vations brought into connection with all other simi

          lar ones.]
            Phil. Trans., 1864. Page 1. 4to.

Herschel (J. F. W.)
...A Synopsis of all Sir William Herschel's Micrometrical
Measurements, etc., of Double Stars, together with a

Catalogue of those Stars                                      for 1880.

Mem. Roy. Ast. Soc, vol. 35, p. 21. Lond., 1867. 4to.

Herschel (J. F. W.)

     Additional Identifications of Double Stars in the Synoptic

        Catalogues of Sir William Herschel's Micrometri

          cal Measurements, etc.

            Monthly Notices Roy. Ast. Soc, vol. 28, p. 151.
                 London, 1868. 8vo.

Herschel (Mrs. John.)

    Memoir and Correspondence of Caroline Herschel.

         With portraits. London, 1876. l2mo.

Herschel (W.)
          [Solution of a prize question. See this book, page 46.]
            Ladies' Diary, 1779.

Herschel (W.)
...The favorite Eccho Catch . . . and the preceding
Glee [by S. Leach]. To which is added the . . .
Catch Sung by Three Old Women
                                                                         in the
Pantomime called " The Genius of Nonsense " [by H.

HaringtonJ.
                  Bibliography.                           229

London, 1780(F). Obi. folio. [A MS. copy of this
  was kindly furnished me by Dr. R. Garnett, of
   the British Museum.]

Herschel (W.)                                 und Liter atur
Gottingen Magazin der Wissenschaften          and Forster,
    (1783), vol. iii., p. 4. LlCHTENBERG

Editors.

[Letter from Herschel, giving a brief account of his

life. See this book, page 3.]

Herschel (W.)
    I. Manuscripts in possession of the Royal Society.

         I. A series of register sheets in which are entered up
           all the observations of each nebula, copied verbatim
           from the sweeps. 2. A similar set of register sheets
            for Messier's nebulae. 3. A general index of the
           2,508 nebulae of W. Herschel; given the class and

            number, to find the general number. 4. An index
              list ; given the general number, to find the class >and
           number. 5. A more complete list like 4. 6. A
              manuscript catalogue of all the nebulse and clusters,

              reduced to 1,800, and arranged in zones of 1° in polar

          distance ; by Miss Carolina Herschel. 7. The

              original sweeps with the 20-foot reflector at Slough,
              in three small 4to and four folio vols, of MS.

    II. Manuscripts in possession of the Royal Astronomi
             cal Society.

         This library contains " the whole series of autograph

          observations of each double star [observed by Her

            schel], brought together on separate sheets by Sir

          William Herschel and Miss Carolina Her

            schel."

[Herschel (W.)]   of the Life  and  Writings  of William  Her
    Some Account

schel, Esq. [With a Portrait.]

The European Magazine and London Review for

January, 1785. 8vo.
230 Bibliography.

[Herschel (W.)]                              i.,    p. 426.
    Edinburgh Review, vol.
                                    of Herschel's memoir, " Observations on
[A review                            lately discovered bodies," from Phil.
   the two

                           Trans., 1802. See this book, page 96.]

[Herschel                  (W.)]        Herschel.           from a   London  paper."
                       *'
                           Sir William
                                                                    " furnished by a
[This a short                           obituary notice
   gentleman well                       acquainted with             Sir William and
                           :
                           his family, and its accuracy may be relied on."]
                                is
Mies1 Register, vol. 23, 154, Nov. 1822. 8vo.
                                                    p.                9,
                                                                         p.
[HeOrsbcihtueal r(yW.)]Sir William Herschel, Knt., LL.D., F.R.S.

The Gentleman's Magazine and Historical Chron

                           icle, vol. xcii., 1822,  p.    274. 8vo.
                                                        p.
[Herschel (W.)]                                             289. 8vo.

           Annual Register, 1822,

[Herschel (W.)]                                     J.

    W. Herschel's Sammtliche Schriften. Erster Band.
                Ueber den Bau des Himmels. Mit 10 Kupfer-
             tafeln. [Edited by W. Pfaff. A second edi

                 tion was published in 1850.] Dresden and Leipzig,
                    1828. 8vo.

[Herschel (W.)]                     Mirror,  vol.       vi.,  1829-30,       388.
              New York

[Herschel (W.)]

           Living Age, vol. ii., p. 125 (1844). 8vo.
              [Reprinted from Chambers' Journal.]

[Herschel (W.)]
            Foreign Quarterly Review, vol. 31, p. 438. 8vo.
                [Review of Arago's " Analyse de la vie et des

                travaux de Sir William Herschel."]

[HerAsrcaheglo'(sW.L)i]fe of Herschel.

                           Eclectic Museutn, vol. ii.,        p.     556. [Reprinted

                           from the Foreign Quarterly Review, vol. 31.]
Bibliography.  231

Holden (E. S.)
    On the Inner Satellites of Uranus. [Reduction of Sir

        William Herschel's observations.]

            Proceedings Amer. Assn. Adv. Science, August,

                   1874, p. 49. 8vo.

Holden (B. S.)
     Index Catalogue of Books and Memoirs relative to nebulas,
          clusters, etc. Smithsonian Miscellaneous Collections,

        No. 311, pp. 19-38. [Abstracts of Sir William Her

         schel's memoirs (on nebulas) in the Philosophical
           Transactions. ]

               Washington, 1877. 8vo.

Holden (E. S.) and C. S. Hastings.
    A Subject-index and a Synopsis of the scientific writings of

        Sir William Herschel. [Reprinted from the Report

          of the Smithsonian Institution (1879).]
              Washington, 1 88 1 . 8vo.

Krafit (J. G. P.)
    Kurze Nachricht von dem berühmten Astronomen Her
        schel und einigen seiner Entdeckungen.
              Bayreuth, 17S7. 8vo.

Peirce (O. S.)

    Photometrie Researches. [A reduction of Herschel's

          observations on the comparative brightness of the

        stars.] Annals Harvard College Observatory , vol. ix.

              Leipzig, 1878. 4to.

Sommer (G. M.)

    William Herschel . . . ueber den Bau des Him

          mels; drei abhandlungen aus dem englischen ueber-

        setzt, nebst einem authentischen Auszug aus Kants
         allgemeiner Naturgeschichte und Theorie des Him

           mels.

              Koenigsberg, 1791 . 8vo.
232 Bibliography.

Strove (W.)
    Etudes d'astronomie stellaire. Sur la voie lactee et sur
          la distance des etoiles fixes. [P. 24 et seq. contains an
          elaborate review of the construction of the heavens
         according to Herschei..] St. Petersburg, 1847. 8vo.

Wolf (R.)
    William Herschel. Zurich, 1867. 8vo.

Zach (F. von.)
    Dr. William Herschel [translated from Public Char
         acters and printed in Zach'S Monatlich Correspond-

         enz, 1802, part    70 et seq.]
                           i.,
III.--List of the Published Portraits ofp.
                                    is
                  William Herschel.
                                      is J.
Artist, Mme. Dupiery. Engraver, Thonert. 8vo. Early

   portrait. Some copies in red. Profile.

Artist, F. Rehburg. Engraver, F. W. Bollinger. 8vo.

Late portrait.          Engraver, C. Westermayr.
Artist,
                  ?? ?                                8vo. Me

dallion.

Artist, C. Brand. Engraver,                  ?        8vo. Lithograph.
                                                   ?
Artist,                 Engraver,            Sewell. 8vo. Profile,

    1785.               Engraver,                   8vo. Profile.

Artist,

Artist, F. Bonneville. Engraver, F. Bonneville. 8vo.

   Profile.

Artist, Russell, R.A. Engraver, E. Scriven. 8vo.
           5. J.
Engraved from crayon in the possession of his son, and
published by the S. D. U. K. in the Gallery of Portraits,
                  ??
vol.
                        a
Artist,                    Engraver,         ?        8vo. European

Magazine, Jan., 1785. This a bust in profile, showing

the left side of the face.

Artist,                  Engraver, Thomson. 8vo. Published

by  Caxton, 1823. This      must have been engraved                before

1816, since the legend         William Herschel,                   LL.D.,

F.R.S.
               List of Portraits.                       233

Artist, Lady Gordon. From the painting by Abbott in
  the National Portrait Gallery. Engraver, Joseph Brown.
  8vo. Published in memoir of Caroline Herschel. This

is of the date 1788, or thereabouts. See frontispiece.
Artist,        ? Engraver, C. MfjLLER. 4to. Medallion,

    1785 (?).  ? Engraver, H. Pinhas. 410. Legend in

Artist,

Russian.

Artist, BAISCH. Engraver,       ? 4to. Lithograph.
Artist, H. GREVEDON. Engraver,
                                          ? Fol. Litho

graph.         ? Engraver, F. Muller. Fol.

Artist,
Artist, Abbott. Engraver, Ryder.
Artist, J. Boilly. Engraver,       Fol.    1788.        Litho
                                  ? Fol.    1822.

   graph.      ? Engraver, J. GODBY. Fol.

Artist,

    R. W. S. Lutwidge, Esq., F.R.A.S., has an original seal with a head of Sir
William Herschel, which is shown on the title-page of this work. A cut of it
has been courteously furnished me by John Browning, Esq., F.R.A.S., etc.

    In 1787 a bust of Herschel was made by Lockie for Sir William Watson,
    A picture of Herschel was painted by Mr. Artaud about the beginning of
1819. A portrait of Herschel by Abbott is in the National Portrait Gallery,
London. There are no doubt many other paintings in England, though I can
find notices of these only. The Royal Society of London has nearly a hundred
portraits of its most distinguished members, but owns none of Sir William Her.

5CHEL.
        INDEX OF NAMES.

  JV.S.-- This index is intended to refer to the proper names occurring
in the body of the work only, and not to the Bibliography.

Airy (Sir George), 17.    III.        DeLuc (Mrs.), 100, 102.
Alison (Sir Archibald),               Dollond (J.), 120.

Arago (Francois), 49, 81, 139.        Engelfield (Sir Harry), 57.
Artaud (M.), 114.
Aubert (Alexander), 52, 62, 63.
                                      Farinelli (Miss), 38.
Baldwin (Miss), 115.                  Flaugergues (H.), 51, 119.
Banks (Sir Joseph), 56, 58, 64.       Fleming (Miss), 42.
Bessel (F. W.), 127, 137.             Fourier (J.), 124.
                                      Frauenhofer (J.), 195.
III.Blagden (Dr.), 57-
                                      III.,Galileo, 50, 135.
Bonaparte (Napoleon), 108,

Bradley (James), 51, 153.             George  64, 77, 124, 126.
Bruhl (Count von), 52.
Bulman (Mr.), 22, 115, 116.           Griesbach (George), 63.
                                      Griesbachs (the), 62, 106.
Bunsen  (Chevalier), 12.
Burney                    102,  104,  Hansen (P. A.), 142.
        (Dr.), 82, ioi,               Hastings (C. S.), 119.
                                      Heberden (Dr.), 64.
105, 106.                             Helmholtz (H.), 188.
                                      Herschel (Abraham) [1651-1718],
Campbell (Thomas), 107.
Cassini (J. D.), 51.                               6.
Cropley (Mr.), 20.
                                      Herschel (Alexander) [1745-
Dalrymple (Mr.), 73.                              1821], 10, 12, 14, 15, 35,
D'Arblay (Madame), 100 et seq.                    38, 41, 57, 61, 62, 66, 72,
Darlington (Earl of), 18.
Darquier, 51, 119.                            73. "4-
DArrest (H. L.), 204.
Dawes (W. R.), 200.                   Herschel (Benjamin), 7.
DeLuc (M.), 64.                       Herschel (Carolina) [1750-1848],

                                                  2, 10, 11, 12, 16, 23, 29,

                                                                                 235
236 Index of Names.

33, 41, 43, 68 ; discovers              Herschel (William), his musical
five comets, 69, 70, 78,                              writings, 26.
83, 103, 105, 112, 113, 114,
                                                  studies Smith's harmonies
              115.                                    and optics, 28.

Herschel (Carolina), her Memoir                   visits Hanover, August,
                                                        1772, 32.
quoted, 2, 9, 13, 23, 29,
                                                  hires a small telescope,
31, 34. 3°, 41, 57, 61, 63,
            64, 65. 70, 74-                               37-
Herschel (Dietrich), 9,      10,  II,
                                                  makes his first telescope
           29, 42, 114.                                 (1774), 38.?),
Herschel (Eusebius), 7.
Herschel (Hans) [circa 1600], 6.                  visits Hanover (1775 42.
Herschel (Isaac) [1707-1767], 7,                   1st review of the heavens,
            8, 29.
Herschel (Jacob) [1 734-1 792],                         39. 73-
                                                  2d revie wof theheavens, 73.
            10, 11, 16, 23, 30.                   3d review of the heavens

Herschel (Sir John Frederick                           (1783), 73-
William) [1792-1871], 80,                         4th review of the heavens

103, 105, 114, 126, 127,                               (1785), 74-
                                                  manufacture of telescopes,
             143, 203.
                                                       40, 59. 75. 77, 120, 121,
Herschel (Lady), 80, 102, 103,                          122, 123, 124, 125, 126,

              105, 114.                                   127.

Herschel (Major John), 2.                        moves to 19 New King St.,
Herschel (Mrs. Mary Cornwallis),                      Bath, 43.

                2.                               conducts oratorios of Han

Herschel (Sophia Elizabeth), b.                         del, 43.
           l733i married Griesbach,                 begins astronomical meas
          I0.
                                                        ures (1779). 44-
Herschel (William), born 1 738,                   joins Philosophical Society
              November 15 ; 10.
                                                      of Bath, 45.
          oboist in the band of the               first published scientific

              Guards (1755), and goes                 writing (1779), 46.
              to England for the first            first communication to the
              time, returning in 1756,
                                                      Royal Society (1780), 47.
     16.                                          discovery of Uranus (1781,

deserts from the Guards                               March 13), 49.
   and goes to England                            its effect on his career,

   (1757), 17.                                            53-
organizes the band of the
                                                  elected a member of the
   Durham militia (1760),                             Royal Society (1781),
                                                      and receives the Copley
     18.                                                medal, 56.

leaves the band and lives                         attempts a thirty-foot re
   with Dr. Miller, 19.                                 flector, 59.

leads the public concerts                         goes to London, 1782
   at Wakefield and Hali                            (May, June, July), 61.

    fax, 20.                                      appointed Royal Astrono
                                                      mer (£200), 1782, 67.
organist at Halifax (1765),
                                                  removes to Datchet, 1782,
    22.                                               August 1, 67.
organist of the Octagon

   Chapelat Bath(i 766), 24.
               Index of Names.                                                                                    237

Kerschel (William), his assiduity,   Herschel (Sir William), first presi
                                                   dent of the Royal Astro
    72. 77, 79. 81.                                nomical Society (1821),
his mechanical genius, 14,
                                               "5-
    41, 121.
cost of his telescopes, 77.                   his will, 114.
                                               his death, August 25th,
marries Mrs. John Pitt,
   nde Baldwin (1783), 80.                           1822, 116.
                                               his epitaph, 117.
only child born (1792), 80.                    list of his scientific writ

removes to Slough (1786),

    81.                                 ings, 215.                                                                scientific
                                     review of his
LL.D. (Oxon.), 1786, 47.
                                        labors, 118.
his account of the discov
ery of Uranus (1781,
March 13), 4.                        the improvement of tele

discovers two satellites             scopes and apparatus,
   Uranus, 1787, Jan.
                          IIt,o      121.

                                     the relative brightness of
                                                                                                                  variable
    84.                              the stars
discovers two satellites to
3-                                   stars, 130.
Saturn, 1789, August-                researches                                                               on  double
                        it,
    September, 125.                      stars, 134.
                                                                                            ;invents machines for makresearches on planets and
                                                                                                             ;
ing reflectors (1788), 41.               satellites, 140.
began forty-foot telescope,          researches on the nature

1785, finished  1789,                   of the sun, 145, 186, 198.
                                     the motion of the solar
121.
                                        system in space, 149.
biographical letter (1783),          researches on the con

list of published portraits             struction of the heav
   of him, 232.
                                         ens, 154.
value of his sister's as             scale of celestial meas
   sistance to him, 34.
                                     ures distances of the
letters to Carolina Her-
                                         stars, 170.
    schel, 61, 63, 64, 114.          researches on light, heat,
his personal character
                                         etc., 176.
    (1786-1800), 100 et seq.         researches on the dimen
his relations to his cotem-
                                        sions of the stars, 193.
poraries, 85, 86, 87, 91,            on the spectra of the

li.st94o,f  95, 96> 97, 98, 99-  to      fixed stars, 1^5.
             writings relating       on the variable emission
him and to his works,
                                        of light and heat from

    225.                                 the sun, 198.
                                     researches on nebulae and
his literary skill, 45.
examples of his style,                               clusters, 202.

    83 et seq.                       Huyghens (C), 50, 189.

failure of health, 112 et            King George III., 64, 77, 124,

seq.           Knight of the                      126.

created     a
Royal Hanoverian
                                     Lacaille (N. L.), 156, 202.
Guelphic Order (1816),               Lalande (Jerome), 28, 124, 156.

115.
238 of Names.

Lambert (J. H.), 153-               Poggendorff (J. G.), 188.

Lassell (W.), M3-                   Ronzoni (Signor), 59.
Lee (Miss), 61.                     Rosse (Lord), 122, 207.
Lichtenberg (Herr), 3.
Lind (Dr. and Mrs.), 6g.
Long (Dr.), 135.                    Savary (M.), 139.
                                    Secchi (Angelo), 195,
Magellan (Herr), 3, 78.                        (C),                196.
Maskelyne (Nevil), 5, 51, 57, 62,   Scheiner     (J.  1H99.). ,  51,     77,  91,
                                    Schroeter

           63. 150. 153.            Schwabe92.(H93.-), 201.
Mayer (Christian), 94, 153.         Short (James), 120.
                                    Smith (Dr. Robert), 28.
Melloni (M.), 186.
Messier (C), 202.
Michell (John), 52, 94, 137, 156. Snetzler (Herr), 20, 21.
Miller (Dr.), 19, 20, 21, 22.       Struve (Otto von), 129.
Monson (Mrs.), 115.                 Thomson (Thomas), 95.
Moritzen (Anna Use), m. Isaac

          Herschel, 7, 8.

Napoleon L, 108, III.         190,  Verdet (E.), 188.

Newton (Sir Isaac), 189,            Wainwright (Dr.), 20.
            191, 192.               Walsh (Colonel), 62.
                                    Watson (Sir William), 44, 58,
Olbers (William), 95.
                                                60, 64, 65, 66, 67, 75, 76.
Pabrich (Cappelnieister), 7.        Watt (James), 106.
Palmerston (Lord), 64.              Weld (R.), 126.
Piazzi (Joseph), 75, 95.            Wilson (Alexander), 52, 94, 146.
Pierce (Charles S.), 132.
Pigott (J.), 119.                   Zach (Baron von), 69.

                              THE END.

