The life and selections from the correspondence of William Whewell
/ by Mrs. Stair Douglas, with portrait after a painting, by Samuel
Laurence.

Whewell, William, 1794-1866.
London : C.K. Paul & co., 1881.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/hvd.hxhctd

                                          Public Domain in the United States,
                                          Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-us-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain
                                                          in the United States of America. It may not be in the
                                                          public domain in other countries. Copies are provided
                                                          as a preservation service. Particularly outside of the
                                                          United States, persons receiving copies should make
                                                          appropriate efforts to determine the copyright status
                                                          of the work in their country and use the work accordingly.
                                                          It is possible that current copyright holders, heirs or
                                                          the estate of the authors of individual portions of the
                                                          work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert copyrights
                                                          over these portions. Depending on the nature of subsequent
                                                          use that is made, additional rights may need to be obtained
                                                          independently of anything we can address. The digital
                                                          images and OCR of this work were produced by Google,
                                                          Inc. (indicated by a watermark on each page in the
                                                          PageTurner). Google requests that the images and OCR
                                                          not be re-hosted, redistributed or used commercially.
                                                          The images are provided for educational, scholarly,
                                                          non-commercial purposes.
TLaothinhfefdSMJfartoanamreiyrtDWWSWWCoeroorhhleiieusulleepllcgowiigtwnaaildloeaeaemmnnlscllsse,l
HARVARD
COLLEGE

LIBRARY
*_^C£  ----f
           THE LIFE

           SELECTIONS FROM THE CORRESPONDENCE

                                                                             OF

WILLIAM WHEWELL^ D.D.

                         LATE MASTER OP TRINITY' COLLEGE
                                                   CAMBRIDGE

f .MRS. STATU DOUGLAS

                  WITH PORTRAIT AFTER A PAINTIXQ BY SAMUEL LA VRENCE

                                   LONDON
     C. KEGAN PAUL & CO., 1 PATERNOSTER SQUARE

                                  N188V
"4"(eS^yy ^SEP 27 1881

                  (The right! of translation and of reproduction are reierved)
                 INTRODUCTORY.

Shortly after the death of Dr. Whewell, fourteen years

ago, his then surviving sister, Mrs. Newton, and some
other of his friends expressed a strong wish that such a
selection should be made from his intimate and familiar
correspondence as could without impropriety be made
public, and were of opinion that it would be found in
teresting by general readers as well as by personal
friends. To the former class these letters will probably
show a side of the character of which they were pre
viously unaware ; while to his friends it can scarcely
fail to be interesting to see those qualities of mind and
heart, those habits of thought and expression, which
were characteristic of him to the last, manifested
throughout the letters of fifty-five years under every
variation of subject and of mood. The responsibility
of making this selection was pressed upon me by Mrs.
Newton in a manner which made me feel it impossible
to refuse. The editing of the scientific correspondence
was undertaken by Mr. Todhunter, and when his
volumes were published, three years ago, it was an
nounced that they would shortly be followed by others,
containing Dr. Whewell's domestic and academic cor
respondence, edited by Mr. Aldis Wright and myself.
vi INTRODUCTORY.

    Iii consequence of the pressure of other engagements

Mr. Wright has unfortunately found himself unable to

I Ifulfil this promise, and have been deprived, regret to

say, of his co-operation. In the expectation that the
materials collected for the Academic Life would form

the basis of a separate portion of the work, Mr. Tod-

hunter has left them untouched. They were beyond
the limits of my own task, which indeed was completed

when Mr. Aldis Wright announced his decision. It

seemed impossible, however, to allow a memoir of Dr.

Whewell to appear in which none but incidental men
tion should be made of Trinity, and no account what
ever be given of his relation to the University and the

College where fifty years of his life were passed, and

which were at once the principal field of his life-long

labours and the objects of his life-long affection.

Therefore, though painfully conscious of my inade

Iquacy for such a task, felt it my duty to endeavour

to interweave with my own portion of the work some
Inotice of these materials.
                             have been aided in this

difficult task by the late Mr. J. L. Hammond of Trinity

College, the last surviving executor of Dr. Whewell-
Personal reasons, among which no doubt were his

failing health and the heavy pressure of official
work, made him resolutely decline to undertake the

task himself, but he gave me his help whenever it was

possible.

It would be impossible adequately to describe my
Iobligations to him.
                      can only here briefly acknowledge

them. To him it is mainly owing that the work is com

Ipleted at all. could not have undertaken this last por

tion of it without his help, and his sudden and untimely
INTRODUCTORY.  vii

death is the greatest of all the many misfortunes which
have attended the preparation of the work, and caused
delays, much to be regretted on all accounts, and
especially as the recent death of Mrs. Newton has re

moved the person most deeply interested in its appear
ance. Those portions for which Mr. Hammond had

made himself especially responsible were left in a mea
sure incomplete. This is particularly the case with the

account of Dr. Whewell's Bequest to Trinity College

and the associated foundations of the Professorship and

Scholarships of International Law. With this subject

he was personally most familiar, having as executor
been directly concerned in the elaboration and develop
ment of Dr. Whewell's scheme. Of this account only a
rough sketch existed at his death. To the completion
of these portions, to the final revision of the whole work,
and to a last exhaustive examination of all the remain

Iing materials, he and were intending to devote this

year the weeks of his official leisure. What was to

Ihave been a joint labour have now endeavoured, as

 far as possible, to accomplish alone, believing that most
 imperfect as must necessarily be the result, it was better

 to follow this course than to defer the publication of the

 work by renewed attempts to secure the advantage of

 more competent aid, all such attempts having previously

 led but to delay and disappointment.

     It has been difficult to apply any uniform principle

 Iof selection to the large mass of correspondence with

  which have had to deal in the execution of my ori
  ginal task. As a man of science and literature, Dr.
  Whewell's published works and his correspondence with

  men of science and letters reveal him to the world. My
viii INTRODUCTORY.

hope has been to represent him as he was in early life
to the relations he left behind him when he went up to
Cambridge ; and in later life as he was by his own fire
side and in his correspondence with those who knew

him chiefly or only there. It is obvious that such a

sketch must depend for its truth upon minute touches.
What is most characteristic is often found in unguarded
revelations of feeling and of opinion, whether upon
matters of domestic detail, of passing interest in persons,
books, or events, or still more in the frank expressions of
emotion caused by those vicissitudes of life which try
the very heart. Not less characteristic and interesting
are other very different letters, such as those to Mr.
Spedding and to Mr. Myers, in which subjects wholly
literary and closely connected with his published
writings are discussed. The choice of materials in the
present collection may therefore, it is feared, often ap
pear fragmentary and inconsistent, often trivial, some
times perhaps even painful ; so passionate and over
whelming was the grief, the expression of which he
poured into the ears of those who knew whom he had
loved and whom he had lost.

     The same ardour which distinguished his intellec
tual temperament belonged in an even greater degree to
his affections. They bound him with filial fondness to
his remote Lancashire home, to his family, to the pictur
esque town of Lancaster itself, to his old schoolmaster
Joseph Rowley. They bound him with great tenacity
and appreciative esteem to persons from whom he
differed in opinion on almost every point. They bound
him with the most indulgent tenderness to younger
relations who could contribute nothing but love and
INTRODUCTORY.  ix

gratitude to the unequal friendship. And they bound
him also with a loyalty and fidelity which no shock of

disagreement, no strain of separation, could permanently
impair, to the * friends of a fife time,' as he delighted
to call Herschel, Jones, Sedgwick, Worsley, Peacock,

Kerrelm Digby, Airy, Henslow, Forbes, and others,
whose friendship he reckoned amongst the greatest
blessings of his life.

     To such a man his letters were second only to his

home and fireside. After his married life had confirmed

in him habits of great unreserve and communicativeness,

they became a positive necessity. One of the trials of

the loneliness which ultimately fell upon him was that,

Ias he used to say, ' There is no one now to whom can

say whatever occurs to my mind at once, as the way of

giving reality and meaning to all that passes before
me.' He endeavoured to mitigate the privation thus
felt by correspondence, and to this circumstance many
 of the letters in the latter part of this collection owe
 their character.

      The letters selected have, as far as possible, been
 left just as they were written. No changes have been

 made, save such as were necessary in order to avoid
 repetition, or any allusion which might be painful to
 those who survive. So uniformly kindly, candid, and
  tolerant, however, was the spirit in which all criticisms

  were made in his home circle, that very few omissions

 have been necessary on this latter ground. It is hoped

  that the letters may be found to tell their own story

  with sufficient distinctness, supplemented by the slightest
  possible finks of narrative or words of explanation. To
  assume the position of critic or even of biographer would
X INTRODUCTORY.

be impossible to a near relative belonging to another

generation ; and the portrait of William Whewell, if

contained at all in these pages, is one drawn by his own
hand, and must be ' read

                 In those fall'n leaves which kept their green,

                 The noble letters of the dead.'
CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I.

1794--1618.

Parentage -- Family --School-- Mr. Rowley -- Professor Owen's recollec                                                                                                  FAOI
Ht--ioenPrsus--cphileIslle----veMMrsroh.ralRamonsde------MPCrro.ilzeeGriodupgogeehm------LJaoFkheenveSrcWh--ohoLelow--ndeTolhln--e--oCriBaems.Abo.rfiddpgeogeerte--rey        1
--Sonnet to Dora Wordsworth --Mr. Hare--Fellowship .
                                                                        .

                              CHAPTER II.                                                                                                                               36

                                                              1818--1822.

Mr. Kenelm Digby's recollections -- Retrospective sketch -- Plans for
     the summer -- Mr. Brougham -- Oxford -- Carnarvon -- Letter to Mr.
     Morland -- Welsh Jumpers -- Assistant tutorship --Sketch --Tui

     tion system --Elizabeth Whewell -- Julius Hare--Study of law --
     King--T. Bennison--Commencement -- Shipwreck -- Moderator --
      Elizabeth's illness -- Mr. Sheepshanks --Trinity dinner -- Dr.
      Wordsworth -- Paris --Geneva -- The Rhine--Death of Elizabeth
      Whewell --Isle of Wight ---Tour in the Lake Country : in Scot
      land -- Mrs. Opie's novels-- Works of imagination --Miss Edgeworth
      --Legh Richmond--Washington Irving

                        CHAPTER III.

                                                           1822--1832.

Letter to Mr. Wilkinson -- Mr. Henslow --Numa's Calendar -- Words
     worth -- Mr. Rose --Mrs. Lyon's depression of spirits -- Paris -- Mr.
      Airy -- Inundation -- Mr. Wordsworth's visit -- Miss Kelty -- Her
     recollections --Sir John Malcolm -- Hyde Hall -- Tour in Normandy
Xii CONTENTS.

with Mr. Eenelm Digby --Mont St. Michel-- Laying of stone of                                             PAGE
New Court--Handel's ' Messiah '-- Miller's Bampton Lectures --                                             75
Father of the College --Tour in Cumberland --Christmas of 1824,
in Edinburgh--Tour in Germany --Takes Priest's Orders --Dol-
coath Mine -- Brasted --Hop harvest --Christmas of 1826, in Paris
--' Hermann    aCnrdosDso--roPtrhoefaess'--orsMhaiplcolomf sMilenaevrealogHyyd--e DHr.alCll--arkSepi--n

ning Maiden's
Dolcoath again --St. Michael's Mount--Drawings for Cologne
Cathedral at Darmstadt --Comparisons are odious --Sir Thomas
Munro --Jones's book --Bridgewater Treatise --Hambleton Hills--
Mrs. Somerville --Tour with Mr. Rickman --Lubbock--M. Rio .

               CHAPTER IV.

                                                             1833--1840.                                 152

M. Rio -- British Association --Change of Rooms -- Charnwood Forest
      --Tides --Scotch Tour--Mr. Thirlwall --Professor Jones--Fa
      vourite Tides --Trinity House Sermon --Ireland --Mr. Airy made
      Astronomer Royal --Mr. Jones made Tithe Commissioner --Mr.
      Simeon's Death --Geological Society --Foreign Tour --Sir David

     Brewster --Sir J. Herschel --Coronation --Brecon--Isle of the

      Sirens --Chateau de Meteren --Dr. Chalmers --High Stewardship
      of the University --Miss neuslow -- ' Right Spelling '--Stall at
      Ely for Professor of Casuistry

               CHAPTER V.

               1840 TO CLOSE OP 1841.

Letters to Hare--His Charge--' College Rooms no Home for'declining                                       205
      Years '--Hare's Reply--Pew -- Lady Campbell's death--Masham
      decided against --Seal with a Strange Device --Engaged to be
      Married to Cordelia Marshall --Marriage --Dr. Wordsworth's re
      signation -- Professor Whewell appointed Master of Trinity --
      Coniston --Mr. Wordsworth's Visit --Arrival at Cambridge --
      Verses on a Chain of nair --Theological Instruction . . .

                               CHAPTER VI.

                                                             1842--1845.

East Oriel -- Mr. Salvin --Mr. Beresford nope-- College Statutes --
      Visitors' Powers --Judges' Visit --Irfincaster Dinner -- Duke of
      Wellington's Visit --Tunbridge Wells -- Vice-Chancellorship --
                        CONTENTS.                                                                                        xiii

   I'niversdty Statutes --Professorial Certificate -- Undergraduates in
   --BiVshoolupnst--arSyeesThoefolSotg.icAasl aphExaanmdinBatainognor----CRirecguiulasr
   J.tie Galleries

   Letter to the
   Professorship of Divinity --Great St. Mary's --Letter to    G.
                                                                and State-- Hare's Admo
   Marshall on Constitution of Church                          Byron--Interest in Church
                                                               Lord Macaulay -- Busts of
   nitions -- Rejoinder --Statue of Lord
   Restoration --Statues of Barrow and
   Hare, Sedgwick, Leslie Ellis, and Tennyson --St. Augustine's,
   Canterbury --Education of                                    Clergy --Expenditure of
   Undergraduates -- Attention      Colonial                   --Long Vacation --Trinity
                                  to Business
   Cricket Ground --Queen's Visit --Dr. Whewell breaks a rib-- Mr.
   IluiUh's Singing Classes-- Lectures on Morals -- Dr. Arnold's Life
   -- Visit of the King of Saxony --Mr. Wordsworth's Visit -- Sir J.

   Reynolds's Picture of the Duke of Gloucester --Statue of Bacon --
   'Indications of the Creator' -- Vestiges-- British Association -- Mr.
   Laurence's Portrait
                                                                                                                         260

                        CHAPTER VII.

                                  1845--1850.

Ek-ments of Morality --Mr. Myers --Archdeacon Hare--Archdeacon
   Manning --Lowestoft Tercentenary --Dr. Wordsworth's Death --
   Morals again --Prince Albert's Election as Chancellor of the Uni
   versity -- Installation --Professorship of Civil Law--- Jenny Lind --
   Oxford--Visit to Paris --Lectures on Great Men -- Mr. Spedding's
   Evenings with a Reviewer --Kreuznach --Breakfast at Dr. Hol
   lGanred'ast--Fr«oJastn--e GEoyrhream'--CParsieze--s Sfeoar  Moral Philosophy-- Students --
                                                               Fell Pike -- Consecration of St.

   John's, Holbeck                                                                                                       322

                        CHAPTER VIII.

                                  1860-1855.

1  Diversity Reforms--Studies --  Moral and Natural Sciences   --Statutes
      --Memorial to Lord John     Russell --Royal Commission   --Address
   of Heads to the Vice-Chancellor -- Constitution of Commission --
   Evidence of Dr. Whewell --Private Tuition--Caput --Council of
   the Senate --Report-- Lord Palmers ton's Letter--Reply from
   Master and Seniors of Trinity --Science Fellowships-- Scholar-
   shine --University of Oxford Act--Dr. Whewell's Notes-- Cam
   AbrtitditguedeB--ill T--wPorokteinsdt soof feRxe-Rfooryma--l CRoemsimgnisastiioonnersof--PDrorf.esWsohreshwipel--l's
xiv CONTENTS.

--Vice-Ohancellor again -- Seat on the Council of the Senate
Westminster Scholars -- Regius Professorships -- Governing Body
--of Trinity Refuse Assent to Revised Draft Statute -- Master's

Remarks -- Meeting of the Governing Body--Outline of Code

Master's Circular --St. John's Circular -- Revised Draft --Code of
Statutes -- General Annual Meeting -- Retrospective Sketch of
fluence on Studies -- Lord Lyttelton --Divinity Examinations                      in
Progressive Sciences -- Moral and Natural Sciences Examinations
                                                                                  --
                                                                                  --

Boards --Triposes --Mr. Henry Sidgwick"8 Review of their History
-- Mrs. Austin --Lancaster School -- Mr. Myers's Death -- Kreuz-
nach -- Aubrey de Vere --Grotius --Plurality --Royal Visit -- Pro
posed Lecture at Leeds -- Sermon at Heversbam -- Dinner at
Lansdowne House -- Glasgow Meeting --Sydney Smith . .                                              377

                      CHAPTER IX.

                      1855--1860.

Mrs. WhewelTs Death -- Visit to Yorkshire -- Elegiacs -- Vice-Chan
tceeslltoerdshipE--lecFtiitoznw--illiParmofessCoorntroovfersyM--usiRca--ilwMary.  Accident -- Con
                                                                                   C. Kingsley's
Argonauts -- Mr. Ruskin -- Kaye's Sir John Malcolm --Mrs.
Austin-- Johanna Wagner--Ristori -- Visit to Hatfield Broad Oak
and Hyde Hall -- Edinburgh--His Nieces go to Italy --He
follows them -- Pictures-- Return to Trinity --Lecture at Leeds --
Richard II. -- Lectures at Queen's College -- Manchester Exhibi
tion --Marriages --Visit to Mr. Arthur Stanley at Canterbury --
Mr. Ellis's Sister Lady Affleck--Dr. Whewell's Second Marriage
--Bournemouth -- Cumberland --Journey to Spain -- Eclipse --

Coniston Cold Spring                                                                               445

                      CHAPTER X.

                      1860--1866.

Completion of Master's Court--Sketch of History of Courts and of the
Foundations endowed eventually by Dr. Whewell's Bequest --
Family Sorrows -- Professor Henslow-- Prize Poem -- Death of the
Prince Consort -- Duke of Devonshire Chancellor-- Photographs --
' Lady of La Garaye ' -- British Association at Cambridge -- Death
of Mrs. Statter -- Her Verses -- Death of Mr. Rowley -- Visit to
                the Prince and Princess of Wales-- Illness of Lady
( Jambridge of    Death -- Visits Putney--Cheltenham -- Grange --
Affleck --Her        --Yorkshire -- Switzerland-- French Cathe
Scotland -- Nuneham  Cambridge -- Visitors-- Lowestoft -- Visits to
drals -- Return to
various Friends -- Last Letter to his Sister Mrs. Newton -- Death of
Lord Monteagle -- Accident -- Death
                                                                                                   515
                            CONTENTS.    XV

                            APPENDIX.

                                                                                                                                                     PAOK

L The First Sabbath after the Burial . . . . .557
II. The Second Sabbath. The Epiphany
                                         562

EEL The Picture                          504
                                         560
IV. The Return Home                      567
 V. Recollections of the Burial Service  568
VI. The Psalm

 VIE. The Lesson                         570
                                         572
VIII. The Grave

 EX.   The Thanksgiving  .               574
       The Gravestone                    575
  X.   The Sermon                        577
       The Monument                      581
 XL
XII.

XTEL Easter Day                          585

INDEX                                    587
            LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL

                          CHAPTEE I.

                                                      1794--1818.

Parentage --Family -- School --Mr. Rowley-- Professor Owen's recollections
    --Heversham --Mr. Gough --John Whewell --Cambridge -- Ilerschel --
    Morland --Prize poem -- Fever -- London -- B.A. degree -- Pupils -- Mr.
    Rose -- Coleridge -- Lake School --Theories of poetry --Sonnet to Dora

     Wordsworth -- Mr. Hare -- Fellowship.

William Whewell, the eldest of the seven children

of John and Elizabeth Whewell, was born on May 24,

1794, in Brock Street, Lancaster. His father was a

master-carpenter, possessed of some honse-property in

the town. His mother was one of the Lancaster family

of Bennisons, and appears to have been a woman of

powerful mind and of considerable culture. She died

in 1807.

John Whewell, who was a man of probity and in

telligence, lived till 1816 ; long enough to see his son

take his degree, but not long enough to see him pro

vided for by a fellowship.

Of William's three brothers two died in infancy ; the

third, John, Avas born in 1303, and died in September

1812. He was a child of great promise, and, in his

brother's opinion, ' uncommon abilities.' Of his three

^si'sters,  the  eldest,  Elizabeth, died        after  a  lingering  ill-

                                              B
2     LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL,.     1791

ness in 1821. The second, Martha, married the Eev. J.aI it,

Staller, and died in 1863. She had from childhood thea

habit of expressing her thoughts and feelings in verse.
After her death her brother had some of the pieces
printed for private circulation, and wrote a short intro
ductory notice to the collection. Ann, the youngest
sister, married to William Newton, Esq., survived until

1879.

     William Whewell was sent at an early age to the
Blue School in Lancaster, and subsequently to the
Grammar School, of which the Rev. Joseph Rowley was
then the master. Mr. Rowley was a man of considerable
attainments, and to his discernment was due the dis

covery of the abilities of his pupil, which resulted in
his being given the opportunity of preparing for a uni
versity career, instead of being put to a trade. Forty
years afterwards William Whewell said of him, ' He was
one main cause of my being sent to college, and of all
my subsequent success.' Dr. Whewell retained to the
last an affectionate and grateful sense of the obligation,
and kept up intercourse with him as long as Mr. Rowley
lived.

      In another direction Mr. Rowley's influence was less
 successful. He strongly recommended his pupil to study
 for the bar, and his father took the same view, but the

 boy could never be induced to entertain the idea.

     If his remembrance of Mr. Rowley was pleasant and

 cordial, of the school, as he knew William Whewell
 never had very high opinion. The kindness of Pro
 fessor Owen, the only surviving friend, believe, of those
 school days, enables me to give his recollections of the
 Lancaster Grammar School, and they in measure ex
 plain this.

      Professor Owen writes to me as follows --
                             :
1794 TKOFESSOR OWEN'S RECOLLECTIONS.                      3

After the death of my father, who had sold the estate at

Fulmer, Bucks, my mother continued to reside in the house in

Dalton Square, Lancaster, a corner house, and next to in theit,

street leading from the square, lived the Eev. Joseph Rowley,

M.A., curate of the parish and head master of the grammar
school. He was my godfather, and prevailed upon my mother

to let me go, at the unusually early age of six years, to this

school, a somewhat notable one, supplying to this day men who

make name at Cambridge. In the class with my elder brother

was Higgin,J who became an Irish bishop.
    In a court lower down Brock Street, Whewell the carpenter
a
                                                  remember both the father
                            I
dwelt and had his workshop.

and grandfather of Dr. Whewell. The grandfather was most
                                                     ;
venerable-looking old man, who used to be brought out to sit in
the sun in the square. He could tell of the passage througha
the town of the Scotch rebels in 1745. The gardens of Mr.
'
                   '

                             '
Rowley and my mother marched,' as the Scotch say and      it
happened that Whewell, the father, was employed in some

repairs of the dividing rail fence. Between noon and two
p.m. we left school for dinner, and Mr. Rowley found Whewell's

son in the garden, his father having gone to his dinner. He
entered into conversation with the boy, who then was at the
'Blue School,' and about to be apprenticed to his father, and

was struck with his replies to questions as to what he had learnt,

and especially in regard to his arithmetic. The father return
ing, Mr. Rowley expressing his opinion of the superior abilities

of the youth, proposed that he should go to the grammar school.

The carpenter was man of sound sense and much esteemed,
   a

      I
                              :
                          '
and stated obvious objections He knows more about parts of

my business now than do, and has special turn     a  for it.'
                                                     master,
However, out of deference to the clergyman and head
                                                     said he
he asked for week to think it over. Mr. Rowley
a

would find him in books, and there would be no expense for the

teaching. So Whewell went.

     He was tall, ungainly youth, and his struggles and troubles
may be imagined. An early one, which think he felt more
a

                               I

than all the rest, was being sent to me, the smallest boy, to be
told the meaning, in Murray's English Grammar (not one of

Bishop of Limerick, and afterwards of Derry.
1
                                               2b
4                  LIFE OF DR. WHEVVELL.                             1704

the 'Blue School' books), of the abbreviation 'viz.' which

precedes, if you remember, ' Orthography, Etymology, Syntax,
and Prosody.' In his repetition he had given it literally and

                             it

                                                                                                  .

                                                                            if,
phonetically, and no wonder; he knew not its meaning,
indeed, he had ever met with before. This was the beginning

of our personal acquaintance, and he never forgot it. . .

   The rate, however, at which Whewell mastered both English

grammar and Latin accidence was a marvel, and before the

year was out he had moved upward into the class including my

elder brother, Higgin, and a dozen boys of the same age. Then
it was that the head master, noting to them the ease with which

Whewell mastered the exercises and lessons, raised the tale and

standard. Out of school      remember remonstrances on this
                          if 1

                                                '
                                                        '
fashion Now, Whewell, you say more than twenty lines of
       I:
Virgil to-day, we'll wallop you.' But that was easier said than'

done.        have seen him, with his back to the churchyard wall,

flooring first one, then another, of the walloppers,' and at last

public opinion in the school interposed. Any two of you may

take Whewell in fair stand-up fight, but we won't have more
                   a

at him at once.' After the fate of the first pair, a second was

not found willing. My mother thought                       was extremely un
                          '

                                   it

                                              '

                                             it

                                                                  '
grateful in that boy Wheivett to have discoloured both eyes of
her eldest so shockingly. But Mr. Rowley said, Boys will be

boys, and he always let them fight fairly out.'

   I   have only one other recollection worth telling, for after he

went to Trinity his career was an uninterrupted rise.

   One day after the noontide meal my godfather came in,

as usual when he had any topic to impart to his neighbour (and
he had great respect for my mother's judgment)
       a                                                   a         I've sad

                ;                                               :

                                                                 '
news for you, Mrs. Owen, to-day. I've just had letter from

Cambridge that boy Whewell has ruined himself, he'll never

get his Wranglersbip now     Why, good gracious, Mr. Rowley,
                          !
                            '

                                '

                                     ?
                                        '
                                            '
what luts Whewell been doing                  Why, he      phoeams ,go"nBeoaadndicegao,"t
the Chancellor's gold medal for some         trumpery

or something of that kind, when he ought to have been stick

ing to his mathematics.   I  give him up now. Taking after

his poor mother, suppose.' (In our weekly 'Lancaster Gazette                 '
       a

             I
there was Poets' Corner, and some sweet and simple stanzas were

occasionally admitted from the pen of Mrs. Whewell.) The
U10 REMOVAL TO JIEVERSIIAM.                   5

 idief to my mother's mind was immense, for we all had the
 greatest interest in the career of our neighbour-prod igy, and
 ·k pacified the worthy curate by urging that 'young men must
bre some amusement, and this seemed to be a very innocent

one.'

   I remember the intense interest with which ' Boadicea ' was
read in the family circle when copies found their way to Dalton

tS^uare.

In 1810 William Whewell was removed from Lan

caster, and placed under Mr. Strickland at the Grammar
School of Heversham in Westmoreland, in order to

compete for an exhibition to Trinity College, Cambridge,

given by the neighbouring family of Wilson of Dalham
Tower. This exhibition, worth then about 50/. a year,

   obtained in 1811, and went up to Cambridge in the

October of that year with Mr. Hudson, Fellow and
Tutor of Trinity (afterwards Vicar of Kendal), to be
entered at Trinity.

The journey, long and tedious indeed in those days,

was commenced at eight o'clock one Friday morning,

and after incessant travelling was brought to an end at

Cambridge on the Sunday morning following at one

o'clock. ' The journey hither,' he tells his father,

writing after his arrival in Cambridge, ' has cost me
Iabove six guineas.
                     may perhaps go back for less, as

1 shall go by Leeds.' On this occasion he only stayed

m Cambridge a few days.

In August 1809, before the removal to Heversham

was decided upon, William Whewell walked over to the

Bridge Inn, a small inn between Lancaster and Kendal,

to tnett Mr. Hudson, afterwards his college tutor, and

then frequently resident at Haverbrack near Kendal, to
^* examined by him with a view to considering what

chances of success were before him. The story goes,

'hat after some conversation and a cursory examination
G          LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.        1810

into the lad's attainments, he pronounced thus in favour
of Heversham and Cambridge : ' You'll do ; you'll be

among the first six wranglers.'

    It appears to have been in consequence of Mr. Hud

son's report that Mr. Wilson consented to consider
William Whewell, though not a native of Heversham,
as a candidate for the exhibition ' should no parishioner

apply,' insisting, however, upon a two years' residence
at ' Heversham School. Some effort was made to get

this period diminished, but in vain.
     His master, Mr. Strickland, died about the close of

1811. During the period which preceded the election

of the new master, Mr. Fawcett, and for a few months

after his election and before he resided, William

Whewell, at the request of the trustees, though only a

boy of seventeen, took charge of the school. At this

time, and until he went to Cambridge in 1812, he was

the pupil of Mr. Gough, the blind mathematician at

Kendal, to whom allusion is made by Mr. Wordsworth
in the seventh book of the ' Excursion.'

     In a letter to his father of March G, 1812, he speaks
of him as ' a very extraordinary person. A blind man,

but of very eminent note in classics, mathematics, botany,

Iand chemistry. He intends in a short time, under

stand, to take in a few mathematical pupils.'

   'IShortly afterwards, May 12, 1812, he observes:
Iattend Mr. Gough at the hours named to you, and
I Ihope am making tolerable progress.
                                       have reviewed
Ialgebra, trigonometry, and other branches, which, as

had before gone over them, did not take up much time,

and am now reading conic sections, fluxions, and me

chanics.'

   An interesting letter to his little brother may be

given here, though belonging to the previous year. The
1811 LETTER TO HIS BROTHER JOHN.  7

writer was at the time not quite seventeen, the child to

whom it was addressed eight years old.

                                              Deepthwaite : May 19, 1811.

   I received your last letter, and am concerned to hear that

your health improves so little. As you are now in the habit

Iof writing verse a good deal, hope you will excuse a few
I Iremarks would make. Your subject, perceive, is generally of
Ia religious nature. I do not know whether dare venture to
Ifind fault on that head. But to tell truth (and do assure you
Iit is not from want of regard for religion), myself dare not yet

engage it- The subject is so awful that before the mind is

ripened it seems to me fitter for contemplation than for descrip

tion.

    IYou now, observe, really make verses ; before you only

made rhymes ; that is, your lines (though some of them do not
run smoothly) all agree in their movement and measure. You

now therefore begin to perceive the harmony of verse ; to im

prove this talent I would (if I did not think it above your com

prehension) advise you to read that part of Murray's Grammar
(which my sister Martha has) which is called Prosody. You
will then be better able to taste the beauties of poetry. But

Iwhile you apply yourself to poetry, would by no means have

you to neglect prose, as it is both more useful and more fre

 quently used. To this end you may read the other parts of
 Lindley Murray's Grammar, or (which will perhaps be easier)
 one of the small grammars you have.

    IBut would not have you to write so much as to neglect
Ireading. You have uncommon abilities (I hope praise will not

 make you vain) ; would therefore have you employ them. At
 your age it is difficult to find proper subjects for study. Mrs.
 Chapone's 'Letters to a Young Lady,' which book is at my father's,
 though addressed to a person of the other sex, will give you

 some useful directions. Indeed, history and some parts of natural

 Iphilosophy think not above your comprehension, very enter

 taining and of great utility. As you seem also to have a pro

 Ipensity to poetry would advise you, as soon as you are capable

 of forming a right judgment of them, to read some of the

  English poets.
8  LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                       1812

    You may observe that what I have said is very different
Ifrom the advice should have given most young persons at
your years. The sum of all I have said is this : besides writing

verse I would have you to strive to get a habit of writing prose
Ieasily and well. should be very much concerned if the poetry
Iof your letters were better than the prose.
                                              would not have
you abandon composition, but neither would I have it prevent
you from attending to other things. If you read in well-

chosen books you will find that amongst other advantages it

will improve both your prose and verse.

   As I think this letter is quite long enough, I conclude with

my love to my aunt.

      His first letter after entering on residence at Cam

bridge is addressed to Ids father, and dated :--

                                       Trinity College: Oct. 17, 1812.

    I arrived in Cambridge about eleven o'clock on the Friday
evening after the Wednesday on which I left Lancaster. Pro
ceeding through Preston, I arrived in Manchester, where I slept.

1 left that place the following morning. We breakfasted at
Buxton, dined at Derby, and arrived at Leicester in the evening.

IOn the road fell in with several young men who were going

to the University ; several of them freshmen like myself, but
only one of Trinity. Leaving Leicester next morning, we took
the Cambridge coach by Uppingham, Stamford, and Hunting

don. I slept at the inn, and waited upon Mr. Hudson next
morning. This college is so full that I shall be obliged to pro

cure lodgings in the town for some time, perhaps a year ; this
will make a slight variation in the expense, but it is un

Iavoidable, and is the case with all Trinity men at first.

  shall live in every respect the same as if I had rooms in
Icollege, as shall dine and sup in hall, and have my bread and

butter, &c, from the college buttery. Our lectures do not

begin till the 23rd, till which time I have nothing to attend to

but private reading.

     Throughout his early youth, William Whewell
appears to have been subject to frequent attacks of
Hi CAMBRIDGE.                                                      0

intfcposition, and is in fact described as a delicate boy.
Ether he outgrew the tendency, or the advice of Cam
bridge physicians was of much service to him, for after
his college life begins we bear little of his health.

To his Father]           Cambridge : Nov. 14, 1812.

  II have enjoyed very good health since I left Lancaster.

Perhaps ought to except a day or two when I have had some
symptoms of my old complaint, but my constitution has so far
got the better of that, that when it makes its appearance the

pain is very moderate, at least compared with what it formerly
was, and it onlv slightly affects my general health. It has of
late recurred only at long intervals of time, so I flatter myself
it will be some time before it renews its attacks.

To kis Aunt, Mrs. Lyon]                             Dec. 2, 1812.

   I have as yet found no reason to dislike the college life, and

am very well satisfied with everything about me except the face
of the country ; but the ground about Cambridge is so flat and

dull that it is quite disagreeable. Not one pleasant walk is here
up-hill or down-hill, no water but the narrow dirty Cam, and
even on the banks of that there is not a walk of a hundred yards

long ; even trees are dealt here with a sparing hand, and ex

cepting the groves and grounds belonging to the colleges, there
is scarcely a tree or a hedge of any size to be seen. The walks
about the colleges are certainly remarkably fine, and the

splendour and elegance of the buildings, ancient and modern,

very impressive, but these soon grow tiresome, and their same

ness but ill compensates for the want of the beauties of nature.

To his Father]  Trim. Coll., Cambridge: Feb. 17, 1813.

ISince          wrote to you last nothing has occurred which is
worth mentioning, and I presumed you would suppose me to be

well as long as you heard nothing to the contrary. A college

life does not afford any great variety of news ; the same suc
cession of lectures, reading, &c, constantly recurs.

Our lectures for the present term commenced on the 8th

instant, and are going on in the usual way. We attend lectures

on algebra, Euclid, and trigonometry from nine o'clock till ten,
10 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL. 1813

Iand from ten to eleven we are lectured in an oration of Demos

thenes. From twelve to one attend lectures in divinity on

three days in the week. My reading, independent of lectures,
is going forward in the old track, and when the examination

Iarrives hope to be pretty well prepared.
   I IThree years will probably elapse much in the same way,

and it will not be until have taken my degree that shall

be able to alleviate the great expenses which you now sustain.

IBut shall at least endeavour to have as few superfluous

expenses as possible. . . .

The senior wrangler was Herschel, son of Dr. Herschel, the

Astronomer Royal, of whom you may possibly have heard, cele

brated for his discoveries amongst the stars, and his improve

ments in telescopes, some of which he has made as large as

Iforty feet long. His son is a most profound mathematician
and an excellent general scholar.  have been several times in

company with him, and also with Fallows, who was third

wrangler, and Gwatkin, who is expected to be senior wrangler
Inext year, all three of St. John's College.
                                              have been in

company with them from the circumstance of their being ac

Iquaintances of Whittaker, whom once met at Mr. Satter-
Ithwaite's, and who visited me a few days after arrived in Cam

I Ibridge. Tom Satterthwaite had happened to write to him at that

time that had informed him was coming up.

     During the first seven years of Whewell's Cambridge

residence he kept up a somewhat frequent correspond
ence with Mr. Morland, under-master at the Lancaster

Free School. Extracts from the letters addressed to
him will occasionally be given. Their relations appear
to have been affectionate and familiar. Mr. Morland

came to Cambridge eventually as a ten-year man and
took his degree. This probably brought their corre
spondence to a close, and it does not seem to have been

resumed afterwards.

To Mr. Morland]                    Cambridge: Nov. 14, 1813.

When I offered to make the first step in our epistolary cor-
Hi DISPUTATION AND DECLAMATION.  11

 iwprmdenee, it was for no other reason than simply this, that

 writing from a strange place, such a place too as Cam

Ibridge, it might naturally be supposed that should have
Imore materials for a letter than a person at Lancaster. And

yet verily believe if you were to wait for an epistle till I could

form an interesting one out of the buildings and curiosities of

ICambridge, you would have the good fortune to escape having

one at all. The fact is that am a desperate bungler at putting

brick and stone into black and white.

   I see the chapel with much more comfortable sensations than

I have at any period within this last fortnight. Last night in
that chapel, amongst a whole host of people clad in surplices,

Iwas stuck up to bellow forth for a quarter of an hour what
Iwas called, by the courtesy of Cambridge, Latin.

        have had a declamation to make and repeat, and what do
you think was the subject ? Something no doubt extremely

novel and interesting ; yes, nothing less than the old song of

Brutus and Cfflsar ; upon which every schoolboy and every de-
elaimer has tried the sharpness of his wit so often that it is

tacked and worn to the bare bone. This bone, however, I had
Ito gnaw at as well as might, and a most glorious howl did I

make for Brutus. . . .

      Scribble me something the first moment you have to spare.

To his Father]  Jan. 18, 1814.

I received my prize books about a month ago. The sum

allotted to each class is 10Z., and as there are ten in each class

it was only twenty shillings for each of us. It was possible to

buy a book and get it bound, gilt and lettered, with the college

arms, for this sum, but it would have been only a small and

Itrifling one, and thought it better to get something more

Isplendid and pay something more. The Principia of Newton is

a book that should unavoidably have to get sooner or later, so

I took this occasion of purchasing it. When I have said that it

is a very scarce book in three quarto volumes most elegantly

Ibound, you will expect the price to be high, but still am afraid
I Iyou will think it too much when say had nine pounds to

pay myself.
12              LIFE OF mi. WHEWELL.  1814

To kin Father]                        June 2, 1814.

    I have just got the examination over, and had a little time

to felicitate myself upon my good fortune in getting the English

prize poem. There is not a single prize in the gift of the

University which I should prefer to it. It will, however, be

attended, as all ambitious projects are, with some trouble and

Iexpense. It is necessary that stay up till the Commencement,
Iat which time shall have to recite my poem in the Senate

House before the University, and his Royal Highness of Glou

Icester, our Chancellor, from whose royal hands receive the

prize-- which is a bit of gold, value by estimation fifteen guineas,

on which account you will conceive that it will be necessary for

Ime to get at least a new suit of clothes. It is also necessary

that get some copies of it printed, which will be some expense,

because there are eleven examiners, to each of whom of course

a copy must be given, and fifty other people who will never rest
till they have seen it.

To his Father]                        June 26, 1814.

    IIt was with the greatest pleasure that read your letter. One

of the most gratifying circumstances attending a success of this

kind is the pleasure it gives one's friends. It is t.he having dear

relations to share in the feelings of exultation that stimulates

the exertions and sweetens the triumph.

   IMy sisters are, suppose, highly delighted at the idea of
seeing in print a ' Poem by William Whewell,' and I am happy
Iin having sisters who all of them have, think, a more rational

taste for poetry and literature of all kinds than any other girls

in the same circumstances.

     The Duke of Gloucester arrives here next Friday, and on the

following Tuesday I have to recite my poem. The poem is in

rhyme, in the common heroic measure, and contains about 340

Ilines. You have learnt, I suppose, that am first in our ex
Iaminations. So far as I can learn, first in every subject. We

have reason to be proud of these honours, but should not wish

to have them over-rated, as that would only tend to make us

ridiculous. Some persons or other every year get these honours

and many besides, so that I am not without companions in my
            LETTER TO MR. MORLAXD.          1.-;

success ; to unite them is indeed rather more uncommon, but
not entirely unprecedented.

To Mr. Morland]  Cambridge: Nov. 17, 1814.

IOnce more address you out of a wilderness of learning of

every description which lies scattered about me in every form,

from foolish duodecimal nonsense to still more foolish folio

tense.

    My journey hither had nothing particular about it--all the
company along the road, vulgar, silent, or stupid -- so that I had
nothing to do but wrap myself up in a sort of torpidity for three
days, working mathematical problems about stage-coach win

dows, and thinking of certain hours in the vacation which I

should like to live over again. There is always some favourite
object with the imagination, to which it springs when it is dis

encumbered of other business; and from observing the direction
it takes in those holidays of thought we may best form an
opinion of the constitution of the mind. By the bye, as all on

--a sudden by mere stress of wind and tide -- at least by no fault

of mine we are driven into the old track of metaphysics, I

will send you an argument which a friend of mine brought out

the other day when we were evoking metaphysics together, and
which you must certainly admire if you have any desire to see

the old question of necessity finally settled, and are curious to
be informed whether you have a power over your own actions

or not.

    The argument goes to prove that everything happens
necessarily ; and as the ground of the argument, you will of

course admit the universal experience of all mankind as testi

mony, so far as this, that if a thing during the whole course of
ages never has happened, we have reason to conclude it im
possible. Now if things do not take place necessarily, then

any event might have taken place otherwise than it has done.

But the history of all ages, and the testimony of all mankind,
does not inform us of one event which has taken place other
wise than it has done. The conclusion is manifest, and you
must be pleased to see set at rest a question upon which so

much has been said, written, and even thought, as that of

necessity.
14      LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.           1814

    Thus we get rid of an absurdity, the supposing we have

anything to do with our own actions. There is another which

I should also like to see exterminated, though even in this

enlightened age it is held by numbers -- the belief of our own

Iexistence. Nay, met with a man the other day who, not so

modest as to attempt to prove it like Descartes, with his ' Cogito,

ergo sum,' had the impudence to assume it as an evident

principle, which was to be the foundation of his reasoning.

This is quite preposterous. When you have proved everything

else, you may perhaps be allowed, if you can, to infer your own
existence as a corollary, or if you cannot prove it by reason, to
demonstrate it by revelation ; but nothing can be more un-

Iphilosophical than to assume it, or to say you are conscious of

it, when in fact appeal to yourself, if upon reflection you are

not conscious of your non-existence. The general prevalence

of this belief among the bulk of mankind, and even some who

pretend to philosophy, adds another to the proofs of the prone-
Iness of man to be duped.
                           suspect, indeed, that this is one of

the illusions which Satan, since the creation of the world, has

been for some unknown purpose permitted to impose upon men
Of the ancient philosophers, as Reid says, ' some believed in

their own existence, and some thought there might be a God.'

In modern times, Berkeley, and even Hume, though they have

gone a long way, have not been able entirely to shake off this

vulgar prejudice. The belief of our own existence is indeed

an opinion which answers well enough for the common purposes

of life, but common sense must prevail at last, and it must

fall.

    I have been so far run away with by the anticipation of this
era of enlightened views, that I have no room to talk about the

common affairs of life, and all those people who are in their own

imagination, and by the courtesy of other people, supposed to

exist.

     You must write immediately and tell me all manner of

news, though I have not left myself room to adjure you by fifty

' By's.' You must consider yourself fulminated at through a

page and half, and write accordingly.
                    FEVER IN CAMBRIDGE.                                      15

To his Sister]                                           Jan. 11, 1815.

    The subject of the next prize poem, to be sent in in March ,
is : Wallace, the Scottish Patriot.

   I am disposed to let Wallace rest in peace, content with

Ihaving carried Boadicea safe through nearly four hundred lines
of blood and battles.        am glad you are reading such standard
works as Pope's ' Homer,' Milton's ' Paradise Lost ' (and above
all Whewell's ' Boadicea ' that
                         '                    you read them, as have
                               !),            a
                                          is               is

                                        if                  I
no doubt you do, from inclination and perception of their

beauties.I       presume     from this that Martha             not    of Dr.
Johnson's  Iopinion, that                                Paradise      Lost "
                              nobody reads through "

except as a task.'

Had to begin my reading again, there nothing should
                                                         is

                                                                   I

so much like as to record as faithfully as possible the impres

sions and opinions which formed on first reading any book.
                             I
                                   I
It would be so agreeable to recur to them.               sometimes reflect
                                              I

                                                    '
on the odd notions with which read Pope's Homer,' one of

the first books recollect, and upon the sage observations upon
it

            II
with which sometimes amused my father and my lamented
Ifmother.
              you are disposed to send me your ideas on your

books, it would give me pleasure of the same kind.
                             a

To his Father]                                           March 22, 1815.

     There is, indeed, fever of some kind or other in Cambridge,I
                         ;a
and several gownsmen have been ill of it; but the whole number

of those who have died in the University since Christmas not
                                      I

                                                                     ;

                                                        I

                                                                         is
more than six or seven, and of those believe two or three have

been carried off by other disorders. There are now, believe,

several men ill, but not one of my acquaintance and besides,

the disorder appears to be local, and has been confined to one

or two small colleges Jesus College in particular, which some

of the physicians, understand, attribute to the stagnant and

putrid waters in its neighbourhood.           I        believe not one man

                                                      .
of Trinity or St. John's has taken it. . .
It would indeed be extremely inconvenient to me to leave

Cambridge just at present, as shall on Friday and Saturday in
                                I

next week have to undergo an examination for college scholara
ship. . . What an age of revolutions we live in according to
         .                                                      !
L6              LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1815

this morning's paper everything appears relapsing into the most
dreadful gloom ! Ney surrendered, or more probably gone over

Ito Bonaparte--who is by this time suppose in Paris --and the

Royal Family quitting the place. How we deceived ourselves
when we thought we had seen the end of the miseries of

Europe !

To his Father]                        April 4, 1815.

    I am not able to ascertain whether this fever increases,

but the alarm certainly does. Trinity and St. John's, which

had hitherto been exempt, have now some invalids whom the

physicians assert to be ill of the fever. A man was taken ill on

...Sunday in our college, and, as luck would have it, at the foot of
my staircase.   I cannot determine whether the real danger

is considerable or not, but the colleges are clearing as fast as

Ipossible. At St. John's, all the men are, believe, obliged to

go down, and at our college the tutors recommend it so strongly

that it comes nearly to the same thing. It is yet undetermined

whether the next term will be given us without residence, and

consequently how long we may be allowed to stay away from Cam

bridge. My plan therefore is this : to remove from Cambridge

for a week or two, and if it should be decided that we are not

to keep next term to come home for a month or two, and then

Ireturn and spend the Long Vacation in Cambridge, where must
Iread as hard as can. And where of all places on the face of
Ithe globe do you suppose have thought of passing the time

that must elapse before the Senate have decided the matter ?

Where but in London ? . . .

    Gwatkin, of St. John's, goes along with me, whose plan is

the same as mine. . . .

    Our examination for scholarships is over, but the decision

and admission, which should have taken place on Thursday, are

deferred till some future time. Tins disorder and the appre
hensions it has excited have thrown everything into confusion.

To his Sister Ann, from Cambridge]    April 14, 1815.

    IIn spite of plague and pestilence am here again, alive and
well, and without much apprehension of being otherwise. I have

been in London a week, during which time there have been no
LONDON SIGHTS.                                       17

Inew cases of fever in the University, nor, so far as know, in

(lie town. So much for Cambridge ; and now for London, of
Iwhich you may probably wish to have a description.
                                                     have

of course seen all the sights that strangers go to see, from the

burying vault of St. Paul's up to the ball and cross --and from
the helmet of William the Conqueror in the Tower to the high-

heeled shoes of Queen Elizabeth in Westminster Abbey. From

all this, however, you will perceive that I have only been look

ing at the outside of London ; not knowing anybody there, of

course I could not see anything of society, and therefore you
will not wonder if in a week I found myself beginning to

grow tired of running about to see raree shows. Gwatkin,

my companion, had been there before, but such a complete

mathematician is he that he knew hardly so much of it as

myself, and therefore we had to feel our way as well as we could.

He left me the day before I came away, and went home to

Hereford.

   The only things from which I expected any very great
gratification were the theatres, and I was not disappointed --

Isome of the first-rate actors are such that should not have

repented going to town merely on that account. Miss O'Neil,

an actress lately come upon the London stage, is a most
wonderful performer. Her acting and the tones of her

Ivoice are touching beyond anything I ever experienced.

saw her twice, in Belvidera and in Isabella. Kean too is most

Iadmirable, though imagine I saw him rather to a disadvan
tage in King Richard II. Several others are good, but the

second-rate performers are not better than many I have seen

on the Lancaster boards. The good folks of London, however,

are not content with good acting, but have got a most extra

vagant affection for pomps and processions on the stage, and

sieges and battles, and all sorts of finery and noise. Two of

Ithe new pieces saw concluded with explosions and conflagra

tions -- forts were actually and really blown up, and scattered

in huge fragments in the air, and the catastrophe was as

striking as the noise and smell of gunpowder could make it.

Cambridge is wonderfully dull at present ; almost everybody

has left it. I am sorry I shall not see you all this summer,

but you must write to me the more.

C
18 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL. 1815

The resolution come to by the University was : ' That it was

Inot expedient that the undergraduates should return before
May 20.'   find that some people doubt whether it will be

thought necessary for them to return then. We have now

about twenty undergraduates in Trinity. The magistrates of

Cambridge published a statement, from which it appeared that

only sixteen have died in the town since the beginning of the

fever, and eleven of those were children.

To his Father]                             April 27, 1815.

I should like very much to go home for a while ; but eight

months before the Senate-House examination, and after idling

away a week or two in town, I ought to have full employment

for myself here. Besides, the dullness of the place, as it means
only the want of amusement and society, though it does not
make it more pleasant, is rather an advantage to a person in

clined to read.

To his Father]                             July 13, 1815.

We have got two English prize poems this year. After the

examiners had decided who was the successful candidate, they

found upon looking at his name that he was a man of our

college, who, owing to some mistake, had not yet been entered

as he intended, and who consequently had no claim to the

prize, which was therefore given to the next best.

As the first, whose name is Waddington, had a decided

superiority, the examiners wrote to him to express their appro

bation, and to request him to publish his poem, which has been
Idone.
           believe, too, the Chancellor intends to give him an

additional medal. The regular medal goes to Smirke, of St.

John's, the next in merit.

    Waddington is very young ; only, I believe, sixteen, and is

yet at Charterhouse School ; he is a brother of Waddington

who got the prize last year but one, and was a candidate for

the last.

    At this early period William Whewell not unfre-

quently addressed his sisters collectively, as in the
                PANTAGRAPH.                                  in

Mowing letter, but in later years his sister Ann is his
habitual correspondent.

To Ms Siatera]                              Sept. 19, 1815.

The letters of a certain person who signs E. M. A. Whewell

Iare always so acceptable that the said E. M. A. has great rea

son to be surprised that am not a more regular correspon

dent. I suppose before you have finished this sentence your

Ieye has been caught by the black patch in the middle of the

paper, and hope too that you have detected some resemblance

to the visage of E. M. A.'s brother W. It seems to me to have

a good deal of likeness to his physiognomy, and it is reason

able to expect that it should from the way in which it is

taken; being a shadow thrown on the wall by a candle and

marked out by one of my acquaintance, and afterwards reduced

by an instrument called a pantagraph.

   You would, I dare say, much rather see the countenance of

the real original, but he is so enveloped in piles of quartos,

heaps of scribbling paper, and unintelligible lines and figures,

that his magic circle is quite impenetrable for the present.
   I have been hearing a certain Mr. Hall, a celebrated Bap

tist minister from Leicester, as great a man in this part of the
Iworld as the Rev. Legh Richmond is in yours.
                                               had heard so

much of him that it was not surprising I was somewhat dis

appointed to hear a man with a voice weaker than Mr. Hous-

man's and a manner not near so impressive.

    In the autumn of this year we find William Whewell
preparing for his examination, and endeavouring to
reconcile his friends to the possibility of his not coming
out first, which he had already foreseen. In January he
writes to tell his father of the result of the first week's

examination, which was to place him second to Jacob.

To his Aunt, Mrs. Lyon]                        Nov. 2.

   If I come down at all after I have taken my degree it must
b*>only for a very short time, as I am anxious to take pupils, if

I can get any, as soon as possible, in order to do something for

                         c2
20 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL. 181 <

myself after being such an expensive business to my father f<r>i
so long.

   disI am now preparing for my examination, Ias suppose yo v

know. Do not take it into your heads to be very grievously

appointed if I am not first, as all these things are of course very

uncertain.

To hia Father]            Jan. 19, 1816.

                Jacob.

                Whewell.

    Such is the order in which we are fixed after a week's ex

amination. I should have been very glad if I could have in

verted the order of these names, but if you had seen or heard
from me during the course of the examination, you would have

thought it fortunate that I am not lower. I found myself,

after the examination began, so terribly deficient in many things,

Iand more especially in the art of writing with rapidity, that

began to give up all hopes of being within the first four or five.

It is very fortunate that I did not write on the second or third
day of the contest, to say that as I could only write twelve such

sheets as this in two hours while others could write twenty, you

Imust be content to see me where it should please Providence

to place me, for at that period of the business felt a great in

clination to send you such a warning.

    I had before been given to understand that a great deal

depended upon being able to write the greatest possible quantity

in the smallest time, but of the rapidity which was actually
I Inecessary had not formed the most distant idea.
                                                    am upon
no occasion a quick writer, and upon subjects where I could not
go on without sometimes thinking a little I soon found myself
considerably behind. I was therefore surprised, and even

astonished, to find myself bracketed off, as it is called, in the

second place ; that is, on the day when a new division of the

classes is made for the purpose of having a closer examination

Iof the respective merits of men who come pretty near to each

other, was not classed with anybody, but placed alone in the

second bracket. The man who is at the head of the list is of Caius

College, and was always expected to be very high, though I do

not know that anybody expected to see him so decidedly superior

as to be bracketed off by himself. The man who was always
                B.A. DEGREE.                                21

Imost talked of was Graham 1 of Christ's College.  should sup

pose that you must have heard his name mentioned in all the

talking about the subject which has passed. He was a friend of

White, the Rector of Claughton, and was somehow or other

nnderstood to be pitted against me, so that it is some consolation

to have beaten him. He is bracketed along with seven others,

and it is not yet known which of the eight is first. I should

think it not at all unlikely that he should be beat by some of

the men who are in the same bracket with him, Higinan 2 for

instance, or Cape,3 rivals of mine in our Trinity examinations.

    [The order in the list, as finally settled by the
examiners, was Higman, Graham, Cape. Among others
in this bracket were his friend Sheepshanks, and HamU-
ton, late Dean of Salisbury.]

   I shall only be just in time for the post, and therefore you
must excuse several things in this. My bad writing, because a
man who has been writing all the week in the Senate House can
not be expected to write in any decent way. My slovenly letter,

Ibecause have merely retired to a side table in another man's

rooms to send you this intelligence. And moreover the thing
is yet so fresh upon me, and the hurry of ideas is so little sub

sided, that I hardly know how I shall feel about it when I have

slept upon it. To-morrow we take our degrees, and begin to

wear black gowns.

To his Father]                                Feb: 6,1816.

    1 am sorry my forgetfulness has given you occasion for the
least anxiety about the fate of the bill you sent me. In conse

quence of the hurry and bustle which were going on when I wrote
at the end of the examination, I did not recollect to acknowledge

the receipt of it till the time when one generally recollects

things ; that is, just as it was too late. It was not till after I had

sent off my letter that the ideas of brackets and triposes began

to make room for the concerns of this world.

   1 Lord Bishop of Chester, and late Master of Christ's.
   * Afterwards Fellow and Tutor of Trinity.
   ' Head Master of the Artillery and Engineers' Seminary at Addiscombe

fot many years.
22                LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.   181G

   IAll this confess is the reasoning of an idle man, and it would

have been a much more direct way of satisfying both my scruples

and your anxieties to have written at once, and you must excuse
me as well as you can for not doing so. The gradual diminution

in the amountof the exhibition which has taken place almostevery

year is precisely the reverse of what we were given to expect at
first, but there is nothing to do but to take what we can get.

    I have begun the business of the term. I set off with three
Ipupils yesterday. It is possible, but not think very probable,
I Ithat may have one or two more this term. In that case

should be able to settle with Mr. Hudson. He has already

given up all the business of the tutorship, but I do not know

when he intends to leave us.

    I shall be able to give you and my sisters much more dis
tinct ideas what kind of an operation an examination is when I

Isee you, than possibly could in a letter. It is impossible with

in any reasonable compass to describe all the kneeling, sitting,

and standing formalities of taking a degree.

    As to Jacob, I do not know precisely what countryman he is,
Ibut rather think his father is now resident in London ; and
Ihas, if mistake not, published a pamphlet or two upon subjects

connected with politics or finance, or something of that sort.

IHis son is a very pleasant as well as a clever man, and had as

soon be beaten by him as by anybody else.

                  Trinity College, Cambridge :

To his Sister ']                         May 21, 1816.

    When I got your letter I had been waiting with impatience
Ifor some account of my father. hoped that it would have been

favourable. ' No better ' is but a painful answer. Above all

other remedies my father will, I hope, keep up his spirits. He

seems to be distressed that he cannot do anything, not reflect

ing that he is even now as well employed as half mankind are

all their lives. We, my dear sister, need wish for nothing more

but that we may fill our situations in society, whatever they
Imay be, as respectably as he has done.
                                         yet hope that he will

see some of us fixed in situations which we never could have

      1 "When not otherwise particularised, the sister addressed is always his
sister Ann.
lm BRIDLINGTON QUAY.                                     23

ifaspired to   it had not been for his indulgence and his efforts.
No father could have done more for us, and I hope he will be

allowed to see the result of it.

This term is a very short one, we get through it at the end
of this week, and then I hope my pupils will take it into their
Iconscientious consideration to pay me.
                                         have got five pupils

Ialready for the long vacation, and shall probably have another, so

that hope soon to be able to get clear, but it is tantalising not

to be able to support myself for such a length of time ; only one

man has paid me yet.

To his Father]                                     June 6.

I mentioned in my last that I was going to Bridlington to

read with my pupils. We are not allowed to stay in Cambridge

during the Long Vacation, and two or three of my pupils
Iexpressed a preference for that place.
                                         had hardly any wish

Ifor one place rather than another, and therefore there we go.
      think I shall stay here till Commencement, which is the

beginning of July, and then proceed to my summer abode. It

is not yet certain whether or not we are to have the new

married couple of Royal Highnesses here at the Commencement ;

if so, we shall be very gay. [Prince Leopold and Princess
Charlotte.] You may perhaps have heard a good deal about the
rioters in this county. We have seen nothing of them here, but

they have been rather unruly at Ely. They are, however, com

pletely quieted now ; we have had the yeomanry cavalry raised,

and a troop of the Horse Guards who were at Waterloo passed

through with two pieces of artillery the other day. The soldiers

have done their office, and they are now sending down judges

to do theirs.

To his Sister]        Bridlington Quay : Aug. 14, 1816.
II cannot forget while am writing that I have no longer the

same family circle to address ; no longer the face which but a

little while back would have looked so anxiously for any informa

tion about me. We should have been too happy, my dear sister,

had we been permitted to soothe the declining years of our

parents, and to sweeten the evening of their life. He 1 [his

                1 John Wbewell died in July 1816.
24               LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.               1810

father] is gone to rejoin her whom he never ceased to lament.
She was taken from us almost before we knew how inestimable

was the affection of a mother, and of such a mother. And now

he is gone without being allowed to see what he has done for his
son. He would have thought it a sufficient recompense for the

unwearied exertions of a laborious life ; but it was a happiness

which Heaven had not destined him in this world.

    I do not know whether I shall be able to satisfy you as to

the details of my domestic economy here ; . . . but you may

set yourselves at ease as to the danger you might otherwise

have supposed us in of perishing upon this uninhabited coast.
    I have hitherto avoided running up any bills here, by which
means I have got rid of great part of my money ; I should like
Ito continue the same plan.
                             have six pupils here.

                             Trinity College, Cambridge :

To Mr. Norland]                        Nov. 10, 1816.

    II hope I shall soon receive a missive from you, upon which

shall proceed immediately to enroll your name among those of
all the great men who have been here before us.1

    I am at present feeling some of the inevitable inconveniences

Iof a college life. Two of my most intimate acquaintances, and

   will add two men of the greatest intellectual powers and

attainments that I ever saw or ever expect to see, have left the

University ; and their departure has made an irrecoverable gap

in my enjoyments. Herschel is gone to assist his father, whose

health is now declining, to carry on his astronomical researches;

and Jones2 (I think I have mentioned him to you before) has

been prevailed on by his father to take orders and a curacy in

Sussex.

    This is one of the greatest curses of Cambridge: all the men

whom you love and admire, all of any activity of mind, after

staying here long enough to teach you to regret them, go

abroad into the world and are lost to you for ever. Nevertheless,
I would not be anywhere else, except it were London, and that
                                      I grow more and more
under very particular circumstances.

     1 With a view to his taking a degree in Divinity as a ten-year man.
     2 Richard Jones of Caius College, afterwards Political Economy Pro
fessor at Haileyhury, and later Tithe Commissioner.
1817               DAWES.                                          2-")

attached to the place, and I think more highly of it from having

seen the regret with which such men leave it.

    I hope to ramble through its cloisters with you some of

these days, though, considering the interval- which must elapse,
it is quite impossible to tell what set of acquaintance or of ideas

I may then have. How do your studies of Scotch go on at

present ? Do you read much of Burns ?

...To his Sister]                                  Jan. 17, 1817.

      I have got a pupil who will be third or fourth wrangler,

it is not yet determined which -- the examinations are now
going on-- so that he will not even be so successful as his tutor

was. His name is Dawes,1 and he is a friend of Morland, out of

whose neighbourhood, or somewhere near it, he comes.

To his Aunt]                                       Feb. 16, 1817.

I must acknowledge myself somewhat an idle correspondent
so far as writing goes, but 1 can assure you that I am one of

the best reading correspondents in the world, and have as much

pleasure in perusing your letters as you can possibly have in
Iwriting them.
                   am ashamed to write so much worse letters

than my sisters, but I console myself with the idea that women
always write better letters than men ! I have many things to
thank you all for -- so many that I must give you a large quantity
Iof thanks to divide among you according to your shares. shall

have a double reason to like each of the things you have sent

me : the cravats because they are your gift, and marked with the

hair of my sisters ; the pies because they are twice as good as

usual ; and the shirts because there are two of them.

   I have my hands full of pupils, and I must read for the

Fellowship examination which comes on at the end of next

ISeptember. If I succeed then shall be more at my ease, and

fortunately for me there is a greater number than usual of

fellowships vacant this year. The pressure of the times makes

itself felt here as well as elsewhere. For the last three years

Iour fellowships have decreased very rapidly in value, but

believe they are now likely to improve.

                   1 Afterwards Dean of Hereford.
26 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL. 181V

To Mr. Atorland]     Trinity College: March 27, 1817.

   IHow long it may chance to be since ought to have written
I Ito you, and how much longer since last wrote, cannot dis

cover without going through a process of calculation much too

long and intricate to venture upon at present. This morning,

Iupon parting with my last pupil, was happily freed for a month

from the necessity of knowing that two and two make four.

You will not fail to observe the advantages of this occasional

cessation of the powers of reasoning, this suspension of the

habeas mentem act, and more especially its tendency to the

well-being and increase of the body natural : as it seems

universally allowed among philosophers that the body seldom

gains but at the expense of the mind, and vice versa.

The mind seems to be a sort of mad jockey to the body,

whose principal amusement is to fret, and fatigue, and tear and

sweat down and knock up the poor jade upon which he rides ;

or a romping boy with a new suit of clothes, which he not only

wears away in the common course of nature, but rends and pulls
Ifto pieces in all sorts of violent exercises.
                                                thinking could be

entirely suspended for a generation or two, there is no saying

to what beauty and magnitude our bodies might attain. I

leave to your theological consideration how far the gigantic

proportions of the Anakim might be owing to their superior

proficiency in the art of not thinking ; and how much the

shortening of human life after the Deluge might be caused by

the habit of reasoning that has unfortunately prevailed from

the building of Babel to this time ; but I agree perfectly with

the philosopher who asserts that mind is a result of unnatural

irritation and stimulus in the system, and that our bodies might

be considered as much more perfect and in a state of better

health if all such morbid symptoms could entirely be removed.
But. as I said before, I leave this to your serious meditation.

    To proceed to a subject somewhat less theoretical, I made

inquiries of the tutor the day before the division, and found

that no letter had been received from Mr. Hudson.
IYou bid me give some account of myself.        am not ill. I
am not married. I am reading with pupils six hours a day, and
Isleeping ten more.
                     give no account of any other hours, be
1617 VACATION.                                                 ·11

cause it is a fact which I have ascertained by a long experience

that a day does not count more than sixteen or eighteen hours.

Nothing can be more erroneous than the common idea that

there are twenty-four hours in a day. I am tired of forming

magnificent schemes of reading and never executing them, of

abusing myself for my ignorance and letting it increase, and of
wondering what will become of me and all the rest of the world.
I am amused sometimes with hearing people talk sense; some

times nonsense. Finally, I am sitting by the fire and writing

you a letter on this scurvy piece of paper because, it being past

I Iten o'clock, gates are shut and cannot procure a better sheet.

Now assert that you will never give of yourself an account

half so distinct.

To hia Sister]                                  June 5, 1817.

I am at least as busy in the vacation as in the term -- not

merely in reading for college purposes, but in examining sub

jects for my own satisfaction. By this means my days and

I Iweeks pass away with little variation to mark them, except in

the books read. . . . Meanwhile spend my time very comfort

ably, and, for anything I see, am likely to continue to spend

it here for many years yet. You can conceive few people more

tranquilly happy than your brother in his green plaid dressing-

gown, blue morocco slippers, and with a large book before him.

I cannot say that he will continue so employed for the whole

of this summer without finding time to transport himself into

Lancashire for a little while, but even if he were to do it the

time which he could stay would be so short that it may be
better that he should defer it at least till after his Fellowship

examination, which is in the end of September.

To his Aunt]    July 20, 1817.

This will find you, I hope, after a journey to Altrincham

both pleasant and profitable, safe from all troubles of stage

Icoaches and inns on the road, and of attorneys at the end.
hope if it be requisite M. will contrive to give up her favourite

home and quiet for a little while ; she may think herself fortu

nate if she do not find anything worse in her journey through

We than a stage coach too full of disagreeable people. . . .
28       LIFE OF 1)11. WIIEWELL.             1817

    II have also been making an expedition.  have been on a

visit to a college friend, a Mr. Kose, whose father is a clergy
man at Uckfield, in Sussex. His son has distinguished him

self at Cambridge, and is now going with a nobleman's family       t
Ito reside in Italy for some years.                                i
                                     spent a week very plea
                                                                   I
santly.

     Witli Mr. Hugh James Rose, Mr. Whewell kept up

for many years an active correspondence, from which

occasional extracts will appear in these pages. In the

earlier letters written to Rose he expressed the opinions
he then entertained with regard to the Lake School and

Wordsworth's poetry ; perhaps they are not the less

interesting because he afterwards altered them very

materially. On July 31, 1817, he writes: --

    I have just got. through a new book of your friend Cole
ridge's, his ' Biographia Literaria,' which I suppose you have

seen. It contains an account of himself, which in many places

 is amusing enough ; but it appears to me to be of considerable

Iconsequence from the critical parts of it, which will, think,

completely change the state of the question about the 'Lake

School.' For to my great astonishment I find it full of good

 sense and fair rational criticism, and containing a condem

 nation of all those parts of Wordsworth, both of his theory and

his practice, to which I should object --denying his whole

theory about poetical diction and the resemblance of poetry to
real life, and low life, and blaming almost all those poems
which he has written upon his theory, condemning his prosaic
style, his puerilities, his mystical and inflated language, and
wonderments about the most every-day things, his matter-of-
factnesa, his attachment to pedlars, his deification of children,
and in short everything, or almost everything, that other
people have made a pretext for laughing at the whole, he takes

out and laughs at by itself.
     Now it may be very true that all this makes but a very

small part of the whole, but nevertheless it always appeared to

Ime so woven and matted in with the rest as to give a tinge to

the whole mass : it was in consequence of that, that never
1317 WORDSWORTH.                                          29

Ientirely got. over the repulsion felt to Wordsworth, for there

were so many passages, obviously favourites of the poet, where

I could not feel any sympathy with him, that I could not but
doubt whether I had really any sympathy with him when I ap
peared to have. Even yet I much doubt whether Wordsworth

would allow that man to understand his poems who talks of

them as Coleridge does. If it be so, the whole imaginary fabric
of a new school of poetry, which seemed as if it were to be

built up to the skies and to the borders of the universe, far

out-topping the Tower of Babel, turns out to be nothing but

a little furbishing and beautification (as the churchwardens
call it) of the parish church. Just get rid of stale epithets
and stale personifications, and one or two other errors that

had crept in, and all our poets will turn out to be good poets.

I am glad of because had much rather have my objects of
'                      II
admiration increased than diminished.
  AI I ;
                  ;The negative part of Coleridge's system (as the case
        Iwith most systems) true or verisimillimum. As for the posi
             I it,
tive part, we are all abroad again. His poetics are, think,
                                           is
                                                      is

                                                    I

false and as for his metaphysics, they are as before, muddy with

their own turbulence.      can make nothing of them. How

the man who wrote the critique on Wordsworth could write
                     Ifcannot conceive.
Christabel,'                           I  were to judge from this

book, should take Coleridge's talent to lie in wit more than in

poetry his similes and metaphors are delightfully lively.

Upon the strength of Coleridge's knowledge of Wordsworth's

meaning, have sent for Wordworth's poems.

have been going ou very harmlessly here ever since got
                                           I

myself settled to be content- to spend my weeks rather less

pleasantly than the one spent with you.
                       I

           few weeks later another letter followed on thea
same subject, expressing with even more vivacity his
dislike to poetic systems in general, and that of Words
worth in particular.

                                                                  Aug. 30, 1817.

     Paynter tells me that you have curiosity to know whether
you have puzzled me about Pope and poetry. You would have
  30 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL. 1817

 Ithe less merit in doing so as have completely puzzled myself.
 I have vacillated among systems of criticism till I am rather

 giddy, and seem to myself to be advancing fast to that glorious
 state of poetical scepticism in which no one principle of criti
 cism is more certain than its opposite : and this by arguments
 which, according to Hume's admirable definition of scepticism,
 admit of no answer and produce no conviction. At present,

 however, I have not time to reason or even to doubt upon such

 matters ; instead of the ' feast ' and the · flow ' of poetical

 analysis to which your letter tempted me, I must pick the

 dry bones and swill the watery soup which are the prepara

 tory diet of the gymnasium here. I hope you will allow this

 --viz. the having you, myself, the college examination, and
 very possibly truth also for antagonists -- to be a satisfactory
 reason for not attempting sooner, or for not attempting at all,

 to defend the opinions that you attribute to me. However,

 that you may not consider me as absolutely one of the ungodly
 and those that perish, or, what is much worse, live and do not
 admire good poetry -- that you may not fancy me fallen away
 from a state of poetical grace, beyond even the saving influ

ence of Wordsworth --I must disclaim some of the opinions

you give me. A sceptic may deny though he may not assert,
though he is very likely to be troubled with doubts whether
 denial be not a species of assertion.

    I do not, then, make Pope my idol. I should not rejoice to
see his style restored. I do not perceive in him, or learn from
him, the love of nature. I do not even insist upon his being
called a poet. It is sufficient for me, who would not break the
Iking's peace for a definition, that receive from his writings

Ipleasure greater and of a different kind from that which

should receive from similar writings in prose. You may cer
tainly analyse the pleasure his pieces give into many elements
which are not generally understood to be poetical elements ;
wit, for instance, which all the world can understand and delight
in at all times, which is more than you can say for feeling of
any kind. He is, moreover, invariably alive to the ridicule
which in polished society lies in wait for bursts of feeling
which are not selon les regies ; but every man -- except Adam
before the creation of Eve -- has had his feelings and the
1817 COLERIDGE.  31

manifestation of them in some measure regulated by regard

for the opinions and views of others. And then come the scep

tic's questions : how far ? where to stop ? why ?
     But as for defining poetry, or analysing the feelings which

it puts in action--explaining what it is, or may be, or ought to

Ibe ; what are its origin, its laws, and its end --cela me passe.

have been much delighted by several critical works, but con

Ivinced by none. As have said before, the negative part of
most systems seems good. A little while back I was in trans

ports with Schlegel ; if you have not read the book, I think you
will find it will repay you for the perusal. Hare considers it as
the ideal of criticism. Even if you do not believe it, which I
think you will in a great measure, you will allow it to be fine

writing, a little German or so, but still fine. But as Cicero's

interlocutor says of Plato, when I laid down the book I could
not recall the conviction. In fact, I think you will find when

you examine, that most of the good criticism you see produces

its effect rather as eloquence than as philosophy --rather excites

poetical emotions than analyses them.

    I was much astonished to find that Coleridge takes his

critical ground so low. It is not so much the absolute extent

of his disapprobation of Wordsworth which made me consider
it as indicating a revolution in Lake criticism, as the principles
on which he founds it, and those are obviously such that they

will irresistibly extend themselves much farther than he has

carried them ; his critique on the Daffodils, for instance, might
serve as a model for similar strictures on all Wordsworth's

Wordsworthian poems. It pleases me to find that it is in con

sequence of his theory that Wordsworth has got wrong. What
has a poet to do with a theory ? Let him mind his business, or

it will be worse for him.

      As for Coleridge, he has almost too metaphysical a head to

be a good poet ; a man who is always lookiDg for symptoms in
himself will not often be healthful ; a man who studies all the
motions of all his limbs will not probably be graceful ; and a

man who is everlastingly watching the operations of his own

mind and imagination is not likely to feel or to think freely.
      By this time you will begin to suspect that the tendency of

 all this profound reasoning is to prove my right to be incon
           LITE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1817

Isistent.  hope I have fully established that, and that there
fore, if you think it inconsistent to admire both Wordsworth

and Pope, you will do me the favour to believe that it may
nevertheless be my case : nay, more, that I may admire one or

the other, or neither, according to the state of the barometer.

      The ' critique on the Daffodils,' referred to above, is to

be found in Vol. II. of the ' Biographia Literaria,' second

edition, p. 153. The poem is adduced by Coleridge as

an exemplification of the ' fifth and last ' of a series of

prominent defects noticeable in Wordsworth's poems,
but which he earnestly contended were not the ' real
characters of his poems at large, nor of the genius and
constitution of his mind.' This ' fifth and last ' defect,

he said, was the use of thoughts and images too great
for the subject. This is an approximation to what

might be called mental bombast as distinguished from
verbal, but it is a fault of which none but a man of

genius is capable. It is not wonderful that in editing

this criticism of her father's Mrs. Henry Nelson Cole

ridge takes occasion to express her dissent from it.
     But seven years before, John Whewell was hesitating

to let his son exchange the carpenter's shop for the
Lancaster Grammar School ; and now, whilst reading
hard for the Fellowship examination at Trinity, he finds
in matters thus remote from his earlier interests and

experience the amusement of his scanty leisure, and is
unwearied in discussing them with his friends. The

position he maintained in these discussions was soon

afterwards abandoned. In later life his sympathy was
much more with the poet Wordsworth than with his
critics. When one of the Edgeworths once remarked
to him that Wordsworth was ' only fit for the nursery,'

Ihe replied, ' Well, should be glad to go into the nursery

with him.' As the strongest testimony to this change,
1817 SONNET TO DORA WORDSWORTH.                           33

 it is interesting to contrast with the letter to Mr. Rose

of August 30, 1817, a sonnet written by Mr. Whewell
in the album of Mr. Wordsworth's daughter Dora, in

1838. It expresses with great simplicity and sincerity

his mature and lasting conviction as to the influence
upon the poetry of the age of Mr. Wordsworth's

writings.

                To Dora Wordsworth.

Daughter of that good man whose genuine strain

Patiently uttered oft in evil days

Called English poesy from erring ways

Of laboured trifling, insincere and vain ;
And failing not, again and yet again
Poured forth, all full of faith and love, its lays
Till to all hearts they flowed through blame and praise,
And there 'mid sweetest memories remain ;
You scarce can know the time when scorn and hiss

Repulsed those songs which now we hold so dear,

Yet not the less do you their sweetness heed ;
Just as your father's love, your fireside bliss,

Need not the thought of danger or of fear

To make you feel that they are sweet indeed.

April 6, 1838.                       W. Whewell.

     But to return to the year 1817. Mr. Rose was not
the only friend who zealously laboured to bring Mr.
Whewell into the circle of the admirers and appreciators

of Wordsworth. Mr. Hare was equally diligent and

vehement on the same side. Long afterwards Mr.
Whewell wrote to the editor of the last edition of the
' Guesses at Truth, by Two Brothers,' describing Julius
Hare, and the nature of their intimacy. With regard

to the differences of opinion existing between them, and
which in no degree impaired their friendship, though

they gave a special character to both letters and con-

                                                               D
34 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL. 1817

versation, he says : ' My  tastes   were the common vulgar
tastes of that day, the    tastes   to which the " Kejected
IAddresses " so successfully appealed. began our inter

"cosuorlseemnbybleriadtic"uolifngtheso"mEexcpuarsssiaogne.s",   and  especially   the
                                                                     1824 we     find
                                                               ' In

him giving Wordsworth's poems to his sister Martha.

To his Sister Ann]                                             Sept. 14, 1817.

I If Iam very busy, which will be over in due season.
defer writing to you till then you will probably wonder, and
think me long and wrong, which I do not by any means wish ;

and as it is very desirable that you should see things in a

I Itrue light -- and as, though may be reasonably long, am not,

1 hope, very wrong-- and as moreover I have just found half a

I Isheet of paper lying by me, for all these reasons, which seem to

me very good ones, shall write now. am well. I am reading.
IIn a fortnight I shall, I hope, be better and not reading.
Iengaged myself with pupils for the next term, so that                           have
                                                                                 shall
Inot be able to come home till Christmas. Then hope, or soon
after, I shall again see you. Our examination begins on the

21st, our election 1 on October 1.

To his Sister]                                                       Oct. 1, 1817.

As I have told you, you have to congratulate me upon being

made Fellow. The election took place this morning. Our

eight senior Fellows, after deliberating in the chapel for an
Ihour this morning, elected me and five others.
                                                                     had con

sidered my chance to be good, and was of course rejoiced to

find myself not disappointed. Other successes may have sur
prised and pleased me more for the moment, but this is one of
the most substantial benefits at which you ever had to rejoice

with me.

To his Sister]                                                       Nov. 4, 1817.

IUpon returning hither a few weeks back, found with great

satisfaction divers letters from you and my aunt which had
Ibeen accumulating in my absence.
                                    had been almost to the

                1 Fellowship election, Trinity College.
1818 JOURNEY TO PETWORTH.                        00

coast of Sussex, and on a journey provoking enough. As soon

as our election was over, I left Cambridge and went to London,
and after staying there a few days I set off again with the in
tention of seeing a friend who was, so far as I could learn, at a

Icuracy at Petworth in Sussex, about fifty miles from town.

got to Petworth on Saturday evening, and on inquiring for

Mr. Jones, I was told that Mr. Jones had gone to London the

Sunday before. This was mortifying enough ; and, to improve
Imy prospects, next day was Sunday, on which I could not get
back to London.  had nothing left but to amuse myself as
well as I could ; and after going to Chichester to see the cathedral,
and to Arundel to see the Duke of Norfolk's castle, I returned

to town and thence to Cambridge ; when my mortification was

completed by learning that my friend had been all the time
quietly residing in his parsonage house, three miles from Pet

worth, and that my landlord there had given me false intelligence.

Here I found your congratulations, and joined in your reflections

both cheerful and melancholy, as nothing is unmingled happiness

here.

II am looking forward towards my journey to Lancaster at
Christmas with great satisfaction.    shall probably go to
ILichfield and Chester, as have a great curiosity to see old

architecture.

To his Sister]   Cambridge: Feb. 6, 1818.

    I got here on Sunday evening from Leeds by the shortest

way, for I stayed there so long that I did not leave myself time

to execute that part of my plan which included Lincoln and

IPeterborough.                                   expect you

    I have a plan at present in agitation which
will not mention to anybody, as I do not know whether I shall
be able to carry it out. I am thinking of going abroad as

travelling tutor to a young gentleman who is about to visit

France and Italy almost immediately.
36 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL. 1818

         CHAPTER LT.

                                                       1818-1822.

Mr. Kenelm Dixy's recollections --Retrospective sketch -- Plans for the
    summer -- Mr.Brough am --Oxford -- Carnarvon -- Letter to Mr. Morland
    -- Welsh Jumpers --Assistant tutorship -- Sketch -- Tuition system --
    Elizabeth Whewell -- Julius Hare--Study of law -- King-- T. Bennison
    --Commencement -- Shipwreck -- Moderator -- Elizabeth's illness -- Mr.
    Sheepshanks --Trinity dinner--Dr. Wordsworth--Paris --Geneva1 --The
     Rhine-- Death of Elizabeth Whewell-- Isle of Wight-- Tour in the Lake
    Country : in Scotland -- Mrs. Opie's novels -- Works of imagination -- Miss
     Edgworth -- Leigh Richmond -- Washington Irving.

In 1818, Mr. Whewell paid his first visit to Oxford,

making time for the expedition in the short interval

between what he calls ' the employments of the term

and those of the vacation.'

The summer of this year he spent with six or seven

pupils in North Wales, and some memorials of this Long

Vacation remain to us, not only in his own letters to his

family and to one or two friends, but in the recollections

of another member of the party. Mr. Kenelm Digby,

author of the ' Broadstone of Honour,' had been a pupil

of his at Cambridge, was with him at Carnarvon, and in

1880 was one of the very few intimate friends of this

Iperiod of his life still surviving. Writing to Mr. Aubrey'
de Vere  of his old friend,  he said       had reason to regard
                                      :

Whewell as one of the most generous, open-hearted, dis

I Iinterested, and noble-minded men that ever knew.

remember circumstances that called for the exercise of
KENELM DIOBY'S RECOLLECTIONS.  37

each of these rare qualities, when they were met in a
way that would now seem incredible, so fast does the
world seem moving from all ancient standards of good

ness and moral grandeur.'

     To me, Mr. Digby wrote more fully in a letter from

which he permitted me to quote.

                                                Kensington: Feb. 12, 1873.

     You will easily understand that though my acquaintance
with Dr. Whewell began very early at Cambridge, it is chiefly
of his genial and generous disposition as a friend and companion

Ithat can speak. This any one could observe who knew him
as intimately as I did. Though on my first coming up to
college he consented to have me as a pupil, I can only venture

to say of him, as a tutor, that he was always encouraging and
indulgent, possessing a singular facility for reconciling those
whom he instructed to subjects of study for which they would
otherwise have felt no inclination.

      Having formed one of a party of Trinity men who spent a
Long Vacation with him in North Wales for the sake of study,
at the expiration of the time he refused to take any remunera
tion from me, saying that he would not be justified in doing so

Ias had not paid any attention to his lectures. In fact, I

liked him better on horseback than in the professorial chair,

and he was always, during the intervals of study, scouring the
hills with some of us. On one occasion, having walked with
him from Aber Menai to the coast of Anglesea, opposite Car
narvon, we expected to find the ferry-boat ready to take us
across ; but, on the contrary, it being very late in the evening,
the boat was moored out a hundred feet or more from shore,
the ferryman having retired for the night into a little hut.

On his refusing to turn out to take us across, we asked if he
would let us take the boat if we could get into it. On his

assenting, Whewell was the first to dash into the stream and
swim to the boat. We drew up the anchor and effected the

passage safely, while the ferryman raged on the shore and
called us all manner of names.

      The year that he went with me to Normandy, visiting all
38 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL. 1818

the cathedrals and abbeys, he drew up a table on which you

saw at  a   glance the  distinguishing features of the different
orders  or  epochs of
                        Gothic architecture -- the Norman, Early

English, the Decorated and Perpendicular. As a travelling
companion he was unrivalled, being always ready to rough it

Iand to take everything in a good-humoured way, and shall

not easily forget his riding with me on the post-horses to visit

St. Michel au piril de la mer.
   During our long friendship I never remember hearing him

speak unkindly of any one behind his back, though he was

free enough and bold enough spoken when he had you face to

face. He was wonderfully fond of his friends, whom he never
Iforgot.
            remember his having made one of them sit for his

picture to Lonsdale, and then his having given the portrait

which he paid for to a third party, a mutual friend. But it

would be endless to tell instances of his generous spirit. And,

in fact, it was that no doubt which gained him the friendship

of so many who were incompetent to profit by his extraordinary

intellectual powers. He conciliated all but proud, self-conceited

people, who did not like to be put down by a word or two from

him.II Iregret that

                        cannot recover the letters which  had

received from him, as any of them would place his noble cha

Iracter in a clearer light than can effect by such disjointed

reminiscences. But my letters all perished when our house

near Southampton was burnt.

     In a letter from Archdeacon Hare, in 1827, to a lady

afterwards frequently mentioned in these pages, Lady
Malcolm, he says : ' To my great delight on my return

Ihere, found Digby purposing to spend another last

term among us, if not with us : for unfortunately we do

not see a tenth part as much of him as we should wish
to do ; still even looking on anybody so noble always
does one good.' Mr. Aubrey de Yere remarks in a letter

to me :

     The friendship of Whewell and Kenelm Digby is a thing
the more remarkable when one remembers the different cha
1813  RETROSPECTIVE SKETCH.                   39

racters of the two intellects. But then hoth of these men had

in common that greatest of all gifts (greater than any degree
Iof genius), a great heart ; and that was doubtless the source of
their mutual sympathy.  have heard that Dr. Whewell, when

reading the Passion aloud, was often unable to restrain his

tears. Thus we see how compatible with the modern scientific
intellect is the great heart of the ' men of old.' There was

little chance of science degenerating in such hands. We who

knew your noble-hearted uncle shall always lament him for his

own sake, but others who did not know him will probably have

to lament more and more the loss to manly thought and to

Christian faith sustained when such men die.

     We may with advantage pause here and recapitulate
the various steps by which William Whewell had risen
to be Fellow of Trinity, from the Blue School and the
carpenter's shop at Lancaster. First in order is his
transfer from the Blue to the Grammar School at
Lancaster, in consequence of the notice of Mr. Rowley
attracted by his unusual intelligence. This was followed
in 1810 by his removal to Heversham, probably at the
advice of Mr. Hudson. He was entered at Trinity

College in October 1811, and went up to reside in
October 1812, being admitted as a sub-sizar. After

being successively elected to a sizarship and scholarship
on the foundation of his college, he proceeded to his

B.A. degree in January 1816, being placed second in the
list of wranglers of that year, and gaining the further

distinction of the second Smith's Prize. He was elected
Fellow in 1817, and during the Long Vacation of 1818
was offered the post of mathematical lecturer by Bishop
Monk, then Fellow and Tutor of Trinity, and accepted

it. His letters to his family and intimate friends show

 arise as remarkable in culture, associations, and subjects

 of interest as in position and outward standing. The
 details of his father's business, and the struggles of his
 40 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL. 1818

raw boyhood, have given place to an enthusiastic in
terest in literature, ' a great desire to see old architec
ture,' an eager though somewhat partisan attitude in
the controversy then raging between the friends and
enemies of the Lake school of poets.

      The contrast in position and culture was of course
mainly the result of the admirable use to which he had
turned the six years' residence in Cambridge, and all
that that implies of intellectual training. Amongst these
valuable opportunities must be reckoned the fortunate
introduction through Mr. Satterthwaite to Mr. Whitaker,
and the consequent intimacy with Herschel, Fallowes,
Gwatkin, and others, members of St. John's College, and

then the most distinguished group in the University,

and all senior to himself.

      Though his place in the Tripos and the Smith's Prize
are the only recorded evidence of his success in the
examination for the B.A. degree, the university system

then not giving room for any other, we have ample
proof that he gave his attention during his undergradu

ate career to many subjects besides mathematics. In

the year 1813 he was one of those selected to recite a
Latin declamation in the college chapel, and in the
following year he gained the third prize cup for an
English declamation. In the same year he had already
obtained the University distinction of the Chancellor's

medal for English verse. It was probably by devoting

some considerable portion of his attention to subjects
such as these that he laid the foundation of a distinct

literary style, of which perhaps the most perfect instance
is to be found in the ' Plurality of Worlds.' Among the
necessary exercises for his B.A. degree, Mr. Whewell
had to keep an act,

     1 Both as disputant and moderator,' we learn in one
1818 RETROSPECTIVE SKETCH.  41

of his works (' Cambridge Studies,' p. 150), he ' always
took a most lively interest in these exercises,' which he
thought ' eminently fitted both to produce and to test
a thorough acquaintance with the subjects thus dis

puted on.' They were eventually superseded in their

bearing upon University distinction, and lost con
sequently their interest for the students, becoming
meaningless and, from the bad Latin in which they were
conducted, somewhat ridiculous ceremonies. In a letter

of 1815 to Mr. Morland, Mr. Whewell describes the

performance in somewhat slighting terms. The practice
was long ago abolished.

     His letter to his father of January 1816 will have
shown that in the examination for the degree the

candidates were grouped first in brackets, thereafter to
be subjected to a second sifting, which should decide
their eventual places in the list. This custom has also
been abandoned, and the present system of examination

for the mathematical degree is in a great measure due
to changes introduced and supported by Dr. Whewell.

      He was President of the Union in 1817, on a cele

brated occasion when the Vice-Chancellor and Proctors

swooped down upon the place of meeting in order to
break up the society. Mr. Whewell, Mr. Thirlwall,
and Mr. Sheridan were deputed to endeavour to per

suade the Vice-Chancellor to reconsider his determina

tion, but in vain ; all they could carry was permission

 to finish the debate then in hand, and keep the room to

read in. The first demand of the President was that

the Proctors should withdraw whilst the society con

sulted on their message.

      We leave him in 1818 busily engaged in private
tuition, and carrying on animated correspondence and
discussion with numerous friends.
42 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL. 1818

To his Sister]       Feb. 23, 1818.

   I am not going abroad. I determined at last that it would be

Imore profitable to wait a little longer, and therefore this year

Ishall stay in England so far as know at present. Not, how

ever, because there are either fewer temptations or fewer

dangers here than in other places, as you seem most patrioti

cally to imagine.

To hia Aunt]         March 19, 1818.

   I shall take up my abode next Long Vacation somewhere on the

south coast -- most probably in Devonshire, or perhaps in the

Isle of Wight. I got a ' Lancaster Gazette ' this morning, by
which it seems that you have nothing of consequence afloat

except electioneering and national schools. I see two can

vassing advertisements for Westmoreland. Mr. Brougham's is
Ifoolish, and Lord Lowther's ungrammatical.
                                             shall have a

brother of Mr. Brougham's with me during the summer, who is

said to be a man of talent.

    I have just got through the business of the term, and have
Ialso, as have long been threatening to do, got into new rooms,
Iand am now pretty comfortably situated where shall probably

stay for some time.

To his Sister]                               May 8.

    If I follow your calculation, and consider my last as only half

a letter, it will be difficult to settle the important point whether

you or I ought to write next, as instead of either of us being a

letter in debt to the other, it is half one way and half the other.

I shall, however, decide the matter by making you a letter and

a half in my debt at the lowest computation, declaring at the

Isame time that believe you ought to have written to me
I Ibefore this time. hope, however, may as usual take no news

for good news. . . .

    I think my aunt need not be very much afraid of my being

contaminated by being the tutor of [Mr. Brougham] the brother

Iof an Opposition Member of Parliament ; but as for my being a

' Government man,' that is ' past praying for.' have a very great

respect for all my Bennison relations, but I hope it is not
1818 VISIT TO OXFORD. 43

necessary to show it by admiring Lord Castlereagh and Mr.

Canning.

To his Sifter]                     June 8.

    It is almost necessary to go to town for a few days once a
twelvemonth, if it were only to see sights, and to be able to talk
of them for the rest of the year ; and accordingly I took the op

portunity of having ended my employments for the term, and

not begun those of the vacation, to perform this important duty.

IFrom London proceeded to Oxford to attend the Commence

Iment which takes place every year, and a musical festival which

takes place once in three years. employed last week in hearing
the ' Messiah ' of Handel and much other good music, and in see
ing all that is worth seeing in Oxford. In buildings and

splendour, it is upon the whole, I think, superior to Cambridge,

though there is nothing there equal to Trinity College, and no
Ibuilding anything near to our King's College Chapel.
Ialtered my plans for the summer.                      have
Iinto Wales, to Barmouth. There
                                   do not go to Torquay, but
                                   intend to seat myself and

my pupils at the foot of Cader Idris, at the beginning of July.

To his Aunt]                       June 25, 1818.

IFrom the accounts have, I anticipate great delight from the

Iscenery about our summer habitation, which is said to be the most
beautiful in Wales.  have seen no very fine scenery in the

south, and nothing at all equal to the prospect from Lancaster

churchyard.

To his Sister]       Carnarvon : July 17, 1818.

     You will perhaps be surprised to find my letter at last dated
from a place which is not one of the half-dozen places to

which I was reported to be gone or going. My peregrinations

Ihave at last brought me here, where am likely to stay for the

rest of the summer. When we endeavoured to settle down at

Barmouth, we were far from falling in love with the place. It

is small, with scarcely any shops, inconveniently situated on the
steep side of a craggy hill, with eight rows of houses, each row
level with the chimneys of the next below ; the sand deep and
44  LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1818

loose, so as to be bad walking, and, what was of most consequence,

the lodgings few of them good, and those few very expensive.

     Upon the most mature consideration of all these things, it

was resolved to proceed to some larger place, and Carnarvon was
the most tempting within reach. On Monday morning we
set off from Barmouth in a body of six to walk hither, our lug
gage accompanying us and making a very heavy load for a post-

chaise.

      Sometimes on foot, and sometimes on horseback, we pro

ceeded through very beautiful scenery, along the Bay of Cardigan
and round the skirts of Snowdon, and got here on Tuesday.

     A more detailed account of the whole expedition

is contained in the following amusing letter to Mr.
Morland.

                                        Carnarvon: July 19, 1818.
    For the last three weeks I have been rambling over great

part of England and Wales, almost without an object and with
out a home, which primitive mode of life has so far deranged
and dislocated all my trains of ideas, which were going on in

civilised society, that I am glad to take advantage of the still

ness of a Welsh Sunday to reunite the broken filaments.
Amongst other repairs which are requisite, the thread of our
correspondence should have its end taken up and drawn for
ward to the time present. There would be no use in conduct
ing you through all the intricacies and perils of my journey

hither. It has been a series of the most hair-breadth escapes
and successful manoeuvres. At Cambridge I saved the coach

only by running with my luggage half the length of the town.

IIn Ixmdon, when I got off one coach, had only two minutes to

find my way to another, which was already starting. At Ports

Imouth was obliged to set off with half my linen washed and
not dried. At Salisbury, if I had not lost my way, and stumbled

upon a coach where the driver was already cracking his whip,

I had been ruined. At this last place I arrived at two in the

morning, and rose again at five to ride to Stonehenge (ten
miles) and back before breakfast. The life of a guerilla or a
Cossack would be nothing to my hardships and exertions. Some

oversights, to be sure, I did commit. Wellington himself has
1818             CARNARVON.                 45

Idone the same.  went to Bristol, resolved to pass that way
into North Wales, in spite of the assurances of everybody on the
way that it was impracticable. I went to Barmouth upon such
imperfect information that when I arrived there the place was
found untenable, and I led my forces through a most mountain

ous country hither, without sufficient precautions for the safety

of the baggage, which however escaped all dangers. We have

finally established our castra cestiva here, and look with contempt

upon all efforts to drive us from our post for at least three

months.

     This is the most civilised place which I have seen in Wales,

Ibut there is plenty in it to remind you that it is not English.

      My books are not yet arrived, and begin to have some fears

that they have found the Bwlchs of Wales, impenetrable as they

are unpronounceable. While, however, I must have seven pupils,
and may get a boat and a Welsh pony, I do not much fear want

of employment.

To his Sister]               Oct. 8, 1818.

      I am now in all the bustle and discomfort of packing up for

the purpose of setting off to-morrow. . . . Almost the only

Ipersons have to take my leave of are a Welsh antiquary and

his family, including a niece or two. He is a clergyman in the
Ineighbourhood, with whom
                           became acquainted by talking

Welsh antiquities to him, and he was apparently delighted to

find an Englishman who took any pleasure in such pursuits.

    I told you that a large meeting of the Welsh Jumpers was
to take place here. It occurred about a week ago, and pre

sented a most curious spectacle. Large numbers of people

assembled from all quarters. All the preceding day there was

Ian everlasting tramping of horses under my window ; and when

  walked to the beach I saw large boats, black to the water's

edge with the crowd which filled them, coming slowly to the

shores. One large troop came out of the country walking arm-

Iin-arm, and singing a psalm which heard at a distance long
Ibefore saw the people. Towards the evening they assembled

in a field with a sort of wooden edifice in the middle, from

which the ground sloped upwards so as to enable all present to
see and hear. This edifice was occupied by about half a dozen
40 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL. 1818

preachers, who addressed the people in succession in sermons

which, being in Welsh, I could not understand, but which, from

the earnestness of manner and the violence of tone and gesticu

Ilation, far exceeding anything ever saw from a person about

his own private affairs, seemed likely to make a great im
pression. Accordingly, the people seemed much affected, and
frequently joined in the groans of the preacher. Indeed, at

the end of almost every sentence there ran through the assembly
a sort of plaintive moaning which seemed to indicate the effect
the sentence had produced, like the sighing of the wind through
the trees which marks the force of the blast.

     Apparently they were giving as much way to their feelings
as possible for the purpose of working themselves up to the
frenzy which some of them afterwards exhibited. Those over
whom the sermon seemed to have most power, were, it appeared,
people from the most uncultivated parts of the country. Kough
uncivilised mountaineers, men and women in black hats and

dresses of stuff, which, though exceedingly coarse, had a gloss
of newness which showed what a great occasion they con
sidered it.

     At the beginning of each sermon the whole multitude sang
a psalm ; and as whatever harshness and discordance there was,
was softened by the number, and by its being in the open air,
it was almost beautiful. At the cadences it died away in some
parts of the crowd, while it swelled and sank again in others
like the echoes of an organ in the long aisles of a cathedral.
This singing, preaching, and moaning went on till near dark,
becoming more and more vehement, and then the assembly
was dismissed. As the crowd, which before had been one large

black mass, separated into groups, I began to perceive that

these were generally collected about people who were jumping.

I went into the throng in one or two instances. The first that
I saw were a boy and girl, who could not be more than eleven

or twelve years old, who were shouting most violently, crying,
taking hold of each other's hands and then throwing their arms
upwards, sometimes standing opposite to each other, and some
times jumping as fast, and as hard as they could. A woman,
apparently their mother, was hanging over them, crying and
moaning, though not seemingly anxious to quiet them.
1818  ASSISTANT TUTOR.  47

    IAs walked about the field, I only got from one such scene

to another. People of all ages, young women and old, men and

boys, were jumping or waving their hands, and vociferating as
loud as their lungs would let them ; some of them seemed nearly
exhausted, and many were carried away, apparently quite

powerless.

    I inquired what it was that they uttered when in this state,

and was informed that it was principally texts of Scripture and
Welsh exclamations -- 'Gogoniant,' '0 Diolch,' &c; 'Glory to
God,' ' Thanks to Him Who has saved us,' ' He is precious,' ' Let

us rejoice,' ' Let us jump.' This continued I cannot tell how
Ilong, for was tired of it and left it. The next day the scene was
repeated, and still greater numbers were present. It occurs

here once in two years, and people assemble from a very great

distance. So far as I can learn, the people who jump are not

by any means remarkable for feeling the habitual influence
of religion in their ordinary lives. The most distinguishing
doctrines of the sect appear to be very violent notions about
absolute predestination to salvation. You may place them at

one end of the scale, and the Unitarians at the other. The

former err by too much enthusiasm as to the peculiar mysteries

of Christianity and by pushing this to fanaticism, and the
Unitarians by rejecting them altogether and reducing every

thing to mere human reason.

     A letter from Carnarvon to his sister closes with the

I Iwords, ' Since came here, have accepted the office of

assistant tutor in our college.'
     This ' exchanging private for public tutorship,' as he

calls it in a later letter, was the turning point of Mr.
Whewell's career, and full of significance for himself,
the college, and the university. The name of Dr.
Whewell has been so associated with the Mastership
of Trinity, that one is apt to forget that for a
period of twenty years he was actually employed in
the work of tuition at Trinity College, first as lecturer

or assistant tutor, afterwards as tutor. He became
                                                                                                            »

48 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL. 1818

assistant tutor in 1818, and held the post till 1823, when
he became tutor. In 1833, Mr. Perry was associated

with him in the office of tutor, but Mr. Whewell never

theless continued to act as tutor until 1838. Some of

the duties of the office of tutor were even to the last most

irksome to him, and his letters show with what satisfac

tion he handed over to Mr. Perry (afterwards Bishop of
Melbourne) the financial department of his office. Dur
ing the time of his assistant tutorship and tutorship he
found ample scope for the exercise of the literary

activity which was really more congenial to him ; but

in the first instance, the subjects which attracted his

attention were directly connected with his college

duties. His first work was an ' Elementary Treatise on
Mechanics ' in 1819, followed by various editions of the

same, with additions and improvements, and other
books on cognate subjects, eventually developed into,

seven separate treatises, all bearing on the same subject

and written with a special view to the assistance of

Cambridge students.  But whilst engaged in this

manner, he was himself a student in other branches of

science recognised by the University. To mineralogy

he devoted much attention in connection with the

professorship for which he became a candidate in 1825,
and to which he was appointed in 1828. He even

went to Germany, making the study of this science the

main object of his tour. His literary and other pursuits

during the same period had a similar tendency. The
great work on which he was occupied from an early

period after becoming assistant tutor at Trinity College,
namely, the ' History of the Inductive Sciences,' gave

him an occasion for studying several branches of science

which were but imperfectly connected with the academic

teaching of those days ; and it was perhaps the sense of
TUITION SYSTEM.  40

 their interest and importance which he acquired during
 this study which led him at a later period to take a

leading part in making them serious subjects of instruc

tion in the Cambridge curriculum. It was also during

this period that Mr. Whewell wrote the Bridgewater
Treatise which probably gave him that peculiar interest

in astronomy which he manifested later in the ' Plurality
of Worlds.' Again, it was during his tutorship that he
devoted two summers in company with Mr. Airy to
experiments in Cornish mines, ' for the purpose of
determining the density of the earth.' He was still tutor

when he commenced the laborious investigations on the
tides, which occupied a larger portion of his attention
during the latter years of his life than any other strictly
scientific subject. And as Fellow, and subsequently
President, of the Geological Society, he naturally gave a
considerable portion of his time, not only to the theory
of the science, but to the labour of a practical geologist.

     The tuition system at Trinity at this time was far
less developed than at present, or even than it was
during the mastership of Dr. Whewell. There were
only two Sides, with a tutor to each, and the staff of

Lecturers attached to each side was small and inadequate
even to the smaller number of undergraduates in those
days. The remuneration of the assistant tutors was also
small, and out of this grew to a great extent the practice
of private tuition, to which Dr. Whewell was for the
most part strongly opposed. (See ' Cambridge Univer
sity Report, Evidence, Dr. Whewell.' )

     The tutorship was regarded as the chief pecuniary
prize open to the Fellows, and the value of the Lecture
ship consisted in leading up to it. When in course of

time, and at a comparatively early age, he himself
became tutor in succession to Bishop Monk, a third

                                                                        E
50              LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1818

Side was created, and the tutorial system was so far

made more efficient.

     The tutors who held office with Mr. Whewell were :

Mr. Peacock, afterwards Dean of Ely, and Mr. Higman,
afterwards Vicar of Fakenham. The Lecturers at the
same time were Mr. Thirlwall, eventually Bishop of
St. David's, Mr. Hare, Mr. Blakesley, Mr. Perry, Mr.
F. Martin, and Mr. Thorpe.

To his Sister]                        Nov. 18, 1818.

    By exchanging private for public tutorship, I find that much

more of my time is taken up than before, and indeed with this

Iand other matters have very few half-hours in the day without

something to occupy them. This must account to you for my

silence whenever it seems rather longer than usual. The leisure

and command of my own time, which I have always been looking

forward to, seems at present to be flying a great deal faster

than I can follow it.

     The year 1819 was overshadowed in a measure by

the anxiety caused by Elizabeth Whewell's health ; an

anxiety which increased during the following year, and
was only terminated by her death in 1821. During
these years the brother's thoughts constantly revert
with affectionate fidelity to his family. When his

cousin, Thomas Bennison, sickened and died, he mourned

sincerely the loss of the friend and playfellow of his
early years. But new names were constantly being
added to the list of his intimates ; and we feel that the
first group, clustered together in early youth mainly in
consequence of accidental circumstances of neighbour
hood or the like, was not displaced, but succeeded
by another, the members of which were bound to each

other and to him by ties of sympathy, similarity of

taste, and community of objects and duties. These
were to be ' the friends of a lifetime,' as he delighted to
                STUDY OF LAW.                                   51

describe them. Julius Hare, with whom he became

acquainted as an undergraduate of Trinity, appears

frequently among his correspondents, being at this time
engaged in reading law in London. Whewell, in the
first letter we find from him, seems inclined to increase

Hare's distaste for the uncongenial study, and, by pro
curing for him, in 1822, the offer of a lectureship at
Trinity, was eventually the means of bringing him back
to Cambridge, and causing him to abandon law for ever.
' Your profession,' he writes, February 25, 1819, ' has a
greater tendency than others to efface the simplicity
and energy of the mind, because it is generally cul
tivated more exclusively. The quantity of reading and
attention which it requires, and still more the quantity
of trifling and commonplace which are necessary,

operate as a very heavy window-tax upon the intellect,
and in that case of course it is the skylights which are
first shut up.'

      The family letters of this year begin with the
anxieties about his sister and his cousin, in which he

so keenly participated.

To his Sister]                 Trinity College: Jan. 26, 1819.

I hope you will not think the worse of me for being at my
Iold tricks of omitting to write to you.  have till this week

had a great deal of my time and thoughts employed about the

Iexamination which has been going on. It is now over, but
Icannot give you much news about it which will be likely to in

terest you. King 1 is first, as I told you expected, and so far

first that there was a greater distance between the first and

second wranglers than there ever was before. The examiners

distinguished him in the most pointed way they could, and his

reputation is now very high in the University.

My pupils have done some well and some ill. Two of those

     1 Senior Wrangler, 1819.  Late President of Queen's, and Lucasian Pro
fessor of Mathematics.

                               E2
52 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL. 1810

who were with me at Carnarvon and one who was with me at
Bridlington are wranglers ; but Brougham, the brother of the
Member of Parliament, who was expected to be high among the
wranglers, is only in the second class, who are called senior

optimes.

To his Aunt]  Feb. 28, 1819.

I got a letter the other day from Betty, which alarmed me

very much, as she talks of being very poorly, and does not

mention the nature of her illness, nor whether it is merely

temporary or not. With you, my dear aunt, and her sisters

about her, I can easily conceive that she will have everything
done for her that kindness and affection can do; and I beg that

you will spare no expense either in advice or anything else that

can be of any service to her.

    I am very sorry, but hardly surprised, at the account she
gives me of Thomas Bennison. I am afraid that your fore

bodings are to be accomplished, and that he will not stay with

us long. He was my constant companion and playfellow for

many of the first years of my life, and if he were to go it would
seem as if almost all that connects me with my childhood were

Igone too. I could have wished that he and might have gone

on through life like two people who have started from the same

place and taken different roads, each of them good.

As for you, my dear aunt, you did not want anything more

to remind you how transitory everything here is. You have

had the ties which bound you to the earth plucked asunder too

often. But this must almost unavoidably be the lot of any

one who is allowed to have so many objects of affection, and to

be an object of affection to so many as you have been. You

would not, I am sure, wish to have had one relation the less,

to have been spared the pain of parting with them, we trust

but for a little while. . . .

   I do not know whether you think there is any harm in

spending my Sunday afternoon in writing to you, but it is what

I am often obliged to do ; for though I could find half an hour
on other days when my pen is at liberty, I am generally so

hurried that my thoughts are not at liberty sufficiently to tempt

me to do it. But on Sunday I have something like leisure,
   1319 DEATH OF THOMAS BENKISON.                                            53

   Iand my mind very often looks towards Lancaster. Perhaps
   think more affectionately of it then than when I am in
                          I                                 for

                                                             it,

                                                        I
   have resided there so little that am hardly domesticated

   during my short stays, and find myself, except in my own family,

   as much a stranger there as anywhere else.

   To his Sister]                                           March 28, 1819.

           am sorry, very sorry for my cousins. The loss of such

   brother as Thomas Bennison they must feel very severely.
   Time alone can reconcile them to the change, and no time will

   fill up the blank.
       My dear aunt, hope, does not sink under all this, for

     she will not comfort us and let us comfort her, do not know
if                 I
                     I
  I
                                  a,

                                                          I

                                                                                 is
                                                                                                   a
   what will become of us. Give my best love to her, and tell her

from me all you think will console her most. The most effectual

   method will be, no doubt to get well yourself as soon as possible.

   We are sure to have very splendid Commencement this

   year. Our Chancellor, the Duke of Gloucester,            going to

   honour us with his presence, which he has not done since five

   years ago, when repeated my prize poem before him. He

   brings his wife, and his sister, the Princess Sophia of Gloucester,

   with him, so that we must do something very magnificent to

   receive them.

   To his Sister Martha]                                    Sept. 1819.
                          a
                                                       2,

                                                                      is
           have had three pupils all the summer. One of themI
   the only son of a Mr. Reynolds, lawyer of considerable

   eminence, whose name, as you are no great newspaper readers,

   you probably have not seen as the new judge of the Insolvent

   Debtors' Court. The whole family, when it was determined

   that the son should be my pupil for the summer, came and

   established themselves at Chesterton, village near Cambridge,
   which has little varied my vacation.
      is a
   To his Sister]                                     is aBrighton: Sept. 17, 1819.

   You will probably be surprised to find me still here, and

   still more to learn that my journey to finish at this place,

   and Paris to remain unvisited for the present. The prin

   cipal reason of my change of place is, that all my luggage
54              LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1819

which I had prepared for the voyage, including almost all that

was valuable in my wardrobe, is lost. You need not, however,
be under any anxiety, for this is the whole of my misfortune,

Iand my own precious person is perfectly safe and sound, and

shall convey it back to London to-morrow and thence to Cam

bridge. I have written to you hence, to prevent the possibility
Iof your hearing of one of the Brighton packets having met

with a misfortune before you can know that have not been a
sufferer by it except in my property.

     We embarked for France last night about eight o'clock, and

were sailing fast across to Dieppe, when we ran against a larger

vessel, and were so much damaged by the shock that, though
we all got on board the other ship without any difficulty, there

was no possibility of getting any of our luggage, which is most

likely by this time at the bottom of the sea.

     My loss is considerable.

To his Sister]                        Sept. 27, 1819.

    I promised you a more minute account of our shipwreck.
It was a fine starlight night, and we had a fair breeze, so that

we were likely to make a remarkably short passage, and ex

pected to breakfast in France next morning. We had been

Iout between one and two hours ; did not like the cabin, and

Ihad laid myself down on the deck between dozing and sleeping,

when was roused by a furious shock and crash caused by our

ship striking against another. By the time I coxild look about

Ime, found the two ships alongside of each other, and people

getting out of ours into the other as fast as they could. I

I Iunderstood afterwards that orders had been given to do this,

though at the time did not see the necessity for it, for did

Inot perceive that our vessel was damaged. However, was

in the other ship immediately. Everybody was easily got on

board, though some French ladies who were with us were ex

Iceedingly frightened, and thought would have fainted. We

came in such a hurry that we left our hats, and the ladies their

shoes, on board the packet, so of course we brought no luggage

with us. Soon after the ships began to roll and work very

violently, and after some time the mast of the packet we had

left came thundering down. Shortly after, they got the ships
SHIPWRECK.  55

 clear of each other, and we sailed away from our unfortunate
vessel, the ' Nancy, ' leaving her a complete wreck. It was still,

however, expected that our goods would be got out of her, and

as soon as they could they got out a boat, and sent it to
examine her. As it was dark we soon left her out of sight,
but the boat returned with the intelligence that she was sink
ing fast, and already so deep in the water that there was no
chance of saving anything. Our captain, who went in the boat,

just contrived to save his own portmanteau. I suppose that in

half an hour after, all would be gone to the bottom. There
was a horse on board, which of course could not be saved. One

of the French ladies was said to have lost 300Z. in gold. My
companion was one of our fellows of the name of Sheepshanks,
who is of Leeds. He had stocked himself better than I had,

and was of course the greater sufferer. . . .

     IWhat most grieved for was the two 51. notes which were

 in my trunk, and might just as well have been in my pocket !
     The ship on board which we got was the brig ' Henry,' going

 to the Mediterranean. However, they sailed about all night,

 Iand landed us next morning at Brighton.

         had intended to visit Lancaster at Christmas, but I have

  to-day accepted the office of one of the two Moderators for
 this year, which will prevent my leaving Cambridge.

      Mr. Whewell and Mr. Wilkinson were moderators in

 1820, and the first letter of that year gives an account
 to his sister of the Senate-House examinations.

      At Easter he went home ; the continued illness of

 his sister Elizabeth made it a very sad visit to him,
  and almost every family letter of this year shows

  how tenderly he grieved over her sufferings, and

  with what sympathy and admiration he observed the
  courage with which she bore them.

        He was admitted a fellow of the Royal Society in June
  of this year, and shortly afterwards went abroad with Mr.
  Sheepshanks and Mr. Jones. This time the passage was
  accomplished without accident. They passed a fortnight
   in Paris, arrived at Geneva the end of August, and after
56              LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1820

spending six weeks in Switzerland returned post haste,
to reach Cambridge only just in time for lectures.

To his Sister]                        Jan. 16, 1820.

     The examination in the Senate House begins to-morrow,

and is rather close work while it lasts. We are employed

from seven in the morning till five in the evening in giving

out questions and receiving written answers to them ; and when

that is over, we have to read over all the papers which we have

received in the course of the day, to determine who have done

best, which is a business that in numerous years has often kept

the examiners up the half of every night ; but this year is not

particularly numerous. In addition to all this, the examination

is conducted in a building which happens to be a very beauti

ful one, with a marble floor and a highly ornamented ceiling ;

and as it is on the model of a Grecian temple, and as temples
had no chimneys, and as a stove or a fire of any kind might
disfigure the building, we are obliged to take the weather as it
happens to be, and when it is cold we have the full benefit of
it--which is likely to be the case this year. However, it is only

a few days, and we have done with it.

     Active means had been resorted to for the ameliora
tion of Elizabeth Whewell's health, and her brother

writes : --

To his Aunt]                          Feb. 15, 1820.

    Your letter was a most melancholy one. How very severe

have been the trials to which you and my poor sisters have

been subjected. . . .
    I am glad that your fortitude and Betty's was supported
Ifas you say was the case.
                            it had not been strengthened

throughout by a deep and heartfelt sense of the presence of

God Almighty in all that is inflicted upon us, the time would

Ibe comfortless indeed. As it is, we shall, hope, as you say, be

able to bear it without repining, though it is very distressing

to think of poor Betty, with her active disposition and her

most affectionate heart,- lying in a state of suffering hour after

hour and week after week. But what has been done will, I
1820 ELIZABETH WHEWELL.                                57

trust in God, produce a beneficial effect, and bring relief pro

portioned to the severity of the means. . . .

   I Ihave made another rather unfortunate journey lately.

went to town for a week, and was there when the old king died.

Just as I was coming off, I went into a crowd to hear the new

king proclaimed at Temple Bar. The crush was very violent,

and in it I lost my pocket-book, which was most likely stolen
out of my pocket . It contained some money that I was bring
ing down to Cambridge. The sum I will not tell you, as you

might think it rather serious, and there is no use in thinking

about it now that it is irrecoverable. I took what steps I

could, but there is not the slightest chance of ever again seeing

any part of it .

    I wish such misfortunes were all that we had to lament ;
we should, I think, take them very cheerfully.

To his Sister Elizabeth]  Feb. 28, 1820.

I Icannot describe to you how much haVe been distressed
by the accounts I have had from my aunt of the sufferings
you have gone through. It is some, though but a melancholy

consolation, to know that you bear them with such extra

ordinary patience and resignation. It is only a belief and a

feeling that all sorrows come from God Almighty which can

enable us to bear them with any tranquillity. Very often

indeed the burden of pain and affliction makes us forget that

we are in the hands of Him of Whom we may be confident,
that whatever He dispenses to us is for our good --that severe
and inscrutable as His ways appear, it is only our shortsighted

ness and ignorance that make them seem so. It is difficult

Ifindeed always to keep this in mind, yet still I try to do so.

   it were not for this trust, this world would be no better than

a frightful desert to those who are dealt so hardly with as we

are. With this comfortable persuasion we know that all the

pains and griefs that visit us here, however hard they may

press upon us, are but as pebbles on the shore of the ocean,

compared with the eternity for which they prepare us.

To his Sister Elizabeth]  April 14, 1820.
I hope you did not find your spirits much dejected by so

many departures in one day. Eegret of course we must all
58 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL. 1820

Itfeel on such occasions, but friends part only to meet again.

is the way we are shuffled together, and then shuffled separate

inagain in this world, and perhaps we feel more pleasure

meeting and talking over what has occurred during our separa

tion than if we had never parted. I trust before many months
are over, I may come to see you enjoying your health as well

as you supported your illness.
    The morning we left Leeds we very nearly had an accident

which might have been awkward ; this is, you see, not getting
very close to the danger. One of our fore-wheels came off, and
the coach of course fell down on that side, but did not quite roll

over as might have been expected. The reason of this escape
was, that the wheel before it ran quite away leant for an instant
against the side of the coach, and supported it so as to break
its fall, so that when we came down on the end of the axle-tree
it did not topple. Nobody was at all hurt. A young woman
who was on the box sprang off with the activity of a rope-

dancer. I kept my seat till the coach stopped.

To his Sister Ann]                       May 17, 1820.

Yesterday I received your package with everything safe,
Iincluding a paper of sweet cakes which were, suppose, to be
Ifeaten on mine or some other birthday.
                                         that was the in

tention they came to a most untimely end, for not one of them

survived the day on which they arrived.

     My aunt says you are preparing a supply of linen for my

second shipwreck. I am not sure that I shall make room for
it by another accident of that kind, or even that I shall run

the chance of it, for Sheepshanks, my companion in my travels,

is at present, I am sorry to say, far from well. If I do not leave
England, I think I shall visit the Lakes.

To his Aunt]                             June. 13, 1820.

I am going to town to-morrow to stay there a few days.

There is every year at this time a dinner in London where all

those meet who have been educated at Trinity College. At

this Trinity dinner I intend to be present to-morrow. I am

also obliged to go to London to be admitted a Fellow of the

Royal Society ; so that you see I shall in time become a person

of consequence.
1820 DR. WORDSWORTH BECOMES MASTER.                       59

To his Sister Ann]                         July 2, 1820.

It is rather hard upon Sheepshanks and me to be used as

we are. His sisters are angry with me for carrying him out

of England, and mine wish him all kinds of harm for running

away with me. And in the meantime we should each of us

travel separately if the other were not in existence. I am sorry
to hurt .Martha's feelings by the news, but I understand that

though not quite well he is recovering, and expects to be ready
to travel in a few weeks. So my journey to the Lakes must

most probably wait for another summer. It is an almost irre

sistible necessity to visit France, for nearly every one of my

acquaintance has been there ; so that if you would not have me

look quite insignificant among them, you must let me go too.
     This time of year is generally gay with us, being the season

for reciting prizes, conferring degrees, &c. It is at present

rather damped by the death of the Master of Trinity,1 who

was the Bishop of Bristol. He is to be buried in the College

Chapel to-morrow.

Our new Master is Dr. Wordsworth, author of several eccle

siastical works. We are of course expecting his appearance

with considerable interest. He is a member of the College, but

has been absent so long that he will be new to all us junior

members.

To his Aunt]                       Paris: July 31, 1820.

     We performed our journey without any accident, and were
rather fortunate in doing so, for we had to choose between two
diligences, and the one in which we did not go had a wheel

knocked off in running over a drawbridge.

    I left London on Tuesday evening, and next morning found
myself at Dover. I embarked in a French packet with above

thirty others, French and English of all kinds, and as we had

a fair wind, was in Calais in three hours and a half from the

time when we quitted the shore. On Thursday morning we

left Calais, and travelling by Boulogne, Abbeville, Beauvais,

and Beaumont, got here on Friday evening.

There is no very striking difference between England and

                    1 Dr. Mansel.
CO              LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1820

France on the first night. Calais is very like a shabby English
town, and so many of my fellow-travellers and of the people at

the inn talked English, that I could easily forget that I was in

France.

    On my arrival at Paris I was much pleased with the appear

ance of the city. It is not so well and spaciously and regularly

built as the best parts of London, but the houses are more

uniformly handsome, very high, built of good stone, and what

adds a very great charm to all the views, the atmosphere is so

much clearer that every object looks much more bright and

distinct than with us. . . .

    Last night (Sunday) I drove round nearly the half of Paris,

about ten miles, along the outskirts. The road is bordered

with trees and small cottages, and laid out in a sort of pleasure

ground, and for the whole of this extent there were hardly any

interruptions in the series of parties dancing, or sitting, and

looking on. The crowd was prodigious. Garden after garden

we passed crowded with music and dancers, and people sipping

their light French wines and talking under the trees ; all of

them looking very happy and thoughtless, and without any of

the indecorum and disturbance which would generally be found

at such a spectacle in England.  This is one of the most cha

racteristic things I have seen.  I would tell you of several
others, but I have not time.

   IFrom a pocket-book of this year find the price

paid in Paris by the friends at their hotel for the accom
modation of three bedrooms and one sitting-room was

sixty to eighty francs per week.

To his Sister]                   Paris : Aug. 15, 1820.

    I like Paris very well, and whatever you may have heard

to the contrary, you may depend upon it that French cookery
Iis a very good thing.
                        shall have a very formidable journey
Iof nearly four days to Lyons, where shall be on the 19th, and

at Geneva the 22nd or 23rd.

     During this journey he notes in his diary : ' Dinner
at 12, supper at 11.30. There is something very sym
1620                FOREIGN TOUR.                            CI

metrical in eating thus at equal intervals, but inconve
nient.'

To his Aunt]                       Geneva: Aug. 24.
      I had been looking forward with great anxiety to my arrival
here in the expectation of finding a letter from you, and it
was with severe affliction that I found my fears in a great

Imeasure confirmed in the letter I got this morning.
       have no heart to describe to you what I have already

passed over. . . .

      We left Paris on the 16th, and travelling by a diligence, as

the French call a machine something between a coach and a

waggon, we passed by Melun and Auxerre to Chalon-sur-Saone.

We then got on board a sort of packet-boat and sailed down
the Saone to Lyons. The way in which the innkeepers set to
work with us may give you some idea of the difference of
French and English manners. Previously to reaching Lyons
on the 19th, we had to dine at Trevoux on the banks of the

river. About a couple of miles before we got there, two girls

who had taken a short cut across the fields came on board to

invite us to their respective inns. They were dressed after the

fashion of the country, with bodices and large straw hats, but

more neatly, which made them look exactly like the country
girls on the stage. They addressed themselves successively to

everybody in the boat with the liveliness and winningness of

manner which the French of all classes generally possess, and

when we reached the place, marched off with their respective

converts. The one whom I followed I had no reason to com

plain of, for she gave me an excellent dinner.

      The country about here is superb and well deserves its

reputation ; the lake like an inland sea spreads almost out of

sight, and is surrounded by magnificent hills rising ridge over

ridge, and the highest of them covered with perpetual snow.

      Out of the lake, at the end, runs the Rhone, which is, I
think, the most beautiful river in the world. Its colour is in

tensely deep blue, so transparent as almost to look luminous ;

and though as wide as the Lune and very deep, it rushes on

with the impetuosity of a mill race, while through its rapid

current you see the pebbles very deep at the bottom. On the
62 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL. 1820

banks of ibis lake, for which nature has done so much, man

has done his part. The whole is laid out with gentlemen's
houses and parks in the best style, with a neatness and finish
which you never see except in England and Switzerland.

   I shall in a day or two set out to see Mont Blanc, and

then return to Geneva in the hope of letters.

To his Sister]  Trinity College: Nov. 4, 1820.

I wrote last from Frankfort. Thence I went to Mayence,

where the Rhine begins to be a very beautiful river. From

Basle downwards it flows between low flat banks, but from a

little below Mayence nearly to Cologne it is bordered by steep

rocky hills of great height, the slopes of which are covered with
vines where the rock allows it, and generally the summit of the

crag is crowned with the ruins of some picturesque castle which

has been perched there ever since feudal times. In order

to see this beautiful scenery to the best advantage, as we

thought, we got at Mayence into a packet-boat, which goes, or

professes  to go, to Coblentz the first day, and to Cologne the
second.
           This plan, however, did not answer very well --a dense

heavy fog choked up the valley in which the river runs, till
nearly noon, so that we sailed through it without seeing twenty

yards on any side of us. Then, instead of reaching Coblentz, we

only got as far as Boppart the first day, and had to take up our

abode in a paltry inn, where there was no small difficulty in

finding provisions and beds for so many people. To mend the

matter, they made us get up and set off at three o'clock in the

morning, and when it became light enough to see we found

ourselves in the same mist as the day before. Besides which,

the cabin was so small and so crowded with Germans, who

smoke incessantly, that we were on the deck the whole day,

though there were no seats there. So we got tired of the

Rhine, and went by land from Coblentz to Cologne. From

Cologne we came across the country as fast as we could by Aix-

la-Chapelle to Brussels, and after staying a day at Brussels and

visiting Waterloo, we again made a run by Lisle and St. Omer

to Calais.

    My lectures were to begin in three days, and I was very

much afraid the wind would not have allowed us to get over, as
1821 ROMAN CATHOLIC RELIEF BILL.                            63

it was very high and contrary. It did detain us one day, but

on the next it dropped, and by travelling without a moment's
stop I got to Cambridge in time.

To his Sister Elizabeth]  CaTnbridge : Nov. 26, 1820.

     Though sick at heart to think of what you must have

Igone through, am very much gratified to see that you are able

to hold a pen, and that you employ it in writing to me. . . .

   I do most heartily rejoice with you, my dear sister, at the

way in which your sorrows in this life have fixed your hopes on
one beyond it. Wedded as we are to this world by our passions,

our senses, and our habits, the tendency not to look beyond it,

or at least to look only with an unsteady and wandering eye, is

far too strong to be counteracted without some violence in most

cases ; though in yours I am well persuaded there was an habit

ual reference to the things which are not of this world, even

Ibefore your illness, yet we all of us, am afraid, stand in need

of some affliction to fix our views more distinctly upon them.
It is only when the gloom closes about us here that we look

steadfastly to the Dayspring from on high.

To his Aunt]              Trinity College: March 28, 1821.

We have been sending an address against the Roman

Catholics ; that is, the University has : my vote was the other
way. We have also had town and county meetings about
Parliamentary Reform and the Queen and so forth, at one of

which the mob were rather riotous, and I got hustled among

them. We have also been instituting a Cambridge Philosophical
Society, and have been rather unphilosophically quarrelling

about it.

     Besides this, we are going to build an observatory and

different museums, and we talk of altering our plan of examina
tion, so that you see we make a little bustle in our way.

    King, whom perhaps you recollect, has just been spending
several hundred pounds in law. There was some uncertainty
about the election of the Master of this College, which could not
be settled without taking it into the Court of Chancery ; and as
nobody else did it, he with a great deal of public spirit took it

upon himself, and the result has been that the Master is con
01         LIFE OF DR. WIIEWELL.  1821

firmed. The proceeding is much to King's credit ; but you see

I am not the only person who gets rid of his money without

getting anything for it.

     In the month of May 1821, Elizabeth Whewell died.
Her brother's first thought is most heartily to commend
to the loving care of his surviving sisters the health and
spirits of his aunt, Mrs. Lyon, whose motherly tenderness
he highly valued, and who, he feared, would suffer most
in the bereavement which had at last terminated a long

and anxious nursing.

     He went for a short time to the Isle of Wight in
June of this year with Professor Sedgwick, and in Sep
tember lie proceeded to the Lake country and improved
his acquaintance with Wordsworth, whom lie had al
ready met at Trinity Lodge staying with his brother,
Dr. Wordsworth, the recently appointed Master of

Trinity College.

To his Sister Martha]  June 18, 1821.

    You will, I trust, employ all your powers to comfort and

Iconsole my dear aunt, who will stand, fear, most in need of it.

Watch over her health, and beg her, for the sake of her who is

gone, to continue her care and attention as well as affection to

those who are left. And we will pray that it may be long
before she is called from us, though it be to join those who have

quitted us, we trust in God, only for a time.

    I am going for a short time to the Isle of Wight. I expect

to join there Professor Sedgwick, a very intimate friend of

mine.

    A son of Mr. Remington, who was introduced to me by John

Whewell, has done very well, and is in the first class of the

Freshmen.

To his Aunt]

         Freshwater Gate, Yarmouth, Isle of Wight : July 5.
    I have been at a small inn for about ten days, with occasional
excursions to other parts of the island. I am out in the air
                    CORONATION.                           Go

a great deal, and, as is generally the case when I have air and

Iexercise enough, am in very good health. The surge of the

sea is plashing not ten steps from my window, and along (he

shore each way are cliffs so high that it requires a strong head

to look over the edge at the sea below.

    Altogether this island is a very beautiful little spot. I shall

leave it at the beginning of next week, and, after visiting Christ-

church and other places on the opposite coast of Dorsetshire,
Iproceed to Oxford and thence to Cambridge.
                                                    hope to visit

Lancaster about the end of July.

To his Sister Ann]                July 28, 1821.

    We were very loyal here at the Coronation, and I arrived just
in time to join in the manifestations of it by eating a good

dinner, which is an easier way than yours and Martha's of feed
Iing 1,600 children, though not quite so benevolent.
                                                      am

really glad that Martha was induced to write a hymn for them,
Ibecause
          know that she only wants motive and opportunity
Ito show that she has very great talents, and am not at all
Iafraid in her case of her showing it too much.
Ito see that piece of poetry, at least, when come.  shall hope

     From all that'I can learn, the expense and trouble of going

to the Coronation were less than I had anticipated, and the

show as fine as imagination could conceive, so that if it were

any use I should perhaps repent of staying away.

To his Aunt]                      Ambleside: Sept. 1821.

    IHitherto I have had no reason to repent setting off when
Idid. The weather has been fair, and though was a little

troubled by mistiness at first, it is becoming every day finer

and finer.

    I have already seen several of the lakes, and have followed

so far the track which Mr. West recommends. On entering

Ulverston I fell in with a party of Cambridge men who were, like

me, going to see Furness Abbey. The ruin is very fine, and
almost fills the pretty, deep, green valley in which it is situated.

These Cantabrigians were a detachment from a party of eleven who

Iare reading at Keswick, where shall see them again. I set off

to-morrow for the latter place, and if the weather continues fine,

                    F
GG LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                               1821

Iof which there is every promise, I shall go by the wild rugged

mountain pass called the Stake. To-day am going to dine
with Mr. Wordsworth, the poet.

     The following letter is one of a very few selected for

publication from a large number written during more
than twenty years to Mr. Wilkinson

                        K&nvick: Sept. 5, 1821.

     As the t ime and perhaps the certainty of coming in contact

with you become less to be depended upon, I feel tempted to

give you some slight indication of my motions, such as they

Ihave been, that you may judge how far your advice has been
well bestowed upon me.  have been here for about a fortnight,

partly geologising and partly excursing in different directions.

My operations from this point have taken more time than

they otherwise would have done in consequence of waiting for
ISheepshanks, by whom I was joined about a week ago.
                                                      saw

all the other lakes with tolerable facility (except Ullswater,

which I have yet to visit), but I found your particular protege,
IWastwater, rather difficult to come at. The first time went
Ivery directly to work, and failed only by untoward accident.

went up Borrowdale and to the highest part of the Stye, but

Iwhen there was tempted, by the appearance of the highest

mountain top visible, to leave my horse and set about climbing

it. It is, I believe, the highest point in England ; and though
it appeared only about half an hour's work, it turned out a good
two hours' business. When I returned, I found my quadruped

had broken from his moorings, and treated with disdain all my

attempts to get possession of his bridle. Finally, he set off and

cantered towards Keswick, and I was obliged to follow him, and,

what was most provoking, to open the gates for him and retire

whilst he went through them, as the only way of preventing
his taking to the hillside like Rob Roy. My next attempt to

get at Wastwater was rather circuitous, and, like many other
                                          I intended to go by
fine-drawn schemes, easily disconcerted.

Grasmere and Coniston ; then to cross over the unfrequented

valleys, which nobody now visits, to Wastdale, and to return

by some of the passes into Borrowdale. But after reaching
1821 WORDSWORTH.                       67

Grasmere, the weather broke up and made us glad to reach

Keswick with dry skins. Our third attempt was again by the

Stye, by which we finally effected a passage, though with a

rough storm of wind and rain accompanying us, and came

successfully down the valley. The lake is certainly fine, but

I think the finest view must be from the foot of it on the side

under the screes, which we did not see. Ennerdale is a good

deal of the same character, but the lakes on that side the hills
are not well off in accommodations for ' the tourist ' in con

venient situations. Perhaps it is partly on that account that I

prefer the richer and warmer beauties of the lakes to the east

of the hills. Derwentwater is as beautiful as anything in the

Iway can be, and hardly know any addition or alteration which

would improve it. I was with Wordsworth part of two days,

and was very much gratified with his company. The only thing

to complain of is that he is not half as Wordsworthian as his

admirers, and I am more and more puzzled that a man of his

acuteness and good sense should write poems with white rabbits
Iand waggon drivers for their heroes.
                                       have since seen him

here on an expedition somewhere or other among the hills,

which he has great propensities for climbing whenever he can

get a fine day. I had almost forgotten to tell you what was
Ione of my principal objects when began, that I am going to

Ifollow up my lakification here with a visit to the Scotch lakes.

  shall go to Edinburgh Ias soon as have seen Ullswater, and
then cross over by Loch Katrine, &c, to Glasgow. I do not
Isuppose shall be tempted much farther north, as the season
will be wearing away and other things calling us back. I still
hope to see you on my return. Perhaps if I can plot so as to
be in Kendal on a Saturday you will come over, though I broke
faith with you so shamefully before. If you can contribute

any device to this object, write for the next week to Edinburgh,

for the following one to Glasgow.

     From Cumberland, Mr. Whewell crossed the border
and made a tour in Scotland, returning duly to Cam
bridge before the end of October. He then begins an
amusing series of letters to his sisters on the study of
works of fiction. In the following January he enforces

                                                             F2
C>8 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                     1821

his arguments by a gift of all Miss Edgeworth's tales.
No doubt the family spirits required cheering, but he

was at least equally anxious to recommend them as
counteracting the disadvantages of too restricted and

exclusive a family circle, and in some degree supplying
the place of good society.

To his Sister Martha]             Glasgow : Sept. 21.

I am extremely sorry to find your letter here containing so

bad an account of my aunt. . . . My principal object here is to

attend a sermon of Dr. Chalmers'.

    I have been visiting Loch Katrine, a lake which besides its

natural beauty has become celebrated by being the scene of Sir
Walter Scott's poem of the ' Lady of the Lake,' and other ground

in the neighbourhood which is equally famous for its connection
with the story of ' Rob Roy,' a very popular novel supposed to be

Iby the same author. It is exceedingly picturesque, but not,

think, superior to the scenery of Cumberland. I am glad you
Ilike the ' Excursion ' ; was much pleased with the author, to
whom, as I think I told you, I had a letter.

As to your project of having blank verse,

Only differing from prose by giving

It ten syllables in each line, it would
Not make it very harmonious, as

You may imagine from these last five lines.

     You will find in Lindley Murray's Grammar, in the division
Prosody, an account of the principles of English versification,
including blank verse among the rest, which is as clear and

Isatisfactory as anything which know on the subject.

To his Aunt]                      Lanark: Sept. 24, 1821.

   I have stopped here to see some very celebrated waterfalls,
Ithe Falls of the Clyde, which, so far as have yet seen, are the
Ifinest of the kind. To-morrow I think shall be tempted to go

to Selkirk to see Melrose Abbey.
1821                    FICTION.                         69

To his Sister Martha]         Cambridge: Oct. 21, 1821.

Write to me when you receive this, and let me know how
Ifmy aunt is going on.  she has not been doing well, I trust

you would have informed me immediately, as nothing can be

more distressing than the plan of waiting till you can send a

favourable account. The uncertainty and want of confidence

which it produces are greater evils than the pain of knowing at

once what must be known sooner or later.
I Ihope you have gone on with Mrs. Opie.
                                          am really

desirous that you should read some of the best works of imagina

tion, because I think they may be of great service to you. In

your very retired life they are an admirable means of acquiring,
in a great measure, that knowledge of the principles and feelings

which appear in human affairs, and the manners of different
classes of society, of which you must otherwise be almost

ignorant.

     Fictitious histories written by persons of real talent and
knowledge of human nature give you something of the ad
vantage which their society and conversation would, and supply

you with the habits of practical thinking, and consequently of

acting, which experience would only give you at a much dearer

rate, even if it were to be had. I do not say that good novels

can give you all the good effects of experience, but they are an
admirable preparative, and may very much shorten the practical
schooling, both in action and in manners, which almost every

body must have at some time.
      I have hitherto said nothing of the pleasure of this kind of
reading, because I think that, in spite of the prejudice which you
Iappear to have against it, you will in time discover.
                                                        am sure

you cannot be insensible to the extraordinary literary merits
and beauties which are to be found in the best of these pro

ductions, and of course I would not wish you to read any

others.

To his Sister Martha]         Cambridge: Nov. 27, 1821.

    As to the novels, &c, which you have been reading, I did
not expect you to like all of them, though I do not think I

should quite agree with you as to what are the best stories.

The mere pleasure of being kept in suspense, and of having
70 LIFE OF HR. WHEWELL.  1822

your curiosity excited, which you say makes you like such
stories as you cannot foresee the end of, is no doubt a merit,

and one of the strongest, for most readers. It is, however, only

an inferior merit ; and a tale may be very good which possesses
very little of it ; as is in fact the case with those which you

most admire, ' Cselebs ' and Mrs. Taylor's novels. In those and
in most good novels, the greatest part of the interest arises from

the representation of character, and of the situations in which
the persons are placed ; and it is a matter of very little im
portance whether at the end Sir Charles marries Harriet or not;
except that of course the consistency of the characters, of the
story, and of the moral ought to be kept throughout. As to the

improbability of the plots, I agree with you that it is a fault,

and a great one ; only perhaps what you might consider as im
probable is often only a copy of real life, and one of the great
advantages of this kind of reading is its giving you ideas of
characters and situations which you would otherwise never have

supposed.

    If I were disposed to criticise, I should remark your telling

me at the same time that you always hated stories which are
not natural, and that you like those which keep you in un

certainty to the end, which are generally the most artificial and

often the most improbable. But I am convinced that you have

taste enough to admire what is really good when it is put before

Iyou, in spite of your prepossessions ; and what complain of is

a want of curiosity about such works, and a disposition to be
content with very inferior ones merely because you have seen
no others.

To his Sister Ann]       Jan, 1, 1822.

I hope you will like the new year's gift which I have sent
you. It is a collection of all the little books which Miss

Edgeworth has published for use in the education of children.

As so much of your time is spent, and may perhaps continue to

be so, in employments of this kind, it is proper that you should

know something of what has been done and thought on this

subject by intelligent persons who have turned their attention

to it.

    I do not mean that you are to adopt her opinions, or that
J
                       MISS EDGEWORTH.             71

her methods and notions are more right than those of other
people, but her works are good and pleasing, and it will be of

service to you to read them. It will enable you to examine and

unravel your own ideas upon the subject, and that is in itself
no small advantage, for though you, like most other people, act

principally from habit, you have, by this time, years and sense
enough to look a little into the reasons of what you are doing,
and to compare it with what is done by others. Do not be
alarmed at my recommending what you may think so bold a

thing as forming your opinions for yourself ; for whether you
know it or not, you must have done it a great deal hitherto,

and it will do you no harm to do it still more. It is not one of

those things, like making a pudding, which you cannot do

because you fancy you cannot, but rather like walking and

talking, which if you do not take care to do well you will

necessarily do ill.

     Those who read good authors, and think on what they read,
will find their ideas grow clearer and more consistent, their love

of what is right stronger and more discriminating, and their

power of distinguishing and rejecting what is wrong more quick

and certain ; while those whose reading is nothing or is very

narrow, and who refuse to consider more than one side of a
question, will find themselves confused and limited, will not

know what is passing in their own minds. Even when they are
right, they will not know how far they are so, nor be able to

give a reason to themselves or anybody else ; and when any new

subject is brought before their consideration, either in specula
tion or in practice, they will be slow and frequently wrong in

I

                  it,
apprehending and often thrown into great consternation by

the novelty and responsibility of having to decide for themselves,
as a child begins to cry when finds itself alone in strange
                       it               a
street.
                            I                Ia a
         am afraid you will think what have written rather too

magnificent and high-flown for an introduction to few children's

stories.

      There are some parts where   I think the Edgeworth pecu
liarities appear to disadvantage.   Mr. Edgeworth was man of

very singular opinions and conduct, and his daughter appears

now and then tinged with the habits he had introduced, mean
72 LIFE OF DH. WHEWELL.                                 1822

principally the habits of disputation and reasoning perpetually,

and of making trials of temper and other trials which are
generally dangerous. The ' Nine Days' Wonder,' in the first
volume of ' Rosamond,' displeases me on this account. Another

Iand much more serious objection which you and Martha will,

fancy, make to the books, is the absence of all attempts to

inculcate religious feelings and motives of action. In Miss

Edgeworth's defence it may be said that such attempts did not

enter into her plan ; that they would hardly be suitable to the

tone of amusement and often pleasantry which pervades the

books, and that there is a danger of conveying wrong impressions

by mixing religious with other instruction. Perhaps this is

hardly a sufficient answer, but at any rate everybody must

admire the talent with which she shows the importance of, and

the means of cultivating her favourite virtues -- steadiness of

principle, evenness of temper, perseverance, patience, considera

tion for others, a taste for literature and knowledge, distinctness

of ideas, power of avoiding awkward habits and manners, &c,

I&c. call even these last, virtues ; for though subordinate

ones, they do produce the effect of virtues, and, in a certain

Isense, it is the duty even of a Christian to aim at them.

would not set them by the side of more important matters, but

I would add them as graces and accomplishments. And, what
ever Martha may think of it, I maintain that graces an;i

accomplishments, so far from being inconsistent with the
Christian character, are, I should almost say, requisite to its
Iperfection.
              would as soon believe, what appears to me almost

impious, that God, when He made the magnificent spectacle of

external nature, the stars, the mountains, the cataracts, did not

intend that we should admire them, as I would believe that He

did not intend that we should cultivate those qualities of the

mind by means of which we receive pleasure from those displays

of His hand, or that we should not enjoy the still more exalted

and refined pleasures which arise from considering His works in

the minds of men. Even the highest productions of genius are

as much a manifestation of the powers which He has given, as
Ithe flowers which He makes to grow out of the ground.
                                                        can

never believe that the imagination, the fancy, the taste of man,

would have been so exquisitely constituted as they are, if it
                    MISS EDGEWORTH.                  73

could be a duty not to exercise them. On the contrary, it is

only when we consider man with all his faculties unfolded, that

we can have any proper idea of his relation to his Creator and

of the wonders of Divine Wisdom and Goodness.

    I repeat, therefore, that to persons who have time and

opportunity, it is in a certain sense a duty to cultivate a taste
for elegant literature and an acquaintance with it. It will not
interfere with the more important objects, and its immediate

effects are most grateful and beneficial. It gives purity and

clearness to the thoughts, elevates the mind above the dull

ness and monotony of every-day habitual life, makes you, as
it were, the equal and companion of the best and wisest of this
age and the past, and places you far above the ' great vulgar

and the small,' all whose superiority is only that of rank, and

not of taste and feeling ; and is something of the same kind of
consoler and spiritualiser in small matters that religion is in

Igreat ones.

      am again tempted to smile when I look back and see that

the text of this long and lofty sermon was nothing more than
' Harry and Lucy ' and ' Lazy Lawrence.'

To his Sister Martfia]                       Feb. 14, 1822.

   I hope you read Miss Edgeworth-   Remember, I do not

insist on your liking her, but it is right you should know some

thing of the feelings and manners which prevail in the world,

at least so far as good novels can teach them. Forester, who

puzzles Ann, is not a very common character, but is an illustra

tion of some fanciful ideas upon education which were not

uncommon some years ago. His dislike to politeness is because

he thinks what is commonly practised under that name implies

insincerity in pretending what is not true, and servility in

adapting our own sentiments to the ideas of others.  His

punishments are, I think, exceedingly good.

To his Sister Ann]                   [Date missing.]

Mr. Bankes was elected on Tuesday. He is a very remark

able man, and has travelled more than almost any Englishman

living, in Egypt, Syria, and all parts of the East, and is certainly

one of the most entertaining persons I ever met with. I did
74 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.               1822

not vote for him because he came forward making it his principal

recommendation that he intended to oppose all further laws in

Ifavour of the Catholics, and am sorry that a bigoted intolerance

towards Papists, or an unfounded and irrational terror of them,

gained him so many supporters, for he had a very great

majority.

Of course the election brought up a great number of persons,

and many whom one was glad to see. Among the rest, Legh

Richmond has been here for some days, and it has happened

that I have had a good deal of talk with him, as he has been in

our college, of which he was formerly a member. He talks of
Isending his son among us by-and-by.
                                      am glad you have
Ibeen reading more of Chalmers's sermons ; have only read one
Ior two of his astronomical ones, but think they are all that

you describe them.

   I ITell Martha that when was in London went to hear

Irving, the preacher of whom the newspapers have for some
time been full. He is a man of very considerable powers of

thinking, and of a good deal of eloquence of a certain kind, but

too vague and violent in his language, and very theatrical in
his manner. He seems to be very earnest, which is no doubt

one of his great attractions. He is very far inferior to Chalmers,

Iwhose pupil and assistant he has been, and, as think, to some
Iothers whom have heard.
                                                   75

                       CHAPTER III.

                                                      1822--1832.

Letter to Mr. Wilkinson --Mr. Henslow-- Numa's Calendar-- Wordsworth
     --Mr. Rose --Mrs. Lyon's depression of spirits --Paris--Mr. Airy -- In
     undation -- Mr. Wordsworth's visit-- Miss Kelty -- Her recollections --
     Sir John Malcolm-- Hyde Hall--Tour in Normandy with Mr. Kenelm
    Digby -- Mont St. Michel-- Laying of stone of New Court-- Handel's
    ' Messiah '-- Miller's Bampton Lectures -- Father of the College -- Tour in
    Cumberland --Christmas of 1824, in Edinburgh--Tour in Germany --
    Takes Priest's Orders -- Dolcoath Mine-- Brasted -- Hop harvest -- Christ
    mas of 1826, in Paris-- ' Hermann and Dorothea ' -- Malcolms leave Hyde
    Hall --Spinning Maiden's Cross -- Professorship of Mineralogy -- Dr. Clarke
    --Dolcoath again -- St. Michael's Mount -- Drawings for Cologne Cathe
    dral at Darmstadt -- Comparisons are odious -- Sir Thomas Munro-- Jones's
    book -- Bridgewater Treatise --Hambleton Hills-- Mrs. Somerville -- Tour
     with Mr. Rickman -- Lubbock-- M. Rio.

Mr. Whewell passed the Long Vacation of the year 1822
entirely in England. He expounds his changes of plan
in a letter to Mr. Wilkinson, in May. The occupations
of ' reading and writing,' to which he refers, seem to
have included, as usual, the study of a good deal of
poetry, and frequent disquisitions upon it addressed to
his friends. As to the ' Ode to Immortality,^ he appears
to have agreed with Coleridge, who said Wordsworth
might have prefixed to it the fines applied by Dante to
one of his own ' Canzoni ' --1 :

               0 lyric song, there will be few, think I,

                  Who may thy import understand aright ;
                  Thou art for them so arduous and high.

                               1 Canzone Morali, lib. iv. canz. 1.
7G LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.     1822

To the. Rev. H. Wilkinson]
                     Trinity College, Cambridge: May 21, 1822.

     Your letter found me very undecided as to the disposal of

my summer, and I can hardly say yet that my plans are better
made up. I was to have gone as far as Milan and Venice with

Jones, but he is prevented from leaving England, and that and

other reasons will, I think, prevent me from wandering far. As

I have no particular object, I should not wonder if I stay here

great part of the vacation, simply in consequence of the vis

inertias. I can contrive to employ myself fully with reading,

writing, and arithmetic, and have indeed done so little to any

purpose of late that I should like to get, in some degree, into

habits of industry again. All which being considered, it
does not seem certain that I shall come sufficiently near you

during your holidays to experience the attraction of cohesion

towards you, which force I should otherwise be very willing to
resign myself to. Still I think I shall not go through the

summer without paying a visit to my friends in the north, aud

Ithere is a chance at least of its falling in your vacation, but

am afraid it will not.
     But to all this intelligence I ought to add my university

news. We are making divers alterations, I think improve

ments, in the examinations, and shall by-and-by have a very
tolerable system of it so far as legislature is concerned. We

are also talking of making Henslow mineralogical professor to

succeed Clarke ; but it has just come out that the Heads are
going to try to get the nomination into their own hands, and as

this is perfectly in the teeth of all precedent in cases exactly

similar, I hope we shall organise a very pretty rebellion to

oppose it. The Masters of Arts meet to-morrow at the Red

Lion to see what can be done. It is hard if Webb 1 and Chafy 2
are to get dominion over us. I have been so little in the way
of reading Livy of late that I can throw no light upon Numa's

Calendar ; neither Montecla nor Delambres illustrate it at all.

I do not find that Livy tells you about the months of thirty-one

and twenty-three days, though Plutarch and all the commenta

tors appear agreed about that. If they had got such months, it

1 Master of Clare College.  8 Master of Sidney Sussex College.
1*22 numa's calendar. 77

is quite clear they could not correspond with the moon's phases.
But all that Livy appears to say is that there was a cycle of

Itwenty-four years, which might be, though do not see how

that would be better than the old one of eight. At all events

it must have been a very bungling contrivance, and I dare say
very bunglingly explained. I believe you know De Wanze's

admirable memoir on the Roman Calendar after u.c. 304, which

shows that they were not very exact even then. I will get your
telescope if I have opportunity and can fulfil the conditions.
IAs to Wordsworth, do not like any sonnets, and I think most

of his faults are aggravated when he takes to that species of
writing. His harshness of expression and his determination to

dwell upon feelings which are very sincere and vivid in himself,

but which he can never be sure of conveying to other people, are

Iall concentrated when he is confined to fourteen lines. Since
saw him, I think I admire his beauties as much as ever, but I
have lost that mysterious respect with which I used to look at

Ihis faults with a sort of suspicion that there might be something
in them.   have not yet found any Wordsworthian to invent a

meaning for that strange stanza in the Ode which in other

Irespects I admire as you do. Excuse my haste, though am

afraid it will be all the worse speed for you in the process of

reading what I have written, but St. Mary's bell is swinging

' Post-time ' in my ear.

     During a visit to Lancaster, paid in the autumn of
this year, Mr. Whewell's correspondence with Mr. Kose,

now established at Horsham, was revived after some
interruption. The two friends seem to have been at

this time, no less than formerly, eager to amuse them
selves with disputations, and agreeing to differ most

amicably.

                            Lancaster: Sept. 22, 1822.

Your letter did not reach Cambridge till I had left
it

      I
                          I

                                                                                ;

                                         iIf

                                                                        it it,
though got here before me.  shall not be able to answer

to much purpose from this remote country for your topograph

ical inquiries have not at present the means of satisfying,

and with respect to your metaphysical ones,  make the
78 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                                          1822

attempt, it is ten to one whether you will believe what I tell
Iyou -- I have no doubt my being so near Scotland would carry

conviction to your Platonic mind that must be wrong.

    But your letter reminded me that I had not yet told you

Ihow glad was to hear of your elevation to that see ; and though
II hope you would take that for granted, I do not see why
Ishould delay any longer to certify you of it, which can do with
great sincerity and pleasure. I should be extremely happy to
Igo and see you in your government of Barataria, and half
Iintended to try when I was with Jones a little time ago ; but

believe time and place presented strong obstacles, as you were

Iabroad and was busy. And it wouid give me great pleasure
to meet Townshend, though I am afraid on some points there

is little chance of our convincing each other ; and it seems

somehow or other to be understood that that is the object of

discussion, though the instances where people succeed are so

Ifew that suppose by-and-by the practice will be discontinued.
   I am sorry that you are so much puzzled to choose between

ideas and things, that you are making up your mind to be
Icontent with words, which, so far as understand it, is the
IPlatonic resource.
                     cannot tell you what people in general

believe about Berkeley and Beid ; but the two appear to me to

come to much the same result. Berkeley says that what we

perceive are ideas, and that there is nothing else. Reid asserts

that we perceive things, and that there is nothing else. But

they both agree that what we perceive exists, and they deny

any other objects. The important question                                        whether the
      I
           is

                    it I
                          I

                                                                              :

                                                         is,
objects which we perceive are independent of us in their rela

tions and sequences, and of that we have complete evidence as

far as the proposition intelligible.  would never desire to

prove proposition further. But will tell you what the mis
is a
chief (very likely have told you before) almost all the
quarrelling in the world arises from prepositions. Are not all
your theological disputes questions of in, and by, and with, and

from, and so on So likewise in this instance. People choose
      ?

                                  ;
                                       ?

                       if I

                                                         is

                                                                             a
to ask whether the objects we perceive are without the mind

or not. What do they mean             know what                                  meant by a

church steeple being on the outside of the eye, or dead dog

on the outside of the nose and the mind reside in the eye
 1822 COLERIDGE. 79

or the nose, you may in the same sense say that these objects

are exterior to it ; but in point of fact the relation between
the mind and objects is not one which can be expressed by any
such beggarly part of speech, it is that of perceiving and per
ceived. The only externality which is worth lifting an eyelid

for is the constancy of the laws of nature, by which certain
qualities perceived by the different senses are inseparably con
nected, and act upon each other in the way of cause and effect.

     Have you read Brown's books? They are dashing, and
on some material points strangely wrong ; but about cause and
effect he has an admirable clearness of view and happiness of
illustration. Now so much for the external world, as people

choose to nickname it, and it is long since I troubled myself or
anybody else so much about its existence. Pray if some fine

morning you should awake and find you had lost your belief in it,
how would your Platonism help you ? Do you think you could
make another out of all your external ideas and words in eity ?
You may depend upon it, you would never be able to set up so
much as a really existing joint stool by means of them. So
Coleridge may publish as soon as he chooses. As he takes all

the conceivable elements of unintelligibility, it is hard if any

envious ray of meaning finds its way through the theologico-
metaphysico-etymologico-Coleridge thatch with which he will
cover his Platonic hut.

     Now be all this said without any disparagement to the

IPlatonism with which you edified the Assize people, which

dare say besides being good Platonism was something better.

I shall return to Cambridge in about a fortnight. I am print

ing, and have been making a vain attempt to carry on opera

tions at this distance from Cambridge. It does not answer ;
Iso must return. I suppose you know that Hare is our new

Classical Lecturer. So you wild people may come to have a
party in Cambridge.

     The letters at the close of this year to his aunt, Mrs.
Lyon, are full of sympathy with her depression of spirits,
and wise counsels not to attach too rmich importance
to ' these ebbs and flows of feeling.' Part of the Christ
80 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1822

mas vacation he spent in Paris at a pension, and was,

as he says, well repaid for some discomforts by finding
men of science and lectures easy of access.

    A letter to his sister in the following March shows

with what eager interest all Cambridge news was studied
in the Lancaster home, and how great was his aunt's sur
prise that any one else could be distinguished and re
markable where her nephew was ; a feeling which he
never for a moment encouraged, but always met with a
rectification none the less decisive because playful and

affectionate.

To his Aunt]           Canterbury : Dec. 29, 1822.

I spent the greater part of last week at Horsham with        a

friend of the name of Rose. You will be glad to hear that    I

have done with my book, though you need not be under any

apprehensions of my giving myself too much work, for though

printing is tiresome enough, it is not very laborious, and I will

insure you a stout healthy nephew for a long time if he is to
be well till excessive industry makes him ill.

    IThe next year is now very close, and need not tell you

Ithat you have my best wishes, that it may roll kindly over your
head and my sisters'.  would pray that it may be favourable

to your health of body and peace of mind. The former will

depend much upon the latter, and may suffer by your torment

ing yourself with fears and alarms about the varying state of

your feelings on religious matters. Nobody can doubt that a

sense of our own unworthiness, of our dependence upon the good
ness of God, and of our redemption by His Son, is of the highest

importance. But it is possible to attach far too much import

ance to the perpetual changes of feeling to which every one is

subject, according to his disposition and to circumstances.

Our hopes and ideas may be more or less lively, more or less

cheerful, at one time than at another ; but this variableness is of

less consequence than the steady and habitual views, founded

upon serious and calm reflection, which these alternations of

humour will not affect. It appears to me exceedingly wrong, to
1322 RELIGIOUS DEPRESSION.                           81

say no more, to suppose that a person's salvation depends on
the state of his spirits. As these vary, our confidence in what

we hope changes also. We sometimes doubt of the affection of

our friends for some melancholy moments. But do not all

judicious persons wait for the recovery from such depressions,

and trust to a firm and long-tried friendship in spite of them ?

And shall accidents and caprices overcome the operation of a

steady principle in religious matters, when they do not in
Iworldly ones ?
                 believe that people are now doing much

harm by making religion depend on these ebbs and flows of

feeling. Many of the artifices which are used to keep people

in the state of agitation thought necessary may have a per

nicious effect, and destroy both the deep humility and the

Christian confidence which regular worship and serious reading

and meditation are calculated to produce.
I have preached so long that I have hardly room to tell
you what is the principal object of my letter. I am going
...to France this winter, and I am here so far on my road to
Dover. I stay to see the cathedral.        I shall not be at an
Ihotel in Paris, but at what is called a pension, where shall

dine with the family, which will be more pleasant, and will

teach me more French.

To his Sister]            Boulogne : Dec. 31, 1822.

     We have had a much longer voyage than we expected. At

IDover this morning I intended to go to Calais, but was weak

enough to allow myself to be persuaded by the captain of a
packet going to Boulogne, that the wind was more fair for that
course and the harbour easier to get into. The consequence

was, that I embarked in the ' Medusa ' at eleven o'clock this
morning -- did not reach this side till six, when it was quite

dark ; then found that we were at a great distance from the

place of our destination -- in fact, it turned out to be at least a
mile of water and a mile of land ; was obliged to wait some
hours before boats came to fetch us over the first half of this

interval, and then found all sorts of sands, and stones, and

puddles, and custom-house officers, to interrupt our progress
over the other half.

      Do not be alarmed at my complaints, for one is always

                       G
82 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                1823

Ipeevish at coming from a voyage. At any rate am much

better off than a fellow-traveller who is at present with me,

Iand whose mischances have been almost as provoking as mine

when was shipwrecked.
      He is a lieutenant in the navy, a Lancashire man, who has

been in America and India and all sorts of places, and who is

finally just returned from a voyage round the world to Liver
pool. He has got leave of absence for fourteen days, which he

intended to employ in visiting his mother and sisters, who live
at Abbeville, and whom he had not seen for nine years. He

came over with us to-day, but unfortunately the porters chose to

blunder and to put his trunk into the packet which went to Calais

instead of the one which came here. The consequence is that

he must either travel about looking after his baggage, which
may be attended with difficulty, as his passport is in his port

manteau, or he must leave the recovery of it to chance, which
will hardly be prudent, as it contains some valuable papers

which are of great importance to his family.

    IThe people in France burn nothing but wood, and almost

doubt whether it will keep me warm. However, Mr. Rose, with

whom I have been staying the greater part of last week, has

burnt it in his dining-room, because it is a good old English

custom, which may serve as a preparation for accommodating
myself to the habit of the French, who know no better.

To his Sisters]                     Paris: Jan. 12, 1823.

I came here by rather a roundabout way, having stayed two
Idays at Amiens and as many at Rouen.
                                       am tolerably well

situated here, not in an inn, but boarded with a family, en

pension as it is called. The family consists of Madame Durand ,

a son, three daughters, and some other relatives. Other French

people come in to dine with us every day, but the only persons

boarding in the house are English.

To his Sister]                      Cambridge : Feb. 2, 1823.

   The cold continued very intense whilst I was in Paris, but
I did not find it very troublesome, and had too much to do and
Ito see to mind it much. A little before left, however, the
                 

1823 AIRY.                             83

thaw came on, and the streets were in a terrible condition to

walk in, for we had had a good deal of snow --more, I believe,

considerably than fell in England. Being out a good deal at

all times of day, I finally caught a severe cold, which I have

brought with me to Cambridge, and shall get rid of as fast as

I can. Nothing could be worse than the state of the roads

between Paris and this place. In France they were covered
with a coating of frozen snow, so slippery that it was scarcely
possible to stand upon it, and the coach when it came to any
declivity slid down broadside first, in a way which did not look
very safe. Two English ladies who were with me were a good

Ideal alarmed, and it was as much as could do to take care of

them and keep them quiet.

    In spite of all inconveniences, I am very well satisfied with

my journey, and glad to have made it. The men of science and

the lectures, which were what I principally wished to visit, I

found easy access to.

To his Sister']  Trin. Coll., Cambridge : March 16, 1823.

In my aunt's last letter she expresses a most affectionate

and aunt-like surprise that people should talk so much about
IAiry, when they might talk about me.
                                       am afraid she does

not know how many mathematicians there are in Cambridge,

and how little any one of them is conspicuous above the rest.

Airy is certainly a most extraordinary man, and deserves every

thing that can be said of him, though the newspapers as usual

talked nonsense on the subject.

The way in wThich he was received in the Senate House

was exceedingly gratifying, especially as his sister was there

to receive pleasure from ft as well as himself. The senior

wrangler is led with great ceremony up to the Vice-Chancellor's

throne, the members of the University falling back on both sides

so as to leave a vacant space for him to advance in, and he is then

presented to the Vice-Chancellor in a certain form of words.

When this was done there was at first a pause of silence, and

then suddenly a universal burst and thunder of applause from the

gallery all round, everybody shouting and cheering him. You

may imagine what an effect this must have had. His sister,

                                 g2
84 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                   1823

who, I suppose, was prepared to see him receive all the common

honours with composure, was quite overcome by this expression
of the feeling of the students in her brother's favour. She
burst into tears and wept violently.

    My aunt complains that I wrote so short a letter after being
in France, but in fact I had little to tell. I was running about
Ito different lectures all the morning, and in the evening was

either at the play or sitting by Mademoiselle Durand, and hear
ing her play French airs on a very bad pianoforte.

To his Sister]                            June 1, 1823.

I cannot quite make up my mind to my aunt's plan of

rambling about the neighbourhood of Lancaster for the vacation ;

and if I did you would probably not see much more of me than
if I remained here ; for if I got so far I should be disposed to

join Sedgwick, who is geologising among the lakes, and to stay

with him as long as my time would allow.

     My present plan is to set off for France immediately, with
the intention of visiting the principal antiquities of Normandy.

This will, I expect, take me three weeks or a month, and then
I shall return to Cambridge.

   I should perhaps have left Cambridge sooner, but I got a

hurt on my knee, which has kept me here. It was a sprain

received among the adventures of a boating party down the

river, and it has been very slow in getting better.

    I do not know whether I told you that I shall be joint tutor

this year, and tutor by myself afterwards, which will place me
in the same situation which Mr. Hudson held when I came up.

      Remington is in the first class this year, and is doing very

well.

   I have lately seen something of the author of the ' Fa vourite
Iof Nature,' whom do not like quite so well as her book. She

plays beautifully on the pianoforte.

     We have got magnificent plans for improving the College.
We are going to add to it a species of castellated building half

as large as Dalton Square [Lancaster].

     Frequent mention of Miss Kelty and her various
writings is made by Mr. Whewell to his sisters. To
1823  MISS KELTY.  85

one of them (Mrs. Newton) Miss Kelty wrote in De

cember 1872, describing their first meeting.

      In looking back through the vista of departed years, which
 the eighty-fourth of my age makes a long one, some prominent
points of interest present themselves in the friendships and

social relations which exercised a strong and lasting influence
over my mind.

     Amongst these I number with feelings of grateful regard

my acquaintance with the late Dr. Whewell.

    It commenced nearly fifty years ago by his sending me a

valentine, in which vivid allusions testified to his having
earnestly and approvingly read some novels which I had recently

published. The style of this communication sufficiently proved

that my unknown correspondent Iwas no common person, and

was not sorry when an accidental encounter in company led to
his acknowledging that he had taken this step with a view to

becoming acquainted with one whose works he said had given
him so much pleasure.

      The way thus opened led to a friendship of much value to
me, but not of many years' duration, for it was arrested in its
course, together with others as highly prized, by a train of
strange melancholy circumstances, which, by impairing my

health, compelled me to shut my door upon even my dearest

friends. . . . Amongst the few who gave me credit for well

knowing what I was about, I gratefully number my dear friend

Dr. Whewell.

     In the summer of 1823, Mr. Whewell made a tour
in Normandy with Mr. Kenelm Digby. His object was
the study of architecture ; but he had attention to spare
for the caps of the women, and sent his sisters elaborate
drawings of one or two of the most remarkable forms.

     In August of this year, on the occasion of the
foundation stone of the New Court of Trinity being

laid, he tells his sisters of a grand luncheon party given
by the Master, and of an evening entertainment given

apparently by the Fellows. The guest whose acquaint
86 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                                    1823

ance Mr. Whewell was ' most glad to make ' was Sir

John Malcolm, then resident at Hyde Hall, in the neigh
bourhood of Cambridge. This was the beginning of a
friendship, or rather series of friendships, with Sir John

and all the members of his family, which he valued and
cherished to the last hours of his life, and which, so

long as the Malcolms inhabited Hyde Hall, enriched his
Cambridge life by adding to it the delights of a culti
vated and refined home, of which he was always a

welcome inmate. To it he introduced Hare, Sedgwick,

and others of his friends, and there they proved that, as
Hare has said (p. 528, last edition, ' Guesses at Truth
                                      is

                                                            it,

                                                                         '),
Conversation may have all that valuable in and
a'
all that lively and pleasant, without anything that
       Icomes under the head of personality adding, The
                 ishouse in which, above all others have ever been an
                                      I
                                                        ;
                                                           '
                                                                        '

inmate of, the life and the spirit and the joy of con

versation have been the most intense,  is     house in
                                           a

which hardly ever heard an evil word uttered against
any one. The genial heart of cordial sympathy with
which its illustrious master sought out the good side

in every person and thing . . seemed to communicate.
itself to all the members of his family, and operated as

charm even upon his visitors.'

     Congenial indeed must such an atmosphere have'
been to one who, as Mr. Kenelm Digby says in the
letter already quoted, never spoke unkindly of any

one behind his back, though he was free enough

and bold enough spoken when he had you face to

face.'

But Sir John Malcolm was not the only attraction

to the circle accustomed through these bright years to
assemble at Hyde Hall. The spell of Lady Malcolm's
presence described as irresistible. Archdeacon Hare
was wont to say, There no chance of tearing one's-self
        is

                         '

                               is
                           HYDE HALL.                                                                   87

     away when once the hostess appears ; one can only fly

before she comes down to breakfast.' Professor Sedg
wick said, ' There was an irresistible charm in her

manner, and in her house were spent some of the
happiest days of my life ; ' in fact, as Archdeacon Hare

expressed  a it,           was impossible to leave Hyde Hall

                '

                it
without being, not indeed, like the wedding guest,                                                      a

sadder and wiser man, but certainly wiser one, and
                             a
                                                   a
by if   one were not going away, gladder.' The daughters

     of the house and Miss Manning --frequently spoken of

          her pet name 'Ma-man,' afterwards Mrs. Alexander,
     and then member of the household of Sir John -- were
       'a

                        '
     sharers in this cordial intimacy, and playful copy ofa
     verses addressed To Miss Kate Malcolm on her tenth

     birthday remains to show how early the children were
     admitted to the friendship which my uncle entertained

     for them to the last hour of his life. The lines referred

     to run as follows, and must have been written by Mr.

     Whewell about 1825 :--

           Though, dearest Kate, this ancient College
           Has never seen you to its knowledge,
           Ne'er saw you shake your clustering hair
           Within its battlemented square,

           Nor ope delighted eye to gaze
           Upon its odd collegiate ways,

           Yet know this College views you still
           With deep respect and warm good-will

           And hearing (walls, you know, can hear)
           Your honoured birthday now near,

           It bids, its high behest to fill,

           My artless fingers hold the quill,

           And write, and lay (as most meet)
           Its best good wishes at your feet.
           For an historian tells, dear Kate,

           In history of ancient date,
           How on lady's birthday once,
           Who lived in joy and innocence,
                    a
                                              is
                                                          is

                                                                                                     ;
88 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                              1823

A friend, her best and dearest one,

With mild benignant eyes looked on,

And, sighing as she sometimes would,

For she was not so gay as good,

4 Oh, might nine years, dear child,' she said,

· Roll over thy beloved head

As free from care, and grief, and sin,
                                                  '
As            those  that  have  already  been  ;

And how in turn the lady raised

Her head and somewhat gravely gazed,

As wondering whence that sigh began,
And asked : ' And pray why not, Ma-man ? '

Now you, dear Kate, an age can claim

Far above this historic dame ;
Yet if a birthday wish you hear

Which still may be for many a year

Happy as hitherto your lot,
Sure you may ask, like her, ' Why not ? '

Why should not beaming smiles continue

To make their radiant dwelling in you,

Undimmed their shine though changed their trace,

From infant glee to maiden grace ?

Why should not peaceful thoughts and pure

In your unfolding heart endure,

And shed their sunshine on your way

From childhood's dawn to woman's day ?

And though no more the baby figure,

We see the little fairy bigger,

Why should not all around you yet

Greet you with looks affectionate,

And still about your pathway press

With thoughts of love and tenderness ?

Oh, dearest Kate, be still your lot
To wonder, and to ask, ' Why not ? '

To his Aunf\                     Rouen: June 13, 1823.

I left London on Sunday evening, after getting your letter,

and passed from Dover to Calais next day. My companion is

Digby, a friend and old pupil of mine, who was with me in
                          NOliMANDY.                               89

Wales. He has travelled with his sketch-book in his hand

over a considerable part of Europe.

We came over from England in about three hours, which is

a very good passage, especially as it was in a sailing boat, not

a steamboat. From Calais we set off next day to Abbeville,

where there is a cathedral, which induced us to stay half a day ;

and from Abbeville to Dieppe was our next journey. To come

from Dieppe hither was the employment of yesterday, and here

we shall stay till Monday morning, when we set off to go to

Lisieux and Caen.                                                  ,

The part of the country to which we are travelling, besides

being full of abundance of ruins of castles and abbeys, and

objects of that kind, is, I believe, very beautiful ; and it is there

that a great number of the English have settled who have

retired to France from motives of economy. There are said to

be twenty or thirty families at Caen. It is usually reckoned

that by Uving here they can save about one-third in the expenses

of housekeeping.

Nothing is so remarkable here as the dresses of the women.

They wear caps of an enormous height, something like a sugar-

loaf with a child's cap at the top of  it,  and large flaps of white

muslin spreading out on each side backwards. It         said that
                                                        is
                                                                a
the inhabitants of every village have particular head-dress,
                                       ;

                                          a
all of them of very large dimensions and have seen seriesI
of fifty or sixty prints representing them. For my own part,

have hitherto seen only two or three different forms, but all
I
      Iof them perfectly unlike anything you ever saw. Next to the

dresses in Switzerland they are the most extraordinary vagaries

that have seen, and some of them will bear comparison for
                                             a
oddity even with the Swiss costumes.
                                                  ;
To his Aunt and Sisters]               London: July 14, 1823.
                                                     a
My tour in Normandy enjoyed very much. From Caen
                          aI
my companion and took carriage for week, and travelled
                   I

to the western extremity of the province. The people seem to

me less lively than in other parts of France but, on the whole,

we got on very well. The farthest point of our travels was St.

Michael's Mount, most remarkable insulated rock, surrounded
                   a
                       a
on all sides, and for great distance, by the sands of the sea,
90 LIFE OF DE. WHEWELL.  1823

and covered with very lofty and picturesque buildings, which
formerly composed a monastery, and which are at present a

prison. It was considered a place of extraordinary sanctity, and

an immense number of persons have, at various times, come in
pilgrimage hither. They give you the names of kings and
queens of France and England, princes and statesmen, bishops
and warriors without end who have visited the shrine of ' St.
Michel au peril de la mer.' Even yet the reputation of its
holiness is not quite gone. Many persons still come in a spirit

of devotion, and I bought there a little book which related a

great number of miracles which had been performed by the
assistance of St. Michael, and which the good priest who narrates

them maintains to be quite as certain as those of Scripture.

From St. Michael's we returned by another road to Caen, visiting
Falaise, the birthplace and castle of William the Conqueror. I
have no room nor time to give you any further account of our

travels. My journeys were all safe and prosperous, without

accident, except that in consequence of a contrary wind we had

a long passage from Calais to Dover, which made me very sea

Isick, so that was hardly quite recovered the next day.

To his Sister]  Trinity College: Aug. 13, 1823.

    I promised to send you intelligence of my arrival here, and

of the proceedings of our foundation day at the same time, and

I am now just able to do it.

      Yesterday, which was our great day, was very busy and
bustling, very crowded and very hot, but upon the whole every
thing went off very well, and all the world appeared exceedingly
well satisfied. We were afraid that St. Swithin and his rainy
propensities might be in our way, but fortunately the day was one
of the most gorgeous that ever was seen, and though the sun

was too powerful to be comfortable, he did what he could to

make everything as brilliant as possible. I will send you a
Cambridge paper if I can, in which you will find a more detailed
account of what was done and said than I can give you.

      Before the ceremony began the Master of the College had a
large party of ladies to a collation of fruit and such matters in
a large state room which we call Henry the Eighth's room, and
1823 TRINITY LUNCHEON.  91

when we had paid our respects to our visitors there, we formed
ourselves into a procession and went to the gate of the College
to receive the Speaker and the Vice-Chancellor with the rest of

the University. Then our procession, so increased, went winding
back in a long black line that would have reached round the
great court. Our lady spectators say that it was very pretty to
see the ranks of gownsmen moving across the great quadrangle ;
after which the procession went round two of the pillared sides
of the cloister court, and so to the place where our new buildings
are to be. The place where the stone is laid was surrounded

with booths, which were filled with ladies and University men,
and all the windows and tops of the houses in the neighbour

hood were occupied by spectators.
     The ceremony of laying the stone consists in putting certain

coins and other memorials into a hole in the stone, after which

it is raised by machinery, the mortar spread under it with a
silver trowel by the King's representative, who seemed a good

deal amused at finding himself employed in such a manner, and
it is then let down. This was accompanied by a Latin speech
from one of the Fellows, which was answered by an English one
from the Speaker : then a prayer by the Master and an anthem

by the choristers, after which we sang 'God save the King,' and
went to dinner. Our dinner was of course large and sump

tuous. I believe we had four bucks, and turtle in proportion.

      By way of concluding the evening, we some of us contrived

to collect an evening party of ladies and gentlemen, or what in

 London is called a rout, when we had music and cards, with

tea and coffee and ices. My bed-maker tells me that we had
about 200 people at our rout, and I can answer for it that it

 was hot enough to make one believe so. However, our lady
 guests seemed well satisfied with the meeting.

      We had several persons of consequence there, but the person

whose acquaintance I was most glad to make was Sir John

 Malcolm, an officer who has distinguished himself much, both
 by his conduct in the East and by his writings upon it. He is

 a fine tall manly figure with a bald head and the broad red

 ribbon and star of the Order of the Thistle. I have no time to

 tell you more at present, nor to give you any particulars of my

journey hither. I could not get nearer by coaches than North
92 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                                1823

ampton, and the stage beyond   it,  and then came forty-five miles

across the country in chaises rather than go round London.  by

To his Sister]              Trinity College Sept.           1      1823.
                                              :
                                                               8,

      [The letterit        begun on the fourth page of the sheet of
paper.]
                       is
    begin this letter with notable piece of economy. Hav
I                          I
                                      a

                                               I
                                                         I
ing written the date in the wrong place when addressing

another correspondent, have thought might take the liberty

of sending         to you in spite of its defect.           suppose your

perplexity when you get to the bottom of the page will be

something like that of our old purblind Vice-Master, who was

seen the other day trying to open door on the side where the
                                    a

hinges were.

    Since we got fairly into the stream of the vacation, we have

glided on in course of monotonous inactivity that makes                   it
                 a
impossible to know how many days and weeks have passed.
                   I
Sheepshanks has been here, and living in the same set of rooms

with me, so that have been spending my time very pleasantly,

and am only sorry to see the golden days of the vacation run

ning so fast to their end.  I  shall very soon have to begin my

employments of book-keeping and lecturing, and must lead a

v ery different life of it. And, as told you, manage so ill
                                    I              I
                                      I
in taking care of my own money, that am quite alarmed at the

idea of having to look after other people's.

      However, before all this begins, am going to indulge myI
self in one little excursion by going to the Birmingham musical

meeting.

To his Aunt and Sisters]                           Nov. 1823.2,

    forget whether have written to you since my journey to
    I
                           was exceedingly gratified with what heard
        I

                 I
                       I
Birmingham.                                                     I
                                                                  I
there, and thought my trouble well bestowed. Especially was

delighted with Handel's famous composition of the 'Messiah,'       is
which had only heard once before, and which think one of
                                                   I

the most wonderful of uninspired productions. The words are

beautifully selected from Scripture, first from the prophecies

and then from the narrative of their completion, and the music

is  almost as divine as the words.
1823  MR. SIMEON.                           [1,3

    I have got some college offices conferred upon me which

will make it necessary for me to stay here all the vacation ; so

Ithat all our fine schemes of visiting Scotland are quite blown

up. resign them with the less regret because Sedgwick, who

was to have been my companion, is also prevented from taking

the journey. I have been hearing Mr, Simeon to-day. He is
University preacher for the present month. I dare say Martha
would have liked his sermon, but I cannot say that I was much

pleased with it. Robert Hall, the great Baptist minister of

Leicester, has lately been here, and I heard several of his

Isermons. certainly consider him as one of the most eloquent
and striking preachers I ever heard or hope to hear.

     The following letters to Mr. Rose are interesting,
not only for their lively exposition of what Mr. Whewell
called ' my school ' and ' your school,' but as showing
that both the ' golden days of the vacation ' and the
' wise passiveness ' of the October term which followed
it, and all the toils of the tutorship, left him full leisure

to consider and to attack the principles of his friend

and his supposed manner of carrying them out, as well

as to sympathise with him in the increased anxiety

caused by his health.

      Trinity College: Dec. 16, 1823.

    If I had answered your letter immediately, which I intended
to do, and should have done if the business of the term had not
Icome too thick upon me, should have had some answer to

give to another part of your letter ; but all one's pungent dis

putatious feelings evaporate by standing still. I do not mean
that I should have quarrelled about the character that you
give to Miller's Bampton Lect ures, for I have not read the book,
though the account you give of it has excited my curiosity to

Ilook at it. But I suppose should have asked you what you
mean by your school and my school. I do not know that my

views and opinions are those of any class of people, anrl they

certainly are not those which have often served as a basis
                                            Your school is, I
for the jokes of our common acquaintances.
9 4 LIFE OF DR. WllEWELL.  1823

presume, the Wordsworthian, and I believe that many of the

persons whom, I imagine, you would include in it have exceed
ingly amiable and deeply seated religious and moral views and
feelings ; but what these have to do with ' Peter Bell ' or ' Betty

Foy,' or even with Coleridge's rant of etymologico-Platonic

Ispeculations, is what have never been able to make out, and

what, with your leave, I would say you will find it more diffi
cult to make out to your own satisfaction in proportion as your
good principles become more clearly seen and more tranquilly
possessed. It is fortunately true that when the intellect has
exercised its vagaries on the subject of general principles till it
is tired, it finds that, after all, the affections will take their share

in making them, and this fact is not applicable to any school

exclusively.

    However, I will read Miller, and then you shall see how very

much other people are in the right as well as yourself.

     Mr. Rose appears to have invited his friend to come
and talk over these matters at Horsham, but Mr.
Whewell could not go, and so we have the discussion

continued in the next letter.

                                      Trinity College: Dec. 29, 1823.

   I shall hardly be able to leave Cambridge this vacation for a

single day ; the office of Father of the College and the employ

If Iments of the tutorship together hold me fast by the leg.

were more at liberty, I should hope to be able to convince you
that I am not so unreasonable as to require more than the

society of an old friend to please and interest me. To tell the

truth, though I must be flattered by the character you give me,
I should be alarmed if I thought it made me more difficult to
entertain than other people. The fact, however, I am afraid,

is, that you are at present judging both of yourself and your

friends under the influence of low spirits, and I am sorry to see

it. There is only one consolation in such a case, that when
you know it to be so you may be confidently convinced that
the gloomy conclusions which the mind seizes upon are in

variably false.
1S23 LETTER TO ROSE. 95

   I am sure if you had been here the last term you would

have had a much more mitigated idea of my zeal for knowledge.
Instead of being ravenous after information or incessant in in

tellectual exertion, I have been abandoning myself in a state of

wise passiveness to the impulses of Cambridge drawing-rooms

and pianoforte performers, and can hardly accuse myself of
gnawing at the forbidden fruit of the tree of knowledge for two
hours together for the whole time.

     This is but an indifferent account to give of one's-self, but

such a course is not without a sort of kindly influence in its

Iway, and therefore, for anything see, it may do me as much

good as Sir Robert Filmer and Malebranche will do you. In

Ideed, cannot help suspecting that you are taking more violent

remedies than are required by any contagion of a rebellious and
disobedient spirit that you ever contracted. Are you not doing
what our worthy friend Hare and some others do to an extent

Iwhich should not have conceived possible in men of sense ?

Finding that Reason alone cannot invent a satisfactory system

of morals and politics, are you not quarrelling with her alto

gether, and adopting opinions because they are irrational ? It

is, seriously speaking, what some of you do, and seems to belong

to an ascetic system of mortifying the common sense, much

more extraordinary than the most severe discipbne for mortifying
the flesh. You are like St. Peter, who would be crucified with
his head downwards. Do you not see that this very spirit of
exaggeration is exactly contrary to that tranquil possession and
equilibrium of the faculties which you rightly consider as the
most healthful state of the mind ?

      Why will you not see that in speculative matters, though

Reason may go wrong if not guided by our better affections, you

cannot do without her ? All your efforts not to reason at all
will only end in your reasoning very ill. So pray do not pay
your philosophy so bad a compliment as to make it appear that
your initiation must needs be accompanied by some kind of in
toxication, and that its inspiration is the result of your giddiness.

I beg your pardon for all this blasphemy ; but what can I say

Iwhen see men of sense adopting obsolete follies merely because
they have been so completely confuted ? And I tell you again

that a person's affections may be in as kind and tranquil and
LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1824

humble a state without any of the peculiarities of your school
as they are in any of you.

    I should have been very glad to see Sharpe, and delighted
again to meet Paynter, whom I saw during the vacation, after

an awfully long separation.

     During the summer of 1824, Mr. Whewell was again
in Cumberland, 'rambling about the country with Sedg
wick and examining the strata,' as well as visiting both
Southey and Wordsworth. He contrived as usual to
part with most of his possessions in the course of his
journeyings, but remarks with satisfaction that his mis
fortunes are no longer of the same irremediable character
as formerly ; his portmanteau in course of time returned
to him. He spent Christmas in Edinburgh. He writes
to his aunt and sisters from Lincoln : --

                                                                    Aug. 6, 1824.

    I am at present on my way into the north, though, as you
Iwill see by the date of my letter, am not taking the shortest
course to Lancaster. I am travelling with some Cambridge

friends, principally with the object of seeing cathedrals and
churches. We have been looking at the very fine cathedral
here these two days, and we are now setting off for Hull, and
thence we shall go to Beverley and York, and probably to
Durham, and thence turn down to Lancaster.

                                                    Kendal: Aug. 25, 1824.

    I am afraid you will be sorry to hear that I have determined

to go direct from this place to Cambridge, without taking

Lancaster on my way. I find from the sheets which you have

sent me that my printing is going on indifferently in my

Iabsence, and ever since I left you have been afraid that I had

left matters to themselves too long without sufficient prepara

Ition, so that I shall not feel easy till get back to college.

    I got here on Thursday last, and next day saw Wordsworth

Iat Rydai, and Southey at Keswick, by whom was informed
1824                   SEDGWICK.                          '.17

Iwhere to look for Sedgwick.  found him on Saturday at the
Iback of Skiddaw, in company with Gwatkin, as had expected.

I stayed with him three days rambling about the country and

examining the strata, and parted with him this morning between

Penrith and Carlisle.

     We had fine weather on Sunday and Monday ; and though

we got wet yesterday, I am no worse for it. As he was not
exactly among the lakes, I have not seen anything more of the
Igood scenery hereabouts ; but preferred being with Sedgwick,
Iand as it was saw the floating island in Derwentwater and the

Poet Laureate.

To his Sister]         Trinity College: Sept. 2, 1824.

    I find reason to congratulate myself on having come here
without delay, and the next time I visit you I will try to make

my motions more regular and considerate, and in the meanwhile

you must try to persuade yourselves that there is not anything

very shocking in these rapid manoeuvres, as they will take place

now and then.

   I Igot to Leeds, as intended, very prosperously, but for the

remainder of my journey I made more haste than good speed.
Being resolved not to stand st ill, I did not stay an hour at Leeds,

Ibut got into a mail immediately, though it did not go exactly
the way I wished it. However, consoled myself by thinking

that I should see Nottingham, which had never fallen in my
road before. Accordingly next morning I did reach Nottingham,

Ibut it was only to make the unpleasant discovery that had

brought with me some other person's portmanteau and left my

own. As I could not consent to take this loss without some
attempt to rectify it, I resolved to go back two stages, and the
whole of that day was I employed in going three times over the

same everlasting piece of road in pursuit of my baggage.

     My chase was quite unsuccessful, so that after leaving

directions to have the thing sent after me if it should t urn up, I
Imoved by such cross coaches as could find towards Cambridge

without a single article in my possession except my cloak and

Iumbrella. The succeeding night was obliged to travel all

night on the outside, and finding myself in the morning aground

Iagain within two stages of Cambridge, was so impatient of my

                              H
US LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL. 1824

want of baggage and want of sleep that I got into a chaise and

arrived here about half-past seven on Saturday morning.

     So far my expedition had been rather unprosperous ; but it
appears that my misfortunes now-a-days are no longer of that
irremediable kind which they used to be. On Tuesday morning

last arrived the portmanteau which you sent, and with it, I am

happy to say, the other, which had somehow joined company with

it on the road, so that I am now as rich as ever again.

To his Sister]  Cambridge : Christmas Day, 1824.

I am intending to spend the greater part of the Christmas

holidays in Edinburgh. Professor Sedgwick goes with me.

There are a number of places and things to see there, and par

ticularly a number of remarkable men of science, with several
Iof whom we hope to get acquainted.
                                     have got a book for you
Iand one for Martha, which shall send down by the coach.
Yours is Southey's ' Roderick,' which is a very great favourite of

mine, and I think one of the very finest poems of modern times.

For Martha I send Wordsworth's poems, some of which she saw

and seemed to admire much in one of my visits to Lancaster.

     During the summer of 1825 Mr. Whewell went to
Germany, chiefly Avith the object of visiting mineralo-

Igical collections. He tells Mr. Eose, July 11: 'lam

on the point of setting off on my travels, which intend
to continue, like the prince in the ' Arabian Nights,' till

I meet with some one who drops rubies and diamonds
Ifrom his mouth at every word.' ' hope to return full

of crystallography.'
     The following letters to his aunt and sisters tell of his

travels in pursuit of professors, mines, and minerals : --

To his Aunt and Sisters']  Brunswick: July 21, 1825.

I left London on Saturday in the Hamburg steam packet,

and after being at sea four days and three nights arrived at

Hamburg on Tuesday. Nothing could be more delightful than

the voyage ; the little wind which blew was against us, but the

sea was so smooth and the weather so superb that we sat on
1835 GERMAN TOUR.                         no

the deck under an awning all day long and half the night, and

nobody on board suffered the slightest inconvenience from sea

sickness, an exemption which I was never fortunate enough to

share in before. We had a very pleasant party on board : an

Admiral Baker, who married a Swedish countess, and was going

with his family to visit her relations ; two English gentlemen,

also going to Sweden, to visit an estate belonging to one of

them; several merchants, and a young English lady of the

name of Duff, who was coming to visit her brother-in-law, a

physician in this city. This lady and I came together to this

place, where she found her brother waiting for her about two

this morning. She had never been abroad before, and spoke

Ino German, so that dare say she was glad to get to the end of

her journey, independently of the discomfort of German travel

ling, which in this part of the country is somewhat serious.

For a great part of the way the road, or rather the track, for

road there is none, lies over endless moors of loose grey sand

sprinkled with a little heath, and the heavy diligence grinds its

way at the rate of less than two miles an hour, with such rolling

and tumbling and jolting from one side to another as you would

Isuppose no human frame and no coachmaker's work could ever
stand.  believe that matters will now mend, and a little

Ifurther on travelling becomes very good.
         am here going to quit the main road for a day or two, and

to turn aside to visit a mountainous tract of country called the

Hartz Wald, very celebrated for its picturesque beauty and its

mines, and still more for the stories of the fairies and demons
If Iwhich are supposed to inhabit it.
Isee any such persons will let you know.  am so fortunate as to

IAfter this deviation return to the main road, and go by
ILeipsic to Dresden and its neighbourhood, where hope to find

letters from you.

To his Sister Martha, Mrs. Statter] Vienna : Aug. 23, 1825.

   I believe you will have the distinction of receiving a letter

of mine which has travelled farther than any that you have

Iever received before, and for which, therefore, you will, pre

sume, have to pay more than you have previously paid. Of
course you will hear of me whenever my aunt and Ann do so,

                                                h2
100 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                             1825

Ibut it is a long time since wrote to you or heard of you, and
I Ido not see what better can do than give you the office of
Iannouncing to them my safe arrival in this imperial capital.

wrote to Lancaster from Dresden, the metropolis of Saxony, a

Iletter which, hope, has been received by this time ; but com

munication by post, so far, is at best uncertain, and generally

indefinite as to time.

   I left Dresden on the 18th, and travelled to this place

through Bohemia, Moravia, and Austria : a journey which occu

Ipied five nights and five days, during which never took my

clothes off, except in the middle of the day at Prague. All this

time we were rumbling along incessantly in a huge waggon-like

coach, except once when we were detained four or five hours

by the breaking of the wheel, and on one or two other occasions

when we were stationary for about the same length of time,

waiting till the diligence was ready to start, which is quite as
Itiresome as travelling in it.
                                was heartily glad, as you may

imagine, when we fell in with the broad and hurried stream of

the Danube, and saw the lofty Gothic spire of St. Stephen's at
IVienna rising in the distant plain.
                                      have not yet had time to
Iestablish myself for the month that I intend to stay here.
Iintend to take a lodging if can find one which suits me ; in
Ithe meantime am staying at an inn.
IFar as you may suppose me from you, had not been in
Ithe city above an hour before
                                met with two young men,

students of Trinity College, who were returning from a much

more distant excursion, having been in Turkey, Greece, and

various parts of the Mediterranean for some months.

     This letter did not reach England till fourteen days
after it was posted at Vienna. His next letter is dated
from the ' Lady Nepean ' packet, October 15, 1825, and

is addressed to his aunt.

    I have been tossing about upon the waves for the last seven
Idays, and am heartily tired of it, but hope to get into harbour

to-night or to-morrow morning. Ever since embarked we
have had a succession of contrary winds and calms, which have

made the voyage uncommonly long and tedious, and last night
1825  TAKES PRIEST'S ORDERS.  101

Ithe weather was stormy according to a landsman's ideas.

must proceed to Cambridge without a moment's delay as soon

as I set foot on shore.

     You have had a letter from the capital of Saxony and an

Iother from the capital of Austria, and intended to have written
to you from the capital of Prussia, but I found my letter was
Inot likely to reach England sooner than I should do so myself.

      Berlin is a place with which was not much pleased. The
streets are wide and straight, and well-built, but tiresome from
their sameness.

      The early letters of this year contain, besides some
discussion of a new work by Miss Kelty, which, as usual,

Mr. Whewell sent to his sisters, lively expressions of

concern and sympathy at the intelligence which reached
him from Lancaster of the failure of a bank there.

      He had been ordained Deacon several years previous,

Ibut am not certain of the precise date. His admission

to Priest's Orders took place on Trinity Sunday of this
year. Immediately afterwards he went into Cornwall
with Mr. Airy, and spent several weeks underground in
Dolcoath Mine carrying on pendulum experiments. In
an undated letter, written probably at the close of this
year, he playfully consoles his aunt for her disappoint
ment at Mr. Airy being made a professor whilst he
received no such honour, assuring her that Mr. Airy

was the better mathematician of the two, and besides

that, that he was on other grounds ineligible for the

appointment.

To his Sister Ann]  Trinity College: Feb. 12.

I take the opportunity of Mr. Mackreth's return to Lan

caster to send you a work which my friend Miss Kelty has just

published. She is afraid of alarming the very religious people

by calling it a novel, and has therefore entitled it, ' The Story
of Isabel.' After it was published she began to fear that it

contained too much of religion for the worldly public, and too
102 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                        1826

little of that and too much of other things for the decidedly
religious, so that between the two parties it might find no

readers at all.

                                                                                              Feb. 13.

   I IWhen wrote last night did not know of the stoppage of
I IDilworth's bank, which find stated in the paper received
Ithis morning.
                    am afraid you must have money there to a
Iconsiderable amount, and in every respect fear it must be a

most calamitous business, absolute ruin to many persons, and

severe distress and loss to all concerned. However, when we

know what the state of the case is we must look it in the face

as well as we can.

                                                March.

    I am excessively grieved to find all my worst anticipations

realised with respect to the bank.

   I think you are right in almost every respect about ' Isabel.'

Miss Kelty, with various talents, has not a very fertile inven
tion, and the resemblance between this story and ' The Favour
ite of Nature ' is exceedingly close in the general characters

and story, and extends even to the details of scenes. The
leading character in both novels, with her quick sensibility,

high talents, ungovernable temper, and ill-regulated affections,

Imust, suppose, as you say, be drawn from feelings of which

the author herself has at some time been in some measure

conscious.

   IMy aunt says should not have told her that my horse fell

with me. Tell her that it was not the fault of St. Andrew (for

that is his name), but that the ground was slippery with a

recent thaw, and he was very excusable for not helping it.

To his Aunt]              April 20, 1826.

   I Ihave got a project which shall set about executing as
Isoon as am at liberty, which will occupy me during the early
part of the summer. I am going with Mr. Airy, one of the

Fellows of our College, to make some experiments in one of the

deepest mines that we can find, either in Derbyshire or in

Cornwall, we have not yet ascertained which. We shall set

Iout, suppose, soon after May 20, and shall be busy with our
underground operations till some time in July.
182G              DOLCOATH MINE.        103

    I am glad the sum I sent to Martha escaped the general

ruin of that wretched bank. I cannot yet think without indig

nation as well as sorrow of the way in which the people must

have been going on.

To his Sister] Dolcoath Mine, Camborne : May 24, 1 826.

    I have had time to-day to go out upon one of the hills here

with an observing instrument. To my great surprise, though

I went to a place where there seemed to be only a single house

within reach, by the time we had been there half an hour we

Ihad at least a hundred men, women, and children round us.

suppose by-and-by they will become more accustomed to our

proceedings. The people seem to be very intelligent and civil.

The country is very wild and uncultivated, covered with furze

and divided by very rude inclosures.

                  Underground chamber,

To Lady Malcolm]  Dolcoath Mine, Camborne, Cornwall :

                  June 10, 1826.

      I venture to suppose that you never had a correspondent

Iwho at the time of writing was situated as your present one is.
   am at this moment sitting in a small cavern deep in the

recesses of the earth, separated by 1,200 feet of rock from the
Isurface on which you mortals tread.
                                      am close to a wooden

partition which has been fixed here by human hands, through

which I ever and anon look, by means of two telescopes, into a

larger cavern. That larger den has got various strange-looking

machines, illumined here and there by unseen lamps, among

which is visible a clock with a face most unlike common clocks,

and a brass bar which swings to and fro with a small but never-
Iceasing motion.
                  am clad in the garb of a miner, which is

probably more dirty and scanty than anything you may have

happened to see in the way of dress. The stillness of this

subterranean solitude is interrupted by the noise, most strange

to its walls, of the ticking of my clock, and the chirping of
seven watches. But besides these sounds it has noises of its

own which my ear catches now and then. A huge iron vessel

is every quarter of an hour let down through the rock by a

chain above a thousand feet long, and in its descent and ascent
104 LIFE OK DR. WHEWELL.                              1820

dashes itself against the sides of its pit with a violence and a

Idin like thunder, and at intervals, louder and deeper still,

hear the heavy burst of an explosion when gunpowder has been
used to rend the rock, which seems to pervade every part of
the earth, like the noise of a huge gong, and to shake the air

within my prison. I have sat here for some hours, and shall
sit for five or six more, at the end of which time I shall climb

up to the light of the sky, in which you live, by about sixty
ladders, which form the weary upward path from hence to your
world. I ought not to omit, by way of completing the pic

turesque, that I have a barrel of porter close to my elbow, and

a miner stretched on the granite at my feet, whose yawns at

being kept here so many hours, watching my inscrutable pro
ceedings, are most pathetic. This has been my situation and
employment every day for some time, and will be so for some
while longer, with the alternation of putting myself in a situa
tion as much as possible similar, in a small hut on the surface
of the earth. Is not this a curious way of spending one's

leisure time ? I assure you I very often think of Sir John's

favourite quotation from Leyden,1 ' Slave of the dark and dirty
mine ! what vanity has brought thee here ? ' and sometimes

doubt whether sunshine be not better than science.

    If the object of my companion and myself had been to

make a sensation, we must have been highly gratified by the
impression which we have produced upon the good people in
this country. There is no end to the number and oddity of
their conjectures and stories about us. The most charitable of

them take us to be fortune-tellers ; but for the greater part we
are suspected of more mischievous kinds of magic. A single

loud insulated peal of thunder, which was heard the first Sun

day after our arrival, was laid at our door ; and a staff which
we had occasion to plant at the top of the cliff was reported
to have the effect of sinking all unfortunate ships which sailed

I Ipast.

        could tell you many more such histories, but think this

Imust be at least enough about myself, if do not wish to make

the quotation from Leyden particularly applicable.

     1 Dr. Leyden. Poet and Orientalist.  Died 1811.  A Life of him was
published in 1819.
1820          DOLCOATH.          105

             Underground, Dolcoath Mine: June 13, 1826.

I have had one or two expeditions underground, which have

given me an idea of some of the work that the miners have to

go through, which is much more severe than the common

labour of going up and down.
     In a part of the mine which is called the engine shaft, the

.water drops, or rather streams, down so fast, that it is impos
sible to keep a candle alight when it is carried in the usual
way. The manner in which they manage it is by wearing a

broad-brimmed hat, and holding the candle, stuck in a piece of
I Iclay as usual, in the mouth.
              came up the part speak of
the other day, but finding that I was quite defeated in all
attempts to keep a light in my band, I contented myself with

the light given by the candles of my companions, who employed
their mouths in this manner, not being quite able to make up

my mind to such a mouthful.

    When I have finished my labours here to-day, I shall have

no underground work any more for some days, as my com

panion will take his turn, and I shall take that part of our

observations which is made above ground. Our operations

consist principally in comparing pendulums with clocks and

watches, at the surface of the earth and here below, in order to

determine whether the force of gravity is the same above and

below.

To his Aunt]             June 25.

      I shall leave this place, I believe, towards the end of the

week, and return to Cambridge. Our experiments are drawing

to a close.

    It is very likely my name may have appeared in the news

Ipapers as having taken Priest's Orders, for did so just before

coming down here. Martha is wrong in not wishing to see my

den below ground, which is more curious and extraordinary

than anything she will be able to see in the regions of common

daylight.

      A letter dated August 23, 1826, Burford Bridge,

Surrey, and addressed to Mrs. Statter, congratulates her

upon the birth of a daughter, and then passes on to
106 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.      182G

describe the place whence he writes with the warmth
of a true lover of Nature in all her moods, and with
the limitations to such admiration which loyalty to the
larger features and broader effects of the North imposed
upon him.

I am writing in an arbour wainscoted with moss, in the

garden of one of the prettiest inns, lying in one of the prettiest

valleys, in this part of England. Not so beautiful, you know,

as your part of the world, where you have sea and mountains,

and distant towers, and winding rivers, but what the good

people here in the south look upon as very delightful scenery.

There is an endless expanse of rich plain country bordered in

different directions with long lines of hills, and when you mount

some of the most prominent points of these ranges you have

under the eye a prospect quite inexhaustible in its details, con

sisting of a patchwork of light-green fields, dark-green hedge

rows and woods, and neat houses and villages. The hill which
we have been visiting to-day is Leith Hill, and is estimated to

command a view not less than two hundred miles in circum

ference. I came here with Mr. and Mrs. Jones.
    I do not know if I have given you or my aunt any account

of my motions since I returned from my Cornish expedition. I
was obliged to stay at Cambridge for some time, and since I
Ihave been able to leave it have been several times between

London and Cambridge.
I hope somebody will write to me within the next fortnight.
I Iwant much to know how you are, though I hope may take
Ifor granted that as have heard nothing, both you and your
Ibaby are going on well.
                          feel quite proud of my character of

uncle, which seems to me to give an additional shade of gravity

and importance to my person.

     After staying with Mr. Jones at his living at Brasted,
he wrote to his aunt :--

    Hops are grown here in quantities, and when I came away

they were busy with the hop harvest. The people who live in
this valley are very proud of it, and maintain that it was never
l?20 HOLMESDALE.                                       107

conquered by any of the invaders of England. They have a
proverb to this effect, which says, ' The winding vale of Holmes-

dale was never won nor ever shall.' I left this winding vale
with great regret, for I have been living there very agreeably

and very quietly.

To his Aunt]               Autumn, 1826.

. . . You mentioned a difficulty which had occurred to you

Iin one of your late letters ; how Airy should be made Professor

while was here, who, being your nephew, must of course, on

that account, deserve it better than he could. Now it is a

thing which you will think odd, but it is nevertheless true, that

Airy is a better mathematician than your nephew, and has

moreover been much more employed of late in such studies.

But besides this, there is another reason which may perhaps

satisfy you better, and which was in fact the real cause of my

not being a candidate, namely, that this Lucasian professorship

cannot be held by a person who is a tutor of a college ; so you

see the University are not quite so much to blame for their

blindness and bad choice as you imagine. Seriously speaking,

Airy is by very much the best person they could have chosen

for the situation, and few things have given me so much

pleasure as his election.

   IIt is possible that by-and-by may be appointed to the

Professorship of Mineralogy, but that business is at present in

the hands of the lawyers, on whom the time and the election

depend ; and it is therefore to be looked upon as very uncertain

in all its circumstances.

To his Sister]             Dec. 7, 1826.

Sedgwick and I shall start from here about the 18th, and
Ifshall, I suppose, be in Paris before Christmas Day.
                                                       we only

find the people half as hospitable and agreeable as we found

them in Edinburgh two years ago, we shall have a very pleasant

visit of it.

    It was at Edinburgh that we fell in with the phrenologists,

who, as you have been told, have taken my head for one of

their examples, though, to tell the truth, I do not think they

showed much discrimination in their remarks upon it. We
108 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1827

have at present here in Cambridge the leader of the sect, Dr.
Spurzheim, who is giving his lectures every evening to a con

siderable audience. I am myself writing with a phrenological
bust standing on the table close to my nose, thinking it right

to understand something of a science which gives a good ac
count of me.

     The intention expressed in this letter was carried
out. Mr. Wliewell and Professor Sedgwick spent a
week or two in Paris at Christmas. Writing to his aunt

January 18, 1827, lie Isays : ' spent my time pleasantly

enough whilst in Paris, seeing almost all the remarkable
men of science who are to be found there, and besides

these mental luxuries feasting my body in a moderate
degree upon French wines and French cookery.'

     In the spring he writes from Cambridge a defence of

his favourite ' Hermann and Dorothea.'

     In the summer Mr. Whewell seems to have estab

lished himself somewhere near Lancaster, probably at
Poulton-le-Sands, in order to carry forward his ' writing
and reading ' in ' a cot which o'erlooks the wide sea,' and
at the same time to be within easy reach of his family.
The autumn of this year brought the removal of the
Malcolms from Hyde Hall ; a real grief and loss to him
self, to Mr. Hare, Mr. Sedgwick, and all their Cambridge

friends.

To hia Sister Ann]  Cambridge: April 12.

I send you along with this an edition of ' Hermann ' with
Iprints.  am glad you like Hermann. I think you hardly

allow him fair play when you imagine him to talk in a manner

above his condition. Who is fit to be the hero of a poem if he

is not ? The son of the principal innkeeper in a city, and a

man of large landed property besides, would be even in Eng

land a man of education and position, still more so in Germany,

where professions are less elevated above trade. You see his

father is on a footing of equality with the clergyman and tbe
1827          'HERMANN AND DOROTHEA.'      109

Idoctor. As to your difficulty about the minister's religious re

flections, am not quite sure that I rightly apprehend it. But
Iyou may consider, think, that even supposing our own reflec

tions cotild carry us as far as he goes, there is still quite

enough left for Divine teaching to do. The author may have

thought, too, that it was not suitable to the character of a mere
fanciful narrative to introduce any particular religious doc

trines.

     The great beauty of the book is the truth of the characters
and the admirable manner in which the story is brought out ;
the last canto in particular is very beautiful in this way, always

excepting Dorothea's long account of her former lover, which I

think would be better omitted.

To his Aunt and Sisters]  Cambridge : June 7.

      I am much disposed to the plan which I mentioned of taking

lodgings on the sea-coast somewhere or other, and riding over

to see you every day. I want particularly to live in the
Icountry for a little while, and however quiet may be with you,
Iit would not be exactly the same thing. have been fancying,
Ias have been looking forward to it, that my writing and reading

would go on much better in that which is described in a line of
an old song, ' a cot which o'erlooks the wide sea.'

To his Aunt]              Cambridge: Oct. 6, 1827.

      I have been nearly stationary here since I returned from

Brighton and London, and have been lately employed in elect

ing six new Fellows of the College, being for the present so far
advanced in age and dignity as to be one of the eight seniors of

the College.

     This elevation of mine is, however, only for a short and

holiday time, and I shall be again deposed as soon as my elders

return into residence.

    At present I am grieving for the removal of the Malcolms,
a family whom I think I have mentioned to you. They have

left Hyde Hall, which was within a ride of Cambridge, though

not a very short ride, being thirty miles off, and their departure

will subtract much from my pleasure here.
110 LIFE OF DR. WNEWELL.  1827

    If I have an opportunity I will send you a new book which

Miss Kelty has published, called ' Religious Thoughts.' She is
persuaded that it is more consistent with her principles to

write in such a form than to publish works of fiction as she did

before. Perhaps you will agree with her in this, and I hope in

some other things.

     A number of letters written to Lady Malcolm at this

time show the keen regret with which Mr. Whewell
dwelt upon the departure of his friends from Hyde Hall.
After taking her children to Eastbourne, Lady Malcolm
returned alone to Hyde Hall for the final arrangements,

and appears to have passed there some rather sad and

lonely weeks. Mr. Whewell had undertaken the duties

of Moderator for the ensuing year, and these, added to

the usual cares of his tutorship, tied him very closely to
Cambridge, and made it impossible to him to go and
visit Lady Malcolm. In a letter of October 11, he
says : --

   IAfter the great pleasure of receiving your letter have

been looking forward to the little pleasure, by no means to be
despised, of writing to you again. But the quiet hour in which

this was to be enjoyed, instead of coming nearer, is drifting
away faster and farther every day. All beautiful visions of a

few more days of happiness and idleness and independence are

melting into air, and I am now obliged to make up my mind

Ito belong to the persons and things that are crowding in upon

me on every side. But cannot help, as you perceive, trying
to make the accents of my misery heard before these waves of

affliction close over my head and extinguish my feeble voice, at

least for the present. Of my coming to Eastbourne it was in

Ideed too true that it could not be ; and was very soon obliged

to make up my mind to solace my evening rides with the re
collection of Hyde Hall, and the thought of what Eastbourne

might have been; and I am persuaded that if you listened

intently enough you must have heard Beachy's chalky Head,
like Friar Bacon's brazen one, utter the doleful sounds, * Time
Ill1827 EVENING RIDES.

is past.' The golden days of the Long Vacation, the happy
hours of Hyde Hall are over, and an age of business and pupils

and calculators has succeeded.

He then passes on to describe his evening rides in terms

similar to those he had employed in the letter to his

sister already quoted.

   IDuring the last week took a solitary ride every evening,
and considering what a country I live in I seemed to myself to

Ihave hit upon no despicable plan for beautifying these pensive
wanderings.  went forth westward when the sun was setting,

and rode towards him and the glories that marked his fading

Ipath, till they had ceased to be glorious, and then turned

round and rode back towards the quarter where the yellow

moon was rising over the yellow woods. I must needs confess
that I felt very strongly the sentiment which you describe. I

mean a great indignation that the woods should show so little

sensibility to the changes which they must know had been
taking place during the summer. With the present week the

autumnal moon has gone away, and a marvellous collection of

men possessing or desiring wisdom has come to occupy our

time, and to preclude our evening rides.

    I cannot help thinking you will see something very absurd

in my turning with repugnance to employments which must be

Imy main business for many months to come, but assure you

I shall bear them and go through them as well as another when
I have made the plunge ; only the transition from that which

has been excites some regrets.
I have been talking about myself as people love to do who
Iget into a bustle ; but one reason, besides, is that cannot tell
you anything about your goings on at Eastbourne, though I
Icould ask an endless number of questions.
                                            hope by this

time you have felt more advantage to your health from the
place than when you wrote you appeared to have done. Is it

quite established that for invalids the night is the best time to

take an excursion on the water ? Does Miss Manning lend her

sanction to such proceedings ? To be sure nothing can be more

delightful than the waves with the moonbeams twisted among

them as they are to be seen at such times.
112 LIFE OF DR. WnEWELL.                       1827

In the next letter he tells Lady Malcolm : --

    It is very true, as you conjecture, that we do not begin the

term nearly so well as we should have done under your auspices ;

and for my own part I think I shall find a sensible consolation

in knowing that you are so near as Hyde Hall, though without

Iany chance whatever of diminishing the distance between us. At

any rate, as you perceive, cannot help trying the old ex
periment of sending a despatch by the Fly to diversify the cares

and perplexities which surround me here. I fear you will have

but a joyless journey to Hyde Hall, the beloved and happy as
in my memory it must ever stand ; only one consoling thought

there is -- that the pleasant days which it has witnessed are not

utterly gone, since they have left some portion of their sweetness
in the feelings and attachments which have been cherished and

fostered there, and which I trust are not likely soon to fade.
I cannot help imagining to myself that there must be another

small comfort of your wretchedness in visiting Hyde Hall just
at present. Its woods and bowers must have assumed by this

time that appearance of advanced decay and departing beauty
which it becomes them to wear on such an occasion, and which

one might, to please a melancholy mood, take for that sympathy

which you complained that Beachy Head did not offer. I dare

say that your groves shower at your feet, not barbaric pearl and

gold, but leaves of every shade of the favourite colours ; and I
think one can easily find in their bright but cheerless tints an
expression like the smile of a broken-hearted person. I believe,

however, that such fancies, even if I could communicate them

to you, would not tend much to exhilarate your sojourn ; and
probably you will be far too full of employment while you are

there to encourage such musings. I most heartily wish you

rapidly and well through all the disagreeable part of your

errand, for such a part I suppose it must have. Hare I expect to

see to-morrow. He will be surprised to find that you are so

near. I shall expect from him an account of all that relates to

you at Eastbourne. As soon as my days have become a little

less crowded, I shall send my acknowledgments for the East

bourne ' pacquet.' This you know is only a Hyde Hall letter,

and does not reckon. I should be very glad to know that you
                 COMMEMORATION SERMON.  113

had finished your present task with tolerable ease and comfort
and in good health.

    On October 27 he writes as follows :--

    It would indeed be a pleasure and delight to me to spend a
day with you at Hyde Hall, and if it had been at all possible I

would have ventured upon some slight desertion of my employ

ments here for the sake of such a happiness. But I am for
to-morrow bound here with chains quite adamantine. I have to

preach before the University at eleven o'clock a sermon ' on the

commemoration of our benefactors. If you could hear me I think
you would be edified by a document which I have to read after my

sermon, in which our benefactors are enumerated, beginning with

' that most glorious king of the East Angles, Sigebert, in the

seventh century ; after him Offa, king of the Mercians, in the

eighth century ; then that mighty monarch and most excellent

Prince Alfred in the ninth,' &c. Does not this sound well ?

   I grieve with much affliction at the state in which you are

left at the once happy hall, and at the effect on your feelings,

so natural, which you describe. But pray do not become ill in

consequence. Hare joins me in most earnest entreaties to this
Ieffect.
          can but wonder in anger and indignation at the un

known person or persons by whose fault you are condemned to

your solitude and discomfort. Hare had observed lights in the

windows when he passed Hyde Hall on Tuesday, and had
Ispeculated on them with fruitless ingenuity till I solved the
riddle for him.  am obliged to conclude, but pray do not be

unhappy. Adieu, dearest Ijady Malcolm.

     This is followed next day by a letter inclosing verses
to be forwarded to little Kate Malcolm as a gift on her
twelfth birthday ; of which verses the covering letter to
her mother explains the origin. They have sometimes
been supposed to be a translation from the German.

     1 Of this sermon Mr. Hare wrote iu a letter to Lady Malcolm which has
been preserved : ' Whe well's sermon to-day was of course full of thought
and of power. He had to glance over a very great variety of subjects, and.
threw light on them all ; his account of the way in which the ordinances
and institutions of religion act upon mankind was exceedingly beautiful.'

                                                         I
114 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.   1827

To Lady Malcolm]           Trinity College: Oct. 28, 1827.

Kate's birthday, a day by no means to be forgotten or con

founded with other days, must account for the multifarious
Icontents of this packet.
                           presume that you are likely to be

sending something to Eistbourne, so that it will be possible to

have my homage conveyed at or about the time when it is due.
One part of it is a long and doleful ballad,' which, if you are

tempted to read it, will not perhaps dispel the gloom which

hangs about Hyde Hall at present ; but it may be some alle
viation to your vexation, if you have not, as I hope, already dis

missed it, to refer a portion of it to two poor lovers who died in

the fourteenth century. The story is one which was told me at

Vienna as belonging to a very pretty Gothic building, consisting

of a cluster of niches and pinnacles in the form usually called a

cross, which stands in the road near the city. When I repeated

the legend to Miss Manning she appeared taken with it, and my

Iballad was begun with the intention of laying it at her feet.

was at that time very reasonably dissatisfied with the performance,
and left it half finished, in which condition I found it a few days

ago. I have written a few additional lines to it, and venture to
offer it as a tribute on Miss Kate's day of queenship. I am obliged
to come with a present, I fear, so unworthy, for in truth last week

has been by no means a week with me adapted to the fabrica
tion of such matters ; I have at present as many employments

and offices as a single man can well deal with, all which, at their

beginning, make demands upon me in a manner rather imperious

and exigeant.4

    I do not cease to grieve at, your loneliness and annoyance at

Hyde Hall ; hoping, however, that there is some good reason
for it, and some greater inconvenience avoided thereby. Hare

informs me that you had an intention, or at least a speculation,

of going to Harrogate. In the ancient times of Hyde Hall such
a circumstance would have made it very probable that you would

not go there, but to some place quite different. Perhaps we
are so changed that we may come at last to do what we intend.

      1 Spinning Maiden's Cross.
     * Mr. Whewell was Moderator. In a letter to his aunt of IVcember 27,
he says, ' My colleague in this employment is King, whom you may perhaps

recollect as one of my t>arly acquaintances at Cambridge.'
1827                  SEDGWICK.                      115

If you are there at Christmas I am afraid I shall not see you

then, for the amount of my holidays this winter will not be

more than a few days about that time, and the extent of my

excursions will probably not be further than London. I suppose
that sooner or later you will reach that destination, and then I

may hope again to have the satisfaction of seeing you. Sedgwick

is here, full of Scotch stories, as I told you, and delighted with

all that he has done and had done to him. The latter portion

of his adventures seems to have consisted in his having two or

three large breakfasts given him every day, and a superb dinner

late at night when his work was over. He is at present proctor,

in virtue of which office he on Sundays goes to church in a silk

dip and sash, carrying a large book by a brass chain ; and on

other days walks about the streets with three tall men following
him who are called ' bull-dogs,' and taking cigars out of the

mouths of all the dissolute young men who use them.

     We commemorated the glorious Sigebert and the excellent

Alfred to-day, as I told you we were to do. To-morrow begins a

new week of lectures, some on triangles, some on late hours, as

the case may be. The worst of it is that we can no longer break

this succession of things by making a truant expedition to Hyde
IHall twice a month.
                      hope that respectable hall continues the
seat of good health at least, if not of good spirits. Pray do not

carry away a hostile parting impression of the poor old house.

Leave it in sorrow, if it must be so (and not otherwise), but not
in anger. All the unpleasant feeling that your expedition may
have drawn on will, I hope, vanish at the first gleam and sound

of Eastbourne faces and voices.

          The Spinning Maiden's Cross.

      Beneath Vienna's ancient wall
         Lie level plains of sand,

      And there the pathway runs of all
         That seek the Holy Land.

      And from the wall a little space,
         And by the trodden line,

      Stands, seen from many a distant place,
         A tall and slender shrine.
                                i2
        LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

It seems, so standing there alone,

    To those who come and go,
No pile of dull unconscious stone,

    But toucht with joy and woe ;

Seems to the stranger on his way,

   A friend that forth had set,

The parting moment to delay,
    And stands and lingers yet.

While to the long-gone traveller,
   Returning to his home,

It seems with doubtful greeting there

   Of joy or sorrow come.

Smiles have been there of beaming joy,
   And tears of bitter loss,

As friends have met and parted, by
    The Spinning Maiden's Cross.

For many have parted there and met,
    And many a year has run,

Since Wenzel there met Margaret,
    Since Margaret there spun.

Young Margaret has the gentlest heart
    Of all the maidens there,

Nor ever failed her constant part
    Of daily toil and prayer.

But when the Sabbath morn had smiled,
    And early prayer was o'er,

Then Margaret, gentle, still, and mild,
    Had happiness in store.

For then with Wenzel side by side,
   In calm delight she stray'd,

Amid the Prater's flowery pride,
   Or in the Augarten's shade.
1827 SPINNING MAIDEN'S CROSS.                             117

                    ' Gretchen beloved ! Gretchen dear !
                      Bright days we soon shall see ;

                  My master, lord of Lowethier,
                    Will link my lot with thee.

And there, upon the Kahlen's swell,
    Where distant Donau shines,

He gives a cot where we shall dwell,
    And tend his spreading vines.'

Though joy through Margaret sent a thrill,
   And at her eyes ran o'er ;

Few words she spoke for good or ill,
   Nor Wenzel needed more.

But when again the Sabbath-bell
    Had struck on Wenzel's ear,

A sadder tale had he to tell,
    And Margaret to hear.

' Gretchen beloved ! Gretchen dear !

   Joy yet ;-- but patience now ;
My master, lord of Lowethier,

   Hath bound him with a vow.

And he must to the Holy Land,
   Our Saviour's tomb to free ;

And I and all his faithful band

   Must with him o'er the sea.'

A swelling heart did Margaret press,
   But calm was she to view ;

Meekly she bore her happiness,
   Her sorrow meekly too.

Her solitary Sabbaths brought
   A prayer, a patient sigh,

As on the Holy Land she thought,

   Where saints did live and die.
       LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

But from the Holy Land soon came
   Returning pilgrims there,

And heavy tidings brought with them
   For Margaret's anxious ear.

For Wenzel is a captive made
   In Paynim dungeon cold,

And there must he till ransom paid
   A hundred marks of gold.

Alas for Margaret ! should she spin,
    And all her store be sold,

In one long year she scarce could win
   A single mark of gold.

Yet love can hope through good and ill,
    When other hope is gone ;

Shall she who loves so well be still,
    And he in prison groan ?

She felt within her inmost heart
   A strange bewilder'd swell,

Too soft to break with sudden start,
   Too gentle to rebel.

And what she hoped or thought to earn
   Poor Margaret never knew,

But on her distaff oft she'd turn
   A thoughtful, hopeful view.

And by the stone where last they met,
    Each day she took her stand ;

And twirl'd the thread till daylight set,
    With unremitting hand.

Her little store upon the stone
    She spread to passers-by ;

And oft they paused and gazed upon
   Her meek and mournful eye.
1827  SPINNING MAIDEN'S CROSS.                    119

      And e'en from those who had but few,

         Full oft a coin she won,

      And faster far her treasure grew
          Than e'er her hopes had done.

      But all in vain it grew, alas !
         Her destined ransom store ;

      For from the Holy Land there pass
         The travellers once more.

      And when to her their news they said,

         All cheer and hope were gone ;
      For Wenzel is in prison dead,

         His captive sorrows done.

      Then on her face what woe was set !
         Yet still she spun and spun,

      As if her hands could not forget

         The work they had begun.

      And still beside th' accustomed stone,

          Each day she took her stand,

      And twirl'd the thread till day was done,
         With unremitting hand.

      Through shine and rain, and heat and snow,
         Her daily task she plied ;

      And wrought for two long twelvemonth so,
          And then she gently died.

      They took the treasure she had won,

         Full many a varied coin ;

      And o'er the stone where she had spun,
         They raised that shapely shrine.

      And still Vienna's maids recall
         Her meekly sufFer'd loss,

      And point the fane beneath the wall,
         The Spinning Maiden's Cross
120 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                                                    1827

     On November 9, Lady Malcolm appears to have

been re-established at Eastbourne ; and a fragment of
a letter addressed to her there survives, in which Mr.
Whewell says :--

      It gave me pleasure, though of a very sad and melancholy

cast, to receive your short and kind note written when you

were about to leave poor Hyde Hall. It could not but give me

pleasure to find that you thought of me at such a time and

with such feelings; and I shall consider the date of my receiv

ing that memento as the period of my final separation from

that darling place, indeed, we are never to meet there again.
I

                                 if,
trust that you found at Eastbourne all that you wished, and

enough to dispel the gloom which your solitary sojourn so

naturally gathered.                                                               I is      well. Of

        hope Miss K. W. Malcolm, aged twelve,                                               should be

course was not to be doubted for a moment that
    I

         it

                I
more gratified with a letter written on October 3>' than on any

other day, and am most particularly obliged to Miss Manning
for complying with Kate's wise and kind suggestion. For that,

and all the kind words and thoughts of that day, shall have a
                                                               it

                                                                    is

                                                                       I
place in my memory. My dear Lady Malcolm, do not fancy                                      III

write so very ill out of pure caprice, for                     really all that
can do to find half an hour for such a pleasant employment --

do not mean as writing ill, but as writing to you at all. My

occupations have lately come so fast, and so completely choked

up the day, that have been ready to say with Damien, on the
morning when he was to be tortured, Le jour sera fort, mais
      I                                                 I                                   il
            I                                               '

               I

                             is
                                    a
finira.' read nothing, except that have got Scott's new book

on my table, which                                   book that will read itself.  I         have only

begun it, but am much pleased with the wise philosophy of

the account he gives of himself the resolution he formed to
                                                     :

avoid resting too much on his literary fame that he might
avoid the jealousy and inquietude of literary life. Adieu.

Romilly2 will rave My very affectionate remembrances to
    a1
all.                                      's

                                                  !
        Miss Kate Malcolm's birthday.                          shall borrow                 few minutes
       This portion of the letter began with            I'
longer, and Romilly dinner-party may wait.'
                                                                                         a
1827             PROFESSOR OF MINERALOGY.        121

To his Sister Ann]

    Though I have written to you so seldom I have sent you

the Cambridge paper, which contains every fortnight an article

written by me ; I mean the article about the Philosophical

ISociety, which, being the secretary, I am bound to furnish.

think you will be in no danger of being proud of this my
authorship if you look at the last article ; where, having
written very hastily, I have talked of a deformity in the teeth
of a rook instead of saying its bill. Is not this an absurd

mistake ?

      The following letter refers to Mr. Whewell's appoint
ment as Professor of Mineralogy. This took place early
in the year 1828, the appointment having been delayed
for nearly three years owing to legal difficulties respect
ing the proper mode of making it. He held the chair
for ten years, and then resigned it on his appointment as

Professor of Moral Theology or Casuistry --or, as he

preferred to call Professor of Moral Philosophy.
         Ia
To his Aunt and Sitters]  Cambridge: April 1828.
                          it,
                             it

                               I
                                                                   a
                                                                                        is is 4,
                                                              II
      You would probably see in Mr. Hodson's last paper that

had been appointed Professor of Mineralogy. My new dignity

is more matter of honour than of profit, for there no salary

attached to the office except 100Z. year, which  given by

Government to all our Professors who lecture, and which

suppose  shall receive, as shall lecture on minerals some

time next year.

     My forerunners in the professorship were in the first place
Dr. Clarke, for whom was founded-- the celebrated traveller

who went into Russia, Norway, Turkey, India, Egypt, and

various other countries about 1797 and the following years,

and wrote five or six large quartos on the subject of his travels,

which were very much read and admired. In the course of his

travels he made a considerable collection of minerals, which he

brought to Cambridge, and gave lectures upon them. After

having done this for two years he was appointed Professor, and
122 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.               1828

held the office until 1822, when he died. I knew him for some

time before his death, and considered him, as everybody did

who knew him, as one of the most delightful companions and
most highly gifted men that had ever come among us. No
body who did not know him can conceive the charm of his

eloquence and vivacity and good humour. He was followed
in the professorship by my very intimate friend Henslow, who

has since been appointed to the Professorship of Botany, and so

given up that of Mineralogy.
     Dr. Clarke's collection of minerals was after his death

purchased by the University for 1 ,500i., and of this I have the
care. I have been for some years employing myself a good

Ideal on matters connected with this subject, so that have

been desirous of making it my business as far as I have time
for it, and this it is now become.

To his Aunt and Sisters]  Tan-y-Bwlch Inn, N. Wal^s :
                                  June 15, 1828.

I am travelling with my friend Jones, and having left

London last Wednesday we have been exploring the most

picturesque parts of this country for the last four days. We

have taken up our headquarters at a place called Capel Curig,

which is an inn standing alone in one of the wildest and most

desolate parts of Wales, very near the steepest side of Snowdon.
The whole district consists of vast black moors ; and nigged
stony hill-sides, and little threads of streams tumbling along

their rocky beds ; and broad cloud-like mountains above. At

a small distance in every direction are valleys full of woods, and

pastures, and prettily situated houses, and everything which

makes a beautiful landscape.

We shall probably return to-morrow to our temporary home.

We have had beautiful weather and everything which could

make our travelling delightful. In a few days I must return

to Cambridge.

About this time Mr. Whewell wrote to Mr. Eose :--

I Ifam sorry to hear of your ast hma.  it arose from spend

ing your breath in preaching to us here, let it be your comfort

that it was not thrown away. You produced no small impres
1628            NAPIER'S 'PENINSULAR WAR.'  123

sion on people's minds, and, so far as I can judge, have no

reason to complain of being injured by juxtaposition with other

luminous bodies.

   I have only just begun Napier's ' Peninsular War.' Sedgwick

has read it, and is delighted with the military views which it

contains, but he is not insensible to the faults you mention.

He seems to think, and Peacock also, that it may change

people's opinion of Cintra and Moore. I think it was very bad

reading for a man with a weak chest, and so you seem to have
found it.

   I shall be in London in June for a day or two, and might

possibly make my Way to Horsham, if that were likely to suit

Iyour convenience ; but am sorry to say that this is not certain,

Ifor have to spend most of the month in making my pen

dulums rehearse the parts they will have to perform in Corn
wall in July.

     Mr. Wordsworth and his womankind and brother leave us

to-morrow for London. I wish I had seen more of him than I

have.

To his Sister]  Camboume, Cornwall: July 14, 1828.

      I am here with my former companion, Professor Airy, to

complete the experiments which we left unfinished before, and

we have this time a larger party than we had on the former

occasion. Professor Sedgwick and Sheepshanks are with us,

and two others.

    I came here by a very pleasant road through Salisbury and

Charmoutb, which is on the coast of Dorsetshire, and then

along the coast of the bay there, through a succession of pretty

watering-places to Torquay, and so across the country to Ply

mouth, where the opening of the river which forms the harbour

and the surrounding hills are very grand.

   I Ishall probably be here for some weeks, as Sedgwick and

are going to examine the rocks of this country, through a con

siderable extent, probably along the coast to the Land's End.

     The next family letter from Cambourne, August 10,
is addressed to Mrs. Statter, and expresses his warm
sympathy with her recent sorrow in the loss of her baby.

He continues :--
124 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

   II thought a few days ago that I had finished all that had

to do underground in the mine where we carry on our opera
tions, but in consequence of some imperfection in what we have
already done [a letter to his friend Mr. Richard Jones says :
' A rascally piece of steel deviated l0l00 of an inch from a
straight line, by the fault of Thomas Jones, of Charing Cross ']
it may possibly be necessary to repeat our experiments in part.
In the meantime the people here are very civil and obliging,
though most of them are sadly puzzled to make out what our
object is. They wonder exceedingly at the quantity of instru
ments which we have brought with us, and, to tell the truth,
very naturally, for our apparatus consists of three clocks and
about ten watches, large and small ; besides a great variety of
telescopes and measuring instruments with large iron and
wooden stands, some of which machines we have had to send

down a pit about ten times as deep as Lancaster church steeple
is high. One report which was circulated among the miners
with regard to us was that a star had fallen, and consequently

been missed in the sky, and that we had come to look for it in

the mines of Cornwall. The gentry in the neighbourhood have
 also been very civil to us, and we have all been to dine with
 Lord de Dunstanville, who is the great man in this part of the

world.

     As soon as I am at liberty here I intend to make a little

 tour round the Land's End, and so through a different part of
 the country back into the regions nearer home. My aunt, who
 likes flowers, would be delighted with this climate, which is
 remarkably favourable to them. Myrtles grow in the open
 air, and geraniums so exposed will live through the winter.
 Hydrangeas grow as large as apple trees, and many other
 greenhouse plants require no shelter. There is a very pretty

 heath which is, I believe, peculiar to certain districts in this

Icountry, and various other luxuries for florists of which know

Inothing.
        Remember me kindly to your husband, who hope is well.

 IYou have a new bishop1 of Chester, it appears ; he is, believe,

 a most excellent person. His books are very good. Give my
 love to my Aunt and Ann.

             1 J. B. Sumner, afterwards Archbishop of Canterbury.
1828               ST. MICHAEL'S MOUNT.                               125

To his Aunt]                                  Cambourne: Sept. 1.

      Several parts of this neighbourhood are    exceedingly beau

tiful, and remarkable on various accounts.
     Two or three nights ago
called St. Michael's Mount.     we were        at a very   striking place,
                                              a castle of   Sir John St.
                                  It is

Aubyn's, situated on an insulated rock        as large as a moun
tain, in the                                  We paid him a visit
              middle    of  Penzance Bay.
there, and I  slept in      room which had    a door opening upon
                         a                    moonlight of the sea

the leads, and thus giving me a view by
on one side, and of the shores of the bay on the other.
      The castle itself is a
thick walls, and winding      curious    old building,  with immensely
                              passages,   and narrow    staircases. The

dining-room is     a hall exactly like   the  dining-hall of a college,
                   arches supporting     the  roof, and heavy curious-
with dark oak

shaped wooden chairs, one of which was        a  long      time  ago  the
chair of the Abbot of Glastonbury.
     Sir John keeps two boats, with rowers to manage them who
wear a very peculiar dress. They have
skirts, and white short petticoats over       red coats with gathered
                                              their white trousers, a
large plate of metal with his coat of arms on the left arm, and
leathern helmets on their heads.
       In a boat manned by these sailors we went a mile or two to
see the catching of pilchards, which is one of the principal em
ployments of people here, and is  a very curious and lively
     We afterwards, at Penzance,  went to see the way in         sight.
                                                                 which
these fish are cured. The quantity of them is quite enormous,
a large yard being filled with them so deep that it would take
a person up to the middle ; and all round this heap women are
employed in building the fish in stacks, with layers of salt
between   them.    After they have lain there
          barrels  and the oil squeezed out,     some time       they are
put into                                         and they        are then

ready for eating. They are very like a herring, but fatter,
and most people think not so good.

filthWhen they are stacked, the smell is so offensive, and the
it.    so disgusting, that you  would wonder
       They receive threepence   an hour, and  how the women bear
                                               are obliged to drink
a glass of brandy every three hours to enable them to support
the labour.
126 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

To his Sister]                              Milton: Dec. 25, 1828.

A happy Christmas to you, and many returns of it. I came

here yesterday, and expect to be able to finish my letter this

fine Christmas morning, before other people come down to

breakfast.

    I am sitting here with Milton Park spread out before my

window, a beautiful lawn extending to a great distance

(tenanted   by an  abundance   of   deer),  and with a  piece  of water
close by,  where,                           to go and   look,
                   I believe,  if  I were                      I should

find water-fowl of various kinds, tame and wild, taking their

morning swim.

    I agree very exactly with what you say of Miss Kelty, but
I should like much to know what are the particulars in which
you think she reasons ill. I always considered it to be a defect

in the book that its reference to Madame de StaeTs writings

would only be understood by those who had read them and

been much carried away by them, which I believe was Miss

Kelty's case formerly, but which cannot apply to any large

portion of her readers. However, there may be many who may

be profited by the book in various ways.

     The Christmas of 1828 and of several subsequent

years was spent by Professor Whewell at Milton. In
the course of January 1829 he went to London to be
present at the marriage of his friend Sir John Herschel
to Miss Stewart. In April he Avrote to Mr. Wilkinson :

   I think I am scarcely likely to be in the north this year :
it seems to me that I must absolutely revisit Germany and

Switzerland. I have been living for the last eight years upon

my recollections, very imperfect ones, of the Alps ; and really I

Icannot be such a bear as to go on sucking my paws any longer.

   have not yet traced the detail of my intended course ; but I
shall, as soon as the business of the year begins to fall away
from about me, put on my travelling cap and turn its visor

towards the south. In the meantime I have got enough to

employ the ' shining ' hours of May ; for, besides the usual work
of lecturing men in Newton, and scolding them for keeping late

hours, I have to give my first course of lectures in Mineralogy.
MR. CAVENDISH.                                     127

I have got several nice things to say upon this latter subject

which it would do you good to hear.

   These inevitable employments come upon me so fast that I

must give up the earth's density to others, and go on walking

about upon its surface without knowing how much denser it is

than its inhabitants. No doubt this is humiliating enough ;

but really the mining experiments are such hard labour, and
take so much time, that I have not courage to resume them.
Moreover, our pendulums have taken to such bad ways that I
Icannot tell how to set about reforming them.
                                               have no clear
notion where the fault was, and till that is made out I see no

good in repeating the experiment.

    Nothing seems yet settled about our chance of an election.
Some talk of Cavendish, the future Duke of Devonshire, who

last year was second wrangler, first Smith's prizeman, &c. ; but

he seems to be considered too young.

    June 3, he writes to the same correspondent that
Mr. Cavendish

Is now a candidate, and I can truly say that there has never

been a young man under my notice who offers a better promise

of the qualities that we should desire. If you think that we
ought to have something more than promise, I can only say

that to elect Cavendish now seems to me the only chance of

electing him at all ; that it must be considered as a proof that

we rest his pretensions entirely upon his academical character.

He is really a very excellent mathematician, both as to talent

and acquirement, inventive as well as solid ; and, with regard

to his character, he is more candid, modest, and reasonable than
Iany pupil ever had ; utterly free from the exaggeration and
Ilove of novelty which our clever men often have.
                                                   cannot

pretend to say what his opinions may be on particular points ;

but I am sure that he will never want respect and attachment

for the University, or any other portion of our inherited insti

tutions, and that no shade of weakness, concession, or dishonour

will ever visit his name.

His opponent, George Bankes, comes forward with some

attempt to make himself the representative of the no-popery

men, though, in fact, he is supported by the pro-popery Ministry,
128 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.               1829

Ior, at least, some of them.  cannot but feel some indignation

at the carelessness which some of these gentlemen show with

regard to the dignity and consistency of the University ; but I

hope we shall leave them only the merit of having attempted

to sacrifice it to their own fancies.
    I hope you will come and help us to show that we wish to
select our representative on higher grounds. I believe the
election will be at the end of next week, and I shall be quite
rejoiced to see your face before I set forth for foreign parts,
Iwhich will be my next employment.
                                       hope you will be able

to come.

     Whether or not Mr. Wilkinson came up from
Sedbergh to vote, Ave know that Mr. Cavendish was
returned member for the University of Cambridge at
this election.

     The pocket-books of this year contain a brief pencil
diary, and also a number of votes and memoranda, chiefly
mineralogical and architectural, made during the tour in
Germany, Switzerland, and Italy, upon which Mr.

Whewell started on July 4. In the course of it he went

to a certain Herr Ober Baurath Moller, at Darmstadt, to

whom he had letters, and heard from him the story of
the discovery of the original drawings of the cathedral
at Cologne. Herr Moller told him, as we learn from a

note book :

      He had already studied Cologne, so that he was familiar

with its details ; he also knew that there had formerly been

belonging to the church many of these drawings. It was a

well-known fact that there had been such, but nobody knew

what had become of them. It was naturally enough supposed

that the French had got hold of them, and that they had been

Icarried to Paris, and (if understood him well) a search was

made there, but with no success. In fact the drawings seemed

to be a hopeless history. ' One morning,' he said, ' a young

Iman came to me, a painter whom knew, and offered me some

old rolls of parchment, drawings of architecture ; he had told
1820  fLAN OF COLOGNE CATHEDRAL.               129

me of them before : he described them as drawings of Strasburg
I ICathedral. I began to unroll the parchment. From a small
portion of the lower part recognised Cologne.  had before
Idrawn it, and knew that the original drawings had disappeared.
My wife, who was sitting by making coffee, said that I turned
quite pale immediately. I told my friend that I should be
glad to have his parchments, that I would pay him for them,
which he declined. I had them unrolled then, found them
Iwhat had expected, and was overjoyed.
      ' As to the history of this affair it appears to be this. The

treasures of Cologne were saved by being sent to Prague. At

the peace of Luneville, the commissioners who were to settle

the interests of the conterminous states met at Darmstadt, at the

Grape. All official papers were brought there ; and among the
rest it would seem these Cologne ones. After the arrangement
of affairs, the French ambassador, who had the management of

these matters, left a quantity of papers and documents, which

appeared to him useless, to be disposed of by the waiter at the

Grape. Among these was this Cologne drawing. It was stuffed

into a granary, was used for some time for drying beans, and

might have lain there till now but for an event (query,

the peace of 1814?) which brought about an illumination.

Parchments were then sought out for transparencies, and among

the rest it would seem that my friend the painter got possession

of this one, which I had from him.'

      The diary shows that Mr. Whewell habitually talked
to all his fellow-travellers and extracted from them all

the information he could. Sometimes a servant f<t rirl fgtoingo
to place tells him about wages ; or a Belgian laments the
high duty upon distillation, which shuts up all the
smaller stills ; or an ex-Franciscan or Benedictine monk

tells him how the convent land was farmed, the wages

of the lay brethren, &c. He always offered a seat in his
hired carriage to any intelligent person travelling in the
same direction. At Spires he notes that he fell in with
a Frenchman who had been quarrelling with the Douane
on occasion of his bringing from Baden a musical

                                                  K
130 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                  1829

instrument with keys, the notes of which are produced

as in the wind harmonica, and adds : ' The difficulty of

getting on with a German in conversation strikes one

more on meeting a Frenchman. The German answers

all your questions with the most sincere goodwill, but
there you stick --you never set him off.'

    At Cologne he says : ' The architect at Beauvais seems
to have tried to do that in which the architect of

Cologne has succeeded-- enormous clerestory, open tri-

Iforium, double tracery in both think. The effect is

delightful and majestic' And at Strasburg he remarks
' that the cathedral there is the realisation of what

Cologne was intended to be, so far as transparency is

concerned. The proportions are very different, but the

triforium, made into window with double tracery and

coloured glass, makes the whole like the inside of a parti
coloured jewel. Nothing can be more rich and vision-

like, though it has not the sober and proportioned dig

nity of a building with a triforium.' After visiting the

source of the Danube in Prince Flirstenburg's grounds,
he mentions his arrival at ' the edge of the great basin of

Switzerland --a most glorious prospect. The Lake of

Constance spread out on the left, the cloudy and uncer

tain Alps in the distance, and in the midst of the scene

six grand castled eminences scattered over a space of
five or six miles. The summits bold, and rising abruptly

from the more level land, and the ruins one more
Ifpicturesque than another.
                               the snowy Alps are seen
I Ifrom hence, as am told is the case in clear weather,
Icannot imagine a more magnificent view.
              to-morrow --and          '  hope for a
                                     !
fine morning                   then

The entry next morning unfortunately is : ' August 7--

Wretchedly bad weather ' ; however, after quarrelling with
tailor and shoemaker, he adds : ' Off to Schaffhausen --
1820  SCHAFFHAUSEN.  131

went immediately to the fall. It is grand in all aspects,

but standing in the gallery, all the surrounding objects
confused by the blinding spray and a sort of eternity of
waters hurrying past and filling the eye, one can scarce
believe that the solid universe is not drifting away with

immeasurable violence. They have managed also that

the water leaps at you, and only seems just to fall
short by a foot.'

ITo the Rev. Hugh James Rose] Grimsel: Aug. 18, 1829.
         am living an exceedingly pleasant vagabond idle sort of
life, walking twenty or thirty miles a day among the highest

parts of the Alps, and, as I have nothing to do in the intervals

Iof gazing at snow mountains and waterfalls but think about my

friends, it is only reasonable that should write to them, or

otherwise how should they be the wiser for my thinking ? To

tell the truth, I cannot promise you that you will be the wiser
for my writing, for I have nothing to talk about but myself and

my whereabouts ; and the circumstances that are to me most

striking and important are such as it is not easy to convey in

Idescription.
         am just arrived here after seeing on my road the glacier
from which the Rhone issues, and a magnificent sight it is.

IWhen first began to travel amongst picturesque scenery, I
Ihad a great desire ' to hunt the waterfalls,' as the poet hath it ;
and I pursued this chase till found that it generally ended in

disappointment. All the celebrated waterfalls are either too
low, like Schaflhausen, or too scantily supplied with water, like
the Staubbach; and at last I came to the conviction that a proper

and complete waterfall is not to be found. Nature has got an
abundance of water in the highest valleys of the earth, and on

the very tops of her tallest and wildest mountains, but she does
not choose to amuse mankind by tossing a river half-a-mile

abroad down a precipice a thousand feet high, though it would

be no trouble to her to do so. She either leads the rivulets

down into the plains by an endless number of small leaps, as if

she were educating them for a large plunge just as they lose
the opportunity of making it ; or she splits them into small

                                                       x2
132 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

filaments till they have hardly weight enough to drop down the
hill sides when it becomes necessary for them to do it. And

these being the courses she pursues, I had, as I have said, de

spaired of seeing a proper waterfall, complete in its dimensions

and proportions.

    IFrom the sight of the Rhone-glacier, however, have learnt
Ithat nature has a love for the form of a waterfall such as

desired to see, but that for some good reason (possibly to

prevent the valley below from being inundated) she turned the
waterfall to ice as soon as she had set it a-going. You are to

imagine (if you have seen it you are to recollect, which will
have the advantage of giving you a still more distinct con

ception) a waterfall half-a-mile broad and a thousand feet high,

leaping down between mountains, gigantic even when compared

with its dimensions, and laden with eternal snows ; and you are

to suppose that this vast sheet of water, as soon as it touches

the bottom of the valley into which it plunges, boils up and
spreads itself over a far wider space as it rushes away. You

are then to wave the wand of your imagination a second time,

and to turn all this cataract to ice, and you will have the

glacier of the Rhone. You are to suppose all the partial

torrents and bounds of water which are woven together to make

its expanse to be modelled in strange and fantastic pyramids of

ice with deep blue chasms between ; and the lines of the water

below, as it diverges and hastes away, to be pencilled with the
Isame deep crevices.
                      am afraid that all this is not much in
description, but to look it in the face under a beautiful blue

sky is a good employment for an August morning.

    I have been living with all sorts of odd people for the last

week or two. My regidar guide is a proper patriotic guide of

Schwytz, who has sent his son to learn French at Lausanne, and

is doubting whether he shall make him a guide like himself, a

Iwaiter at an inn, or a priest. Besides him have had an old

Imerry chamois hunter, a cowman from one of the highest

chalets of the Alps, and a Grison crystal hunter, from whom

got much valuable information in the way of my craft. My
hosts have been either worthy landammans or priests. Last

Inight established myself in a little village under the shoulder

of St. Gothard, considerably above the line of trees and corn,
1820 REALP. 133

and a little below that of snow. When I had been there a

little while, my host appeared in the shape of a Capuchin friar,

with a brown beard, coarse wrapper and hood, and a knotted

rope round his middle. He discoursed to me concerning his

parishioners, whom he explained to be a milk- eating people,

without want, superfluity, or disease ; with no meat, firing, or

summer. There is no secular clergyman there, and my friend

with the hood is clerk, parson, and schoolmaster for the village.

The provincial makes his visitation every now and then, and if

he finds that the Capuchin has too much butter or cheese, the

only articles in which he can be superfluous, he sends the

excess to some parish or convent where there is too little. In

such cases as this (Realp is the name of the village) one can

understand the advantage that there is in having a body of

clergy under vows of poverty and obedience, who may supply

the want of a sufficient national establishment.
I have been clambering over the backs of glaciers and up to

the tops of divers horns and culms with much gratification. A
very idle life it is, but I expect to return not a ' sadder and a
Iwiser man ' perhaps, but rather less sad and more ignorant.
do not know whether I can do anything for you among those
Ivery worthy people the Germans ; but if
                                                  can, write to

IHeidelberg. There is to be a marvellous Gesammlung of

Naturforschers there, which I, all unworthy as am, shall try to
Iattend.
          hope you are well and prosperous, pummelling the

Germans and the heterodox as much as is good for them and
Iyou, and no more.
                    shall be rejoiced to meet you in Cambridge
Iagain, and by that time, having talked with divers Germans,

may be enabled to discourse to you about faith and reason

more obscurely than ever but perhaps with reasonable modera

tion and good hope of coming to a conclusion. Give my best

regards to Mrs. Rose, and beg her of all love to establish herself
Iin a more collegiate part of Cambridge in the autumn.
                                                        hope

your asthma has ceased to persecute you, and that you are able
I Ito execute your duties of Christian Advocate.
                                                  grieve that

must turn my face northwards again without ' doing my Italy,'

as some of our friends very classically call it, but there is no

help for it.

   I am writing here, 6,570 feet above the sea (according to
134 LITE OF DR. WIIEWELL.                 1829

Ebel), in a house full of foolish English men and women. Why
should they climb so high ? I believe they rise like balloons, in
proportion to their want of ballast. Adieu. I am becoming
Isleepy and peevish suppose.

     The following letter to his sister, Miss Whewell, con
taining some brief account of the remainder of his tour,

is interesting because of a characteristic, and amusingly
earnest, protest against the habit of checking admira
tion by comparison. He was always impatient of it, as

of an unworthy attempt to account for or justify an
imperfect sensibility to beauty, and used frequently to

say we should do much better if we had no compara
tives or superlatives in the language -- ' or were debarred

from all use of them except for purposes of mensura

tion.'

To his Sister]  Nuremberg: Sept. 13, 1829.

I got your letter at Munich, having previously written to you

from Milan.

    I am glad you have been seeing the English Lakes, and are

pleased with them. They do not much resemble the celebrated

lakes and valleys abroad, but we are not on that account to sup

pose that they are necessarily inferior. Their beauty is of a dif

ferent kind and on a smaller scale, but in its way is as exquisite

and perfect as anything which is to be found in any country.

The people of former times who made the proverb that ' Com
parisons are odious ' were wise and sensible people ; for nothing

can be more tiresome than to hear people talk as if all beauties

at home were to be compared with something in other countries,

and to be considered as worthless because they are not of the

same class. So, if anybody tells you that our lakes are far in

ferior to the scenery of Switzerland and Italy, you may depend

upon it that they are not good judges of beauty; and that, not

having any distinct feeling of pleasure from what they see, they

substitute instead of this feeling a habit of considering objects as

first, second, third, &c, of their kind.

So you see the end of it is that you cannot do better than
1850              MUNICH.                           135

admire our lakes and mountains at home, and if you have the

opportunity and taste to do this you need not repine that you

cannot visit the regions of Alpine snow and the birthplaces of

gigantic rivers.

   You may tell my aunt that I have this time had a very

delightful ramble in Switzerland, though far too short. So
I Ipleasant, indeed, that though I had by no means good weather
was hardly conscious of this at the time.  worked my way

through clouds and rain as well as through clear and sunshine,

Iand was only convinced by looking back upon my tour that

Ihad had but an indifferent portion of the latter.  went on to

     After passing through Switzerland to Milan
Verona, where I saw many things which interested me, but with

far too short an allowance of time.

   I am here at Nuremberg, in the most central and oldest

part of Germany, and am quite delighted with the number and

style of the old buildings and with the old-fashioned looks and

ways of the people. Throughout the whole of Bavaria this is

remarkable : but there is a difference between the Protestant part

Iin which am now, and the southern portion, which is Catholic.
   IAt Munich saw a ceremony which was new to me; a

young priest was to perform mass for the first time, and it

appears that the custom is on such occasions to choose a little
girl, of five or six years old, who is called his bride. This little

girl, and a very large troop of girls and young women who form

the supposed bridal party, attend the ceremony at church. They

are dressed in their finery and flowers, and have garlands of

flowers round their left arms. They also wore the Munich

headdress, which consists of a curious bag of rich gold or silver

stuff for the curls at the back of the head, which looks very gay.

After the ceremony there is an entertainment, and used to be

dancing, but the latter is now forbidden.

To Lady Malcolm]  Trinity College : Feb. 7, 1830.
      I have been reading the 'Life of Sir Thomas Munro,' which

has exceedingly interested and pleased me. The man's cha

racter and progress, the history of the country, the letters

included in the book (several of Sir John Malcolm and of the
Duke of Wellington) have given to it quite an irresistible charm,
136 LIFE OF Bit. WHEWELL.                                                   1830

and in  perusing it  I have been   storcuccukrrreedpeattoedmlye--witthhaat  reflexion
which                                                                       the im
        has many     times before

portant and responsible employments of our countrymen who
manage our oriental possessions give them a practical dignity of

character and wisdom of view which few or none of our European
statesmen reach. In the East officers have to deal with the
characters and conditions and interests of nations ; here in Eng

land our politicians are wrangling about the projects of parties

or the advancement of individuals. I often think that if there

be native historians and essayists and poets they must talk of

our principal Indian soldiers and politicians as the earliest

European poets and historians talked of the great conquerors

and lawgivers who were the founders of European civilisation

and advancement. I am delighted at the prospect of discussing
such matters with Sir John on his return, which I hope will

take place safely and prosperously before long.

     In January of this year Professor Whewell passed a

week with Lord Milton. In June he visited Sir John

and Lady Herschel at Slough. August found him at
Bristol, whence he went with Mr. Kickman for a tour in

Devonshire and Cornwall. Later in the year he was at
Lancaster, but this year seems to have been so full of
work as to leave less time than usual for letters, and,

excepting an undated one to Mr. Wilkinson (accom
panying a little book, apparently an architectural
treatise), and probably belonging to this time, none
have been found which possess much general interest.

To the Rev. H. Wilkinson]

I should have answered your letter sooner, but various

                             One of these matters is the accom

                           will tell you its own story -- hope
matters have prevented it.

Ipanying little book, which
Iin an intelligible dialect.  did not expect that it would have
been so long before I should have been able to send it you, for I
began to print it mainly with the intention of getting rid of the
subject, of throwing it off my hands and out of my head, that I

might attend to other things. But I found, as always happens,
1830  JONES'S BOOK.                            137

that it is easier to get into the hands of the printer than out of

them.

   IHowever, have now put my notions upon arches in such a

form that you may perhaps make out something of my specula

tions. You will find that I have seen arches in various forms, but
none, I think, precisely with such a makeshift as you have got.

At Bayeux they came nearest to it, for they have stuck in a pier
between each two of the original ones, as I have mentioned in

my book. I should like much to go about this country, and
Iothers, collecting such examples of transition practices, but

believe the fates forbid my doing anything without interruption
I Ifor some time to come.
      do not think shall pursue my

German churches during the coming summer.

    It is a journey something like that in the Vision of Mirza,

where you have arches more and more obscure, more and more

I Iimperfectly formed, till at last you can see them no further.
       believe am more likely to make a progress through

I Idivers parts of England ending with the ' north countree,' and

if do this it shall go hard but shall see you at Sedbergh,

Iprovided you are visible.

      think I must put off till then any detailed account of the

present state of progress of most of our friends. Jones's book on

Political Economy is in the University Press, and will, I expect,
/aire epoque in the science, when it does appear, which I would

Ihope will be this next spring, but he is heinously dilatory.
         write in haste, knowing that the discount upon a letter is

to many people (and you may be one of them) calculated at

a high rate ; that a little and ill written one now is better

than a long and orderly one two months hence.

     Lady Milton died in December 1830, and Mr. Whewell
paid no Christmas visit at Milton.

     The first letter to his sister of this year contains
indications of the various subjects which had been
engaging his attention in the busy months of the past

year.
     Writing to his friend Mr. Wilkinson a little later, he

declares, ' We are all becoming wonderfully learned in
138 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                  1881

architecture here, and the agitation of the question has
done more in that way than the erection of a professor
ship of architecture and two scholarships could have

done.'

To his Sister]        Trinity College: Feb. 16, 1831.

I am afraid you will not find in my packet much to interest

you. The 4 British Critic ' contains two articles which you may

place among my other valuable works which you have got,
the one on the ' Cambridge Transactions ' and the one on ' Lyell's

Geology.' The pamphlet about our architectural controversies I
Ihave a hand in, but I send it only to make up, for do not

expect you to care for such matters.

   I am glad that you like the ' Rectory of Valehead.' It has been

very popular, and Evans tells me that he is just called upon for
Ia third edition.
                   mentioned to him the deficiency which you
suggested --that the mother of the family was not introduced.

He allowed the justice of the criticism, and declared his inten

tion of acting upon it and of introducing such a person in the
new edition. It is a wonder certainly that she was not part of

the original scheme.

I IThe book occasioned by the Bridgewater Bequest, about which
  heard from the' Bishop of London when was at Lancaster, will

Ihardly be written till the Long Vacation. can scarce find time

for my common employments now, and shall want a little leisure

for that.

     During the journeyings which occupied the summer
of this year Mr. Whewell wrote thus to his friend Pro

fessor Ilenslow at Cambridge :--

                      Edenaor, near Bakewell.

I Ihave got so far on my way northwards.  have been ram

bling about this country with great pleasure, much delighted

with the performances of the limestone and its rivers. On the
Iwhole have had beautiful weather, but my last expedition, the
Iday before yesterday, was an exception.
                                          went through Dove-

dale enveloped in a most persevering rain. In the middle of the

glen, and of course of the rain, I met Power, Thomas, and two
1331            DOVEDALE.                                139

Iother men, think, both of Cambridge, who were doing their

duty as seers of sights no less resolutely than Airy and my

Iself. However, Dovedale is worth a little inconvenience, for

do not think anything can be more beautiful than the closest

part of the ravine, with its spires of rock and robes of wood and
moss. Mrs. Airy was one of our companions in the expedition
of which this was a portion, but she fortunately avoided all the

rainy part of our travels.

To his Sister]  Cambridge: Sept. 19, 1831.
      I I Imade a very pleasing expedition after left you. went

Iup the valley of the Winning, under Mr. Pilling's management,

very prosperously. It is so wide and flat that daresay you

would hardly call it a valley ; but with the hills of Bolland on

Ione side and those of Ingleton on the other, though distant,
Iwas very glad to connect it with what knew before of the shape

of the country. Towards the end of my gig-travelling we got

in front of Ingleborough, who looked very magnificent, but never

got his head quite clear of clouds, and consequently made no

signs of intelligence at my having come out of my way to look

at him.

      My two-wheeled vehicle carried me to Settle, and after a

short pause there the coach came and shoved me onwards to

Skipton. IAfter that was obliged to take to an independent

Iconveyance in order to get to Harrogate, which is two stages

across country. At the end of the first was rather puzzled,

for the last of the chaises belonging to the place was already
taken. Luckily the gentleman who had taken it was going to

Harrogate, had not yet started, and was willing to take me

Iwith him. What was better : when we had agreed to travel

together, found he was Dr. Lingard of Hornby, the Roman

Catholic, a person of no small note in the literary world, the

author of a very celebrated history of England. We had met

fifteen years ago at a ball at Kirkby Lonsdale, and he appeared
Ias glad to renew our acquaintance as was.
                                            reckoned on
   I IAt Harrogate found my friend,1 whom

seeing there, at dinner in a gay company of about eighty
Ipersons, as fine as people can be at a watering-place.
                                                         took up

                1 Mr. Lodge.
140 LIFE OF DR. WIIEWELL. 1831

my abode there for a few days, but was tempted away during

two of them to visit a fine range of architectural remains which
I Ifound I was within reach of.
                                 saw Ripon Minster and

Fountains Abbey, which are not very far from Harrogate ; and

then struck across the country into the east of Yorkshire, a

part entirely new to me. I found both the scenery and the
ruins far more beautiful than I had imagined. The Hambleton
Hills are bleak and black, and when I crossed them were vexed
with a very fierce storm of thunder and hail ; and when I got
to the other side I found myself in the most luxuriant and
Isecluded green dells which ever saw.

     These deep valleys go winding and forking in all directions,

Iand in one of the richest and deepest of them found the
magnificent ruin of Rivaulx Abbey. I had hardly daylight

enough to see this well, and got late and wet to Helmsley,

where I slept. Next morning was all blotted with mist and
Irain ; however, went back to take another look at Rivaulx,
which is, I think, the most beautiful object I ever saw ; and
Ithen crossed the hills again by another road to the ruins of
Byland Abbey. I got to Harrogate again in time to find my

friend Lodge presiding as Master of the Ceremonies at a grand

coronation ball.

    Next morning I turned my face to the south, and got here

in about twenty-two hours, only turning aside at Leeds for an

hour to see Kirkstall Abbey -- also a very fine ruin. All this

Iarchitectural sight-seeing was so much clear gain, for did not
Ireckon upon it when I left you. Since my arrival have been

in Hertfordshire for a few days visiting Mr. Mai thus.

To his Sister]  Cambridge: Oct. 31, 1831.

     Besides the common bustle of this time of the year with us,

you will have seen that we have had a county election

going on.

    It ended to-day, the Tory candidate having gone on till he

had a majority of 547 against him and then resigned. We ex
pected that there might have been some tumult and disturbance
in the town on this occasion, people's minds being so much
excited about politics at present. But instead of this it ha*
16-32  HOP VINTAGE.  141

gone on, so far, more quietly than a common election, and I hope

Iwill pass off in the same tranquil manner.

      think it is since I wrote to you that I have been in Kent.
I went after taking my part in the election of fellows which

always ends October 1, and was absent for about a week or ten
days, partly in London and partly at Brasted, near Sevenoaks.

IThe hop harvest, or rather, I believe should say, the hop vin
tage, was over when I reached the hop country ; which I was

sorry for, for it is one of the most picturesque of country occu

pations.

     The events of 1832 are told with tolerable complete
ness in the following letters. Work connected with
a new edition of his book on Dynamics recalled him to
Cambridge immediately after his Christmas visit to
Milton, and kept him busily employed all the term. In
a letter to Mr. Wilkinson of March 16, he says, ' Briarly
has been writing pamphlets on the mathematics of the
Reform Bill, in which he makes out that the proper

measure of the weight of a borough is -- ; w being the

wealth, and P the population. Gwatkin has written him
word that he has altogether left out in his formula the

important quantities, I (intelligence), and E (religion).'

     In June he attended the meeting of the British
Association at Oxford, going thence with Professor
Sedgwick for a few days' tour to Stratford-on-Avon, and
other not distant places. During August he travelled,
undismayed by cholera, with Mr. Bickman in Normandy,
and, along with him, suffered detention as a dangerous

character.

     An undated letter to Mrs. Statter may probably be
referred to this year, and is interesting as giving ex
pression to his admiration and regard for Mrs. Somer-
ville, feelings which long subsequent years of friendship
did but confirm and increase.
142 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                         1832

Among other things I have been occupied during the last

week with a very remarkable lady of my acquaintance who has

been visiting Cambridge. This is Mrs. Somerville, who is one

of the best mathematicians in England, and has recently pub
lished a book called ' The Mechanism of the Heavens,' one of

the most profound works that has yet appeared on the subject

of the Newtonian philosophy of the Universe. It is full of

extremely long and difficult calculations, and is not only a very

extraordinary book to come from the pen of a lady, but would

do credit to any mathematician that England has ever produced.

"What makes this still more remarkable is that Mrs. Somerville is

a very feminine, gentle, lively person, with no kind of pretence

to superiority in her manners or conversation ; and that she

possesses in a very great degree all the usual accomplishments

of ladies, such as music, drawing, and various languages. She

herself educates her daughters, and there are no girls better

taught. Her husband, Dr. Somerville, is physician at Chelsea

Hospital at present, having filled medical situations of consider

able eminence in various foreign parts. They have been at Cam

bridge for a week, and everybody has been much pleased to find

that a person so celebrated as Mrs. Somerville  is,so pleasing
                                                    is
and unassuming, which, however much people may wonder at
it, the most common in persons of the most real strength;I
is
               itof mind.                                  a is

From Cambridge they came to Audley End, Lord Bray-

brooke's house, fifteen miles from Cambridge, where am also

visiting at present, and whence write. Audley End one of
                                 'I
the finest and largest nobleman's houses in England not quite
so large as Lord Fitzwilliam's house in Yorkshire, but of more

beautiful kind of architecture.

     Perhaps Mr. Whewell's sonnet To Mrs. Somerville,a'of '
on her " Mechanism of the Heavens," may appropri
ately find place here.

To Mrs. Somerville on her Mechanism             the Heavens.''

Lady, was the wont in earlier days

When some fair volume, from valued pen,
Long looked for, came at last, that grateful men
Hail'd its forthcoming in complacent lays
                                                ;
1832            MRS. SOMERVILLE.                             143

As if the Muse would gladly haste to praise

That which her mother, Memory, long should keep
Among her treasures. Shall such usage sleep
With us who feel too slight the common phrase
For our pleas'd thoughts of you, when thus we find
That dark to you seems bright, perplext seems plain,
Seen in the depths of a pellucid mind,

Full of clear thought, pure from the 111 and Vain

That cloud our inward Light ; an honoured name

Be yours, and peace of heart grow with your growing fame !

To his Sister]                  Cambridge: March 13, 1832.
     I Ishould like much to have one of my aunt's purses, but
Ihave a great belief
hold money, and I

in a short time let
                that anything made of beads is not good to
                find that purses,
                                    even of  the strongest   make,
                out the money --      mean   at the bottom,   for as

Ito its getting out at the top there is no help for that, and indeed

  believe that people carry purses on purpose that it may do

so.  I Ihave been, if possible, busier than usual; for, when had

Imade up my mind how  would employ myself this year,

there came to me the bookseller, and told me that a new edition

Iof one of my mathematical books was wanted ; and on looking

at it found that it was quite necessary to write nearly as much
more as I had previously printed. This has kept me incessantly
Iemployed ever since the 1st of January, and am only just
Ibeginning to see my way to the end of my labour.
                                                   shall have
Ito publish two volumes instead of one, and perhaps three.
should have been glad to have   been spared this employment of
                                to the Bridgewater dissertation ;
my time, for I want to give it
Ibut had undertaken the task of teaching our Cambridge folks
Ithis branch of mathematics, and must do it as well as can.
    A lady, Mrs. Somerville, has been publishing a book on the

same subject, and a very good one it is ; and I want to make my
book correspond with hers, so that they may each help to make

the other intelligible and useful.

    You mentioned in one of your letters something about the
tides in some of the islands of the Pacific Ocean. The tides
which are there mentioned are not real tides, but only the effects
                                                                     -

144 LITE OF DR. WHEWELL.                             1832

of the sea and land breezes, which raise the water at the same

hour every day ; but if you do find in your missionary books, or

any other books, any notices about the tides, let me know, for

I believe I shall have to write something about them, and all

information on the subject will be useful.

    It is even too true that in spite of all my entreaties, which,

as you say, were very moving, we have as yet got no museums ; but
you will see by the last Cambridge paper that they are thinking

of making one for my minerals. I hope they will manage it ; if

they do not, the only way is to beg again, for we get on but
slowly with such things in this place.

    If you can borrow the last ' Quarterly Review,' you will find
an article there on Lyell's ' Geology,' which I hope is not very

unintelligible, as it was intended for general readers.

To his Sister]       Cambridge: May 24, 1832.

II daresay you will recollect that the day on which  am
Iwriting is my birthday, and so I take for granted all your good
wishes upon it.      do not think it likely that I shall be able to
visit Lancaster this summer, for I have a great deal of work to

Ido, which I cannot do anywhere so well as here, and have two
Ior three visits to pay, which will take up, think, all the time
I Iwhich can spare from Cambridge. Almost as soon as can
leave College I must go to the meeting at Oxford, the con

tinuation of that which was held at York last year, and which
I could not attend.
   IIn the course of the summer I believe
apartments in which I live for another set.   shall change the
                                             My present habi

tation is very pleasant in many ways, and especially at present,

for my windows open down to my grass plat, and the lilacs and

other flowers are all in full pride.  But there are other things

Iwhich do not like so well.

     So, as a very pretty set of rooms is about to become vacant,

I Ithink shall take them. They are beautifully situated,

being on the second story looking along a fine walk of limes,
with the nearest pair of trees almost waving against the win

dows.

    I went to London a few days ago, and found Mrs. Somer-

ville and her two daughters walking under the shade of the
1832               TOUR IN NORMANDY.       145

trees of her College -- Chelsea College ; a fine place of the style

and time of William III., dignified though formal.

To his Sister]        Caen: Aug. 20, 1832.

I do not think you will suppose me imprudent in coming
here, if you recollect that my companion (Mr. Rickman) is a
grave, business-like, oldish Quaker, a married man and the father

of a family, who would naturally neither wish to expose him
self to danger, nor would be allowed to do so by his wife if

there were anything to apprehend. In fact, this country is not

more afflicted by the cholera than yours.

Hitherto our expedition has answered extremely well ; we

have had for the most part very fine weather and abundance of

curious churches.

Our road has been through Calais, where we landed a

fortnight ago, by Boulogne, Abbeville, Amiens, Beauvais, and

Rouen. I have been this morning to see an ancient abbey

church which was founded by Matilda, the wife of William the

Conqueror. It only ceased to exist as an abbey at the French

Revolution in 1789, and is now used as a hospital, but is still

served by nuns. We found a number of these useful persons

in every part of the building. They are dressed in white, in a
way that gives one the notion of their having a vast quantity
of linen wrapped about them, with black veils.

     In one room the servants were dining, and one of the nuns,

apparently very young, but infinitely grave, was sitting reading

Iexactly in the middle of the hall, suppose as inspectress. In

another place, an ancient church in which the tomb of Matilda

still stands, we found several in separate corners saying their

prayers. But the greater part were occupied in taking care of
the sick. The hospitals in France are much larger than those

in England, it being the custom for the poor people to go there

more commonly.

    It will be about a fortnight longer before we return to
IEngland ; very early in September expect to be again at

Cambridge.
      We are here in a country of wonderful headdresses; the

.women, especially out of the towns, wear enormous caps, of
different patterns in different places, but always exhibiting a

                   L
146 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  183J

large expanse of muslin and sometimes of lace, and of very odd
shapes. The most common here is that of a large grenadier's
cap, broken and bent forwards in the middle. The women are
in general tall and strong-looking, and with this uniform they
look finite formidable. We admire them as we meet them in
the street, and the admiration is generally mutual, for my
companion is also a very remarkable figure in his way. He
wears the Quaker dress, which of itself would draw some notice
here, and being a little, round, fat man, with short, thick legs,
and a large head, he sets off the dress to great advantage.

     It is a difficulty for me to saunter along as slowly as he

walks, and as, besides, he is perpetually running from one side

of the street to the other to peep into whatever catches his
attention, our motions are very irregular and apparently ill

connected ; and we seldom move far without the honour of

some special spectators.

   Notwithstanding this I like my companion very much. He

is very good-humoured, and very intelligent and active, and I

see more by travelling with him than I should do alone, besides

understanding the architecture much better.
     We are going to set off to-day or to-morrow for Bayeux

and Coutances, which is nearly the same route that I followed

nine years ago in company with my friend Digby.

To his Aunt]  Winchester: Sept. 2, 1832.

I daresay you will be glad to hear that I am once more safe

on English ground.

   IMr. Eickman and made out our journey in the most

agreeable manner, and came over just when we intended to do
so, notwithstanding several hindrances that seemed at first
likely to interrupt us. We arrived last Wednesday at Honfleur,
which is on the opposite side of the Seine, and expected to

cross to Havre that day ; but the weather was so bad that the
steam-boat did not venture across, so we were left either to
wait or to take some other road. We preferred the latter ; and
went to a place called Pont Audemer to sleep, and the next
day proceeded, with very bad weather, and over roads which

I think are infinitely worse than anything in England which

pretends to the name, to another point of the Seine opposite
1832                 NORREY.                 147

Caudebec, where we passed the river in a ferry-boat, with some

difficulty, the wind still being very high.

We were here not able to get anything but an open carriage,

which was the less pleasant as we had really a storm of rain

during the next stage. However, we managed so as to get only

moderately wet ; and by posting on as far as daylight would let

us, and starting early the next morning, we reached Havre in

excellent time for the Camilla's voyage, and just exhausted all

the bad weather on the land, where, though not comfortable, we

could do with it better than we could at sea. We came on

from Southampton as soon as the gentry at the Custom House

had examined our baggage (which we had to wait for two
hours), and Mr. Rickman, finding all the coaches full, went

forwards towards Birmingham without delay, as his wife and
Ibusiness wanted him there.
                             have had a very instructive and

agreeable journey with him. We had one amusing adventure.

At a place called Norrey we were taken up by the National

Guard. We were carried to the Mayor's, a dirty farm-house ;

and, as his worship was not at home, we were marched off across

the country under a guard of three sabres and two fowling-

pieces to the next magistrate, who luckily turned out to be a

reasonable man. Our convoy declared that they considered us

to be dangerous people, that we were drawing their church and

had fifty other churches in our pocket-books ; but when Rick

man produced his printed card, the Mayor of Bretteville saga
ciously observed that ' Monsieur n'aurait jamais improvise" un

timbre comme celui la,' and moreover that it was very import

ant to preserve a good understanding between France and

England, and so dismissed us, much to the discontent of the

National Guard of Norrey. We found some very intelligent

architectural antiquarians at Rouen and Caen. We have, alto

gether, seen and examined above 130 churches and other

buildings in the twenty-five days we have been in France,

which is good work.

To Lady Malcolm]             Trinity College: Dec. 6, 1832.

      Lubbock is, as you know, an old and most valued friend of
Imine, whose excellences and merits
                                     need not tell you of, and
                            l2
148 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1832

 I shall rejoice, with as much joy as any election event can give

  me, to see him returned as our member.

     Do you frown because I can only give him my vote and my
 good wishes ? Pray unbend your brow, for I think you will find
 these are all I have to give. If, indeed, you can find any persons

  so extremely sensible and judicious as to ask my advice how

 Ithey shall vote, pray let me know of them and I shall have no

 difficulty in dealing with them. shall tell them that Lubbock
 and Goulburnwill be a most fair and respectable representation
 of the University, and that Goulburn and a Johnian Tory will

 not be so ; I shall tell them also that Lubbock is a most temper

 ate and moderate person, the most conservative of Whigs, and
 therefore more likely to conserve than a headlong Tory. But
 till I have discovered these moderate and open-minded men
 who will listen to this, I cannot tell how to set about making

converts. If I address my arguments to any of our voters who

 have not taken any interest in our University politics, and who

 have not invited me to communicate to them my wishes for
Lubbock's success, they will probably turn round upon me with

Isome indignation, and ask whether expect to persuade them

 that the contest is any other than one between the supporters

Iand the opponents of the Ministry. Very likely they may go

further, and ask whether myself do not consider the Ministry

Ias a dangerous set of people, and how reconcile it to my con
Iscience to try to add to their strength ; and though may
Ianswer these enquiries so as to satisfy myself, do not think I

can do so in such a way as to gain the suffrages of any other

person.

    I had something of the same sort of task at the last election,
when Cavendish was thrown out; and I found then that my

efforts were both so ineffective, and so unsatisfactory to myself,

that I qiute resolved to make no more such, and to leave all

the active business of elections to people whose opinions of
persons and of principles happen to carry all their sympathies

to the same side. For my own part, I try to wrap myself in a
philosophical tranquillity which is to last, if possible, till quiet

days come back again. Do not despise this my humble en
deavour to avoid going wrong ; recollect, among other things,
1832                  M. IUO.

how long it is since I saw any one who bears the name of Mal
colm ; and then you will the less wonder if my faculties are a

little clouded, and my perceptions more obtuse than they were
wont to be.

Sedgwick is strenuous, though somewhat grieved by the

vehemence of some of his Whig friends here, and truly not

without reason. Thirlwall is more staunch still for Lubbock.

IAs for Peacock, regret to say that, though he has moulted his

wig, and rejoices in his own hair, he still does not think with so

much liberality as you might expect. He has not yet declared
Ifor Lubbock, but think it very likely he will give him his
Ivote.  do not know whom else you could gain, for I suppose

the attempt to bring up Hamilton from (illegible) to neutralize

Praed would be even beyond your power. I am afraid you
will make out from this epistle that I am not worthy to be your
guest ; but I will still live in the hope of seeing you before

long.

To Lady Malcolm]      Trinity College : Dec. 27, 1832.

I was delighted beyond measure to receive once more a

reasonable-looking crossed letter with such words as Ma-Man

and Minny and Kate in the crossings ; and should have come

to Hastings immediately, to thank you for it, if that had been
possible. As matters stand, I must put off for the present,

that is for a fortnight, all hope of visiting the beauties and

comforts of St. Leonard's. And as I conceive, from what you

mention of M. Rio, that a fortnight will be an age lost in his
Iacquisition of information, will send you without delay such
Iscanty notices as am able to give which seem at all likely to
Ianswer his purpose.  beg to say, at the same time, that I

would not send you so much as the title of a Reading-made-

Easy, if I thought it would diminish, by the smallest atom, the
probability of your bringing M. Rio here, which I think is a

most admirable project. We shall not be here in force till the

end of January ; Sedgwick is gone into the north to rusticate

with his own family and with Lodge, for a season ; and I shall

be very unstaticmary (if there be such a word) for the next
three weeks. But after that, only come here, and M. Rio shall
150 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                        1832

see whether we are not a9 wise and as learned and as simple-

hearted and right-headed as any set of people he can meet with.

(I am writing to you who can testify to all this, so you see I do
not mince the matter.)   We have lost Hare,     who certainly was a
shining example of some  of the qualifications
                                                I have mentioned,

but still we are as yet far from destitute ; and if you will come
among us (bringing Malcolms the more the better) you will see
us to great advantage, drawing out good qualities that we had

of yore, and that have been slumbering for years for want of

use. So pray think sincerely and again of that part of your
project. I would say that we will talk of it again when we
meet ; but that I do not wish it to depend on my visiting

Hastings, which is not certain.

    But I ought to proceed to M. Rio's books before my paper
fails me. If I were to recommend limits as well as books, I

should say that any foreigner visiting England must be content
to read little books and few, except he have an unlimited com

mand of time. And assuming this, I should recommend him to

read modern books and popular ones, as specimens of literature

as well as sources of information. Taking this line, I should re

commend several volumes of ' Larduer's Cyclopaedia,' namely the

volumes on Cities and Towns. The Reign of George IV. (three

vols.), Eminent British Statesmen, Eminent British Military

Commanders. A volume on the Iron Manufactories. Another

on the Glass and Porcelain Manufactories. I would, moreover,

recommend most especially Espriella's letters (by Southey),

most amusing and instructive ; and Simon's 1 travels in England,

full of information. There is an article on the Cotton Manufac

tory  in the Encyclopaedia Britannica which gives the history           of
that  extraordinary feature in our economical history. But
                                                                        I

should say that the best thing your friend can do is to read the
last four or five years of the ' Edinburgh ' and ' Quarterly ' Reviews,

especially statistical articles. He will find there sound informa

tion brought up to modern times, and will, moreover, see some

thing of the spirit of modern English literature. The same

works will all give him a view of English literature. Let him

1 Tn a later letter be suggests that the traveller's name is Sismonde.
1832  M. RIO.  151

get also a good Road Book, as Paterson's, and perhaps Aikin's

England, and I think he will be well provided. If he has a

taste for thick quartos, only mention it, and I will give him a
list of such, beginning with Colquhoun ; but what I have men
tioned above are really pleasant reading, and would, I think,
set a foreigner a-going to good purpose. I am obliged to

Iwrite in haste, for am going out of Cambridge to-morrow.
152 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                               1833

                    CHAPTER IV.

                               1833-1840.

M. Rio-- British Association -- Change of Rooms -- Chamwood Forest -- Tide?
    -- Scotch Tour -- Mr. Thirlwall -- Professor Jones --Favourite Tides --
--Trinity House Sermon-- Ireland -- Mr. Airy made Astronomer Royal --
.Mr. Jones made     Tithe Commissioner -- Mr. Simeon's    Death      --GeoCloorgoicnaal
Society -- Foreign                                        Herschel
                    Tour -- Sir David Brewster -- Sir J.
tion -- Brecon -- Isle of the  Sirens -- Chateau   de Meteren -- Dr.
-- High Stewardship of the     University -- Miss  Uenslow -- ' Right  Chalmers
                                                                       Spelling '

--Stall at Ely for Professor of Casuistry.

The British Association met at Cambridge in 1833, and

Mr. Whewell was secretary. In the autumn of this

year he carried out the intention mentioned to his aunt,
and removed to a new set of rooms looking across the
river and down the lime-tree avenue, which he continued
to occupy until his marriage. Short tours with Mr.

Eickman and Professor Sedgwick, visits to Mr. Airy and

other friends, and an expedition to London to see Sir

John Herschel off for the Cape, seem to have occupied

all the leisure this year had to give.

To Lady MalcolrrC]
                         Brasted, near Sevenoaks : Jan. 13, 1833.

                    which I

                    improve
the listIInof books            mentioned at your request (and
perhaps                        after conversing with M. Rio on
which     I might
his more pecidiar objects) I believe mis-spelt the name of one
Iof the authors.
                    think Sismonde, not Simon, is the name of
the traveller whose book I recommended. It is one of the

best accounts of England which a foreigner can have ; full of
information and amusement. Of course he will read Count
1833                 MISS MARTINEAU.                 153

Pecchio's book (which I recommend to your notice      also). And
tie may read Harriet Martineau's books, which are    in wonderful

circulation at present, and so, suited to one who wants to catch

the current of popular opinion. But if he does, I hope he will
have, along with much admiration of her power of inventing
and describing, a proper horror of some of her doctrines and

feelings. The last, which is about the French Revolution, is

positively revolting and bloody-minded. But she is a remark

inable person. She is now enjoying the honours of her lionhood
     London, and is taken into favour by ' Grey ' and * Brougham,''

Ias hear she calls them. However, she is forty, ugly, and

deaf.

     Mr. Jones, your old acquaintance, at whose house I am

staying, is just appointed  KPrinofge'sssoCroollfegPeo, litLiocnadl onE.conoImhyav(eMisnso
[Martineau's subject) at

doubt he will lecture admirably. He wants me to learn where

Sir John is, that he may apply to him for some Indian informa

tion.

To his Sister Ann"]         Trinity College: June 5, 1833.

I have been making a little expedition of two days into

Northamptonshire with Mr. Rickman, my architectural friend,

to see some churches, which he thinks are certainly older than

the Norman conquest, though the antiquarians have hitherto

held that we have no remains concerning which that degree of

antiquity could be proved. Those which Mr. Rickman has fixed

upon are certainly very curious.

     We are now all very busy in preparing for the meeting of

the British Association, which is fixed for the twenty-fourth. I
am Secretary this year. Till it is over I cannot pretend even to
Iguess what shall do with the remainder of the vacation.

Our weather has been beautiful ; abundance of brightest of

sunshine, with rain enough, now and then, to keep everything
Igreen and sweet.
                     never saw our groves and gardens looking
Ibetter, and begin to feel very desirous of going somewhere

where there are valleys and rivers worthy of the season ; but, as
I II have said,
       cannot yet foresee what        shall do after the
beginning of July, when I shall be more at liberty.

Your suggestion about my book and the difficulty in it was,
154 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                             1833

I believe, too late ; the part of the second edition to which you
refer was printed already ; otherwise I should have tried to

make the matter clearer. The law of the inverse square is the

law or rule that the forces by which bodies are attracted to one

another becomes less, exactly in proportion as the square of the

distance becomes greater ; that is, at double the distance the

force is one-fourth as great, at three times the distance the fore*

is one-ninth as great, and so on. I had tried to explain this
in the beginning of the chapter, but probably had not put it

clearly enough.

Dr. Kidd of Oxford has published his Treatise,       and Dr.
IChalmers has just put out his.                      them as
                                 will bring or send
soon as I can.

To his Aunt]     Cambridge : July 29, 1833.

I sent you, a little while ago, a parcel of papers and books
from which you would perceive how busy we have been, but I

see you do not mean to acknowledge that for a letter. The

bustle which the meeting left behind it for us who were the

officers on the occasion has continued almost to the present

Itime, so that have had little leisure for writing. Besides
which, I have been in London and the neighbourhood for a

week.

   I hope by this time you have got over all the strangeness

of a change of abode, and that you are better in Friar Street

than you ever were in Brock Street. I do not intend to be
Imisled in this matter, for shall, I hope, come myself before

long and see how you are.

   IMy first move will be into Leicestershire, where am going

with Professor Sedgwick to geologize for a few days ; after that

I may go either to Derbyshire or to Wales, or possibly to both.
    I can at present quite sympathise with any discomfort you

may have felt in removing, for I am myself labouring under
Ithe same trouble. The house in which have lived for the

last twelve years is half of it pulled down, and the one into

Iwhich am going is not yet ready, so that I am all in confusion.
I have borrowed three or four neighbouring apartments close to

I Imy old rooms ; my books are in one of these, my furniture in

another, and myself in a third ; and am superintending the
1883                CIIAKNWOOD FOREST.    155

papering, painting, and beautifying of my rooms that are to be

as fast as it can be done.

                    Edensor, near Bakewell :

To his Sister Ann]                        Aug. 20, 1833.

Your letter overtook me at Leicester, where I was staying

for the purpose of geologizing the neighbourhood with Professor

Sedgwick, which employed us very pleasantly for a week.

There is in the centre of the flat rich plain of Leicestershire a

comparatively mountainous and moorland patch called Cham-

wood Forest, and of this my companion wanted to make out

the structure and history, according to geological notions. We

traversed it in various directions, and finally took up our abode

for two days nearly in the centre of it, having made acquaint

ance with a gentleman who farms his own land and lives there,
Iand who entertained us most hospitably.
                                          slept in a bedroom

which looked over a wide rich champaign country, extending as

far as the eye could reach, all bright with green fields, and

Ihere and there black with hedgerows and forests, over which
Icould see the sun rise as lay in bed.

    Mr. Alsop, our host, is a person of great literature and good

manners, as well as a practical farmer, so that we were admir

ably entertained. Professor Airy, our celebrated Professor of

Astronomy, joined us during part of the expedition. I am

staying at present at the house of Mr. Smith, whose daughter

Professor Airy married, and where I was two years ago, as you

may perhaps recollect. There is a large family, and we are

making expeditions every day into one part or other of this

Ipretty country ; but I believe shall leave it in a day or two.

I want to see persons both at Manchester and Liverpool, so that
I shall probably go by those places.

To his Sister Ann]  Trinity College: Sept. 28, 1833.

      When I left you I went directly to London, staying only an
hour or two at Liverpool. I remained in London Sunday and
IMonday, and then came here, where found that the demolition

Iof my old rooms had gone on more rapidly than expected,
and that Carter 1 had thought it necessary to remove everything

    1 Carter was Mr. Whewell's servant for many years, and a great cha
racter in his way. On one occasion when found fault with for supplying
156 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1833

Iinto my new rooms.  had intended to superintend this

business myself ; and, in consequence of not having done so,

have been sadly puzzled and perplexed to find the various parts

of my property, now that they have assumed new and unknown

Ipositions. However, am getting over this inconvenience ;
and when I have done so I shall, I daresay, like my new habi

tation very much. It is the upper story of a gateway tower,

Iand from my window look along an avenue of lime trees

which leads up to the tower ; and in fine weather nothing can
be prettier than the clean swept walk, chequered with the

shade of the leaves, and the holiday people sauntering along it.

The whole of my view on that side consists of the College

grounds, which are meadows and straight gravel walks, with

lines of fine trees, and the river with its smooth-kept banks

running through them.

    You see I am desirous of showing you that I have changed

my house for the better as well as you. In two days the
examination will be over which made it necessary for me to

Icome here, and shall then go to London to see Sir John and

Lady Herschel, who are just starting for the Cape of Good

Hope. His object is to observe the stars which cannot be seen

in this country.

To his Sister]       Cambridge, Nov. 2, 1833.

ISince the fellowship election was over have been to Lord
IBraybrooke's at Audley End, and since that have been engaged

Iwith the freshmen, above forty of whom are my pupils.

     You find me always complaining how much have to do,

Iand perhaps wonder that do not throw off some part of my

employments if they are so burthensome. And accordingly I

have been making arrangements for the purpose of transferring

a considerable portion of my employments to one of my col

leagues, Mr. Perry, who was Senior Wrangler in 1828.
     He is to take all the money department at Christmas : I

incorrect information, owing to which important persons were missing from
a College meeting summoned by his master, he interrupted the ohjurgation

Iby inquiring, ' Had we not better talk of this, sir, when you and are
Ialone ? ' Mr. Whewell used to say, in telling the story, ' Of course felt
Iat once that was wrong and he was right.'
                NEW ROOMS.  157

shall, of course, have a smaller income by this means, but still

I retain a large share of the tutorship, and shall hope to feel

much more at ease.
     My rooms are now quite in good order, and look very pretty,

but we have at present a very high wind blowing, and the lime

trees are waving their branches close to the windows as if they

intended to break into the room.

    I have to-day got a letter from Joseph Gurney, the Quaker,

expressing himself much pleased with my book, and sending

me all his works. As he is, I believe, a good and religious man,

I am very glad of his approbation.

To his Sister}  Trinity College: Dec. 21, 1833.

I was very sorry not to receive from you a better account of
my Aunt. I am glad you called in the best advice that was to
be had, and I trust, with God's blessing, the means employed

may be efficacious to restore and preserve her many years.

    II am not surprised that false notions of the step have

taken [in transferring to Mr. Perry the financial part of the
tutorship] should reach you, for such stories always grow as

they travel farther, and even here all sorts of nonsensical reports

Ihave been put in circulation. In a week or two shall have

done with the accounts of my pupils, but still remain their

tutor in all other respects as to superintendence, lectures, and

so on, and I look upon this arrangement as the introduction to
a much pleasanter mode of employing my time than I have

hitherto been pursuing.

    When I was at Lancaster in the summer I desired Hender

son to paint me two views of the town, one of which he had

begun before I left the place. I wish you would enquire about

these same pictures, and let me know in what state of forward

ness they are. I have got places on my wall ready for them,
Iand shall be glad to have such memorials of that which admire

so much.

We have lately been in alarm here on the subject of illness.

Two very near friends of mine, Professor and Mrs. Airy, have

had the scarlet fever at the same time ; she more slightly, he

very severely. They are now, I am thankful to say, past the

danger, doing well and recovering rapidly. You will recollect
158 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                1S34

that I was staying with them at her father's in Derbyshire in
the summer. They are, I think, two of the most admirable

and delightful persons that the world contains.

    Tell Mr. Satterthwaite that I am obliged to those who have
made a bishop of me, but that I had rather they should talk so

than that the thing should be so.

     The year 1834 opened with a visit to Lord Milton.
In a letter of the previous year to Mr. Jones he refers
to the Marchesa Spineto as ' one of the greatest of one's

comforts here.' Some letters written to her in the
August of this year give a lively account of a northern
tour undertaken in connection with the meeting of the
British Association at Edinburgh, on which occasion he
stayed with Sir John Forbes, the father of his friend
Professor James D. Forbes, at Greenhill, near Edin
burgh. The most remarkable feature of this tour was
the visit to St. Kilda, of which he tells his sister in a letter

dated August 21.

To his Sister]         Cambridge : June 4, 1834.

I send you a few copies of a pamphlet which I have been

obliged to publish, sorely against my will, on a matter relating
principally to our own College rules. You may have seen

something said of it in the newspapers, and may like to see the

whole.

     You may have seen, too, that the gentleman in answer to
whom it is written has been dismissed from bis office of tutor.
This dismissal was in
                       opposition to my urgent remonstrances,
though I disapproved   of much of what Mr. Thirlwall had said ;

but the Master of the College was not to be dissuaded.

     Send the packet to Mr. Wordsworth, paying the carriage.
The other to Mr. Fisher, of Kirkby Lonsdale. The remaining
copies are directed, as you will see, to Mackreth and Morlaud,

and there is one for you and one for James. I send no more,

for 1 look at the whole affair with nothing but sorrow, and am

by no means desirous of being widely read out of our own world

here.
18,54                    SCOTCH TOUR.                159

I am just going to the coast to superintend some tide obser
vations which the Admiralty have directed to be made, at my
Isuggestion, at 500 places at once.
                                       send you some of the
directions. I should be glad to have corresponding observations
made at any place near Lancaster if it can be done.

ITo his Sister]          Fort William: Aug. 21, 1834.

       am detained here by a very resolute day of rain ; the first
I Iday
       have rested from my travels since entered Scotland,
except one day which I spent at Glasgow in looking at the

Cathedral.

    IYou will have heard from Martha that slept at Lindale
the day I left you. II then went on to Ambleside, where spent

the remainder of Friday and the whole of Saturday, or rather
at Eydal Mount, Mr. Wordsworth's, and upon Windermere lake

with him. I went to Keswick in the evening, and stayed there

on Sunday with Professor Airy and his family ; and on Monday

we went up Skiddaw as far as the clouds would let us. The

same day I went on to Penrith and Carlisle, and after sleeping

at the latter place came on by the coach to Glasgow, passing

through Dumfries, and then following the course of the Nith

Iinto Ayrshire --a pleasant ride.

      After one day at Glasgow came forward by divers steam

boats, coaches, and carts, through some very beautiful scenery to

Oban, which is on the coast opposite the island of Mull. This

tour conducted me up Loch Lomond, the largest, and certainly

one of the most beautiful, of the Scotch fresh water lakes ; then

by land to the head of Loch Long, and up the secluded dell of

Glencoe. The road makes a long and fatiguing ascent at the

upper end of the valley, and when you reach the highest point of

the pass you find a bank of sod and a stone on which is cut

'Rest and be thankful.'

       You then descend to Loch Fyne, a great salt water lake, and

so to Inverary. Here the two inns were full of tourists and

travellers, and some ladies who arrived in the same boat with

me were much dismayed at not being able to procure beds.

However, we were all quartered at last in different parts of the
Itown, and slept off our fears and cares.
                                           had a bed provided
in a neighbouring garret, where I could have the satisfaction of
1G0 LIFE OF DR. WIIEWELL.  1S34

standing with my head and neck sticking out of the sky-light,
which must have appeared like a chimney to the spectators, if

there were any.
     Next day the coach' carried me up the River Awe in front

of Cruachan, one of the highest mountains in Scotland, across

Loch Awe, and so to Oban. I arrived there just in time for

a steam-boat which was going to St. Kilda. The steam-boat
had made one excursion to this island, the most remote of the

Hebrides, about a fortnight before ; but with this exception it

had scarcely ever been visited by any one except the proprietors
agent, who goes there once in every one or two years, which is
the only opportunity the inhabitants have of receiving letters,
groceries, &c. The number of people who live on this rock is
about 100. We found that the account that had been given of
the rude and almost savage condition of the people of the island
by those who had been passengers in the steam-boat on her
former voyage had not been exaggerated. Indeed, it would be
difficult to go beyond the reality. They live in huts not at all
better than the pictures you see of Hottentot huts, built of

rough stones a few feet high and then thatched over with straw.
They have a hearth in the middle of the hut, but no chimney,

and they sleep in holes left for this purpose in the wall of the

hut.

     During winter the floor of the hut (which is the ground) is
covered with peat mull (you know what that is) so thickly that
the inmates of the house have not room beneath the thatch to

stand upright, and this is for the purpose of making it a dung
hill to manure their fields in the spring. You may judge from
this of their condition in other respects.

      They have a minister, however, who has been there two or

three years, and who tries to instruct and improve them --I fear

with small success. His wife, unfortunately, is from Glasgow,
and does not talk Gaelic. The minister has service on the Sun
day and a school on the Sunday evening, and said that he
hoped in a short time to have a few whom he might think
sufficiently instructed to be fit to receive the Communion.

      He appears to be a pious and judicious person, and is sent
there by some society. He informed us that he considered our
coming providential, for he had a child whom he wished to have
18.34          SCOTCH TOUR.                            161

baptized and we had a Scotch minister with us. In the Scotch
Church the father cannot administer this rite, as the parents are
the only sponsors. So the service was performed in the little

church which receives this small and distant flock.
     We returned to Oban at the time appointed, and visited

on our way the celebrated islands of Staffa and Iona, which are

to the west of Mull. ITo-day wanted to go to Glencoe, but

the weather is very positive in its prohibition.

     After the meeting of the British Association the first
letter is one to his sister from Greenhill, near Edinburgh.

                                         Sept. 17, 1834.

       Everything has gone on and off extremely well except the

weather, which for the first three days of our meeting was most

overwhelming rain. Since that, however, we have had very plea

sant sunshine, and this city, which is as beautiful as you can
Iimagine it, is looking quite charming.
                                         have been staying not

in the city, but here at Greenhill, Sir John Forbes's, which is

about two miles from Edinburgh.
     Our friends here have all of them been very kind, and we

Ihave had an uninterrupted string of entertainments since

Iarrived. To-morrow or next day I must set off for Cambridge.

       think I wrote to you last from the Duke of Gordon's
Icastle in the north of Scotland, where stayed a couple of days.
I then came on by various glens and mountain passes, but with

very broken weather ; by Dunkeld, Blair Athol, Loch Tay, Loch

Katrine and other celebrated points of scenery.

    On my travels I fell in with Dr. Richardson, who travelled

in North America with Sir John Franklin, and whose sufferings

and adventures you may remember, as they were singularly
Iinteresting.
               also met Mrs. Opie, the novelist, who has for

many years been a Quaker, as you probably know, and with
Iwhom made acquaintance.  ISince have been here  have
seen Dr. Chalmers ; but, I am sorry to say, he was so ill that

his physicians would not let him receive me as his guest, nor

take any share in the business of the meeting. He appears to

be very unwell ; but the doctors talk very hopefully.

                          M
162 LIFE OF DK. WHEWELL.  Is44

To the same]       Trinity College : Dec. 19, 1834.

II do not know whether  am, as you say, a worse corre
Ispondent than I used to be ; but it is certain that am every
whit as busy as I ever was before. My tides give me no small

Iemployment. The observations made in June last require a

vast deal of calculation, as you may suppose when tell you
that I shall have about thirty thousand numbers to put in order
Iand reason upon.  think, however, that I see already that I

shall get some curious results.
      1 am very desirous of obtaining observations from some of

the shores or islands of the Pacific ; and I think the persous

most likely to be able and willing to make such observations

are the missionaries. It will save me the trouble of looking
over such books if you will examine the magazines in which

accounts are given of the various missionary establishments all
over the world, and put down the stations, the names of the

missionaries or teachers at them, the societies by which they

are sent or supported, and the address of the official persons of

those societies.

      Do not be shocked at my wanting to make such a use of

missionaries ; for, if it does not interfere with their more im
portant duties, I dare say they will like very much to be so
employed, and of course I should not wish it otherwise.

    I believe in the Society Islands the tide is disguised by the

sea and land breezes, as you once noticed in some book you

were reading ; but in the Sandwich Islands there is, I believe,

a tide, though a small one ; and those islands, or New Zealand,
or any part of the Pacific will be of use to me. Moreover, I
will gladly subscribe to any society that will help me in this

way. Is not this a reasonable proposal ?
   . You will have seen by the newspapers that the Whig

Ministry had, luckily, just time before they went out to do

something for my Cambridge Whig friends. Professor Sedgwick

was made Prebend of Norwich, where he is now residing, and

where I shall perhaps visit him soon ; and Mr. Thirl wall, my

former colleague and my antagonist in print, who was considered

a sort of martyr to their cause, has had a valuable living in
Yorkshire given him. My only sorrow is that he will have to
1*34 MR. THIRLWALL.         163

leave college, for we have never ceased to be the best friends in
the world.

   I do not exactly know how I shall spend my vacation ; but,

Iwhen have worked myself free, I shall probably go to Hastings,

where my friend Jones now is, and visit Hare, my former

colleague, who has a living on the same coast, with a good
house, an old castle, and a fine collection of pictures.

    Mrs. Opie, whose acquaintance I made at Loch Katrine,
Iwants to tempt me into Suffolk, but have not promised to go.

Give my love to my aunt, and tell her to send me a screed of

politics or anything else when she has time and health to write.

     Mr. Thirlwall, being at this time assistant tutor at
Trinity College, had published a letter to Professor Turton
on the ' Admission of Dissenters to Academical Degrees,'
in which he questioned the policy of enforcing attendance

at College Chapel on all persons in statu pupillari, and
Mr. Whewell had written two pamphlets in defence of

the College practice. These are the publications to
which reference is made in the previous letter. As a

consequence of his letter, Mr. Thirlwall had been obliged
by the Master, Dr. Wordsworth, to resign his lecture

ship. It has sometimes been supposed that Mr.
Whewell did not sufficiently exert himself to prevent

the somewhat arbitrary conduct of the Master. The
following letters will give a full and true account of what

really occurred.

To Professor Sedgwick]  Trinity College : May 27, 1834.

I have no doubt that you will hear from others the

calamitous events, so far as the College is concerned, of the last

two or three days ; of Thirlwall's pamphlet and of the Master's

proceedings upon it. Both appear to me great misfortunes

for the College. I do not speak of any of the political opinions

in the publication, nor of his disapproval of College Chapel ; but

of his principles [as to its being open to him to publish these
opinions], which appear to me to be inconsistent with any

college management, and any religious establishment. The

                        »2
164 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.        1831

Master's request to him to resign the tuition I entirely dis

approve of, and expressed my opinion against it to the Master

Ias strongly as I could. What will happen next have no guess,
for I have talked with none of Thirlwall's friends, but I much

fear they may attempt some violent and rash measure ; and

what I wish to beg of you is that you will be our good genius,

and moderate instead of sharing in our violence. Your being

at a distance may be an advantage in this respect, if it keeps

you free of the first burst of angry feeling, and enables you to

interfere with calm and clear views. You have more influence

in the College than any other person, and have perhaps the

power of preventing our present misfortunes being followed by
If Iany fatal consequences.
                          you do not do this, for aught see,

we are likely to run into factions as violent as those of the

Jews when they were besieged, and, it may be, with as disastrous

a termination. Absit omen! but you will have to help to

avert it, if we do escape.

      Observe that all my expectations of violent measures are

conjectural, and I may be (I hope I am) quite mistaken. But
if I am not, pray do not let the self-destructive madness of us

residents infect you.

    To-morrow I hope to be able to send you my reply to
Thirlwall (for the most part about chapel). I hope you will

not find in it anything which one Fellow of Trinity ought not

to say to the rest. Believe me, my dear Sedgwick, yours in

great anxiety, but very truly,  W. Whewell.

     P.S. You know the extreme dislike of several of the Fellows
for the Master ; this will add to the difficulty of their doing
him justice, or moderating their resentment.

To the Rev. C. ThirlwaW]        May 28, 1834.

II send you my ' Remarks ' on your pamphlet, in which

hope you will not find anything which will give you any offence

or anything which one friend ought not to say of another. It
would be a misrepresentation of what I really feel if there were
Iany such passage, and have tried to avoid everything of the

kind.
18.'i4  MR. THIRLWALL.  165

     To the ' Remarks,' and the ' Additional Remarks,'
Mr. Thirlwall replied in a long private letter, in which

he expressed himself much aggrieved by Mr. Whewell's
misconception of his position (as he himself understood

it), re-stated the grounds of difference between them,

recapitulated the arguments in favour of his own
opinions, and repudiated the inferences which had been

drawn from them. The difference was mainly this:
Mr. Whewell believed daily worship to be a Christian
duty, and daily public or social worship to be a neces
sary practice of any educational and religious institution,

occupying the same position in regard to the college as

family worship in regard to a family -- to be enforced as
much as possible upon the younger members, and dili
gently inculcated by precept and example by the senior

members of the body. He took exception to any ex
pression of dissatisfaction with the practice and proposal
 to dispense with it on Mi'. Thirlwall's part, because, as
 lecturer, he conceived him to be charged with the com
mission of inculcating it as a matter of discipline and
 college rule on his pupils, and incapacitated by his office
 from publishing his disapprobation of that or any other
 part of the system he was administering.

       Mr. Thirlwall fully admitted the first proposition,
 that daily worship is a Christian duty, but considered it
 could not be maintained with regard to public worship ;

 objected to its being made compulsory ; doubted whether
 upon any it would produce the effect of family prayer ;
 and at first understood all Mr. Whewell's objections to

 be aimed at his entertaining, not at his promulgating in
 a pamphlet, opinions which it was well known he held
 already when entrusted with the lectureship. The long
 letter, written mainly in this mistaken opinion, received
 an immediate answer from Mr. Whewell, who explains
166 LIFE OF DK. WHEWELL.

that in li is pamphlet he especially referred to the diffi
culty which had arisen from Mr. Thirlwall's publication
of his views, ' in the way of the useful continuance of
our common labours.' He intimates that he had most
urgently remonstrated with the Master against writing
the letter which induced Mr. Thirlwall to resign, hoping
that the difficulty might be got over by some explana

tion or modification on Mr. Thirlwall's part, not of his
private opinions as to the salutary nature of the ordin
ance, but as to his attitude with reference to it as a

part of college discipline.

                                             Trinity College : Sept. 23.

      T conceive [he says] that more good is done by retaining our
College Chapel service than would be done by abolishing it ; but

if I thought differently, I should think it utterly inconsistent

with the retention of my office as tutor to publish an opposite
opinion. Those who look for good from such an institution ex
pect it to follow only so long as the institution is spoken of with

respect, at least, if not hope, by the managing part of the body.

If we whose office it is to enforce observance of all existing rules

speak with disapprobation and slight of some of the principal
ones, I conceive we are materially diminishing our chance of
being useful as administrators of the system of which these

rules form a part. I cannot understand in what terms, or on

Iwhat grounds, should remonstrate with a pupil for general
irregularity after publishing your opinions. If I thought the
rules hard ones, I should try and get them altered by reference
to the college authorities ; if I failed in this, I might perhaps
resign my office ; I might possibly afterwards appeal to the pub
lic, or at least I might do so without then producing the diffi

culties which such a step taken at. first must give rise to. . . .
     Without finding myself able to comprehend how you had

overlooked the considerations I have mentioned, which appeared

to me so plain, and how you hud arrived at a view inconsistent
with them, I was convinced that you had arrived at the convic
tion that it was fit for you, retaining your office, to publish your
MR. THIRLWALL.  167

opinions concerning College Chapel ; and I did not doubt that

you had arrived at this conviction by some path perfectly suited

to a candid and enlightened mind. It was my firm persuasion
of this which made me look to your retention of your office as
a desirable result, and I was prepared to suggest the means by

which the difficulty might be obviated.

    I may mention what one of these means was : that you should

be liberated by the Master from the stipulation of attendance

at chapel, inasmuch as I conceive that, as I have said, the

beneficial effect of example, the object which in my eyes the
stipulation was intended to answer, was annihilated by your

publication.

     In the first conversation which I had on the subject I men

tioned both my difficulty and my views of its remedies to a few of

our Fellows -- I think to Sedgwick, Musgrave, Peacock, Romilly,
and to no others. I tell you this that you may learn from them,
if you choose, how far they conceived me to be distressed with

Ithis difficulty, and yet hopeful of surmounting it. If you wish

it, believe I can convince you that I was not the only one of

 those who most highly admire and warmly regard you who
from the first considered the difficulty as a serious one.

       . . . The difference of opinion between us was one which con
 cerned not only the value of a college rule, but the propriety

of a certain line of conduct in an official person. I never

 doubted for an instant that your views were dictated by as

 high and pure a sense of duty and fitness as my own ; and

I never despaired, so long as my hopes entered into the

 account, that we might, by understanding each other's feelings,
 surmount the difficulty which our difference of opinion had

 raised.
       The regret which you express at the change adds to the

 deep sorrow with which I look back upon it ; a sorrow on which
 I will not dwell, because I now see no remedy. But I should
 think it a still greater calamity than it is, if it had deprived me

 of the friendly feelings which you express at the close of your

 letter, and which I gladly lay claim to because I know I have a

 right to them. If I have not written this letter in vain you

 will see that I never should have had any difficulty before me,
 if it had not been for my belief that the consistency of your
168 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

opiiiions aud the Tightness of your intentions would, under any

trial, be found unimpeachable.

    I believe that my expressions will be understood by all

readers as I have explained them. If I see any indications that

this is otherwise, I shall be most anxious to rectify the error. But

                    as believe, your interpretation of them yours alone, let
I if,               it
                            it,
      I
                                it
                                               is

                                                                          is
                    me beg of you to cast from your mind as a groundless sus

                    picion. The whole transaction full enough of vexation with

                    out adding to this further trouble. We have this consolation

open to us, that our mutual good opinion and kindness has not

                    been disturbed by and that we have done nothing which any

                    honourable mind can think wrong, with our convictions.                                  I

                    believe all our friends and the world at large, with the exception

                    of a few extreme partisans, form this judgment of us. By this

                      hold fast, and so hope and trust, and, would add, beg, you
                    will, as with right you may. In this trust remain, dear
                      I
                                             I
                                                       I
                                                             I

                    Thirlwall, yours with strong regard,

                                                                                           W. Whewell.

                    To this Mr. Thirlwall replied --
                                                                                           :
                    I                                            Trinity College: Sept. 23.
                                I                                                           I
                            cannot suffer moment to pass without thanking you for                       ;I
                                   Iyour kind letter. see by that the greater part of my own was

                                           it awritten under an erroneous impression.
                                                   itWith regard to the propriety of my conduct in publishing

                    my opinions, am well aware that you are not singular in the                             I
                    view you take of -- Hare has informed me that he sees it
II                  in the same light-- and you may therefore easily believe that
   I                am more inclined to doubt the correctness of my own judgment
                    than to wonder that any one should differ from me on this
                is Ipoint. But, after the maturest reflection have been able to give
                    to the subject, find myself still unable to assent to the general
                    principle from which he drew his conclusion, or to perceive that

                       violated any other restraint than those which prudence would

                    have imposed upon me. In the first place, the view took of my

                    own station was not that which you take of yours and, in fact,

                       think there a very material distinction between them.
                            did not consider myself as having anything to do with the

                    administration of the College discipline, and was not conscious of
1834     MR. THIRLWALL.  169

having neglected my duty, though I never spoke on the subject
[of Chapel] to any of our pupils during all the time I was in
office ; nor do I remember that any one ever hinted at an ex
pectation that I should do so. I conceived that my official duties

were confined to giving literary instruction, and that whatever

other good I might do, by conversation and advice, to those with
whom I stood in that relation, was left to my own discretion.

    As to the stipulation that I should myself attend chapel I

never understood that such an attendance implied any opinion

I Ias to the beneficial effect of the institution [on others], and

think was justified in this view of it by the consciousness that

I Imy opinion on the subject was previously known to the person

with whom made the stipulation. Nor could conceive that

the notoriety of such an opinion was inconsistent with holding

the office, because I think I remember that I was informed that

some of my predecessors had marked their opinion as the same

with my own, by their general absence from the service. The

only question then seems to be whether my attendance itself

implied anything inconsistent with the publication of my senti
Iments.
         saw no inconsistency in this respect. For though it
Iwas true that might be supposed to go to chapel for the pur
Ipose of setting an example, yet the example wished to set

was simply that of conformity to the established institutions of

Ithe College. But I may go still further, and add that do not
see anything in the opinions I published which should have pre

vented those to whom they were known from believing that,

though my attendance was a consequence of the office I held, it

was not with me merely mechanical ; and, indeed, as the stipula

tion was not publicly known, if there was any contrast between

my behaviour and that of any of my predecessors in this respect,
the natural inference would seem to be that, though I thought
like them of the effect it produced on others, I felt no personal
reluctance to attending myself. And -- though this is nothing
to the purpose, I may add that this was really the case --and as,
on the one hand, if no stipulation had been made with me, I
Ibelieve I should have been no less regular, so I am sure, if
Ihad been formally released from it, should have made no other
I Iuse of that liberty.
         might add that, even if had been called

upon to recommend regularity of attendance and becoming
170 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                        1&J4

deportment in others, I should have felt myself able to do so,
notwithstanding the notoriety of my opinions, and by arguments

which to my own judgment would not have been the less effica

cious on account of them. But I should be content to rest the

question on the grounds before mentioned.

     . . . Besides the explanations which I desired, your letter has

Iafforded me a still higher satisfaction, in showing me that am

indebted to you for an obligation on which I shall always reflect

with pleasure and gratitude -- in the attempt which you made to
avert the evil which my imprudence has drawn upon me. And
as this is the strongest proof you could have given of the desire
you felt to continue the relation in which we stood with one

another, so it encourages me to hope that I may still find oppor
tunities, before I leave this place, of co-operating with you,

though in a different form, for the like ends. But at all events

I shall never cease to retain that esteem and regard with which

I now remain, yours most truly,
                                                         C. Thirlwall.

1835. This year began with what Professor Whewell
                                          '
was wont  to call his ' favourite  tides     ;  and  he  tries  to

persuade his sister that his own satisfaction in it is more

important than the public estimation of his work as

compared with that of others.

     One great pleasure of this year was the appointment
of his friend Mr. Jones to a professorship (that of Poli
tical Economy) at Haileybury, which brought him into

comparative neighbourhood to Cambridge.

     In May Mr. Whewell sat to Mr. Eddis for a chalk

portrait sketch. He preached in June before the Bre

thren of the Trinity House. Lord Camden's installation

as Chancellor took place in July, and later in the month

Mr. Whewell attended the meeting of the British Associa

tion in Dublin, and paid a number of Irish visits.

To his Sister]  Trinity College: Feb. 13, 1835.

I was much obliged to you for your information about the
missions. In consequence of it I wrote to Mr. Jowett, and
1833                  TIDES.                          171'

have got an answer in which he says he thinks that they can
do something for me, if I will give them instructions, which I

shall send in a day or two. You must tell me where I must
Iapply to get anything done in the Sandwich Islands.
                                                      bought
the January number of the ' Missionary Magazine,' but there is

Isome delay which do not understand about the publication of
the next number, which, I suppose, will contain what I want.
      In the course of a few years, I have no doubt, I shall collect

such information as will serve my purpose ; and when that is

done, I think I shall be able to put it together so as to make a

very curious story out of it ; but in the meantime you must
not be surprised if those who are judges of such matters bestow

their approbation rather on what is done than on what is only

doing. Lubbock has been at work on this subject for several

years, and has gone through calculations, or at least has super

intended and directed calculations, which include as many

numbers as those which my coast-guard tides have given me,

though of a different kind and of use for a different purpose.

But this is of no consequence, for I am pursuing my enquiries for

my own satisfaction, and only want to know how things go on

Iin the great ocean, and especially in the Pacific ; so, as said

before, if you can find anything in the course of your reading
likely to be of use for this purpose, I shall be very glad of it.

      You will be pleased to hear that my very particular friend

Jones is brought nearer me, by being made professor at the

East India College at Haileybury, near Hertford, which is about

half way between this place and London. He is professor of

Political Economy, succeeding Mr. Malthus, of whom you have
perhaps heard, but of whom you have heard wrong if you have

learnt to think any harm of him. He was a most mild and

benevolent person, and I regret his death very much.

To his Sister]        Trinity College: March 1, 1835.

      We have had such a series of windy weather as I hardly

ever knew, and the gales have been almost strong enough to

blow over man and horse, and along with this we have had

fierce hailstones and driving sleet. But now the direction of

Ithe wind is changed, so hope we shall have something ap

proaching to spring.
172 LIFE OF DR. WHEW ELL.                         1835

     I could almost fancy that the wind is angry with me in

Iparticular, inasmuch as am employed in making a machine

which is to measure its vagaries better than it has ever been done

Ibefore. I expect shall get some good tide observations this

year, as the Lords of the Admiralty have taken up the scheme,

and are going to apply to foreign States to join it. I am afraid

our friends in New Zealand will hardly begin their operations

in time to co-operate with this plan. It is to take effect next

June.
Jones, whom I told you of, has moved to Haileybury, but
you are not to suppose I have no friends nearer.  I have
abundance here, and some very much valued ones, and when I
Ithink have been confined to their society too long I will take

a College living, go and live in the country, and have a house
Iof my own ; so you see
                         have nothing melancholy in my

prospects.

To his Sister]           Cambridge: March 31, 1835.

I was much amused with your conjectures about the Lady

Margaret Professor. Mrs. Somerville will be much astonished

if I tell her that she has been supposed to be the same person
with Lady Margaret, the mother of Henry VII., who founded

the Professorship of Divinity.

    IOur subscription goes on very prosperously, and hope we

shall get money enough to build such buildings as we want.

In former times, you may recollect, I wrote a controversial

pamphlet on the subject of the plans of this new building, but

I am now become a peaceable person, and shall be content with

any plan which the majority of the University will agree to, so

Ithat we may but get the buildings erected.

         am going shortly to publish a little book about archi

tecture, containing a reprint of my German books, which have

been long out of print and loudly called for, with the addition

of my Norman tour in 1832, in company with Mr. Eickman. I

will send it to you when it is ready.

To his Sister']          Trinity College: May 8, 1835.

I have been intending to send you my book on architecture

ever since it was published, but have not had time to write a
1*35 EDDIS'S PICTURE. 173

Iletter with it. now send you two copies --one for you, my aunt,

and Martha (I cannot afford you any more), and one for Thomas

Satterthwaite. The remaining one, for Mr. Wordsworth, you

must send off by the coach.

   I send you also some pictures--likenesses, I hope you will

think them, of my valuable self. The drawing was made by a

young artist named Eddis, who is reckoned clever I; and believe
the drawing is a much better likeness than the print. It is in the

possession of my friend Jones at Haileybury. The lithographing
has been executed by Miss Turner, the daughter of my friend
Dawson Turner at Yarmouth, who has a taste and, as you see,
a talent for lithographizing all her father's friends. She has got a

portfolio full of such heads. I send you nine, of which you must

give one each to Mr. Satterthwaite, Mr. Rowley, Mr. Mackreth,

and Mr. Morland. The other five I leave at your disposal.
    Tell my aunt I am no great politician, but that I hold it to

he a part of wisdom and patriotism to hope for the best. Nobody
can deprive us of the Church if they would, for it has the affec
tions of the people in its favour; and, even if it had no support

 from Government, would be supported by the conviction of its

Itruth and of the good it does to all. Nor do much fear any

 serious inroads upon the Established Church in England. The

 Ministers for the most part do not wish to do it harm, and I do

 not think its enemies will have the power of compelling them

 to do so. And I have a deep conviction that Providence, which

 has guided it through so many dangers, and made it so great a
 blessing to the nation, will not allow any misfortune to befal it
 which will permanently interfere with its usefulness as the

 Ibulwark of religion and good order.

     I do not know whether shall visit Lancaster this summer.
 II had intended to go to Scotland, in which case should prob

 ably have taken you in my way. But we are to have a grand
 fuss in the way of installing our Chancellor in July, so 1 shall
 not leave Cambridge for any length of time till that is over,

 and then I go to Ireland. The British Association meets this
 year at Dublic Perhaps I shall make a little tour in Ireland

 before we meet in August. You have no reason to fear for me,

  for, though they are fond enough of breaking each other's heads,
  they never molest strangers.
174 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                     1833

To his Sinter"]                              June 2.

I send you some copies of a paper about my favourite tides,

and a copy which you must send to Mr. Wilkinson, of Sedbergh,

Ias soon as you can. You will not find, am afraid, much that
Iwill interest you in my paper, for have not been able to get

the clerk at the Admiralty, who does the work for me, to make

the requisite calculations to enable me to give the particulars

of the various places, which would have made the paper more

full of matter ; but I was desirous of printing and circulating it

before the tide observations of the present month commence.

For the Admiralty have determined to repeat this year the

observations made last June ; and they are to be carried on for
a fortnight, not only in England, Ireland, and Scotland, but all

along the coast of Europe : the Governments of Sweden, Den

mark, Holland, Belgium, and France have been applied to, and

have given orders for tide observations at many places along

their coasts for this period of a fortnight from June 9 to 27 ;

the United States of America have also taken the project up in

Ithe same way, and hope I shall have something done in Spain
and Portugal, though I have not heard from any persons there
as I have from all the other places.

When the observations are made, there will be no small

labour requisite in calculating them so as to get at the real

amount of information they contain ; but I do not doubt that I

shall be able to get the work done some way or other.

    I shall have to return to London again before Trinity
ISunday,' for am appointed to preach before the Master and

Brethren of the Trinity House on Trinity Sunday. The Trinity

House is an ancient institution for looking after light-houses

and pilots, and it has a feast and other solemnities on the

anniversary on which I have to preach.

To his Sister"]  Trinity College : July 3, 1835.

The bustle of our installation is just beginning, and when that
has once set in I shall hardly find time to write to you till it is
Iover ; so I will do so in the first place.
                                             have been in London,
where your letter followed me. I was there and in the neigh

bourhood for nearly three weeks, and among other employments
18.35  TRINITY HOUSE SEIiMON.  175

preached my sermon to the Trinity House, as I told you I was

to do.

     The ceremonies of the day of this sermon are old-fashioned

and very amusing. We began with a cold collation at the

Trinity House, which is a building in the East of London,

among the shipping ; and here, besides our own share of eating,
we were supplied with bags of cakes for the children we might
see, and large nosegays. We went down the river in half a

dozen gay barges, all covered with gilding, and each rowed by
eight men in red plush breeches and other attire of equal

splendour. When we arrived at Deptford, where the sermon is

preached, we landed, and walked in procession along streets, which

were all strewn with rushes and flowers. I forgot to tell you that

we had a band playing in a barge at the head of our line all the

way down the river, and ever and anon cannon were fired from

ships and houses till my head almost ached.
     When we reached Deptford and made our march through

the street, the children, who knew well what they were to expect,
pressed forwards to receive the cakes which we were prepared to
distribute among them. We then went to the Town Hall, where,

besides the election of the officers, there was a grand scramble

for biscuits which were thrown among the crowd. After this
we went to church, and in coming away ' the Brethren ' were
objects of great attention to the young women who were in the

crowd, for it is held that the lady to whom they give their nose
gay in coming from church is sure to be married within the
year. You may judge that there were many eager eyes and im

ploring hands ! For my own part I had left my nosegay behind

me, thinking that this kind of flirtation would not suit very well

the gravity of my preacher-character.
     Afterwards, in the evening, we dined at the Trinity House,

with a large party, among which were several of the Ministers --

Lord Melbourne, Lord Lansdowne, Lord Auckland. There

would have been other great folks but for an important debate

Iwhich was expected to take place that evening.
        want you to send due notice and to have my vote for the

county registered. I believe the property in Lucy Street will

entitle me to a vote ; perhaps William Whewell will tell you

what the proper steps are, and do anything which you have any
176 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                             1835

Idifficulty about.  believe you must do it soon, as the time is

limited and will shortly be at an end.

To his Sister]                          Cork: July 28, 1835.

You see I am writing to you from one of the farthest corners
Iof Ireland, but came here so rapidly that it seems to me
Imuch nearer to London than Lancaster is.
                                           left London on

Wednesday evening by the mail; and travelling two nights

and the intervening day was half-way across St. George's

Channel before dawn on Friday morning. I got to Milford
Haven in the middle of the night, and found that I must

embark in a few minutes after my arrival. The weather was
beautiful till within a few hours of the end of my land journey*

though there was a profusion of the most splendid but noiseless

Ilightning that I ever saw after I left Caermarthen, which was

obliged to do at midnight on the outside of the coach ; but

Iafter a few stages found room inside, and soon after, I sup

I Ipose, it began to rain and blow, for found it doing so when

got into the boat which took me on board the steam-packet,
enough to frighten a lady who was a passenger with us. How

ever, being tired, I forthwith crept into a berth and fell asleep,

and awoke in the morning, or rather at noon, when we were

arriving at Waterford.

    I immediately took a place in an Irish car, and set off for
Kilkenny, and arrived there in the evening ; but I found that
I had just fallen in with the Assizes, so that it was by no means

easy to obtain a bed, and still more difficult to procure a bed

Iroom for my sole occupation. However, at last succeeded in

this object also, and after looking at the Cathedral of Kilkenny

and other antiquities, I went and slep off the impression of
Ithe voyage. Next morning, early, again set off in an Irish

car, and after a rather long day's travelling arrived at Cork.

In fine weather these Irish cars do very well, except that you

cannot conveniently see more than one side of the country ;

but if it were rainy I do not think I should much like them,

though they trot and canter on at a very good pace.

     They offer peculiar advantages to one set of people, of

whom you may have heard --the Irish beggars ; for, while you
are sitting preparing to start, you are as much exposed as if you
                IRISH TOUR.                          177

were sitting in a high chair in the street, and the beggars
come and stand face to face with you in swarms, and beg with

an earnestness and fluency which are truly overwhelming.
    The amount of rags and wretchedness which you see in

this way, and, indeed, in all ways in this country, is quite

appalling. I believe that the Irish do not find any peculiar
wretchedness in being in rags --indeed, I have often been tempted
to think that they rather prefer them to whole clothes ; but,

notwithstanding this, there can be no doubt that a large portion

of the people are in extreme destitution, beyond any people I

ever saw.

You will by this time have received a bundle of copies of

my Trinity House sermon, and you will see that all our firing

of guns and marching of processions took place on Monday,

and not on Sunday as you imagined. You must send a copy

of the sermon to each of my friends in the list below : Mr.

Mackreth, Morland, Rowley, Manby, Housman, Hull, Betham,

T. Satterthwaite, Paget Gregson, Giles, Dodson, Green Bradley,
J- Harrison-- to J. Statter, W. Whewell, my cousins at Liver
J.pool,
           Heald, Mr. Wilkinson at Sedbergh, Mr. Fisher at

Kirkby Lonsdale, and W. Wordsworth at Rydal Mount.

   I have found several acquaintances here ; Captain Malcolm,
the son of Sir John, whom I have known from a boy, is here
with his regiment, and several Cambridge friends. I shall set

off in a day or two for the Lakes of Killarney.

To his Sister]     Bangor : Aug. 31, 1835.
I had on the whole a very agreeable tour in Ireland, though

the condition of the people is so wretched as to be melancholy

to look at, especially in the south-west, which part I first visited.

No English pig of the slightest respectability would think for

a moment of living in such cabins as you see in long rows in

Ievery town and village in that district ; and the dress of the

people is so ragged that never could comprehend the pos

sibility of its being taken off and put on again.

    In the North, indeed, the aspect of things is much better,

and in some of the best parts it approached the look of an
IEnglish country. It is, however, only an approach.
                                                     visited
the North after I left Publiu, going right across the country to

                N
178 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                1S35

ISligo. In doing so I passed Miss Edgeworth's house, and was
much tempted to stop and see her. You know  became

acquainted with her in London. But I could not make out
that I had time to do so, and went through without stopping.

My journey was for the purpose of visiting Mr. Cooper, of

Markree, near Sligo, a large landed proprietor and member

for the county, where we had a very agreeable party for some

Idays.                              to the Earl of Enniskillen's,

      After this returned eastward

who has a fine place, called Florence Court, near the town of
Enniskillen. I here joined Sedgwick and other friends, but

Isoon parted with them and went on to Dr. Robinson, at Armagh,

and from thence returned to Dublin, from which city made a

tour into Wicklow. There are some considerable mountains

and very pretty glens and lakes within half-a-day's journey of

the capital, and we had two days of delightful weather for

seeing them.

     The people of Dublin were as kind as it was possible to be.

I was staying in the house of the Provost. Among other com

Ipliments paid us we dined with the Lord Lieutenant (Lord

Mulgrave) ; a few of us at least, of whom was one. He was

Iat college with me when we were undergraduates, and had

some acquaintance with him. His conferring the order of
knighthood on my friend Hamilton, the astronomer, was one of
the most striking parts of the proceedings, and was done in a

very princelike manner.

To his Sister]                      Audley End: Oct. 7, 1835.

I went up Snowdon the day after I left Bangor. On my
Iway to London stayed a part of a day at Hagley, Lord
ILyttelton's. His son is one of our pupils at Trinity.
                                                        also

stayed a little while at Birmingham with my old fellow traveller

IRickman, who has been very unwell, and is still obliged to take
great care of himself.   had then a fortnight of quiet to myself
Iat Cambridge, which was what wanted ; and after that came

the examination for fellowships, which is just over. Among

the five that we elected was Mr. Goulburn, a son of the Mr.

Goulburn who was one of the Ministry. The young man is very        ·

clever, and of a most admirable character.
18.35          LETTER TO THE MARCHESA.  179

To hia Sister Ann]   Trinity College: Nov. 23, 1835.
       I Ibelieve that during the Christmas vacation shall visit

my friend Sedgwick in his new abode at Norwich, where you
will recollect he had a stall given him by Lord Brougham --

about the last act he did before he ceased to be Chancellor, and

about the best he did in that capacity. This will bring me

near some other friends -- Mrs. Opie, whom I met in Scotland,
and Joseph Gurney, also a Quaker, whom I have corresponded
with. It is also possible I may spend a short time at Brighton,

where my friend Jones talks of taking up his quarters for a

little while.

To his Sister Ann]                      Dec. 20.

I go to Audley End on the 30th, and to my old friend

Lady Malcolm on Jan. 4. She has now a very pretty house

Inear Windsor. After have been there I have several other
Ifriends to think of. My friends -- may almost say, my dearest

friends --Professor Airy and his family have left Cambridge, he
being appointed Astronomer Royal at Greenwich -- to me an

Iirreparable loss ; but shall probably go and see how they look

in their new abode.

    1836. A letter written in April of this year to the

Marchesa Spineto is interesting as giving a sketch of Mr.
Whewell's theory of intercourse between equals in an inti
mate society like that of the University; a theory, no doubt,
often misunderstood, often but imperfectly carried out,
and perhaps unduly modified by a pleasure in discussion
for discussion's sake, but surely not unworthy of con
sideration where based upon the supposition of a ' com
mon love of truth and a mutual esteem,' and productive
of1 ' lessons in candour and toleration as each discovers
how most questions have two sides, on either of which
 good and earnest men are found to range themselves.'

      Mrs. Lyon's health caused great anxiety dining the
 summer. Her illness terminated fatally in August.

        1 Cairns's Essays on Political Economy, &c, firbt series, p. 291.

                                                         K2
180 LIFE OF DU. WHEWELL.

     The British Association met at Bristol in August.
Mr. Whewell was present at the meeting. In this year
Mr. Jones was appointed Chief Commissioner for the
Commutation of Tithes. Mr. Whewell stayed with him
in Hyde Park Street.

To the Marchesa Spineto]  Cambridge: April 3, 1836.

II returned to my work on Friday, and got a good hard day's
writing on Saturday, which helped me on famously.  am like

a swimmer who, after being out in a wide sea, finds himself

nearer the shore at every stroke ; and I set great store even by
a single day's advance. There are a great number of points

with regard to my future course of life which it seems to me

as if I should be able to settle much more clearly if my book

were fairly published, and its possibility of effecting its purpose
ascertained. You have been too much accustomed to my

egotism of this kind to be surprised at it.

To-day we had several strangers in hall, and it happened
                  Isat next me.
that your friend                             recollected his kind

reports with regard to me, and was looking out for some oppor

tunity to read him a lesson. So when he happened to pay me

a very extravagant compliment, I told him that he over

whelmed me -- that we were not in college accustomed to com
pliments -- that we were straightforward, plain-spoken men,
sometimes, perhaps, too much so -- that we never thought of
saying much good of one another to our faces, though we might
think a great deal -- that we rather inclined to dwell on the points
where we differed, and liked to fight these out in a resolute and

uncompromising way, which excited no shade of ill-will, because

it went upon the supposition of a common love of truth and a
mutual esteem --that this kind of robust argumentation might
seem rude to strangers, but that it was, in fact, one of the great

privileges and happinesses of college life. All this, and a good

Ideal more, discoursed to him in a quiet and good-humoured
manner (I assure you it is true, and you may ask him if you

like), and he appeared to be much edified, for he listened with

some deference and assented with great cordiality. He even

declared that he had been witness of such disputes with great
1830  MR. JONES.                                    181

pleasure. Still I have great doubts whether he has yet got

Iright notions ; I think his mind is too shallow to hold them.
           am vexed to find that we have another election for the

IPublic Oratorship coming on, and that I must take some part

whether will or no. You know, probably, that C. Words

worth is elected Master of Harrow ; Steel and Blakesley (both

Trinity men) resolved to come forward as candidates for the

Oratorship, but Thorp has just been with me, and told me that

he will take the field. This being so, I suppose the others will

retire ; Iand though shall, even for Thorp, avoid trouble and

canvassing as much as possible, he is so old and so valued a
Ifriend that I must not be too backward in his behalf.
                                                                do

most thoroughly dislike all work of this kind.

    In the course of this summer Professor Whewell

wrote to Mr. Rose of the appointment of Mr. Jones to the
Chief Commissionership for the Commutation of Tithes.

' It has given me very great gratification ; not only be

Icause rejoice at the prosperity of an old and valued
Ifriend, but because think it a most appropriate ap

pointment. His general views and his knowledge of

details alike fit him for it ; if some one had not acted

for us we should have been crushed in the conflict of

parties. Jones's vigilance, activity, and resource, which

I saw in operation daily, are truly admirable.'

     He concludes his letter with a wish ' that your turn

Iwill come before long ; as for me, have yet to make

out my case (for promotion) by reforming the philosophy

I Iof the age, which am going to set about in reality.
Idaresay you laugh at my conceit, but you and are
Ifriends too old and intimate, hope, for me to mind

that. What is the use of having friends if one cannot

 vapour a little to them ? '

To his Sister Ann]                              July 10, 1836.
     Your letter afflicts me much.
                                    Pray write as soon as you
receive this and let me know how    Idear aunt is.
                                                    shall not
182 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

Ileave Cambridge till I hear from you again, and then  must,

if possible, go to London for a day or two.

     Mrs. Lyon's death must have followed very speedily

on this alarm. He writes :--

To his Sister]  Bath Hotel, Clifton: Aug. 31, 1836.

    I am glad to hear that Cheshire agrees with you and that
you are spending your time pleasantly. I am not surprised
at your thinking much of our dear aunt after living for so
many years with her as a daughter ; but I am sure you may

allow yourself to reflect that you did for her, to the last, all

that could be done, and helped as much as possible to retain
her here in comfort and tranquillity till the time came for her

to be placed under a better care.
I suppose you have seen something of our (British Associa
tion) proceedings in the newspapers. You     will have heard
that we have determined to go to Liverpool
                                             next year --nor,

however, without a considerable struggle. The Manchester

people were very strong and very urgent, and your Liverpool

friends were hard-pushed for arguments. They were obliged

at last to plead that they asked our presence, not because they

were more scientific than their Manchester rivals, but because

they were less so ; that they allowed the Manchester people
had many philosophers and that they had few or none ; but
that they hoped to mend. This was really one of the argu
ments which produced most effect, so you see the Liverpool

people are put on their good behaviour. And this is not mere
talk, for we really do want a number of intelligent and scientific
persons belonging to the place where we meet, in order to
carry on the business of the Association. Such persons always
must take the most troublesome offices -- those of secretaries of
the different sections for instance -- in order to show that they

are in earnest.
      We should have no difficulty in obtaining a sufficient supply

of such persons at Manchester, so the credit of Liverpool is
concerned in providing a stock of men of science before we
cnm.e. Our president is to be Lord Burlington --a very
1836  BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT BRISTOL.  183

excellent appointment if he takes it up in earnest -- and we are

Ito meet in September.

        have been staying, during the meeting of the Association,
with Dr. Riley and his wife in Bristol, very excellent and

agreeable people ; but, that being over, I have come to this

place, which is picturesque and pleasant, and here and in the

neighbourhood I shall be for a fortnight or more.

To his Sister']  Trinity College, Nov. 14, 1836.

      I am glad that you feel disposed to have a home of your

own, and think it quite natural that you should wish to have

the power over your own employments and actions which that

alone can give you. If the house in Friar Street suits you, by

all means keep it ; and tell me if there is anything else which

II can do which will make you more comfortable in it.

       do not expect, nor, indeed, can I wish, that you should

immediately cease to think of my dear aunt, with whom you

lived so long in intimate and affectionate domestic intercourse.

It is not by forgetting such friends and such habits that we re

tain the happy influence which they are fitted to exercise upon

us, and which makes them just subjects of gratitude. But

I hope you will soon cease to think of her and her loss with

any bitterness or despondency, and find consolation and support

where she in her need sought and found it so abundantly.

    Mr. Simeon, whom I mentioned to you in my last letter as

dangerously ill, died to-day. After some promise of recovery

he sank gradually into a state of extreme weakness, of which

the termination could not be doubted. Through the whole of

this he preserved a tranquillity and sweetness of demeanour

which very much affected the few persons who were allowed to

see him, and never for an instant wavered in the stedfast trust

which he manifested in the hopes and encouragements which it

had been the business of his life to cultivate in himself and

others. I have not yet heard the particulars of his last hours ;

Ibut all that have heard of him has interested me very much.

To his Sister]   London: Dec. 24, 1836.

      I send you, along with this, Dr. Buckland's book, and also

some of the sermons preached on the subject of Mr. Simeon's
184 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

Ideath, which think you will like to see. There will be a life

of him published. My friend Mr. Carus, of Kirkby Lonsdale,

will, I believe, be the biographer.
    I am staying here with my friend Jones, who has been

appointed Chief Commissioner for the Commutation of Tithes,
and has taken a house for a permanent abode. After Christmas

Day I go to Lord Lyttelton's, at Hagley, and then to Audley

End, and to Norwich. I am busy with my new book, wbich I

hope to publish by the end of February.

    I send you the statement of a church which we want to

build at Barnwell. My colleague, Perry, has bought the ad-
vowson of the living for 1,0007., with no chance of any return,
in the hope of providing some relief for the deplorable reli
gious destitution of a place thus lying at our own door.

In 1836 the Lowndean professorship became vacant

by the death of Mr. Lax. The appointment was in the

gift of certain high officers of the Crown, and was

bestowed by them upon Mr. Peacock. Mr. Spring Rice,

then Chancellor of the Exchequer, writing in answer to

Mr. Whewell's announcement that he was a candidate

Ifor the chair, says : ' Even if your letter had come sooner
  could not have assisted you where Peacock was a can

didate. We were contemporaries ages ago, we have

been affectionate friends ever since, and he has repeat

edly, to me and mine, proved the freshness of his early
Irecollections. You know how love Trinity ; guess,
Ithen, how attached am to one of my earliest friends
Ithere, and how eager have felt to seize any oppor
Itunity of proving my affection.
                                  know you will not

quarrel with this avowal.' Five years after this, Mr.

Spring Eice, then Lord Monteagle, and Dr. Whewell

became brothers-in-law.

In the early part of this year, Mr. Whewell accepted

the office of President of the Geological Society, at the

urgent request of his friends Sedgwick, Lyell, and
1837     PRESIDENT OF GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY.  185

Murchison. Consequently he was a good deal in
London in May and June. In July he went abroad,

delighted himself in examining some of his favourite
French cathedrals ; made a solitary progress in an open
boat down the Moselle ; spent a week with his architec
tural friend, M. de Lasaulx, at Bonn ; and then joined

some friends, Lady Munro, sister of the Marchesa Spineto,

and others, in an expedition up the Rhine to Bingen.
Before returning to England he spent some time in
Holland. In September the British Association met at

Liverpool, and Mr. Whewell was Vice-President, return

ing immediately after to Cambridge for term and its

business ; being, moreover, employed in printing as fast as
he could write the ' History of the Inductive Sciences';

also in preaching sermons, afterwards printed, on the
' Foundation of Morals.'

To his Sister]                      Paris: July 12, 1837.

      I think I have now made up my mind as to movements :--
I shall visit Chartres to-morrow and its fine cathedral. I shall

then return here and proceed to the east, by Eheims, Luxem

bourg, Treves, to Coblentz. I shall travel a little up and down

the Rhine, perhaps as far as Frankfort one way, and as far as
IHolland the other.
                     have never seen Holland, except Rotter
dam, which came in my way on my return from Germany. I

believe a few days will be well employed in seeing that country,

and a few days, they say, are sufficient to see the whole king

dom. I intend to return by Aix la Chapelle and Brussels, and

shall probably be in England again in the middle of August.
      I am glad to hear that Dr. L
                                    is still so well. He was always

a great talker, and by his bringing you the nonsensical story of

my having refused a bishopric I presume he is still more re

markable for the quantity than for the certainty of his informa
Iftion.
         you ask any of your friends who read the newspapers

whether such a story is likely to be true they will tell you that

the present Ministers are not likely to give to any one who is

not a steady supporter of theirs any opportunity of refusing
186 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                   ia37

Ia bishopric or any other preferment. What did surprise
me was that the bishopric of Norwich (which   suppose is

Ithe one meant) was not offered to Sedgwick, who would have
been a good appointment in every way. Adieu.  am just

setting off to Chartres. Write to me at Bonn before long.

To his Sister Martha]  Bonn: Aug. 19, 1837.

I came across the east of France, directing my course

especially by Rheims, where is one of the most beautiful
Icathedrals in that or any other country, and which had not
Iseen before.
               then went by Verdun, where Bonaparte de

tained the English prisoners at the breaking out of the last

Iwar ; and by Metz, where there is a noble church which had
Ionly time to see half as well as it deserved. From France

passed into the Prussian territories bordering the Rhine.

Treves is one of the cities which I had not seen before, and is
a place very remarkable for its Roman antiquities. I spent a

few days there and then came down the valley of the Moselle,

which, like that of the Rhine, is very remarkable for its pictur

I Iesque beauty ; and was glad to see it. But found it rather
a grave than a gay pleasure seeing it alone. I travelled the

greater part of the way in a little boat, and the silence of the

progress, and the want of effort and variety in the motion of a

boat drifting down a rapid stream, naturally makes the deep
solitary valley appear more severe and solemn than it otherwise

would do.

   I thus arrived at Coblentz, where I found an excellent

friend with whom 1 have long corresponded, but whom I never

saw before. This is M. de LasauLx, an architect, who many

Iyears ago took a fancy to the little book which published

about German architecture. He received me with great kind

ness, and I spent above a week in seeing various objects in the

neighbourhood in company with him and friends. After that

I Icame to Bonn, where stayed about a week among various
German acquaintances, old and new ; and when I was on the
point of leaving the place, I fell in with a party of English, or
rather Scotch friends, whom I was much rejoiced to meet, and
with whom I have been moving about ever since.

We have been to all the most noted points of the Rhine,
1S37  HOLLAND.  187

scenery which I had for the most part seen before, but which I

have seen again with increased pleasure ; and we shall probably

go on together to Aix la Chapelle, where I have some expecta

tion of meeting some other of my English friends. We have

had gorgeously fine weather, almost without interruption,

except that the other day we were detained by the rain a

couple of hours in a ruined abbey near Cologne, and had at last
to walk to our carriage through the rain for an hour, in very
dirty roads and wet woods, but I do not think anybody was put
out of humour by this little inconvenience, and nobody was the
worse for it.

     This is to be brought to England by a son of Lady Munro,
who is of our travelling party, and who is obliged to return
home hecause he is come to the end of his holidays -- I believe
it will reach you as soon as if it were put in the post.

              Spring Grove, near Birmingham: Aug. 30, 1837.

    Since I wrote last I have travelled down the course of the

Rhine to Holland, and have employed about a week in travel

ling through that country. I went from Rotterdam to Delft,

and thence to the Hague, where the king mostly resides, and
where there are fine collections of pictures and other curiosities.

From Hague I turned aside to Scheveningen, which is a bath

ing place on the sea-coast, in order that I might have the plea

 sure of seeing the German shore of the ocean, and of looking
across towards England, although far too distant to be visible.

I then went on to Amsterdam, not stopping at Haarlem. You

 know from description what a strange country Holland is, when

 you come to think about it. It is so low that, if it were not

 protected by great dykes, a great part of it would be under
 water. Amsterdam is surrounded by such dykes, and the
 water in the docks and canals within these barriers is lower,
 though in a very small degree, than the sea water outside.
 You perhaps recollect Goldsmith's description of Holland in
 ' The Traveller ' :--

                            Methinks her hardy sons before me stand,
                           Where the tall 1 ocean leans against the land.

     I1 In all editions of ' The Traveller ' have been able to consult the

  epithet is ' broad.
188 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1837

This is a very spirited expression to describe the ocean being
higher than the land and pressing against its boundary. The
whole description in ' The Traveller ' is very exact and very
prettily expressed. The Dutch are far more like the English
than any other people, both in their way of dressing, their great

love of cleanliness, and, I may add, in the very high charges at
their inns. I think at most of the inns I spent as much money

Ias should have done at first-rate inns in England. And besides

this, instead of being as civil as the English innkeepers are, they
are often as disobliging as the German innkeepers, who are fre
quently very consequential folks, like Hermann's father. At

Arnheim, the first town in Holland at which I arrived, I had

to stay all night, the steam-boat doing so. I had some difficulty

in finding room in any of the inns ; this was not surprising; but
what amused me was that at the inns where they could not
receive me they were so sulky that they would hardly give me

an answer. I returned from Amsterdam to Rotterdam by
IUtrecht and Gouda, and then came over to London. am here

lodged with a most amiable family (Mr. Chance), one of whose
sons was formerly my pupil. Instead of being in smoky Bir

mingham, which I was afraid 1 should be, I live in a very pretty

house, with fields and trees, and gardens and conservatories, and

come into town, about two miles, to the business of the day.

To his Sister] Trinity College, Cambridge: Oct. 12, 1837.

      Our examinations here came close on the heels of the

British Association meeting at Liverpool, and it was only whilst

II was at Liverpool that I learnt that could find a day or two

at my own disposal on the road hither. These two days, which

I thus came into possession of, I spent very agreeably at Sir
Philip Egerton's, at Oulton, near Northwich ; but I found myself

unable to cateh any of the music of the Birmingham musical

Ifestival, which wished much to have done.
    I was particularly desirous of hearing the Oratorio of St.

Paul, of which my musical friends tell me great things. But I

could not have achieved any opportunity of hearing that, except
by leaving Oulton at five in the morning ; and such a vigorous
proceeding, considering the trouble it would have given my hosts,

and the uncertainty of obtaining a ticket of admission when I
I
1
1837                      SALT MINE.               189

reached Birmingham, I had not the energy to attempt. Sir P.

Egerton's is a very fine gentleman's house and park, and we had
a very agreeable party there.

      The day after my arrival we went, a large party, to visit the

salt mines near Northwich ; a sort of repetition of the party
which went for the same purpose during the week of the meet
ing of the British Association. The spectacle of the salt mine
lighted up by between 2,000 and 3,000 candles was very pretty.

From Oulton I came as fast as railroads and coaches could bring
me (which is very fast) to this place, where I have been ever

since, with the exception of a visit of two or three days to a friend

in Suffolk.

To the same]                 Trinity College: Nov. 18, 1837.

      IMy old complaint of being overwhelmed with business,
especially at this  time  of year, is at present,     think, rather more
severe than ever.    For  besides all my usual
                                                   employments I have

to go to London two days every fortnight as        President of the

                     and     am  printing a book     which I have
                    that     am  obliged often to
                                                   run as fast as
Geological Society,       I

Inot yet written, so

can to avoid the printers riding over me, so close are they at my
Iheels.
         am, in addition to all this, preaching a course of ser

mons before the University ; but this last employment, though

it takes time and thought, rather sobers and harmonises my

Iother occupations than adds anything to my distraction. shall

probably print these sermons, and when that is done will send

you a copy immediately.               I sent you that the · Edin
     You will see by some newspapers

burgh Review' has declared war against me once more. The
I Iwriter is Sir David Brewster, a man of considerable scientific

genius, but who thinks, suppose, that have not done him
justice ; and who is by nature fretful and irritable. But you

If Iare not to suppose that I am disturbed by his carping.
Iwanted anything to compensate for it, should have found it
amply supplied by a letter which I got this morning from Sir
John Herschel, who speaks of my history with the warmest
pleasure and admiration, and for a book of its size, price, and

subject, it has sold remarkably well.
    I must tell you of a great honour I have just received. The
190 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                          1838.

Royal Society of London have adjudged me the Royal Prize
Medal for my papers on the Tides.

      Professor Whewell made frequent visits to London
during the spring of this year, drawn there partly by
the necessity of officiating once a fortnight as President
of the Geological Society, partly by other objects, one
of which was to consult Sir Benjamin Brodie about
injuries sustained in a fall with his horse, during one of

the late spring frosts. It was one of many experienced

in similar circumstances, for he was an unfortunately
careless and fearless rider. He used to say that he had
personally measured the depth of every ditch in the
neighbourhood of Cambridge by tumbling into it.
He accompanied Dean Milman's party to Westminster
Abbey, to see the Queen's coronation. He was present
at a dinner given to Sir John Herschel on his return
from the Cape. He succeeded Dr. Barnes as Professor
of Casuistry and Moral Philosophy. After attending
the meeting of the British Association at Newcastle, he
paid his first visit to Hallsteads, the Cumberland home
of his future wife, and returned to Cambridge in time

for the fellowship examination.

To his Sister]  Trinity College: March 25, 1838.

I have, indeed, been very much employed in moving about

for the last few weeks, having been in Ixindon several times,

partly to fill my president's chair at the Geological Society,

Iand partly for other purposes. On Saturday week went to
Itown to dine with the Duke of Sussex, at whose table met the

Duke of Wellington, the Duke of Cambridge, Sir Robert Peel,
and several other eminent people ; and in the evening almost

all the distinguished persons you ever heard of were there, with

Ia great many more whom dare say you never heard of:

     These visits, and the time spent on the road, have cut my

leisure into such shreds and scraps that I have hardly been

able to do anything^which was not absolutely necessary ; espe
1*38 FALL WITH HIS HORSE. 191

cially as my usual employments have been going on as actively

as usual.

    There is another circumstance which has somewhat ham

pered me. I had a bad fall with my horse in the frosty

weather, and hurt my right arm very much ; so much, indeed,
that it is yet very far from well. The horse slipped down side

ways on a hard-frozen slope, and I fell on my shoulder, which
was much bruised. I had, however, great reason to be thank
ful that I broke no bones ; and I am told by the doctors that
there is no doubt of my recovering perfectly the use of my arm,

although the recovery will take sometime. The hurt interferes
with my writing, and indeed with all my motions, so that my
time is not so much my own as it used to be.

To his Sister]                 London: April 12, 1838.

My arm is, I believe, improving. I have consulted Sir

Benjamin Brodie, and he expects a complete restoration of its

use.

    It was a great pleasure to me that, as President of the Geolo
gical Society, I had to assign our prize medal to a Lancaster man,

Richard Owen-- the son of our former neighbour, Mrs. Owen --

who is considered to be one of the first anatomists in Europe.
    It was indeed a great shock to me to hear of Mr. Wilkin

Ison's death. The news came to Cambridge just before left it ;
and though it appeared to me but too well authenticated, I
Itried to believe that there must be some mistake.
                                                    had heard

from him not long before, and then he spoke of himself as per
fectly well, but was in some anxiety about his wife. He was a
man of excellent qualities, and to me his loss is a deep grief ;
for the friends of our early college days are very dear to us and

cannot be replaced when they are gone.

    I hope Martha's baby and all your other concerns at Lindale
go on well. I am glad you have good hope of the school and

the parish. Pray recollect that, so far as money goes, when
ever a few pounds can be of use in any of your plans of that

kind you may reckon upon me. I know that in such a district

as yours money alone can avail little ; and it is only by giving
one's own labour and thought to the work, as James does, that

any blessing can be expected.
192 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                          1&3*

    Towards the end of the summer I shall be in the north, as
I intend to attend the meeting of the British Association at

INewcastle ; and then hope I shall see you and Martha.

To his Sister]      Trinity College : June 9, 1 838.

I am to be in London on Friday, the 15th, as one of the

stewards of a dinner which is given to Sir John Herschel by his

friends, to congratulate him on his return to England after

being four years at the Cape of Good Hope. I shall then prob

ably have to return here about the end of the month, to be
elected into a professorship again. This is a professorship

vacated by the death of a very old man who died lately, Dr.

Barnes, the Master of Peterhouse. He was a north-country

man, and lived to the age of ninety-four. The professorship,

which he held as a sinecure, and which I wish to make useful,

was that of Casuistry, or, more properly, of Moral Philosophy.

It is not worth much, but the subjects which it directs me to

will fall in with my plans, as you may see by my sermons
Iwhich I sent you.
                    believe there is little doubt of my being

elected to this office on the 27th.

To his Sister] Trinity College, Cambridge: July 3, 1838.

I did not intend to have made my absence from college so
Iprolonged, but                                   which I found
I should have     was tempted by the Coronation,  I had a ticket
                 a good opportunity of seeing.

given me which procured me    a      good place in the interior of
Westminster Abbey, and there         saw the whole of the ceremony
                              I
very distinctly and agreeably. Everything went on well -- at
least the Queen performed her part admirably ; I am told that

she complained of the other persons who had to figure on the

occasion   not being very perfect in  their duties ; but, so far as a
spectator                             the whole affair passed off in
           could judge where I sat,

a very splendid and suitable manner.
The only accident was what you perhaps have seen in the

papers. A very old and infirm peer, Lord Eolle, bent nearly
double, who was supported to the steps of the throne to do his

homage, when he got so far tried to go up to the Queen without
sufficient assistance. He fell backwards on the floor quite help
                CORONATION.            193

less, and was taken up by the people who stood round, looking

ifas he were half-killed. However, he again made an effort to

approach the Queen, and she rose from her throne to make

their meeting easier. This was done very promptly and grace

fully, and produced great applause. I believe she was well

acquainted with him, and had often been at his house when she

was a girl and lived for some time in Devonshire, where his

seat is.

   I had seen the Queen much nearer a little while before ; for

I went to her with the Duke of Sussex and the other officers of

the Royal Society, and had the honour of kissing her hand.

She then looked very amiable and very girl-like, and her manner

to her uncle, the Duke of Sussex, was exceedingly pretty and
Iaffectionate.
                am glad you succeeded in making a festival for
the poor people at Lindale. I hope everybody has enjoyed the

occasion as much in your part of the country as they seemed to

do wherever I have been. It is pleasant to think that these

peaceful celebrations have, in our time, taken the place of

Irejoicings for victories and triumphs, military and political.

hope we shall never live to see any of the war festivities

return.
   II return to London in a few days, and from thence go to

Bristol, and if I can find that can read and write at any quiet
Iplace in the north of Devon I
                                 have
stay there for some weeks, forof late
                I(whhaevree            business) may
                                       had no time to

myself.

To Us Sister]   Bath Hotel, Clifton : July 12, 1838.
I am always glad to come to this place, which is very pretty

and very pleasant. Although it is so near the great black city

of Bristol it is quite secluded and rural, with an open bushy

down of great extent and a most picturesque river valley.

    To-morrow I am going to see the Great Western steamboat,

which has just come from America in twelve days and a half,

and is now lying in the Bristol Channel. Pray ask William

Newton how it has come to pass that the people of Liverpool,

who are generally more active and enterprising than the Bris-

i tolians, have allowed their rivals to get so much the start of

     them in this matter of American steam-navigation. The

(

                                                            0
194 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1839

success of "the experiment appears -to me to be complete, and
the people here are going to build another ship for the same

service.

To Mrs. Somerville]  Halhteads : Aug. 29, 1 838.

I was greatly obliged by your letter, and thank you very

much for the trouble you have taken about my tide scheme.

I hope to show you, in a few years, that the pains taken with
this subject has not been wasted. I had heard from Mrs.

Murchison of Dr. Somerville's illness, and was extremely de

lighted to learn from you that his recovery is in progress. You
would, I think, have enjoyed the · wise week,' as the Newcastle

people called it, if your plans and engagements had led yon

into it ; for everything (at least of a public nature) went on
very satisfactorily, and the arrangements were better than the}"

have been before.

Among the tasks we have proposed for the future, the

most interesting, perhaps, is a grand scheme of mng-netic

observations, combined with an Antarctic expedition, which we

are to recommend to Government. There seems the strongest

probability that we shall be able not only to determine the

magnetic poles at present as a basis for future observations of

their changes, but also find a very easy method of determining

the longitude, by means of the simultaneous small changes of
the variations. We are also to have a reform bill for the stars :

improving the representation of the skies, putting a number of

constellations in schedule A, and arranging the boundaries of

others according to their star-population. So you see we

venture to charge ourselves with earth and heaven at the same

time.

     Early in this summer Mr. Whewell made a tour on
the Rhine, in North Germany, and in Belgium, and after
staying with Mr. Chance, near Birmingham, he made a
tour in Wales during September with Mr. Jones. The

scenery surrounding Brecon afforded him the opportu
nity of recalling feature by feature the beautiful cir
cumstances of river, sea, and distant mountain, amid
1839  TOUR WITH MR. JONES.         195

which his native town of Lancaster is placed. In April
1840 he sends his sister the ' Isle of the Sirens,' and ex
plains its meaning. He paid a visit to Madame de Barne-
velde at the Chateau de Meteren in June, and another
in July to the Bethmann Holwegs at Bonn. Whilst in
Germany he had a sharp aguish attack, but he re
turned to England in time to go to Glasgow for the
British Association, and to make various visits in

Scotland.

     In February of this year Mr. Hare wrote to Lady
Malcolm from Cambridge :--

    I have been spending a month here with great delight, from
the exceedingly kind affectionate reception I have met with from

my old friends, especially from Whewell ; and one of the greatest

Ipleasures have enjoyed has been from seeing the very remark

able improvement in his character in point of gentleness and
self-control, which lets his innate kindness become more evi

dently the ruling principle of his conduct.

To his Sister Ann]  Builth : Sept. 15, 1839.

    From Birmingham I went to London, and after staying there
a week I set off for a little tour in South Wales with my friend

Jones. He is a Welshman, but had seen little of his own

country, and I had never seen South Wales, so we agreed to

make a holiday together. We have found it very pleasant --
although we have had a great deal of rain -- for it has been fair

during a part of every day, so that we have been able to see the

country pretty well. Yesterday we came up the Towy from
Caermarthen -- you will recollect Towy's flood in the pretty little

poem of ' Grongor Hill.' 1 The hill itself makes no great figure

for size or beauty as you pass it, but I can easily believe that the

view from it is very pretty.

    I still, however, hold to my former opinion, that there are few

places where the views are prettier than some of those in the

neighbourhood of Lancaster, and I do not think any river that

                    1 Dyer's poem
                               o2
196 LIFE OF PR. WHEWELL.

I have seen on my tour is more beautiful than the Lune above
the Aqueduct. One view which I have just seen reminded me

most strongly of the Lune, looking down from the Aqueduct, or
rather looking from the meadows between that and the end of

the ' Ladies' Walk.' It is just above the town of Brecon. There

is there, just as there is at Lancaster, a weir which crosses the
river obliquely above the town, and makes the water above it as
smooth and bright as a mirror ; the upper part of the river runs
away among meadows and hedges and green hills, and then far
beyond them you see absolute mountains, vast and grey and
blue, like the hills towards Ingleborough, though there is nothing
so fine as Ingleborough itself. Then looking down the river you
see the stream, broken and rapid where it has got away from the
weir ; and a little way downwards you see the town, looking very
picturesque, as Lancaster does, except that, instead of standing
on a hill and making a fine outline, it is placed in the gorge of
a valley with high hills on each side of it, the towers of the castle
and church all mixed with trees and white houses, and of course

nothing beyond to compare with our bay and its grand mountains.
Still, the relative position of the river and the town and the
inland mountains, and the rough and the smooth parts of the
river, give it the same kind of beauty which our scenes have.

I have talked so much about this that I cannot describe to you

any other parts of our tour, which has been to me a very delight
ful one.

     This little outbreak of mine into Wales has put an end to all
chance of my visiting the north this summer.

To his Sister]  Trinity College : April 8, 1840.

I send you a book, which I do not think you will make much

of or admire much, but which you may like to see out of regard
for ' the Author.' In order to understand it at all, you are to

know that Mr. Carlyle has published a strange book called

' Chartism,' in which he represents the present evils of the

country and its disordered state in a most alarming manner ;

refers to the proposed remedies, and, among the rest, to church

extension, and laughs at this by recommending that there should

be a supply of cast-iron preachers set up all over the country ;
1840            'ISLE OF THE SIRENS.'             197

and finally he himself recommends teaching reading as the first
step to improvement.
The Hexameter writer has taken passages out of the pam
                                                  a' sSepeorss')ibalend--haacs
phlet (those which are put in the mouth of the
turned them into verse with as little alteration

tually only a word here and there ; and with a few other altera
tions to make the allusions Greek, turning the English and Irish

into Ithacans and Sybotians, and so you have the poem. The

Chartism appears to have fascinated some of our young men,
and perhaps the ' Isle of the Sirens ' may serve to disenchant

Ithem.
            have not heard from you since you read beyond Miss
Austen's first two novels, ' Northanger Abbey ' and ' Sense and

Sensibility.' In my opinion those two are decidedly much the

worst. I should like to know what you think of my other
favourites, for, as I think I told you, they are great favourites of

Imine.
         am glad you like my books, and think the Bible handsome.

I am glad, too, that it is to make you remember me on Sunday

evenings. At the time you mention I am generally in the

College Chapel, and shall call your family circle to mind in the

intervals of the service.

To his Sister]             Diisseldorf : June 28, 1840.

     There is very little to describe in the country through which

II have passed. must say, however, that the line of banks of the

canals is prettier than one might expect; for the Dutchmen
build themselves extremely neat houses, with lawns, shrubberies,

groves, and flower gardens facing the canals ; and everything is
so trimly painted and kept that it really has a sort of beauty in

spite of the want of natural features. They surround their

houses with ditches, which are generally covered with an even

green coat of duckweed, and over these ditches, at the corner

of the garden, you have always a summer-house, where they sit

and smoke their pipes and look at the world as it passes by

them. 

    During part of the time that I was in Holland I was stay
ing at a country-house, the Chateau of Meteren. It is very like

an English country-house, except that it is surrounded by such
198 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL                                       1840

ditches as I tell you of, which are crossed by bridges, some of
wood and some of stone ; and then the grounds are laid out in
square fields, with straight rows of trees running betwen them,
for the people here aim at straight lines in laying out their
ofgrounds as much as they avoid them in England. One          the

alleys at Meteren consists of six rows of trees nearly a mile long.
Madame de Barnevelde, my hostess, has also a very ample poultry

yard.1

     My companion is Mr. Thurtell, a fellow of Caius College.
His object, or at least one of his objects, is to see how schools
are managed in countries which are supposed to excel our own
in this respect, and accordingly we went to see several schools
in Holland, but our ignorance of the language prevented our

profiting very much by this inspection.

To Professor Sedgwick]           Cambridge : July 31, 1840.

I am glad you have got my book ; when your white-paper-

mind, which you speak of, is disposed to take any impression

from my printed paper, I am afraid you will find the first
Ivolume rather dry, but the second, think, is not heavy reading.

We had the Bishop of Norwich a and the ladies here for an hour

or two during the Agricultural Meeting, and you, I suppose,

have the pleasure of their society now. Talking of Bishops we

have to rejoice in another one 3 among our friends. Hare is to

preach his consecration sermon.

To his Sister]  Hillermont, Glasgow: Sept. 18, 1840.

     Your letter reached me at Kinwoody House, in Forfarshire,

Iwhere my friend Mr. Lyell's father lives. I made my way to

Edinburgh, when left you, as soon as I expected. Many of

my Scotch friends were gone to their country-houses, but
several of these are not far from the city, and I visited them
Iin their summer-quarters.
                                 staid for about a week with

Professor Forbes, and then went to Kinwoody, which is a bare

country almost at the edge of the Grampians.

1 Madame de Barnevelde was a sister of the Marchesa Spineto.
3 Edward Stanley, Bishop of Norwich.
3 Bishop of St. David's.
1840             KIRRIEMUIR.                          199

    At the request of Mr. Lyell I preached in the Episcopal

chapel at Kirriemuir -on Sunday, and a great number of the
frequenters of the Kirk were drawn by curiosity to hear me.
I was told afterwards that they liked my discourse very well,
but that some of them ' thought it would ha' been better if it
had na' been read in a book.'
IFrom Kinwoody   came to Glasgow, where I slept two

nights, and dined with an old pupil of mine named Ramsay,
Iwho is one of the professors there.
                                      then came on to the
house of Mr. Colquhoun, who is member for the county. It is

a charming country-house, and at present full of visitors.

IAmong other persons, we have here Dr. Chalmers and his wife.

   am delighted to meet him again. At present he is full of

the controversy about the relative merits of the Scotch and
English ways of relieving the poor, a question which has been
Iraised by Dr. Alison, and has excited great notice.
                                                      believe

they are likely to get into a discussion on the subject to-day in

one of our sectional meetings, although it is against the rules of

the Association to allow questions of such a kind to be debated
Iamongst us.
                 must leave them to settle this and all other
Ipoints among themselves, for to-morrow morning take my

departure for the south, and run to Cambridge as fast as coaches

and railroads can carry me.

To his Sister']                Trinity College: Oct. 24, 1840.
      I was very glad to receive your account of your Welsh tour.
It is very true that I have seen the country, but that does

not make me at all less interested to hear of the impression

which it made on you ; but very much the contrary.

    I hope you went over the Menai bridge to Beaumaris.

The great range of Snowdonian hills looks more majestic from

that side than from any other position. The lake of Llanberis
is still very beautiful and wild ; but it was much more so, to

my thinking, before the broad road was carried through the

valley and the great inn built close to it. I recollect it when it

was a scarcely passable defile between Snowdon and Glyder

Vawr. As you say, it is quite a foreign country ; the temper

and habits of the people, as well as their language, are different
from those of the ' Seisnig.'
200 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                   1640

I am glad you did not like Mr. A.'s (picture of) Hermann
                  It is
and Dorothea.            beyond measure stupid ; both, as  tyoouhista--y,
in the feeling  of the
                         situation and --what was easier

the costume and condition of the figures. The artist piqued

himself upon giving the genuine costume of German peasants.

It never seems to have occurred to him to read the poem, in

order to see what the costume was, or to recollect that neither

Hermann nor Dorothea were peasants. He was the son of a

rich man whose father was burgomaster, and she had a French

Ieducation, and was handsomely dressed. The only solution

can think of for Mr. A.'s stupidity is that somebody told him

the story and that he never read the poem.

    I have just been spending a week very agreeably with my

friends Professor and Mrs. Henslow at Hitcham, in Suffolk.

He is Professor of Botany and also Hector of Hitcham, and to

my great sorrow about two years ago they transferred their

habitual abode from Cambridge to Hitcham.

    On my return I find my friends all busy about the election

to the office of High Steward of the University. The candidates

are Lord Lyttelton, for whom I vote, and Lord Lyndhurst.

     Towards the end of the year 1840 a contest took
place for the High Stewardship of the University. The
candidates were Lord Lyndhurst and Lord Lyttelton.

Lord Lyndhurst was elected, his election apparently

having been recommended mainly by political considera
tions. Mr. Whewell supported Lord Lyttelton, a former
pupil of his who had just completed a brilliant career
at the University. The grounds on which Mr. Whewell

was led to give his vote in contests of this kind are set
forth in a letter to Lord Lyttelton, from which the

following is an extract. After observing that he did
not look upon it as a matter of any material con

sequence whether he gave a general support to Ministers
on subjects unconnected with the Church, he goes on

to say : --
        LETTER TO LORD LTTTELTON.                  201

        Trinity College: March 10, 1840.

    Perhaps I shall make myself best intelligible if I tell you
Iwhat my own view of the position and value of our Church is.
think that the blessing of having a Church such as ours, so in

terwoven with the Constitution, so beneficial in its influence upon

religion, morals, manners, and politics, is so great that we can
never enough value it, and ought not to trifle with it. I think
that this Church, having been so interwoven with the spirit of the
country, must be continually identified with that spirit by the

prevalent system of education, and that when this ceases to be
done, the Church cannot but speedily fall -- which would be the

greatest evil the country could suffer. I think therefore that it

must be the business of our statesmen to secure the perman

ency of a sympathy between Church and education. I allow for

Ithe existence of great bodies of interests and feelings alienated

from the Church. would treat these with all respect and defer

ence consistent with the constant testification of a belief in the

value of the Established Church. But if I saw a Ministry who

treated the Church only with decorous neglect, if in all indif

ferent    cases (exactly the cases which supply a   test) they gave
their                                              it impossible to
        preference to dissent, I should then hold
Igo along with them. Observe do not say that these supposi
Itions have any present application, and do not say it because
I have seen no certain ground to think the case is so. But as

you have had the kindness to say so much with a view of show

Iing me your course of thinking on such subjects, you will, do

not doubt, excuse me for showing you what are the points which

must influence me. Having said so much, I have only to add
that if you come forward as a candidate for the office of High
Steward on the next vacancy, I shall have great pleasure in
Igiving you my vote and support ; and should hope for the

satisfaction of seeing you come in successful without difficulty.

     An interesting letter to Miss Henslow 1 contains a
brief account of the theories of spelling with which
Archdeacon Hare had indoctrinated Mr. Whewell.

    1 Daughter of his old friend Professor Henslow, and afterwards married
to Dr. Hooker of Kew.
202 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                          1840

                                        Trinity College : Oct. 29, 1840.

   I was very much obliged to you for your account of the fire
Iworks. As I came along in the coach thought of you, and was

glad to see that you had so fine an evening for the display, and

I was glad to see, too, in your description of the event that you

Ihave made so much progress in right spelling. Still think you
Iare not quite perfect in the lesson I tried to teach you, and must

tell you a little more about it.
     The good old writers, as Shakespear, Spenser, and Milton,

did put t instead of d at the end of several participles ; and as

this is both the old English way, and the way we pronounce,
there is a good union of reasons for keeping it up. But then
it was not in all cases that they used t, but only after certain

consonants, which I call sharp consonants, p, k, s, sh, not after
the corresponding flat consonants, b, g hard, z, g soft. I will

give you some examples from Milton's ' Paradise Lost.'

      There he says :

     397. Worshipt in Itabba and bis watery plain.
     459. Maim'd his brute image, head and hands lupt oft'.

But we should say :

    He robb'd his pocket while he dubb'd him knigbt.           \

Milton says in his own edition of his poem :

     126. Vaunting aloud but rackt with deep despair.

But we should say :

Bang went his gun and so he bagg'd his hare.

Milton says :

     509. Gods, yet confer later than Heav'n and Earth.

I say:

He quizzed him well and made abundant mirth.

Milton says :

     209. So stretcht out huge in length the arch fiend lay.

I should write :

He dredged for oysters in Algoa Bay.

The poet says :          His face

Deep scars of thunder had intrench, and sin,

Sad on his faded cheek.

And we should say : And wedged or plungecZ             it in.
SPELLING.  903

    All the Miltonian examples are from the first book of
' Paradise Lost,' and I have markt the number of the line at the
side. You will find them differently spelt in modern editions,
but they are spelt as I have given you them in the edition which

Milton himself superintended, and he was very careful about

spelling.
     Do you not see that there is a difference in the two sets of

cases ? You cannot say wishd if you try, nor jAunget (dropping

the e, and keeping the g soft.) You say wisht and plunged,

and it is better to write so. Can you say dipd or ro6< ? I think

not ; so be content to say and to write dipt and robbed. Some

times you have tugged at a bough and pricAtf your hand ; but
never tugt at anything, nor pricfaZ even your little finger except
you tried to talk so. We see and hear that there is a difference

in such classes of words, and as good writers have acknowledged

the difference by their spelling, why should we try and keep it
out of sight ?

    And so ends my lesson about participles ; for I will not write

about other branches of spelling at present.

    I hope neither Mama nor Miss Brind will be angry with me

for trying to spoil your spelling.

     While the Ecclesiastical Duties and Revenues Bill

was under discussion, Professor Whewell made an

attempt to secure for the chair of Moral Philosophy an
increased endowment in the shape of a stall in Ely
Cathedral. In the Bill, as it left the House of Commons,

there was a clause assigning two stalls at Ely to two
out of certain four professorships at Cambridge, of
which that of Moral Philosophy was one, the others
being the professorships of Hebrew and Greek, and the
Norrisian professorship of Divinity ; the holders of the

two stalls were to be selected by the Crown.

     An attempt was made in the House of Lords to give
to Cambridge four stalls at Ely, on the principle that
Oxford enjoyed four stalls at Christ Church, and if the
Prime Minister would have consented to this it is prob
204 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1840

able that Professor Whewell's exertions on behalf of

his professorship would have succeeded. The Ecclesias
tical Commissioners seem to have recommended that
if there were to be but two stalls they should be de
finitively appropriated to the chairs of Hebrew and
Greek. This was the course adopted in the Act, and
the professors of Hebrew and Greek came after a time
into the possession of stalls at Ely.

     At a later period Dr. Whewell, having received from
the Cathedral Commission a letter of enquiry respecting

the advantage of annexing canonries to professorships,

expressed his opinion that no serious inconvenience had
been produced or threatened by this measure, and that
the annexation of two more canonries to two theological
professorships would be a still more appropriate applica

tion of such preferment, and a great benefit to the

University. This suggestion produced no result, but it

is perhaps worth mentioning that the commission ap
pointed in 1877 to revise the statutes of the University

have recently proposed to transfer the Greek professors

stall to a new professorship of Divinity.
205

CHAPTER V.

1840 TO CLOSE OF 1841.

Letters to Hare--His Charge -- ' College Rooms       no Home for Declining
     Years '-- Hare's Reply--Pew -- Lady Campbell's
                                                     Death --Masham decided

against -- Seal with a Strange Device -- Engaged to be Married to Cordelia
M arsh all -- Marriage -- Dr. Wordsworth's Resignation -- Professor Whewell
appointed Master of Trinity -- Coniston -- Mr. Wordsworth's Visit -- Arrival
at Cambridge -- Verses on a Chain of Hair -- Theological Instruction.

The best introduction to the history of the year 1841,
the most eventful in Dr. Whewell's life, is contained in
the letters written at the close of 1840 by him to Arch

deacon Hare and in the Archdeacon's replies to them.

A growing conviction was stealing upon him that his

task as a resident fellow of Trinity College was nearly

completed, and that ' college rooms were no home for
declining years.' On the other hand, the only alterna
tive which then presented itself for choice was a college

living. Many another man in his place would probably
have accepted that alternative without much scrutiny

of his capabilities for fulfilling the duties involved,
trusting vaguely to the probability that his would equal
those of others similarly circumstanced, and to the hope

of procuring a good curate who would supply all de
ficiencies. More characteristic of him, however, than
 any one other quality was a sense of duty, which made

 clearer views on this point absolutely necessary to him.
Though longing for the quiet and leisure of the country,
 and feeling that ' such a life would be more wholesome
206 LIFE OF DR. -WHEWELL.                                                                  1840

to the heart and spirit ' than that he led at Cambridge,

he sincerely doubted his qualifications for it. With

perfect candour he lays the whole question before his

friend, and the answer to this letter seems to me equally

remarkable for its affectionate sympathy and its coura

geous frankness.

    A visit to Masham, the college living in question,

and subsequent consideration of all the important points

involved, decided him finally to decline the living, and

left him with the persuasion that the work ' for which

Providence had mainly fitted him lay in the University,

and was not yet quite completed.' Besides the dis

cussion of this matter the following letters to Arch

deacon Hare contain the announcement by Professor

Whewell of the death of Lady Campbell, one of the

Hyde Hall friends so dear to both, and also an urgent
entreaty that Mr. Hare, when called upon to re

publish his Charge, would modify his praise of him
in the preface, which Professor Whewell considered

so exaggerated and erroneous as only to ' make him

ashamed.' Mr. Hare promises to soften
    it I                                       but denies
        ; it

          I is

                   it

                                '

                                   I
                                       I

                                                                                        '

                                             I it

                                                        I it it,
                                                           I

                                                              I
that        the abominable story Professor Whewell

thinks it.

To Ven. Archdeacon Hare] Trinity College: Dec. 13, 1840.

      have just received your Charge and read  with great

delight . had already begun to think that was time should

see and having seen its publication advertised was on the

point of sending for it, but, as you may imagine, would much

rather possess as your gift.  should perhaps differ with you

on one or two points of minor importance, and am utterly un

able to imagine what has moved you to insert that piece of ex

travagance and mistake about Professor Whewell. But almost

every page contains opinions which am rejoiced to have exprest,

and still more to have them well exprest by you.                                           am

especially pleased with your note about the terms of union with
1840         MASHAM.                                  207

the National Society. But I will not discuss any of the points
with you now ; I hope the time will come Iwhen may do so
Iface to face, which will be more satisfactory and expeditious.

want at present to employ a few minutes of your time in another

way, in the consideration of matter which personally concerns
Imyself.  want to ask your counsel. I will not say that your
opinion will mainly determine me, for I must, of course, decide

on my own consideration of the subject ; but there are few per

sons, if any, whose judgment I shall receive with so much in

terest and willingness to make my own agree with it as yours.

But I must leave off my prefaces and begin.
    The matter, in short, is this. Shall I take a college living ?

Waddington 1 gives up Masham, which now, as improved by com

mutation and other circumstances, is a tolerably good living as

livings go. Now I will tell you the main considerations which
Iweigh with me, and want you, who know me, and know both

a college life and that of a country clergyman, to tell me how
the matter appears to you. My main view is this -- to express it
in the form which it takes in my thoughts --that my task in
I Icollege is well nigh ended.
             have done what could, or at
Ileast in a few months shall have done all can, to improve the
mathematical studies of the college and of the university. I have
written my ' History and Philosophy of Science,' which I could
not have written anywhere but in college. I have introduced

the Philosophy into our Fellowship examination, the only ex
amination in philosophy which exists in the University, and after

another year I think I shall have done in this way all that

becomes me.

     My inducements to stay in college diminish. Friends depart

or become separated from me by change of habits. I do not

make new intimacies easily, hardly at all. College rooms are

no home for declining years. The examples we have seen, and

see, of such a close of life are not such as we should wish to
If I Ifollow.
             stay here, I see already that shall soon be com
pelled to be Vice-Master ; which I shall dislike from its confin

ing me to hall. The governing power of the Vice-Master also

would not suit me ; authority enough to compel you often to

      1 On his appointment to the Deanery of Durham.
208 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                1640

interfere, but not enough to enable you to carry your point, at

least while differing with many of the Fellows on points of
college government, which I do.
But then, on the other hand, am I fit to take a cure of souls ?
I like to have the disposal of my time. I cannot look to giving
Iup my literary occupations. On the contrary, I look to making
or preparing the way for an improved system of Ethics.  con

template keeping my Professorship, even if I take a living, and

residing in Cambridge one term in the year. Shall I be able
to do this with justice to my parish ? Am I at all fit for the
business of a parish ? Am I not too averse to business ? too

unsympathizing with common people ? I have heard of persons

like myself taking a college living and then repenting bitterly

of the change. May not this be my case ?

I have given you the thoughts that suggest themselves to

me, and should like to know which you think the juster side of
the soliloquy. I have given you the matter under a merely

prudential and selfish aspect, because if it will not bear ex

If Iamining in that way, the decision can hardly be right.

were to decide on an enthusiastic view, I certainly should have

moments of repentance. My affections do not yet turn much
towards parochial ministrations, but I should trust by God's

blessing to find strength for such employments, and comfort in

them, when once entered upon them. And one of the con

siderations which recurs to me is that such a life would be

more wholesome to the heart and the spirit than the present

life I lead. The change might be a source of happiness in

other ways now unforeseen.

     I look at you, who on entering on your ministrations have
almost given up your literary labours. This I admire, but do

not envy. For, in my case at least, to do this would mar the

scheme of my life and lead me to neglect what appears to be

my real task in life. If I can do anything, it is that I can

Isystematize portions of knowledge which the consent of opinions
has brought into readiness for such a process.  think I can do

this in some important branches of morals, perhaps of other

subjects. I cannot give up this design.
     But then I see many others of my friends, who contrive to

pursue a large amount of literary labour among the cares of a
                              MASHAM.                                    20!)

parish. I think I could, for several years, if health were spared

me, do what they can do.
   I think you have now nearly the whole of my case before
Iyou.
       am anxious to have your opinion upon
                                       I        because you
                                                  I it,

                                                                      a
have known me long and well, and have, never doubt, regard

for me. The matter does not press very much.    am to meet

Waddington on January at his living, which he resigns on
                  it
that day.
                             1,
           I  shall then see how the external argument looks.

In the mean time            may be as well to say nothing of my

having such a plan at present in my head. So, to put an end

to this selfish letter, will only write myself, as always,
                  I

                                    Yours affectionately,

                                             W. Whewell.

Archdeacon Hare to Professor WheivelU]
                                             Har.stmonceux Dec. 17, 1840.
                                             :
                                                           a
   Your letter not an easy one to answer, but so you must
              is
                         a
have known when you wrote it. Even those who know you

best can only form partial judgment on such question.

There will be much in you, there will probably be much in

your outward circumstances, which ought of right to be taken
into account, but of which they will be ignorant. However,
                                                                           I

will give you my thoughts, such as they are, confident that you

will not be offended          intimate any doubt of your having
           I
                       I iIf
the universality of the Admirable Crichton.  I  doubt whether

any great man ever had, least of all when he was approaching

to fifty. Most fully do agree with you that college rooms are

not a home for one's latter years, and in my late visits to

Cambridge have felt that you were outliving your contempo

raries. It seemed to me too, at least last March, that the

intercourse with your juniors, many of whom had been your

pupils, was not altogether wholesome to you. One of the

greatest delights had during my stay at Cambridge last year
              I

was to perceive that the vehemence of your nature had beenI
greatly subdued. This year, on the contrary -- know not

whether anything had happened in the interval --you seemed to

me to have become quite as vehement as ever. And this reason,

along with others, such as the departure of most of your friends,

led me to wish that some change should take place in the out*

                                 P
210 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1840

ward forln *>f your life. And yet I Tiave never been able to

think with satisfaction of your undertaking a parochial cure. I

can neither fancy that you would suit it, nor that it would suit
you. It hardly seems to me right to enter upon such a cure
unless one does so with the purpose of making it the primary

Iobject of one's thoughts and interests. At least, am sure no

man of right feeling can enjoy peace of mind unless he has a

satisfactory conviction that the people committed to his spiritual
charge are duly taken care of. Much may, indeed, be done by

ifan able and zealous curate ; such a one you may find, and you

take the living you must unquestionably have one.
     Thus, since so large a part of my own time has been with

drawn from my parish by my new office, I have felt a daily

increasing comfort and blessing in Simpkinson ; and you too
would be rightfully withdrawn from your parish by the duties

of your professorship, which, from their great importance to the
Church and to the whole nation, might most justly take the
precedence. At the same time, unless you could feel a con

siderable sympathy with the new objects of your care, unless

you do feel a strong interest in your new duties, and not merely
in your regular Sunday ministrations, but in the schools, in

visiting the sick, in talking to the poor about the petty concerns

of their daily life, your life would be a very unsatisfying one.
Many blessings attend on these labours, when one does take a

hearty interest in them ; but when one does not, they become

an intolerable weariness, until by degrees one grows to neglect

 them.

     Now at your age it is most difficult for a man to change the

whole current of his daily thoughts and interests -- above all,

when the mind has been constantly habituated to look at all
things from a speculative point of view. You who stand atop
of a mountain cannot see the clouds in the valley, still less can

you care for them. Nor is it desirable that you should. All

are not meant to be pastors ; some are to be apostles, some
doctors. This is what our blundering Church-reformers could
not understand. Your ministry in this world seems to me to

be that of a doctor, rather than a pastor ; and what I should

wish for would be a post where you might fulfil that ministry --
the Mastership of Trinity, a deanery, or something of this sort.
ISiO  ARCHDEACON HARES LETTER.                 211

I would have you pursue your work in moral philosophy ; there

is an ample field, a noble one ; and it would be an evil thing
for England that you should abandon it.

    IBut you would not. True, you would not give up lite

rature and philosophy as have done. My course in this

Imatter has not been determined by my own will ; it has been

forced upon me by causes which could not resist. Some of
Ithem lie merely in individual peculiarities.
                                               have always been

called exclusive ; Ma Man told Miss Ferrier : ' Mr. Hare cannot
care about anybody except Kate ' ; and I believe there is a

narrowness in me that disqualifies me for taking a deep interest

in more than one thing at once. Besides, as you know from my
etymological vagaries, I can never rest satisfied until a thing is

done as thoroughly as my faculties and means will enable me.

This is almost a disease ; and hence I have been forced to leave

so many things incomplete. But you are not so hyper-

scrupulous about petty details, nor do you allow yourself so
                           Therefore I doubt not that you
easily to be monopolized.

might be able to pursue your speculative studies amid the cares

of your parish. Thirlwall has done so, and his work is perfect.
A has done so ; B has done so, even with the care

of a London parish and the distractions of London society.
But then their books seem to be much as if a painter were to

dash his brush across his pallet, after which, if he were wise,

his next thought would probably be to obliterate his daub.
However, ThirlwalPs example is an encouragement ; and I know
I Iyour energy.
      doubt not you would find time. But do

doubt whether you could ever refashion your mind according

to your new calling -- whether you could unravel the whole

network of your thoughts, to weave them anew ; whether you

could descend, like Apollo, to become a shepherd.

   I am the more urgent on this point, because I myself felt

the misery of the distraction occasioned by an uncongenial call

Iing during the two years was in the Temple. And many a
Ihard struggle have had, many a long fit of despondency, since I

came to Hurstnionceux, from the reluctance to forsake my old pur

suits, from the difficulty of adapting myself to my new ones, and

from the impossibility of reconciling the two. From my misery

in the Temple you rescued me,' and so were one of the greatest

                           v2
212 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1840

benefactors of my life; but from mystruggle here I have gradually

been freed by God's grace, and by the infinite blessing He has
given me in my sister-in-law. Still it was an exceeding delight
to return to Cambridge, and to recur to the speculations of

former years, and to find the opportunity of using the knowledge
it had been the chief business of my life to acquire. And now

in my new office I find myself again engaged in work for which

it seems to me that the habits and frame of my mind qualify me

better than for pastoral ministrations. Hence my happiness

in these last years has greatly increast. The great lesson of my

life has been that there can be no true happiness except when
one is walking in the path of duty. Then alone ' can love be an

unerring light, and joy its own security.'

   I have written unconnected ly, it may be contradictorily, as

the thoughts have risen up. You would not expect a determin

ate answer ; and no one can determine the question but your
Iself.
        have merely suggested such reflexions as my knowledge

of you and of your present position, as well as of that of a

parochial minister, called forth. Whatever your decision may be,

you must keep in mind that your calling is rather to be a doc

tor than a pastor, and you are bound not to do what would

hinder your efficiency in that calling. At the same time God

may give you strength to fulfil both. And humanly speaking,

with a good curate, and a wife, such as there are many, well

fitted for the charge of a parish, you might look with content

ment on the condition of yt>ur own flock, at least in some mea

sure, even while your thoughts are mainly turned toward that

larger flock who have been more especially committed to you.

Whatever you decide, may it be right, and may the blessing of

God prosper it !

   There is another consideration which I woidd just hint at.

A country parson's life is almost infallibly one almost devoid of

everything like intellectual society. This to me, who was always

a good deal of a recluse, is no intolerable loss. But how would
you reconcile yourself to it ?

    If the alternative lay between continuing in college and
taking a living, I should indeed feel little hesitation. A college

life seems to me so unwholesome for a man after he has outlived

Ihis contemporaries, and abandoned practical work, that would
1840                 CHARGE.                          213

quit it, trusting that I might be enabled to discharge my new

duties, without abandoning those which the whole course of my

Ilife had imposed upon me. But, as said before, I should wish

to see you in a different post.

     With regard to my Charge, I am very glad it meets with
your sympathy ; and shall also be glad to learn what are the

Ipoints of difference, that, if find myself in errour, I may correct

it. One I know, from what you said about the Duke's acceding

 to the Irish Emancipation. My note was then just gone to
 the press ; and the difference amused me. But on the measure

Iitself do not take upon me to pronounce, so far as it was a

 question of expediency. I was merely referring to what one

 hears perpetually among the country clergy -- that he sacrificed
 principle to expediency, because he admitted Roman Catholics
 into the legislature.

       The etymology of pew you may be disposed to question, as

 I did at first ; but the passages in Du Cange, Charpentier, and
 IMenage settle the question convincingly. Still should like to

  be better satisfied about the meaning of the word in the passages
  in Shakespeare.1

       You talk of discussing things with me ' face to face.' It

 Iwill always be a very great pleasure to me to see you ; but

  feel some scruples about inviting my friends in winter ; because

 Ithen my sister is away (she always goes to her father) ; and

  fancy she must be the charm of the place to others, as she is to

  me. However, if you like to come now, you shall be received
  with much joy, only I must leave home in January, having to

   preach at Chichester on two Sundays in that month.

                                                               J. C. H.

         Was not the removal of Golgotha and the inversion of the

  pulpit in St. Mary's effected in our time ? I have an indistinct
  notion that I remember the change. My imprudence, I suppose,

   will exclude me from it henceforward.

To Archdeacon Hare]           Ely : Dec. 26, 1840.

    I must not delay long to thank you for your friendly and
Ireasonable letter, though shall have to think about it a good

      1 ' Pew-fellow.' Richard III., act. iv. sc. 4.
214 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1840

 deal longer before I have done with it. I am glad to find that

 the points which strike you as most important are those which
 had already presented themselves to me ; and nearly in the

 same light in which you see them. I need not pretend to give

 you any further indication what my decision may be ; the state

of the case being that I have not advanced further than those
general principles which you express. I only add this in addi
tion : that I am sure I do right to leave out of my consideration
all prospects except those which my college offers me. I have
not the smallest belief that I could, in common worldly prudence,

 look to any other quarter for any motives to direct my choice in

Isuch a matter. But even if the event were to falsify this belief,
    should still wish most carefully to keep my decision on my

own conduct uninfluenced by such probabilities. And if my

 age be somewhat late to enter upon a new form of the exercise
 of my profession, it is also late to defer any longer escaping from
a position which we both agree ought not to be final. My unfit

 ness for the life of a pastor, my need of the best assistance that

can be had, and all the rest that you say, I cordially grant. With
Iregard to my deficiencies I hope that, if I choose as well as can

the task which seems to be assigned me by Providence, His

blessing will strengthen me to supply them and give me com

fort in the course of employments to which I am directed.
    I am here at the deanery, with a large Christmas party from

ICambridge, and have not your sermon with me, so that
Icannot discuss any part of it in detail. But, in truth, when
Isaid that I differed with you on some points think it must

have been rather a remnant of my disputatiousness, which you

Iknow of, than any serious difference of thinking. For have
Iread it since and find scarcely anything with which did not

agree cordially, only, in the way of my own trade of system-

Imaking, doubted whether you could establish a tenable dis

tinction between maxims and principles; and whether there
could be any solid ground for a moral decision in talking of

matters of principle till we had got a system of principles es

Itablished -- if possible demonstrated. Then, of maxims, which

see no reason to limit, this appears to be one : that the gover

nors of a state are not to acknowledge that they act from fear of

those who threaten to violate the laws. And on this ground I
1841               MASHAM.  215

condemn the Duke of Wellington's manner of passing the
Catholic Relief Bill. For I, with you, do not pretend to decide

the rightness of the measure itself by means of such maxims.

     I IBut, as said before, hope we shall have some opportunity
of personal talk about such matters. When I said this, however,

I thought of London or Cambridge, rather than Hurstmonceux.

It would be a great pleasure to me to visit you there : but I

must not meditate any such move at present. In two or three

days I go northwards to meet Waddington at Masham itself ;

and to receive on the spot such information and advice as he can
give me. The matter of pews and benches and the rest I must

 discuss some other time. And now goodbye ; and God bless you
with all blessings that belong to the season.

To Miss Henslovi]  Lancaster : Jan. 8, 1841.
I am here a long way from the Public Library, so that I
can tell you and aunt Ella nothing about the ' Prisoners of State '

at present. I was myself very near becoming a ' Prisoner of
State ' a few days age -- I mean a prisoner of the state of the roads ;
for in Yorkshire, where I was then travelling, the snow lay so

Ithick on the roads that six horses could barely drag us through.
   shall return to Cambridge in a fortnight or thereabouts, and

Ithen I will try if can answer your aunt's question.
    IFrom this place go to Grange, near Milnthorpe, which is
about twenty miles off, where I have two sisters and a family
of nieces and nephews (you see I put the nieces first).

     Have you, or has aunt Ellen, made any new riddles this

Christmas time ? If you have, pray send me them, for I like to
see them. I have written nothing of that kind lately, for I

have been obliged to employ myself very busily in writing and

printing mathematics, which I do not like so well as translating
Ifables, or making hexameters, but which must do notwith

standing.

     The next letter is one from Mr. Whewell to Arch
deacon Hare, announcing the death of Lady Campbell,
daughter of Sir John Malcolm.

                                                                                    Feb. 14, 1841.

      One whom we have always lookt at and thought of as the
216 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                  1841

example of all that is most lovely and admirable in woman is
no longer with us on earth. 1 have a short note from Ma Man
this morning, inclosing one from Olympia Malcolm, which

gives some particulars of the last days of her sister. Mi Man
begs that I will write a few words to you.

     You will not expect me to say any more. We can think
of her now as we always thought of her, but more steadily than

ever when the first shock is past.

To Archdeacon Hare]  Trinity College: Feb. 26, 1841.

IIt was a very kindly thought of you to recollect that was

the first person that brought you into the company of the dear

and excellent lady whom we have lost, when I wrote to tell

you that we must see her, od this side the gates of Heaven,
Ino more.
           have since had one or two notes from Ma Man,

with brief notices of the state of the family. Lady Malcolm

has been overwhelmed ; but was beginning to rise from her

Ibed when was in town a week ago. Sir Alexander is full of

grief, as you may well suppose, but full, too, of religious trust

and consolation.

    When I wrote to you I had not given my decision respecting
IMasham, but had nearly made up my mind to the purpose
which you conjecture. I should have found it difficult to
reconcile such a charge with my employments here ; for I have
still something to do in the University. I think I now see my

way with tolerable clearness to the construction of my system

of Morality, and shall set about it as soon as my present course

of lectures is over. I shall be very desirous of having your

Iopinion upon some parts of the subject when have got it into
Ia form in which it can be laid before you ; and hope I shall

be able to obtain the aid of your views and feelings without

giving you much trouble or making any oppressive demands

on your time, which I know is pretty well filled up with em

ployments not lightly to be interrupted.

   IAre you likely to be called upon soon for a new edition of

your sermons ? When that period arrives have a petition to

you which I hope you will not reject. You have mentioned
me there in a manner which I am obliged to say is so extremely

erroneous that it distresses me. The character which you have
1841  ' FRAMEK OF SYSTEMS.'  217

given me is as far as possible from that which I deserve. You
know, I think, that I am very ignorant in all the matters with

inwhich you are best acquainted, and the case is much the same

     all others. I was always very ignorant, and am now more

and. more oppressed by the consciousness of being so. To know

much about many things is what I never aspired at, and cer
tainly have not succeeded in. If you had called me a persevering
framer of systems, or had said that in architecture, as in some
other matters, by trying to catch the principle of the system, I
had sometimes been able to judge right of details, I should
 have recognised some likeness to myself ; but what you have
 said only makes me ashamed. You will perhaps laugh at my
 Iearnestness about this matter, for am in earnest ; but consider

 how you would like praise which you felt to be the opposite of

 Iwhat you were, and not even like what you had tried to be.
             was very fortunate in my journey from London last

  Monday. I travelled hither in company with Madame Cara-

 Idori, as you did many years ago in a journey to York. When
       recalled myself to her recollection she forthwith enquired
  about you, and seemed glad to hear of you. She was as gentle

  and sweet-mannered, and almost as pretty as ever ; and it was

   a great pleasure that evening and the next to hear her sing

  some of her little playful songs as she used to do. It brought

   back ancient days very agreeably.

       Worsley is in town ; at least, so I believe, for I have not

   yet seen him here. He put his shoulder out of joint the other

   day skating on the Serpentine, but did not seem to be much

   shaken in his general health by the accident.

       I hope your churches grow large, numerous, beautiful, and
  pewless. I have not yet been able to get any models of

   benches for you. Perhaps something may come in my way

    soon.

To Archdeacon Hare]  Trinity College: March 5, 1841.

    I send you two lectures-- two ' lean Iand flashy ' songs am
afraid you will think them ; for I do not think much otherwise
of them myself. But I wanted to put some stamp of activity
upon my professorship before it became late ; and I was pleased

to think of expressing to Worsley the feeling he so well deserves
218 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1841

from me. He is still in London, only now convalescent from

the full, which I think I told yon of, in which he dislocated his

shoulder.

      Digby has been here, looking and talking much as ever ;
and since his return to Bath has written to me complaining
much of the place. He has been painting a St. Michael, like
the one he painted for you, on a much larger scale, and applied
to me to know what is the real order of the colours of the rain
bow in nature. You think, perhaps, that this was in order that
he might make his mystical rainbow unlike a real rainbow.
But not so. He was ready to condescend to the actual. See

how age tames a man's spirit !

Extract of Letter from Archdeacon Hare to Mr. Whewell]

                                                          Stoke: March 18, 1841.

     Your vehement remonstrance against my unjust attack on
yon in my Charge did indeed somewhat amuse me ; for of
course you must have meant my Charge, there being nothing
in the preface to my sermons, which you mention, of which
the most sensitive man has any plea for complaining. As I

believe it is to be reprinted, I will try to soften your objection,
though I cannot admit any man's right to quarrel with the

praise one may bestow upon him, or to judge of its propriety,
which of course must always be relative. When one asks one's
conscience one shrinks from all praise ; and so, from a feeling

Iof indesert, should have begged you to cancel a good part of

your dedication to me. But as the expression of friendship,

Ihowever partial and erroneous, accepted it thankfully. As to
Iwhat I say of you, you, believe, are the only person who would

not acknowledge its appropriateness ; so that your remonstrance

Iitself is a kind of testimony to the truth of what have said.

Extract from Letter of May 26, to Archdeacon Hare]

   I wish you could have avoided telling such an abominable
Istory about me in your Charge ; but can easily conceive that

when a man has once involved himself in such a monstrous as

sertion, it is difficult for him to extricate himself with a good

grace either in himself or in his victim.
1841            CASTERTON.                              219

To kia Sister]                    16 Suffolk Street: March 27.
   It is long since I wrote to you-- I think not since you
Ireturned from Kendal -- but have written several times to
James 1 and to Liverpool, which I suppose will have informed
Iyou in some measure of my history, so far as there is any to be
told.  was glad to receive your account of your visit to Ken

dal, and to find that you had seen the Mrs. Wilkinsons. The old
lady is, as you say, a wonderful person, not only for her health,
Ibut for her cheerfulness and vivacity.
          was not much surprised at the account you gave of the
way in which the men at the Literary and Scientific Society
talked of superstition. To speak contemptuously of all that can

be classed under that head is a way that people take of giving

themselves the air of philosophers till they grow wiser.

    You ask me about my visit to the Queen, but in truth I can
Itell you little. Our University procession, am sorry to say, is a
good deal of a mob ; and as I did not scuffle for a place, I was

not very near her. She looked to me more grave and womanly

than last year, as was fitting. The Duchess of Kent, to whom

we also went, appeared really affected by our address to her.

Prince Albert, as usual, handsome and somewhat inanimate. I

Ibelieve shall meet him to-night at Lord Northampton's, who

gives a great evening party as President of the Royal Society.

    I received a letter from Martha, bringing an account of her
visit to Casterton to place Lizzy there I was sorry to find that

the establishment had in some respects impressed her as wanting

in cheerfulness and freedom. Perhaps she is hardly aware how

necessary something of constraint and gravity is in a large

institution, to preserve order and industry. I hope it will turn

 out that there is no larger infusion of these austere ingredients

at Casterton than is requisite for the purposes of good education,

but I shall be very anxious to hear how Lizzy likes the place,

her companions, and her teachers, when she has had time to

   become acquainted with them.

      I suppose Lindale and Grange are now beginning to look
 pretty ; we have here charming spring weather. I shall stay in

  town for about a week, and then return to Cambridge, where I

shall be called by examinations.

                1 Rev. J. Statter, his brother-in-law.
220 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                                                                    1841

To his Sister]                              Trinity College: April 13.

   You were quite right not to believe that I should take a
Iliving and leave you to learn the story frorn the newspapers.

Idid, however, practise a little reserve towards you at the time of
my visit in the winter, for which you must forgive me.                                                      was

not without some thoughts of taking the living of Masham, and

I went to see it that I might the better judge of it. I came
directly thence to Lancaster. When I was with you I had not

given my decision about it, nor quite made up my mind. And
as you could only have been disturbed by my doubts without

being able to help me in deciding, I said nothing to you about
it. The newspapers have not been saying that I had taken the
living, but that I had been to look at which, as you see, was
                                               is
perfectly true.                                   it,

     The parish very large, very populous, and in various ways

very laborious. It has been taken by one of our Fellows of the
name of Eiddell. If you had askt Eemington he could have told
                 is
                            it,  for he also passed it, being Mr. Riddell's
you something about

senior.

       have been repeatedly to London of late. Thank you forI
Lizzy's letter, which is, think, very satisfactory. The pleasure
            is

                        I

                                        is
with which she speaks of her employments, and of the people

about her, shows that she not unhappy, and the accomplish

ments she acquiring are very good for her.             trust she will
                                                       I
                                                               I

                                                                          I
be much improved by the time she to spend at Casterton.

am glad to hear your flowers are coming up. Pray give my love

to them and say that we are all happy to receive them.                                                      have

not been lucky with my flowers.             Ibrought some hyacinth bulbs

from Haarlem, in Holland, where they are famous for flowers,

and the creatures have been pinched by the frost, while                                                     I
was with you in January, and cannot get over it, so as to blow

healthily.

         cannot tell you yet what shall do during the summer.

The meeting of the British Association, which must attend as
President, to begin July 29 at Plymouth and in the beginning

of July we have the installation of our Chancellor, the Duke of
I

               is

                                 I

                                                                 a

                                                                                                         ;

                                              I
                                                         I
Northumberland, which will make                great bustle here, so shall
hardly travel far till August.
1841 SEAL WITH A STRANGE DEVICE. 221

To his Sister]              3 Suffolk Street: June 1, 1841.
I have been three weeks in lodgings here, and shall stay
Iabout a week longer before return to Cambridge.
I am glad you have been seeing something of the country.

Chester as you say, a very odd old city, and the Cathedral has
is,

        I

                                         it

                                      I

                                                                          a
some very good architecture. Eaton Hall never saw, but, from

all the pictures have seen of it, must be somewhat too

elaborate and over-ornamented. It was built at time when

people were only beginning to understand Gothic architecture,

and did not discriminate one age from another, nor the style of

churches from that of houses. Mr. Rickman had not yet en

lightened us and given us eyes.

The installation given up, in consequence of the expected
                is

                        I
dissolution of Parliament.  am by no means sorry for this
                                                                     '
is one bustle escaped, or at least deferred.
                                                                       I

                                                                                                      1
                                                                                                             :

                                                                                           it
                                                                     suppose your

Liverpool people have quite despaired of the President.'

     The faithful sister to whom for so many years all
his home letters had been written, all his home thoughts

expressed, had doubtless perceived indications of                            a
change which was approaching. Some playful questions
aabout seal with an unknown device drew from him
the . following answer, and the weighty announcement
                                                                     '
that he was no longer to be alone at Cambridge. He

was engaged to be married to Cordelia -- not the
daughter of King Lear, but of Mr. Marshall of Leeds,'

the wife who for fourteen years was to bless his home
with her presence. What he found in her, the warm

and tender heart, the calm, strong sense, the wise and

boundless sympathy, he himself has told his friends in

the Elegiacs written shortly after her death. At first
there was too much excitement -- bewilderment,' as he
calls in letter to Mr. Hare--for him to realise fully

all that was before him of happiness, and in the antici
pation of the separation from Trinity, which his marriage
seemed necessarily to entail, there must have been real
it

        a

                                          1

                                                                  '
                Steamship 'President.'
222 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL                                                                  1841

pain. Within a week after his marriage it turned out

that no such separation was to take place ; but during
all the previous months there was a steady growth in
the hope and comfort with which he dwelt upon the
new life, and of the companionship of ' the good angel '
to whom afterwards he referred with touching reitera

tion as having brought wisdom and calmness to his
vehement character, ' the wisdom that shines in the

heart.'

To his Sister]          Suffolk Street: June 18, 1841.

You want to know something about my own movements ;

and first as to the important matter of the seal which you asked

about in a former letter. The characters upon the seal were

U. U. C, and the mysterious meaning which they involve is

United University Club, the letter having been written in that

Club House, and sealed with one of their seals. Perhaps some

Iday soon may send you a letter with a more significant seal ;

but if you receive such an one, it will not have any such impress
as your own little name, Ann ; it must have a much longer and

is
       is
                       is
                                          a

                                             it,

                                                                 a
                                                                 a
poetical name marked upon no less than Cordelia.

You will naturally want to know who this Cordelia is. She

not the daughter of King Lear, as you may suppose but of
                                                                    it
Mr. Marshall of Leeds, who has place at Hallsteads, on Ulls-               is

water. His son, James Marshall, has house on Coniston Water,                          ;

and therefore no very distant neighbour of yours.

Nothing settled yet about the time of our marriage, but

we shall see our way in month or two. Cordelia bids me send

her love to you, and tell you that she trusts you will not

have lost a brother, but found a sister. Now there news for

you, and good news, and will leave you to think over, without
                 it

                     I
saying more about at present.

To his (Sister]                Lorulon: June 22, 1841.

must get to Hallsteads soon, for have hardly been able to
is

  I
                        if

                                                I
                                                           it
see anything of Cordelia amid the tumult and bustle of London.

As for myself, independently of my affection for Cordelia, who

amiable and good any one ever was so, rescues me from
1841                 ENGAGEMENT.                    223

a life of loneliness at Cambridge which was becoming very op

pressive to me.

    Tell your bookseller to get you the next number of the
' Quarterly Review,' which comes out in two days. It contains a

long article on my books by Sir John Herschel.

To his Sister]                    Cambridge : July 2.

      Cordelia wishes me not to shorten my visit to you; I must

not let you feel, she says, that your happiness is indifferent to her.

I feel as if I were taking my leave of Cambridge, and to take

leave of a place where one has spent the thirty best years of

one's life is but a melancholy employment in itself, but it is ac

companied with the happiest anticipations of the future, instead

of prospects which, if I had staid here, I was beginning to think

gloomy enough, so far as my comfort was concerned.       ·

To Archdeacon Hare]  16 Suffolk Street : July 25, 1841.
    When I wrote to you last I was not half grateful enough for
the blessing I have now in prospect. I was to a certain extent
under the influence of a bewilderment which has now, I trust,
past away for ever. I think of my future with unmingled hope
and comfort, and of Cordelia as my good angel. I have been

obliged to leave her for a time to go to preside at this great, ugly

meeting at Plymouth ; but I shall soon, I hope, return to beauti
ful Ullswater, and stay there for a long time. I have promist to

examine once more for the Fellowships --an extreme effort of

loyalty to the College ; and really made mainly out of loyalty

I Ito the College ; for if withdraw do not know who is to take

either the mathematical or the philosophical part of the ex

amination.

    Afterwards, very soon I hope, we shall take up our abode

at a house which one of Cordelia's brothers has upon Coniston

Lake. Do you think it will be desirable to found a school of

Lake philosophy as well as of Lake poetry ?

   I want you, if it occurs to you that you can, to give me a little

lift in my Moral Philosophy. In the sketch of a system I come
to a matter where I may be misled by the spirit of system, and

where a hint from a person of good sense, thinking unsystema-

tically, may prevent my starting in a wrong direction. I want
224 LIFE OF DIl. WHEWELL.  1841

you, in short, to give me a Guess at Truth on my subject. The
subject is this : when crimes are committed in consequence of

habitual vices, how is the guilt to be assigned respectively to
the habit and to the act ? Is the habit a palliation or an aggra
vation of the crime ? Is the condemnation of the moralist to

fall, for instance, upon the vice of covetousness or upon acts of
dishonesty ? Is covetousness which never breaks out in dis

honesty, or dishonesty which arises only from a transient covets

ousness, the more immoral ? or, if it be not the best way to talk

Iabout ' more immoral,' what is the way ? am a little confused

at setting out with this enquiry, and have a suspicion that my
trouble arises partly from my looking at it too technically ; so, as

I said, I shall be much obliged to you if in the intervals of your
other labours you will throw out a guess about it. Even if I do

not adopt your guess it will do me good.

    I find that Ma Man is still here. I hear nothing whatever

of Worsley : pray do you?

To his Sitter]    University Club, London: Aug. 8, 1841.

    I directed one or two papers to be sent to you by which you

will sec the course of our proceedings at Plymouth (with the
British Association).

    I shall be in the north about a month, and in the course of
that time will visit you at Grange. I had a very prettily written
letter from Lizzy while I was at Hallsteads, and am glad to

find, both from her account and from Martha's, that she appears
to have profited much by her school, and also to like it. We

had some very bad weather whilst we were at Plymouth, which

interfered a good deal with the enjoyment of the occasion, but

everything went off very well. The ship launch in particular

was a fine scene. It put me in mind, however, of the launches
I used to see in Brocklebank's yard in my school days, which
appeared to me quite as grand as this one-- indeed, I think more

so, for the ships there were under the open sky, not shut up in

a house as they are now ; and the West Indiamen which were

built at Lancaster were, to a boy's eye, as large as a ship-of-the-

line to a man's.
1841             MARRIAGE.  225

To his Sister"]             Hallsteads : Sept. 7.

      IOur marriage is to take place on October 12, and, as have,
I believe, already said, in the little church near this place, and

we are to be married by Mr. Myers,1 the clergyman of St. John's,

Keswick.

      The little white-washed ' New Church,' high up
amongst the hills, had for a century or two replaced
the more picturesquely situated Old Church, surviving

only as the name of a cottage on the lake shore in the
grounds of Hallsteads, the church, as such, having been
destroyed by invading Scots in border raids. At New

Church on Tuesday, October 12, the marriage took
place. Monk Coniston was lent to Mr. and Mrs.
Whewell for their honeymoon, and there tidings speedily
followed them which interrupted the calm for which
Mr. Whewell had been yearning, though in a fashion

which could scarcely be called unwelcome, since they

brought the prospect of appointment to an office which
had been the summit of his ambition, for which with
its mixture of practical duties and ' leisure for philo
sophising ' his friends had thought him fitted, and,
in spite of some misgivings (like most of his deepest
thoughts they found expression in his letters to Arch

deacon Hare), so he thought himself.
      On October 12, the very day of the marriage, Dr.

"Wordsworth, the Master of Trinity College, wrote to
Professor Whewell announcing his intention to resign,
and expressing his anxiety that he should be ' appointed

Ias soon as possible to this important concern.' ' can

     1 The Rev. Frederic Myers, author of ' Lectures on Great Men,' ' Six
Sermons preached before the University of Cambridge, 1846,' ' Catholic
Thoughts on the Church of Christ and the Church of England.' A very
few months later Mr. Myers married Susan, another daughter of Mr. Mar
shall. He died in 1851, and was mourned by Dr. Whewell as a ' Brother
by tenderest ties : more than a brother in love.' Elegiac xii.

                                                                        Q
220 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                1R41

Itruly say,' he added, ' that retained the office so long
Ias have done under one Administration, and have lost

so little time in seeking to part with it under another,

in the earnest desire, hope, and trust, that you may be,
and will be, my successor.'

    A letter of the same date from Dr. Worsley, the

Master of Downing, and one of two days later from his
old friend Mr. Jones, give the same news of the Master's

intended resignation, and urge that Professor Whewell

should come to London and make application for the

appointment to the Ministers, the appointment being in
the gift of the Crown.

     On October 13 Dr. Worsley wrote to Archdeacon
Hare : --

     Whewell must and shall be Master of Trinity, which is
nearly all I have time to say to-night, but from which you may

infer that the Master has resigned, and that we must all do

our best to place Whewell where he certainly ought to be, and

where the University as one man expects him to be.

The Master came to me yesterday morning and said he

was but that moment at liberty to state officially the fact of his

resignation ; and then, referring to reports which had been

spread ofif         and of his son Christopher succeeding him, he

said that of course such thing must,; it,it ifwere possible, be
                    a                     it

most gratifying to him, but he conceived to be all but impos

sible, only from the objection to making such an appointment

hereditary but that he wished me to write to Whewell by that

night's post, feeling as he did that the eyes of the University

would naturally turn to him as a most fit person, and that, at

all events, he wished all good candidates to start fair. You

may believe         wrote nothing loth, and exhorted him not to
      !

               I
linger in his hymeneal Elysium, but to bestir himself.

Write- and let me see your dear and orderly perpendicular

hand

     Sir John Herschel wrote to the Duke of Northum
berland, Chancellor of the University, on the subject,
1841              MASTERSHIP.                 227

and Archdeacon Hare !.o Mr. Goulburn, but before any

application was received by anybody the matter was

already settled.

      On October 17, Sir Eobert Peel wrote to Professor

IWhewell : ' have the satisfaction of informing you
Ithat have just received an intimation from the Queen

Ithat she has been graciously pleased to approve of my

recommendation to Her Majesty, that should be em

powered to offer to you the succession to Dr. Words

worth as Master of Trinity College, Cambridge.' He

adds that in proposing that Mr. Whewell should be

selected for this high trust he had been influenced

solely by a deep conviction of the importance of the

duties which it involves, and a conscientious belief that

he was eminently qualified to discharge them. The

application for the appointment was received next day,

and acknowledged by Sir Robert Peel in a note in which

Ihe says : ' It will always be satisfactory both to you and

to myself to reflect that named you to the Queen for

the Mastership without any solicitation, and previously

to the expression of any wish on your part.' 1

     Congratulations poured in from every quarter --from

his intimate personal friends, from former pupils, from

his London acquaintance, and from those even of his

colleagues and associates of whom rumour had spoken

Ifas possible competitors for the appointment. ' any

thing,' writes Dr. Worsley to Archdeacon Hare, ' can

increase Whewell's personal satisfaction, it
1                                             what

 I

                                                       a
                                                                    3

                                                                               is is,

                                                   I
have good reason to be firmly convinced of, that Mar

tin and Thorp, the two especially mentioned persons,

are as much delighted as any of us. This not said

          have letters before me to the same effect from the Duke of Northum
berland, Mr. Goulburn, Sir James Graham, the Bishop of London, in fact
all those to whom Mr. Whewell or his eager friends had written. The

Appointment was already made.
228 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                1841

vaguely but advisedly, and to their high honour, and
after an intimate discussion with them on all the bear

ings of the case. I firmly believe Thorp would have

refused it if offered, from his feeling that Whewell was

the man ; and as to Martin, who is a most sterling

person, he laughed,   after his joyous  a: n"dYhoeuardtoyn'ftaskhnioown-,
over the notion, and  ended by saying

all the reasons we have for satisfaction ; for example,

if Whewell was to go, nobody could supply his place as

a Fellowship examiner either in the Morals and Meta
physics or in the Mathematics." '

     Mr. Martin wrote to Mr. Whewell that ' your suc

cess is the only thing which could at all reconcile me

... Ito the step taken by our late excellent Master.
do not think there is one person who does or can ap

preciate the advantages likely to accrue to the College
Ifrom it as highly as myself.
                               have not met with a

single dissentient voice, or an opinion that you were not

the only proper person to succeed our retiring Master.

There were some foolish reports of other persons being

I Inot unlikely to succeed, and amongst them one relating
to myself.  hope may be allowed to say (begging

that it may not be repeated) that no consideration

should have induced me to accept it (had it been
offered) without a knowledge that you had refused it.'

     Archdeacon Thorp wrote of his sincere joy and

If Idelight at hearing ' of your appointment to the place
marked out for you, and you alone.      could imagine

myself to have had any personal concern in the matter,

and could find any ground of regret at the result, it

would be limited to the disappointment of a possible

opportunity of showing that the subordination of private

to public interests in this noble society is not confined

Ito him who lately set the example.' ' do not well
18J1  MASTERSHIP.                                 229

know whether to be proud or ashamed to have been

named, even in public rumour, in competition for such

an appointment with you ; and am very glad to have

IMartin sailing with me in the same boat, who, have
reason to believe, would have acted, if he had been

tried, exactly in the same way.'

      The Dean of Ely 1 urged Mr. Whewell to come to

London as soon as the vacancy was announced, advised

an application to Sir Eobert Peel, and interested himself
Iwarmly in his friend's prospects of success. ' assure
you, my dear Whewell, I have no wishes of my own at
Ifvariance with yours.
                        the Whigs had been in power
I should certainly have been a candidate for a situation
Iwhich have always regarded as the summit of my
Iambition ; under existing circumstances could neither
Iask nor accept such a situation.
                                   should not have

mentioned this if my name had not been circulated in

the papers in connection with this appointment.'

     To Professor Sedgwick Mr. Whewell wrote as fol
lows : --

                                       16 Suffolk Street, Pall Mall:

                                                                                    Oct. 19, 1841.

    I do not know whether you have heard of the events which

have been taking place of late with reference to Trinity
College -- events so important that it will take a little time to
look at them calmly. The Master has resigned ; and upon

coming to town I find that Sir Robert Peel offers me the
IMastership. This offer have accepted.

    IAt present look with alarm at the thought of being

placed in a position of rule over persons my seniors in standing,

Iand my superiors, as sincerely believe, in the qualities requi
site for the government of the College ; and I especially feel

myself out of my place in being made superior in status to
yourself. But the turn of public affairs has brought about

                                               1 Dr. Peacock.
LIFE OF DT7. WHEWELL.                          1841

Ithis result, and had no alternative except to accept the office

which is thus placed in my way, or to retire from all public life
whatever. My main anxiety now is that the Fellows of

Trinity, with whom up to the present time I have lived in good

will, and in cordial sympathy as regards the interests and
honour of the College, should aid me in promoting these in my

new capacity. I trust, my dear Sedgwick, that you and I, who

both feel deeply on these subjects, shall find little difficulty in
bringing our views into agreement as to the mode in which our

Iobjects are to be secured. And entertain little doubt that
Iwe shall be able to do this, believing as do that our views, at
bottom, are very little different. I will not easily be persuaded

 that we shall not agree on all main points of College admini

stration ; and if I have with me your judgment I shall feel
great confidence that I am following the right course, and great

 hope of success.

      Events in my history follow each other with great rapidity

I Ijust at present. It is only a week to-day since was married.

 left Mrs. Whewell at Monk Coniston and came here yesterday ;

 and I return to Coniston to-day or to-morrow. The Master
 resigns, I believe, November 10.

To this letter Professor Sedgwick replied :--

   It is well for a man to think humbly of himself, but I assure

you, that of all men living, you are by common consent thought
most worthy of the high honour of ruling our great intellectual

Ibody ; and feel confident that with God's blessing it will be a

source of happiness to you, and of great good to our society.

    As for myself, it will delight me to give you all the help I
can. Our objects will, I trust, always be the same. We may

differ sometimes as to means, but our difference will be frank

and open, and such is compatible with the warmest friendship.

    When I took the Geological chair I gave up all the studies

which are connected with the ordinary training of our young

men. On this account I should be ill-fitted for those duties

for which you are at every point so admirably prepared. You

are now in your right place ; had I gained your present position
I should have been out of my right place.
1841  LETTER TO ARCHDEACON HARE.  231

To Archdeacon Hare]  16 Suffolk Street: Oct. 19, 1841.

    I wrote you a few hurried lines a few days ago, being pre
Ivented writing so fully as had intended by the news of the

Master of Trinity having resigned his office, which came upon

I Ime quite unexpectedly, and --as was told by everybody that

might expect to succeed him -- vehemently disturbed me. It

has turned out as was expected. Sir Robert Peel has offered

me the succession, and I have accepted it ; I trust in God, not
rashly. I look with awe upon the weight of the duties which
it involves, and upon my own deficiencies of character and

attainments ; but the task appears to be so plainly brought

Ibefore me by Providence that do not see how I can turn

aside from it. The alternative would be to take up my abode
in the house behind the Colleges, which you know as Farish's,

I Iand which have already hired. In that house can neither
Ihave library nor study ; and it is hardly too much to say that

    have of late been almost distracted at the thought of the

situation in which I had thus placed myself. It is true that for
the future my life cannot be, so much as I have lately wished

to make it, a life of speculation and study. Active duties

again press upon me ; and I must try to gather about me what

I can of fitness for them and to meet them. Now, my dear
IHare, am saying nothing but what is forced from me by the
Ideep and alarming feeling of my own weakness, when tell you

that hardly anything would so much support me in the exertions

I have to make as the conviction of your sympathy with me,

and hopefulness for me. You have, I believe, a much better
opinion of me than I deserve ; you have been aware of many of

the best influences to which my life has been subject, which

ought to have made me a better man than I am ; you have of

late been employed in practical life in the best sense --in calling
up good thoughts and promoting good works among those with

whom you have had to do; and all the words which come from
you appear to me to be more full of hope and encouragement
and blessing than those which reach me from any other quarter.

And, in truth, I stand much in need of hope and encouragement
and blessing. During the whole of this year I have had to

maintain a most arduous and painful struggle in the cause of
232 LIFE OF UK. WHEWELL.   18J1

that which appeared to me to be my only interest as a moral

Icreature ; and though this struggle is now, trust, happily

ended, and a time of quiet and harmony begun, the pain and
turmoil of the preceding condition have not yet quite subsided ;
and this new shock, and new call to an active and stirring life,
has again put me in internal commotion more than any one
would easily imagine.

   ITo you alone write these vague complaints of weakness
Iand disquiet, because, as I have told you, think your friendly

words have more power than those of any other person to calm

and strengthen me. But I do not want to give you the difficult
Itask of soothing troubles so indistinct as have described. We

shall soon have before us definite and important objects, in

Iwhich shall be extremely desirous of having your advice and

assistance.

     The next letter to his sister sums up his thoughts on

the subject :--

     What you said about my appointment to the Mastership

Iwas most truly and rightly said. It is a very serious and

solemn consideration to think that am now about to take the

position which I must occupy for the rest of my life, and that
I have nothing better nor higher to wish or pray for than that
I may have strength and virtue given me to discharge the

I Iduties of the office which am now to occupy, and that may

find my happiness in that employment and in the comfort of
my married life. You will give me your prayers as well as your

Igood wishes, and shall go on hoping for the blessing of God

through these and other good influences.

Similar but fuller expression was given to such hopes

in a letter to Hare on the 30th ; and before leaving

Coniston one other letter of congratulation was received

which may be interesting.  Dean Milman wrote as fol

lows :--

                        Cloisters, Westminster Abbey : Oct. 30, 1841.

     My dear Whewell, -- Your good fortune advances by such
rapid steps that your friends have scarcely ceased to congratu-

1841  THE CLUB.  233

late you on one happy event before they hear of another. Your

cup, however, is by this time full to the brim ; I will not there

fore delay any longer assuring you of our most sincere rejoicings

in your prosperity.
     We were anxiously awaiting the announcement of your

marriage when we heard of the vacancy at Trinity, with great
interest as to the appointment of Wordsworth's successor. Now,

Ithough all virtues are inseparable from the Master of Trinity,

  confess I scarcely expected your predecessor to practise that

of resignation, and to time it so well !

I You are now in the sphere for which you were designed, and

   should conceive that which of all others would best suit your
habits and tastes. May you long live to enjoy all the blessings

around you, and to adorn your beloved University ! Nor do I

suppose that your station in Cambridge will altogether estrange

Iyou from your friends in London. As Secretary of the Club,1

    shall be very severe in exacting attendance, notwithstand
 ing perhaps the counter-influence of Mrs. Wheweil; at all

      1 To those to whom ' The Club ' is not already known by reputation the
information contained in the following paragraph, extracted from the 'World '
newspaper, will be interesting :--

      ' The Club ' is the body founded by Sir Joshua Reynolds and Dr. John
son in 1764. For some years it met on Monday evenings, but now dines
every fortnight during the Session of Parliament. From twelve the mem
bers of the Club have gradually been increased to forty, or rather thirty-
seven, the present number. The Club met originally at the Turk's Head in
Gerrard-street, and is now lodged at Willis's Rooms, King-street, St.
James's. The original members were Sir Joshua Reynolds, Dr. Johnson,
Edmund Burke, Dr. Nugent, Bennet Langton, Topham Beauclerk, Oliver
Goldsmith, and Anthony Chamier. Since 1764 many other famous men
have been members of ' The Club' -- to wit, George Oolman, David Garrick,
James Boswell, Fox, Gibbon (who drew up the notice of election), Adam
Smith, Sheridan, Windham, Sir Joseph Banks, Canning, Sir Humphry
Davy, Sir James Mackintosh, Sir Walter Scott, Chantrey, Hallam,
Brougham, Dean Milman, Wheweil, Sydney Smith, Macaulay, and the late
Bishop of Winchester. At the oval table over against the portraits of
Johnson and Reynolds -- both admirable specimens of Sir Joshua-- more

than ten brethren rarely met. Among the present members are Professor
Owen, Mr. Gladstone, the Archbishop of Canterbury, Mr. Lowe, Dean
Stanley, Mr. James A. Froude, Mr. Alfred Tennyson, Lord Cairns, Pro
fessor Tyndall, Sir F. Leighton, Lord Houghton, and the Duke d'Auniale.
 Mr. Henry Reeve is the treasurer. The motto of ' The Club ' is Esto

perpetua.
234 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1841

events you are officially bound to appear at Westminster every

year.

     Mrs. Milman unites with me in kindest remembrances to
Mrs. Whewell and yourself, and though she may not join me in
the conspiracy to enforce your attendance at our bachelor dinners

at the Thatched House, she trusts that Mrs. Whewell will

likewise find powerful attractions to the society of her old

friends in London.

                                     Believe me, my dear Whewell,
                                                Ever very sincerely yours,
                                                                   H. H. Milman.

To Lord Lyttelton]  Monk Coniston: Oct. 26, 1841.

     Your renewed congratulations are most welcome ; and, as you

suggest, this second great event in my history derives additional

value from its accompanying the former so closely. It is, as you

may suppose, the most satisfactory task which I can have given

me for the rest of my life, to watch over the interests of the

ICollege to which have been so long bound by ties of affection
and habit, that I could not easily have turned my thoughts in

any other direction. Yet the task, now that it has come upon

Ime, is not without its terrors, when look at the greatness of

the interests concerned. However, we must take life as it is, as a
serious task ; and it is no small comfort to think that in all that

II have to do shall have with me the good wishes and, I trust,
the good opinion of excellent people like yourself. I hope you

will let me reckon upon it as one of the pleasures which I may

Ilook forward to in my new position that shall often see you at

Cambridge.

To the Bishop of St. David's'] Coniston, Ambleside : Oct. 27.

     No congratulations on my appointment as Master of our

College have been more grateful to me than yours. I shall think
Imyself fortunate indeed in my high office if am enabled to

fulfil the just expectation and realise the good wishes of my old
fellow-labourers like yourself, whose zealous and intelligent love

Ito the College, and regard for its best interests, am so well

acquainted with.

    I thank you, too, very heartily for your congratulations on
1941                 MONK COMSTOX.  235

another account. Among many agreeable consequences in the
change of my domestic condition, it will, I trust, enable me to
receive in a most satisfactory manner at the Lodge old friends

who may visit me there; among whom you will, I hope, not fail

to be a guest whenever the opportunity offers.
      You will easily understand that certain vague intentions of

Ivisiting you in your diocese this summer, which I spoke of when
     saw you, have been superseded by subsequent turns in my

history.

To Archdeacon Hare]  Monk Coniston : Oct. 30, 1841.

      Yourwords of kind congratulation and counsel on my appoint
ment to the Mastership were very comfortable and wholesome

to me. They did a great deal towards making me look with

courage and hope upon the task now before me. For the fact

Ihas been for the last year or two that have so completely

devoted my mind to the interests of speculation that almost

everything of practical responsibility has appeared burthensome
Ito me, and seemed to myself to have become unfit to bear such
Ia load.
          trust that all this was a delusion, as, indeed, it would
be a very shameful thing if it were true ; and I am learning

to look at the business of life in a wiser and sounder spirit, in

Iwhich the good opinion of my best friends, and especially yours,

much fortifies me. The quiet, too, of the life have been lead

ing here for some weeks, and the influence of the lakes and
mountains, have done something, I think, to tranquillise and

Istrengthen me, and prepare me for active life, to which may
Iadd repeated intercourse with our friend that good old poet.

perceive and feel the value of the advice you give me, and have

no wish, I think, either to deny or to defend the failings you

point out. In a person holding so eminent a station as mine
will be, everything impatient and overbearing is of course quite
out of place ; and, though it may cost me some effort, my con

viction of this truth is so strong that I think it cannot easily
Ilose its hold. As to my love of disputation, do not deny that
it has been a great amusement to me ; but I find it to be so
little of an amusement to others that I should have to lay down

my logical cudgels for the sake of good manners alone. And, as

Iyou say, shall now have to do, and not to debate ; or at any rate
23G LIFE OF DR. WIIEWELL.  1841

I shall, I think, find employment enough for my logic in con
structing my system. By the way I did not succeed in making
you comprehend my perplexity about the imputation of guilt ;
shall I try again ? Take it this way. It is our duty to conform
our whole character, affections, desires, will to the Divine rule,

so that we have no promptings to sin but such as we master

immediately. If we do not do this, we offend ; and any special
acts of sin only betray this want of perfect discipline in our
character. Hence, though we may commit special sins, the real

offence resides in that omission of self-discipline which makes
it possible for us to sin. How, then, can special sins have each
their special guilt, since they have none except what is in
cluded in the original guilt of neglecting the means of forcing

Iourselves to perfection ? I believe this is still not clear ; and

will hope to talk with you about it when I am further advanced

in the subject.

     To return to College matters ; as to my rule for the election

of Fellows, I think it likely that in any given case we should
not disagree ; but I cannot but think it desirable that a person

should show a proficiency in more than one subject. To give
prizes to eminence in studies selected by the candidates

themselves is not to educate. I will, however, allow that our

Fellowships are not the occasion on which this view ought to be

mainly enforced ; but I conceive it to be of high importance in

dealing with the earlier part of men's progress in College and in

the University. I have some views which may perhaps afford

some means of acting with regard to the evils of which you speak

-- too much emulation, and too much private tuition -- but both

are extremely difficult subjects ; and anything which is to be

done must be carefully weighed and gradually introduced.

    We go to town on the 4th, and I shall probably be installed

as Master about the 14th or 15th. We shall be at Lord Mont-

Ieagle's, 37 Brook Street, and glad if you are in town during

the interval ; and if not, hope you will contrive to make

your way to Trinity Lodge before long, where you will find me,

I trust, as you trust, improved by the influence of Mrs. Whewell,

and where you will always be hailed with joy by

                                                             Yours affectionately,
                                                                    W. Whewell.
1841  MR. WORDSWORTH.                                    237

      Among the happy and tranquillisihg influences of

tins time at Coniston Professor Whewell referred to in
tercourse with ' that good old poet ' who was their not

distant neighbour. Mrs. Whewell says in a letter to
her mother : ' We have much enjoyed a two days' visit
Ifrom Mr. and Mrs. Wordsworth.
                                            never saw Mr.

Wordsworth more willing to talk. Indeed, he seemed

both to desire and to enjoy giving out his own and

hearing my husband's thoughts on many high and philo

sophical subjects. It was a great treat to listen.' They

also spent a long day at Eydal Mount, meeting there
Dr. Wordsworth, who, Mrs. Whewell writes, ' tells us he

has a great deal to say to my husband, and to me too.'
      On their way to London they fell in at Lancaster

with members of Mrs. Whewell's family hurrying south

wards to her sister, Mrs. Henry V. Elliott, then danger
ously ill, and in a few days more they received the in

telligence of her death.

      On the 15th of November [writes Mrs. Whewell] we left the
Mouteagles in London for Cambridge, and arrived about five

o'clock at the house of the Vice-Chancellor (Dr. Archdall, Master
of Emmanuel College), and met Archdeacon Thorp in the hall,
who gave us his congratulations and his blessing. The Archdalls

had asked no one to meet us but the Master  of  Downing  (Mr.

Worsley), thinking I should prefer it.

                                                Nov. 16.

      It was settled after much discussion that I might go to the
ILodge at eleven o'clock, and Mrs. Archdall with me.
                                                         des
Ipatched the necessary orders to the servants as quickly as

could, and then came to the window and saw the crowd col

lecting in the Great Court and about the Great Gate, which is

exactly opposite the Lodge.
     The new Master knocked at the wicket a little before twelve.

The porter thrust out his hand to take in the Patent and pushed
to the door again, took the Patent to the Vice-Master and

Fellows, who were in the Combination room, and they walked in
238 LIFE OF Ml. WHEWELL.  1841

procession to the Great Gate. It was thrown open, and then

came a great cheer, and such a waving of caps, and they con
ducted the new Master to the chapel, where the Vice-Master
and Seniors administered the oaths ; then the doors were

Ithrown open and the Te Deum sung. Everybody rushed in,

amongst the number ; the Master of Downing got Mrs. Archdall
and me through the crowd, and we went at once to the Master's
pew in the organ loft. The music well expressed my feelings --
joyful thanksgiving, earnest prayer, and also fitly soothed the
sad memories which would mingle with the rest.

      Then all dispersed, and we had a short time to welcome each

other to our new home --were interrupted by the Bursar
(Mr. Martin), the Senior Dean (Mr. Carus), and Archdeacon

Thorp, who came to consult about going to chapel after
dinner. My husband was very desirous to do so, wishing to
mark on the very first opportunity how earnest he was to have the

going to chapel attended to, and that there was time enough for a
College dinner before chapel time. The difficulty was that there
must be speeches after dinner, and scarcely any time would be
left for them. However, the Dean thought there was no diffi
culty in postponing chapel half an hour, and so the matter

was settled.

    IThe Master dined in hall, and was very busy getting the

rooms lighted, arranging them so as not to look so very bare,
and trying too, but quite in vain, to get them warm. At seven,
directly after chapel, the people began to arrive. Many told
me of the beautiful speech my Master had made in the Combi
nation room, but he himself was sadly dissatisfied with what he
had said of the ex-Master. They had coffee and tea, and stayed
about an hour. They wore their gowns all the time, which made
them look very academical. We had two hours to ourselves
after they were gone before bed-time, and so ended my first
College day and one of the most interesting of my life.

      During the course of this month Mr. Whewell writes

to his sister :--

    It is now several days since I received a letter in which you
said that you hoped soon to have one from the Master. I in

tended that you should have had one before this time, but, as you
1841 TRINITY LODGE. 239

may imagine, there has been no small bustle attendant upon my

removal out of my college rooms into the Master's Lodge ; and

though the removal is, so to speak, from a lodging to a palace,

it is not without its troubles and inconveniences.

Especially the having to transfer and rearrange my books

has been a most grave business indeed, and for a week or two

kept me in a state which might be called uncomfortable ; for
my books have become so much part of myself that it seems
to me I cannot think without being able to refer to them, and
hardly know where I am myself when I do not know where they
Iare.
       have now reduced them to order, and the more easily as

the Lodge has a very large extent of book shelves.

To Archdeacon Hare]    Trinity Lodge: Dec. 1, 1841.

One of my first thoughts when I took possession of this house
Iwas to write to you.  wanted to say that I hoped you would

find time now and then to come to Cambridge ; that your coming

here would, I was persuaded, do me and many other persons a

great deal of good ; and that there would always be a room for

Iyou at the Lodge, a Master most delighted to see you here, and

a Mistress of the house no less so. have been here a fortnight

without saying this, but it is only the more confirmed a matter

on that account ; and very glad shall we be when you come and

carry into effect these anticipations of ours.

To Lady Malcolm]       Trinity Lodge: Dec. 3, 1841.

     Do you not think that great events, whether of joy or sorrow,

drive back our thoughts upon our older friends ? I find it so.

     My appointment to the Mastership of Trinity has made me
think again and again with great vividness of those comparatively
early days in my College life when I had the good fortune to
become acquainted with you in Cambridge -- an acquaintance

which I always have looked upon, and do still, as one of the
bright passages of my life. And this being so, I ought sooner

to have told you of my appointment, and to have claimed your

hearty good wishes and sympathy, which I am sure I may
reckon upon. I know that you will rejoice at my reaching a

point of honour and eminence which leaves me now nothing to
240 LIFE OF PR. WHEWELL.                              1841

desire but that God may give me strength and virtue to per

form the duties of the station in which I am placed.
    I think you know this house, the Master's Lodge ; if so, you

know that it is a good and spacious house, capable of receiving

visitors. I wish I knew how to tempt you to make trial of its

merits in that way. You would find that, though different per

haps from the hospitality of College rooms, which I hope you re
collect with as much pleasure as I do, the Lodge has its advan
tages ; and you would find both the ' Master ' and the Mistress

most delighted to see you and most eager to welcome you.

Cannot you come and renew your recollections of Cambridge ?
I am obliged to write in great haste, but I will not conclude
without congratulating you -- I am sure I may do so -- on your
Ison's appointment and the prospects now before him.
                                                      hope

they give you unmingled pleasure.

     With reference to Cambridge society Mrs. Whewell
writes about the same time : ' The conversation is lively
and intellectual, like that of people whose minds are

bright and clear with constant exercise, and who are

well enough acquainted to enjoy each other's society

without constraint. When I get a little more at home
I Iin it believe shall enjoy it more than any other.'

To his Sister']  Trinity Lodge : Jan. 5, 1842.

Our first guest to stay under our roof was the first commoner

in the land, the Speaker of the House of Commons, which was a

very worthy way of beginning our reign. He came here in
company with his brother, Mr. Shaw Lefevre, who is auditor of

the accounts of the College. Since then we have had the Chan

cellor of the Exchequer, and Mr. Jones, the Tithe Com

Imissioner, and Dr. Peacock, the Dean of Ely, both of whom, as

think you know, are intimate friends of mine. The day after to
morrow we go to Ely to visit the Dean and the Bishop, and on

Monday we go thence onwards to Norwich, where we are to visit      <

Professor Sedgwick.

    I give my Lectures next term as Professor of Moral Philo
sophy, so that I shall be here the whole of February and probably

of March.
1841            MR. CARUSS RECOLLECTIONS.  241

To his Sister]  Norwich: Jan. 15, 1842.

      I send on the other side of this a draft on Smith, Payne, and

Smith.

      Providence has been very gracious to me during the past

year, and it is but little if I try to give others a share in my
worldly gift s, if it were only to mark the most important year of

my life. We are much grieved that you do not give a better
account of Martha. Our love to all.

     The kindness of Mr. Carus1 enables me to supplement
the foregoing letters with his recollections of this time,

I Iand of the happy married life now beginning. He

writes to me : ' could say much more, but feared to
be prolix,' and refers to the Elegiacs, already mentioned,
as containing the best picture of that time. The ' golden
calm ' within, and ' heartfelt trust at the hearthstone,'
' the bright faces of friends,' the love of his wife's
family, and her aid in ' all that was kindly and gracious,'
her active labours for all whom her new position brought
her in contact with, all were in them enumerated as

blessings flowing from her presence, which made the
seven years of sunshine preceding her failure of health

' rich with a joy undreamt of before.'
     Mr. Carus says: --

      The installation of our new Master took place under circum
stances of more than ordinary interest and importance to us.

For in the prospect of his marriage we of course anticipated the
loss of his presence among us as a resident Fellow. But by his

elevation to the Mastership he was not only restored to our
society, but by his pre-eminent talents and energy brought
honour to his new and high position, whilst happily accompanied
by one who shared his deep devotion to the College and exercised
a gentle influence for good in every direction.

     The Lodge, indeed, soon assumed a new aspect. Its noble
reception-rooms, transformed and embellished, gave scope for

       1 Rev. W. Carus, Canon of Winchester, late Fellow of Trinity.

                                                       R
242 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1841

the exercise of the most generous hospitality. To the presence
and courtesy of Mrs. Whewell there we were indebted much for
the pleasure of those large and frequent assemblies where the
families of the county were brought into such agreeable associa
tion with the members of the University.

     But amidst all this attention to the higher engagements of
the Lodge, Mrs. Whewell was constantly occupied with various
kindly arrangements for the welfare of the dependants and ser
vants of the College. One (out of several) cherished plans for
their benefit deserves a passing notice. There was a large piece
of ground, forming a farmyard, at the back of the colleges, at the
junction of the roads to Madingley and St. Giles, which had long
been lying waste and profitless. This plot was now secured on
lease for the benefit of the College servants, where they might
have healthy exercise in cultivating their several allotments,
and have an object of interest for the employment of their dis

engaged hours. Prizes were given to the best cultivators ; and
very gratifying it was to witness the special pleasure which the
Master and Mrs. Whewell took in their frequent visits to these

gardens, bestowing kind words of commendation and conferring

rewards upon the successful competitors.
      The religious welfare of the servants was no less an object of

Mrs. Whewell's special care ; and, as the result of her efforts,

arrangements were made to afford them as much rest as possible

on Sundays ; thus securing to them the opportunity of enjoying
with others the sacred services of the day.

     But not to the College servants only did Mrs. Whewell ex
tend her kind consideration. There was an important proposal

for the preparing young women for domestic service, to which

she gave her cordial approval and support. Already, indeed,
there existed in Cambridge an excellent institution for this pur
pose ; but it was felt that a higher training than could be there
attained was much to be desired, and ought to be attempted.
The plan was to obtain situations in houses of a high class,
where young persons might gain a first-rate experience in every
department of household work. Mrs. Whewell at once under
took to set an example and make the experiment by taking such
learners into the service of the Lodge. To these and various

other plans- of general usefulness she devoted a large share of
1841  LINES ON A CHAIN OF HAIR.  243

her time and care ; and no charitable or benevolent object was

presented to her consideration without receiving a warm wel
come, manifested by a generous contribution to its funds.

        These brief and imperfect notices of the happy influence she

so widely exercised ought not to be concluded without a grate

ful allusion to one very characteristic act of her piety--her daily

uniting with us all in the service of the chapel.
      It was a happy incident in our College history, and most

 beneficial in its results, when each day's life was thus publicly
 consecrated by those who held the highest place in our ' royal
 and religious Foundation.'

      The following lines, found amongst my aunt's papers,
must have been addressed to her by Professor Whewell
directly after their engagement, and may fitly find a
place here.

                      On receiving a Chain of Hair.

                Beloved Cordelia, kind and dear,
                And now my own while life endures,
                Would you the wonted language hear
               Of him whose every thought is yours ?
               In boyish days, in youthful hours,
                And e'en in manhood's graver time,
               He oft has gathered Fancy's flowers
                And strung them in some idle rhyme.
                And now a chain, of tresses wove,
               Your earliest gift, behold is mine !
               Your gift, your chain, your locks, my love,
               May claim at least one little line.
               And yet to give it meaning due

             I need not ask Invention's aid ;

               Your own sweet fancies, bright and true,
                 May fitliest grace the simple braid.
               You bid it say, our hopes, our vow,
                 The mutual trust 'tween you and me,
                 Are no past vision, vanisht now,
                 But firm and blest reality.

                                                               b2
244 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                    1841

Such as your gift, your love, you own,
More truly strong than seeming fair ;

Though shown to few, yet given to one
Who well may know that it is there.
Woven of that which tells a tale

Of emblematic mystery ;

The woman's glory yet her veil ;

Grace shrouding round her modesty ;

Full many a fine weak-seeming hair,
Slight bonds, save in their mingled twine,
In settled order twisted there

Make up    a strong enduring line.  --
           seems, my love, to you
And so it
To you when Fancy loves to play --

That many a service slight to view,

Brief tasks of love from day to day,

Small duties, trials, charities,

In growing union, kindly strife,
Form love's most firm and lasting ties

And bind us heart to heart for life.

ISo be it. Hoping, trusting so,             W. W.

Close to my heart your chain wear ;
And think the days and hours run slow

Till I may press the giver there.

Trinity College: June 27, 1841.

     The letter to Archdeacon Hare of October 19, of

which a portion has been already given, concluded with
a request for his advice and assistance in selecting a

course of study for divinity students at Cambridge.
The subject was then occupying the attention of the

University. A scheme propounded by Dr. Graham,

Master of Christ's, had been deemed unsatisfactory,
but the matter had not dropped. While Dr. Whewell
was officially occupied as a member of a syndicate in
devising some plan for a more efficient system of theo
mil          THEOLOGICAL EDUCATION.             245

logical instruction at Cambridge, he naturally resorted

for counsel to one of his most intimate friends who

had made theology his special study.

       The correspondence ended in March 1842, when the
labours of the syndicate seemed to promise some prac
tical result.

End of Letter to Archdeacon Hare]               Oct. 19.

      We shall soon have before us definite and important objects

in which I shall be extremely desirous of having your advice

and assistance. Especially we shall have the subject of eccle
siastical education : for, though the scheme of the present 1

Vice-Chancellor was withdrawn, there can be no doubt that the

subject will be and ought to be brought forward again very soon.
There are very great difficulties in the way of dealing with the
subject, whatever course is taken; and one of these is the
selection of a course of study for the students of Divinity.

Will you at your leisure put down for me what, according to
your notions, such a course ought to include ? If you retain

your ancient propensities for cutting out very large schemes of

work, both for yourself and other persons, I can easily imagine

that you will make your list of books and studies so extensive

as to alarm most people ; but even if you do I shall have some

thing to work upon. In one of your letters you exclaimed

very justly against the meagreness and unscholarlike aspect of

the scheme which was put forth ; so pray lend your hand to

help us to mend it.

Fragment of Letter to Archdeacon Hare]          Oct. 30, 1841.

As to the question of clerical education, most of the points

on which you say you want information are really as yet un
             I IWhen see my way further will have more
determined.
Italk with you, but in the mean time should be glad to be

informed of any books which you think ought to enter into such

             1 Dr. Graham, Master of Christ's.
246 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                             1&41

an education ; for one step requisite before we impose them upon

others, must be, I think, that we read them ourselves ; and of
I Isuch books am fear very ignorant.

     Then you speak of bringing the University to take a more

active part in the great movement now going on in the Church.
Do you mean as to the extension of churches, or as to the
discussions respecting doctrine ? In either case what practical

measures occur to you as steps which the University could, and

ought to take ? I am as yet without any clear views on these
matters, but by God's blessing I hope in the course of a little
while to obtain some insight into our true policy. I ask you

all these questions almost without hoping for an answer at

Ipresent. Opportunities of discussing them together will

hope soon occur. I am sorry that I shall not be in London

on the 29th, when you speak of being there.

From a Letter to Archdeacon Hare]  Dec. 1 , 1 841 .

I"Whenever you come shall no doubt have much to consult

you about and to discuss with you, and one matter especially

Iabout which have written to you already. The Senate has to

day voted, not without opposition, a Syndicate for Theological

Education, to consider whether any, and what regulations shall

be made with a view to that object. Of this Syndicate I am a
member. The foundation of our scheme, as I understand, is to

be this ; that the time of taking the usual Degrees, and the

Iexisting Examinations for Honours are not to be disturbed.

suppose that what we must establish is an examination for

proficiency in theological studies at some period of the career

after the Degree -- something like the Classical Tripos. Now

Ithis being so, we must, conceive, prescribe a course (of either

Ibooks, or subjects, or both) as the subject of examination.

And want you to send me any notions which occur to you,

whether on the one point or the other--not that I think it at

all reasonable to ask you to give time to the subject so as to

Imake a general scheme ; but should like to know what occurs

to you as desirable, and how far you can help us to prescribe a
good list of books for an examination. Of course we want both

history, interpretation of Scripture, and doctrine.
1841         THEOLOGICAL EDUCATION.  247

To Archdeacon Hare]                  Dec. 8, 1841.

      I was very much obliged by your letter and especially by

the good wishes with which it opened, whether they are ever

fulfilled or not. I hope I may do some little good while I am

Ipermitted to occupy my present station, and in time I trust
    shall find myself labouring in quietness and hope. The

changes which have come upon me of late have been so great

and sudden that it requires some time to regain my tranquillity

after them.

     But as to the matter which is the main subject of your

letter, I will answer some of your questions forthwith ; not

meaning thereby to impose upon you the task of writing another
letter immediately, but speaking of the subject while it is fresh

in my mind, for we have had a meeting of our Syndicate to-day.

I agree with you entirely in repudiating emulation as the sole
spring of action in our education. I should be very glad t o reduce
it within narrow limits in our system, but that I fear cannot

now be done, at least not speedily. With regard to theological

education, however, I do not think we need admit it to any
material extent. I am afraid we cannot work any other way

than by examination, at least not to the present satisfaction of

Ithe University. People's views may improve hereafter, and

hope will ; but at present examination is the universal instru

ment. But I think our examination need only be one for pass
ing, not for honours. I have proposed adding the Epistles in

the New Testament and Church History (a limited portion) to
the imperative subjects for degrees. Others propose besides,

an examination of B.A.s intended especially for candidates for

the Ministry. I think our laymen want a religious education

as much as our clergy. Perhaps both measures may be carried,

but we are as yet a long way even from having agreed to pro

pose them.

   I am somewhat disposed to tell the bishops that if they

want to have our system more efficacious, they must acquaint

themselves with the courses of theological instruction given by

those professors whose subjects bear upon divinity, and regulate
a portion of their examinations for ordination by these courses.
This would make our lectures of more importance, would ani
248 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                         1841

Imate and improve our professors, and is the only way that can

see of the bishops and the professors cooperating to any purpose.

At least the only other way that I can see is for the bishops to

demand certificates of attendance and attention at the professors'

lectures.

   I am afraid you will think all this little better than formal
Iism, but in legislating do not see what more than formalities

we can insist on. There is not any want of zeal among our pro

fessors, or at least would not be if they could excite a permanent

interest in their audience. This they cannot do in the teeth of

examinations which demand all the time of students. The only
Iway appears to be to connect them with examinations, till you
can get the influence of examinations weakened.  should re
joice to have Maurice lecturing here, but I do not see how it is

to be brought about at present. We have no means of establish

ing any new professorships, for we have not money wherewith to
Ipay our present examiners.
                                 think his books may be made to
prodi ce a considerable effect here, especially the ' Kingdom of
Christ,' when made more methodical in the rewriting, which I
understood him was to be done. I have something in my own
Ipower as examiner for fellowships.
                                     have already used my in

fluence to introduce an Anti-Lockian philosophy, and intend to

use it for other good purposes.

You ask, why give a list of books ; you say we do not do it

in mathematics. We have in the result as to mathematics a

lesson worth attending to. Examiners and the friends of exam

iners constantly write new books, juvenile, hasty, worthless,

which take their places in the examinations, and exclude all

steady standard works. Still, if the examiners be the professors,
which I agree with you in thinking desirable, their lectures

would be a guide.

    As to my moral puzzle, I will not try to draw your thoughts
to it again till I can put it in a more definite shape, only I may
Isay that your objection to it, that it involves a paradox, is pre
cisely what makes it a puzzle. But shall hereafter, if health

of body and mind are spared to me, get that part of my subject

into a systematic form, and then either the puzzle or the solu
tion will come out more clearly.

   I Iam glad to find that we agree, as in the main think we
1841          THEOLOGICAL EDUCATION.                          24<h

Ifdo, about the matter of theological education.  you were here

you would probably agree with me that there is no chance of

doing at once all that is desirable. Whether the sway of exam

inations can be relaxed is a difficult question, but at any rate this

cannot be done suddenly ; and to establish new professors is a

Imeasure for which do not at present see how we can make pro
vision. Still we must try to do something. If anything more

occurs to you, write again, or, better still, come, and we will

consider it.

To Archdeacon Hare]                               Dec. 1841.

      I ought to tell you, in order that you may not think too ill

of us, that though most of the old lectures have lost their power

in men's eyes, Blunt's on Pastoral Theology have been crowded.

Corrie's (Norrisian) have had of course a good attendance, and

he says great attention paid ; mine have been well filled hitherto,

nor have Sedgwick's lost their popularity. It is true neither

Blunt, Corrie, Turton, nor Mill are men to create a new system,
which is what we want, but. if the right professor can be put in

his place he will not be destitute of hearers and disciples.

From a Letter to Archdeacon Hare?]  March 16, 1842.

      To-morrow also, we, the 'Theological Syndicate,' bring out our

report, which I will send you. You will find that we have done
what I announced to you, perhaps a little more ; and if the Senate

accept what we propose, it will 1 think work well, at least for a

beginning. I hope nothing will prevent our having the benefit of
Maurice's sermons from St. Mary's pulpit, which I have no doubt

would be a great blessing to the University. Perhaps an objec
tion may be made on the ground of his not being a graduate of

our University. I must try to find a precedent for such a case

if I can.
250 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.             1*42

                      CHAPTEE VI.

                      1842-1846.

East Oriol-- Mr. Salvin-- Mr. Beresford Hope-- College Statutes --Visitors'
Powers--Judges' Visit -- Lancaster Dinner -- Duke of Wellington's Visit --
Tunbridge Wells --Vice-Chancellorship -- University Statutes -- Profes
sorial Certificate --Undergraduates in the Galleries --Voluntary Theo
logical Examination-- Circular Letter to the Bishops -- Sees of St. Asaph
                                     of Divinity -- Great St. Mary's --Letter
and Bangor-- Regius   Professorship  of Church and State --Hare's Admo
                      Constitution
to J. G. Marshall on
nitions -- Rejoinder -- Statue of Lord Byron-- Interest in Church Restora

tion--Statues of Barron and Lord Macaulay--Busts of Hare, Sedgwick,
Leslie Ellis, and Tennyson -- St. Augustine's, Canterbury -- Education of
Colonial Clergy -- Expenditure of Undergraduates-- Attention to Business
-- Long Vacation --Trinity Cricket Ground -- Queen's Visit --Dr. Whewell
breaks a rib-- Mr. Hullah's Singing Classes-- Lectures on Morals -- Dr.

Arnold's Life- -- Visit of the King of Saxony -- Mr. Wordsworth's Visit --
Sir J. Reynolds's Picture of the Duke of Gloucester -- Statue of Bacon --
' Indications of the Creator '-- Vestiges -- British Association --Mr. Law

rence's Portrait.

It is difficult not to pause too long over this year ; not

to linger in the sunshine, full of hope and promise, un
clouded by anxiety, not to give too many letters of this
period, so full are all of happiness and satisfaction in
' the condition which,' as Mr. Whewell writes to Arch
deacon Hare, ' we love to look upon as ours for the rest

of our lives.'

     Mrs. Whewell's journal shows how busy this happy
life was ; many of the plans to which Mr. Carus has
referred in his letter were already suggesting them
selves, plans for improving the condition of the bed
1&42  MR. SALVIN.  251

makers and other college servants, ' feeling our way
towards some improvement of the singing in chapel,'

organising her household, and being introduced to all

her husband's old friends in Cambridge and the neigh

bourhood.

      At the close of this busy year Dr. Whewell became

Vice-Chancellor.

       One of the first visitors at the Lodge in 1842 was

 Mr. Salvin. Dr. Whewell writes in his Journal under date
January 19 of that year, 'Mr. Salvin, architect, arrived,
and under his direction and in his presence we made

attempts to discover traces of the oriel which formerly
existed as part of the front of the Lodge. We found the
foundation of the wall of the oriel immediately below the
surface of the ground. The plan was semicircular, the
diameter of the semicircle 13 feet and 7 inches, exactly

opposite to the oriel which exists towards the garden.

By examination of the upper storey of the Lodge
it appeared that there are no lodging-rooms over

Henry "VllL.'s drawing-room, but only a blank garret,
 to which there is no access except through the
windows.'

      So far back as October 25, 1841, Mr. Beresford Hope

had written to the newly appointed Master :--

      Permit me to offer you my double congratulations and best

wishes for long years of uninterrupted happiness. Allow me
at the same time to beg that you will in the name of the
college accept as a slight token of affection and gratitude from
one of her alumni the sum of 300i., to be devoted to the pur
pose of restoring to the lodge the oriel and mullioned windows,

exactly as they stood before Bentley's alteration, and thus in
some measure giving back its antique character to the old court.

This sum I shall direct my banker to lodge to your account at
Mortlock's. Of course if it cannot be well done for that amount
I do not mean to confine myself to it.
252 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  184_>

    I have had no intelligence of my windows, though it is past

the time they were to have been completed in. . . .

    P.S. Since writing the above I have received the intelli

gence of the completion of the windows.1

     The next reference to the subject is in the Journal,
under date of August 16, 1842. From what is said we
learn how largely Mr. Hope's liberal intentions had been
expanded, and what very considerable proportions the
scheme of restoration had assumed.

     Aug. 16. -- We returned to the lodge and stayed one night,
the workmen being then employed in the restoration of the front,
in pursuance of Mr. Hope's undertaking to bear the expense of

the restoration of the windows and oriel. In the interval I had

corresponded with Mr. Hope and had finally learnt that 1,0007.
had been placed to the credit of the College at the banker's to
meet the expense.

     Sep. 17. -- We returned to College. The windows of the

front were entirely without glass, the rooms without furniture,
and the wall was removed from top to bottom where the
oriel was to be. The house full of workmen.

The correspondence with Mr. Hope was frequent

about the details of the work ; about the inscription,

Ithe arms, &c. Mr. Hope wrote in August, ' shall

have great curiosity to see the work ; the gable will add
weight and dignity to the oriel, and I should think make
Ian excellent whole.
                      was much pleased at finding the

oriel looked so solid, which is one of the great points

modern gothic architects fail in.' There are also letters

of Mr. Salvin's about remodelling and rebuilding chim

neys and dormers, and about appropriate mouldings,

&c. A memorandum in the Journal of the following

year, 1843, appears to show that the completed work

cost 1435/. 4s. Qd. 1000/. of this sum was given by Mr.

Hope, 185/. 4*. Qd. by the College apparently, and 250/.

     1 The last sentence of this letter and the postscript refer to windows in
the Ante Chapel, presented hy Mr. Beresford Hope.
1842  COLLEGE STATUTES.                             253

by the Master, also some 50/. or more for furniture.

There are many references to the work in the domestic

letters. Not until November 1842 was Dr. Whewell

able to announce to his sister that the ordinary living-

rooms had again become habitable. There is a very

amusingly despairing letter from one of the persons
Iemployed in furnishing, which begins, ' Feelingly alive
to this vexatious disappointment,    perfectly dread
Iwriting to you. To frame an excuse or falsehood

cannot, but the truth, which is that the party who un

dertook the carvings has left me in the lurch ; he was

an Italian, an exceeding clever artist ; he has pirated

Iour patent and gone to Milan.' This believe had

reference to a cabinet of gothic carved work, in the

execution of which there had been extraordinary delays,

but which was eventually completed and placed in

Henry Vffi.'s drawing-room, where it still stands.

      In Dr. Whewell's journal, kept at this time with

considerable regularity, we find mention of very fre

quent meetings of the Master and Seniors to deliberate

upon the revision of the College statutes. These

statutes, which the governing body of the College had

bound themselves to respect, to preserve intact and to

carry into effect, had, from the changes which centuries

had brought about in national habits, and many other

circumstances, come into such discrepancy with actual,

and often with any possible, practice as to occasion very

serious difficulties. The Master and other College offi

cers found themselves frequently compelled to choose

between deliberately neglecting and modifying that

which they had sworn to execute, or attempting to put

in operation rules which had become totally useless and

inapplicable. The difficulty was a very serious one, and

one from which there was no escape.
254 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1M2

    Their oath seemed to preclude the possibility of in

viting or accepting any external interference ; y.et there
was a certain awkwardness in employing their own au
thority to bring about an alteration of that which .they

had bound themselves to preserve and to execute. As

long before Dr. Whewell's appointment as April 1837,
it had, however, been decided that a revision must
absolutely take place ; also that when once completed
the sanction of the Crown must be called for to give
legal effect to the reforms decided upon, and to author

ise the amended code.

      The anomalies and deficiencies of the statutes must
of course have been familiar to Dr. Whewell, who for

many years had been a Senior and for many more ac
tively engaged in college tuition. Immediately after his
accession to the Mastership we find indications of the

direction his thoughts were taking, and on January 4,
 1842, he wrote to Mr. Gossett, a non-resident fellow, a

letter, of which a copy is preserved, and which was

 probably similar to others sent to other absent members

of the society of Trinity. This is the letter : --

  ... I wish to say a few words on a matter of College

business. You are probably aware that a revision of the

Statutes was resolved upon by the Seniority, some time ago, and
that the late master had bestowed considerable labour upon
the subject and intended to proceed with it. The revision was
undertaken in consequence of what took place in the House of
Lords, and the Chancellor was apprized of the resolution of the

Seniority. I conceive it to be incumbent upon me to go on

with this revision ; and with the assistance of the Seniority to
put the statutes in the form in which they may answer the
purpose intended by the revision ; namely, that of bringing the

Istatutes and the Practice of the College into accordance.

conceive that when this is done, it will be proper for us to
1S42  COLLEGE STATUTES.  255

endeavour to obtain legal sanction for the revised statutes

through the course pointed out by our constitution.
      The modifications of the statutes which are requisite for this

purpose must be those which are determined by the Seniority.

It is my intention, if I find no unexpected obstacles, to bring

the matter before the Seniority in the course of the ensuing

term. And I shall be glad to know if you are likely to be here

to take a share in this task, or to express your opinion upon it in

any stage of its process.
      My own view is that the changes made should be the

smallest which will truly answer the purpose of bringing about
an accordance between our laws and our practices ; and that we

ought to preserve the existing statutes whenever we can with
out manifest inconvenience.

      The late Master went over the statutes several times in

company with different College officers; with a view, I conceive,

of understanding what alterations their experience of the ad

ministration of the College suggested as necessary. I should

be disposed to profit by the results of these conferences of his,
of which he has left memorials in the shape of alterations pen
cilled upon the pages of his copy of the statutes and in other

Iforms. I shall be glad to know, as have said, whether we

may reckon on your assistance in the prosecution of 'this
revision ; whether, and when, you are likely, or wish to come

here for that purpose, and any other information which may enable
us, as far as possible, to co-operate in promoting the objects

pointed out by the resolution of the Seniority of which I have
spoken, and strongly desired I believe by a great number of the

foundation members of the College.

      On February 10 there was a Seniority, at which the
Master ' gave notice that soon, probably on the 15th,
he should bring before the Seniority the revision of the
statutes, directed by the Conclusion of April 24, 1837.'

     On the 15th he writes : --

    I intend to bring the consideration of the College statutes

before the Seniors to-day. The following appear to be the main
maxims to be kept in view.
256 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                         1S4-2

We are to make a revision, not new statutes : we are to

deal reverently with the existing statutes and not to deviate

from them except so far as is requisite to bring the statutes and

the practice into accordance.

     Our statutes have worked well, and in some cases it might
be well if we could accommodate the practice more nearly to

the written law. We ought therefore in some cases to leave a

possibility of this ; that we or our successors may return to the

old practice when it seems good.                 If we do not
      Practice has an interpretative authority.

allow this we cannot have statutes that can be observed for five

years. We must not try to evade all difficulties by leaving

everything loose and arbitrary. It is our office to supply fixity

amid change. There is no use in attempting to arrange details

till the main principles of the revision are settled. I shall

therefore take first some statutes which are the main features

of our system ; and when these are settled the rest will be easy.

   I shall take first ( 1 .) Cap. 5. De officio Decanarum. (Chapel);

(2.) Cap. 9. De Lectorum officio. (Lectures); (3.) Cap. 18. De

publ. Disp. (Obsolete usages) ; (4.) Cap. 19. De temp. ap.
grad. (degrees) ; (5.) Cap 22. De exitu. (residence).

     The persons present at this first Seniority of Febru

ary 15 were, besides the Master, the Vice-Master (Mr. J.

Browne), Mr. Evans, Mr. Romilly, Mr. Thorp, Mr. Mar
tin, Mr. Carus, Mr. Thompson, Mr. Blakesley. Professor
Sedgwick seems to have been absent, probably at Nor
wich, but his name appears as attending in place of
Mr. Blakesley on and after March 1.

     Twenty-seven meetings of the Seniority took place
between February 15 and April 25. The following day

the entry in the Journal stands :--

    April 26. -- Went to London to visit my wife's parents, Mr.
and Mrs. Marshall, 41 Upper Grosvenor Street. I took with me

to London the Draft of the College Statutes as revised by the

Seniority, at the various preceding sittings. I reported to the

Home Secretary, Sir J. Graham, that this revision was in pro
1842  REVISED STATUTES.  2o7

gress, explained to him the general principles on which it had
proceeded, and pointed out the few instances in which the
privileges of the Crown were concerned, viz. (1.) Visitatorial
power, (2.) Power of giving leave of absence, (3.) Power of ap
pointing ten paupers. He informed me that he should lay the
draft before the Attorney and Solicitor-General, and at a subse
quent interview agreed to do so, while it was still unconfirmed

by the Seniors. I also saw the Solicitor-General and the

Attorney-General, who agreed to consider the unconfirmed

Idraft ; and explained to them that the College did not expect

or wish that they should suggest anything except what con
cerned the prerogatives of the Crown or the course of Law.

For the purpose of consideration, I had two transcripts of the
revised Statutes made, for which I paid Hi. 6s. I left one of

these and a printed copy of the Statutes with Sir James
Graham.

     At the Seniority on May 28 (at which were present

 the Vice-Master, Sedgwick, Romilly, Thorp, Martin,

IBlakesley, Grote, and Bunbury), the Master says, * com
Imunicated the steps had taken in London respecting

 the statutes, also respecting the installation.'
      The installation in question was that of the Duke of

Northumberland as Chancellor, and took place in July

 of this year.
       On November 12 we find the Master enters in his

 journal that he has ' received a letter from Sir James

 Graham (Home Secretary), stating that the revised
 statutes (rules) were approved entirely by the law
 officers of the Crown ; and that he had written to the
 Bishop of Ely to report to him the omission of his name

 I(as visitor) in Cap. 40 of the statutes. Wrote in reply

 that the draft was not passed, but that would get it
 passed as soon as possible, and then wait for the royal

  letter.'
       The correspondence between Sir James Graham, the

 Bishop of Ely, and the Master, referred to above, is now

                                                          s
258 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

before me. The College desired ' to relieve the Bishop
and his successors from the exercise of a doubtful au
thority, which, being disputed, might tend to litigation
and many inconvenient results.' The College wished

that the jurisdiction hitherto vested in the Bishop of

Ely should be transferred to the Crown. The Bishop
referred to a decision of 1711, when a similar proposal
had been made by Trinity College, resisted by the
Bishop of Ely (Bishop Moore), and ultimately rejected
by the law officers of the Crown. He declared he saw
no reason for deciding differently now. Sir James
Graham begs the careful consideration of the point on
the part of the College, urges the Bishop to give way,
but in vain, and finally advised Her Majesty to sanction
the new statutes, in which the power in question was
reserved to the Crown, the Bishop still protesting his

dissent. The royal consent seems to have been given
to the statutes in February 1843. On the 11th of that
month ' a Seniority was held, at which certain points in
the revision of the statutes were discussed, especially
 Cap. 40, the question respecting the visitor, and it was
 considered that this concluded all the discussions con

 cerning the leading alterations to be made in revising

 the statutes.'

     It is scarcely necessary to discuss the effect of this
 revision of the statutes, as the object was confessedly of

 a very limited kind, and did not pretend to be an at
 tempt to place the laws of the College on the best pos
 sible footing. At the same time the necessity of the work
 thus voluntarily undertaken by the College will be evi
 dent to any one who glances at some of the statutes

 which the Master and Seniors had all sworn to observe
 at the time of Dr. Whewell's appointment to the Master
 ship. For instance, that relating to the office of the
i
t
1842  REVISED STATUTES.     259

Deans gave direction for a weekly flagellation of certain

offenders in the College Hall, at which all persons in
statu pupillari were to be present.

     In the list of offences of which such persons might

be guilty, that of speaking their native language was
prominent. The law of Trinity College recognised such

offences and punishments up to the year 1842, but it is

needless to say that the practice did not accord with the
law.

To Profeasor Sedgwick]  Trinity Lodge: Feb. 8, 1842.
      I am very desirous of going on with our task of revising our
College statutes as soon as I can, and am trying to fix some time,

and that not a remote one, when we may set ourselves to work

at this business. I am very desirous, too, of having the benefit

of your judgment in our proceedings on this subject, and
should for that reason have been glad to put off the commence

ment of our deliberations till you are in College. I fear, however,

that if I were to do so, we should have so small a portion of the
term left us that we should not be able to make much way
before the end of it ; and so upon the whole I am disposed to

enter upon the matter about a week hence.

     I believe I shall call a meeting of the Seniors a week hence,
 and at that time bring the subject before them. I shall then

wish to go on as fast as we can, consistently with the gravity

and complexity of the matter. I recollect the special points

which you mentioned as those on which you had a decided

opinion, and I will take care that you have an opportunity of

joining in the discussion of them, and also of giving us your

advice upon any others when you may wish to offer it.

    So much for that matter for the present, though I fear it

must needs be the labour of many a long hour in future. But

Iit is a task which requires to be performed ; and seem to my

self to see every reason to hope that we shall perform it in an

amicable and careful manner, so far as the spirit in which we

set about it gives us any augury.

   IHave you heard from Owen lately ? had a letter from

him a little while ago, which grieved me much. He told me

                        b2
260 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                              184-2

then that his College had offered him Cliffs place in the
museum, which I suppose is more valuable than his own, but

they had accompanied the offer with an intimation that they

conceived that of late he had done too much for himself and too

little for them ; and with a stipulation that henceforth he should

not publish except in their Transactions without their consent.

This appears to me immeasurably narrow-minded and

absurd ; for they share in his reputation and it is every way an
Iadvantage to their museum to be used as he uses it.
                                                      recom

mended Owen to take their offer, but to ask his scientific friends,

you in especial, to represent to the College that they were

injuring their own reputation and the interests of science by
Itheir stipulation.
                     have not heard from him since, and do not

know what course he has taken.

    I am glad to think we shall at any rate see you here soon.
I hope you find that your sister and your niece, both or at least

one, can come, and take up their abode at the Lodge with us,

for a few days or a week. You know it will be the next thing

to having them in your own rooms, for we will open the doors

of your house and mine which communicate on the staircase.

    At the end of 1842 Dr. Whew ell became Yiee-

Chancellor, and found his ' occupations ' thereby so

much increased that he could only, in writing to his
sister, express a hope that he might ' get through them

somehow, as others had before him.' He finally made

up his mind as far as possible to give up all his other
pursuits and make it his business to attend only to the
duties of that office whilst it lasted.

     An early letter of this year to Mr. Myers acknow
ledges the receipt of the first part of his book, ' Catholic

Thoughts on the Church of Christ and the Church of

England,' printed for private circulation at the close

of 1841, and since then published in two volumes of
' Present Day Tapers,' by Isbister & Co.

                                       Trinity Lodge: March 2, 1842.

   I ought not to have been so long in acknowledging the receipt
of your book and thanking you for it ; and yet even now I am
1842  MR. MYERS'S 'CATHOLIC THOUGHTS.'                2G1

too early to do so in a proper manner, for I have not yet read it

through attentively. Cordelia took possession of it, and has been

conning it very diligently and I believe has just finished it. I

recommend you to get her remarks upon it, which will be very

far from being without their value. But though I have not
read through the book as it deserves, I have seen enough of it,
in the intervals of Corrie's studies, to know that it contains
much which I must admire. The style appeared to me to be

everywhere admirable from its balance and clearness, and the

views and arguments brought out in most orderly and philoso

phical gradation. As to the subject matter I ought not to give

an opinion without having studied the book in such a way as its
temper and the labour bestowed upon it deserve, and it is the

less necessary to do so as I trust we are in a fair way of having

many a brotherly discussion of such subjects, a prospect to

Iwhich look forward with delight on many accounts. You

will hardly perhaps expect me to agree with your scheme in

general after the debates with which we startled the Naiads of

Ullswater and the Dryads of Gowbarrow, and perhaps you will

not think me very much in haste to condemn without suffi

cient examination if I say that I think I can point out one or

t wo of the leading grounds of our variance. One is your as

sumption of an essential difference between fact and theory ; a
difference which it is impossible to establish, and the assump
Ition of which always leads to endless wrangling.
                                                      may say
Iso much now because have said more than this in my philo

sophy, and conceive the admission of the truth on this sxibject

to be essential to all sound philosophising. Another ground of

variance in our opinions is your assuming progress in a sense

which makes the present independent of the past ; a funda

Imental heresy, as tried in vain to prove to you in your lect ure

room at Keswick.

    I believe I cannot do better than take the present season

Ifor proclaiming to you my dissent from your principles, for you

must, think, at present be far too happy 1 to quarrel with any
Ibody, and least of all with Susan's brother.
                                               am not going
to dwell upon this subject, but I must say that I look with ex

ceeding gratification to the prospect of the union of two persons

      1 In the prospect of his approaching marriage.
262 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                                     1842

both of whom I most highly admire and most warmly regard, and
Iwhom think most admirably fitted to make each other happy.

Your parsonage at Keswick will be the brightest spot in the
whole lake country, if philosophy, poetry, and love, combined

in two excellent hearts, and heads, can brighten any place.

    I intended to have written this or something to the same

II

    I

                           a

                            I if

                                                it,
                                                                  it
effect to Brighton before you left thinking just possible

that might tempt you to turn this way in going northwards,

but suppose my chance of doing this would have been but

small.  shall be very glad the next time that you make

your southwards move you will come and take up your abode at

Trinity Lodge for while.       will promise not to take the un

generous advantage of involving you in an argument about the

whole ordinances of the Church, when your thoughts are dwell

ing entirely upon one of the services. You will find many

friends here, and all, doubt not, like myself, far more glad to
                      II
see you than ever.
                                 !
                                 '

                                     I
                      hear Cordelia in the next room playing

   believe) Happy Pair so that          need not ask her                     am to
send her kindest regards.               9
(I                                         is
   IThe entry in the Journal for February                                --
                                            : iIf
                   '
     Ash Wednesday. -- directed Mr. Trains the Chaplain on duty

to read the Litany (which was told was not to be read at St.
Mary's) and to omit the Commination Service.
                      I
                            I

To Archdeacon Hare Dr. Whewell writes --
                                                                      :

                                        Feb. 13, 1842.

        am lecturing on Morals, and am venturing to make the

subject of my lectures the construction of system of morality,
                                        a
                                                                is
                                                                      it,
and the mode of overcoming the difficulties involved in such

an undertaking. In many ways this employment                                 very

pleasant, but especially in one.  talk with Worsley about
                      a
and we find ourselves coming, from quite opposite regions, into;

an almost entire agreement in our views and arrangements.I

We have the most charming rides together do not mean on
                                        (I

                                              )1
                                                                       is
our hobbies only, but on Waverley and Gingiber during which

we discuss these matters and we often agree that your one

fault that you do not care enougb for systems. But this
is
                      Gingiber was ginger-coloured chestnut horse.
             1
1842        MAKING OF SYSTEMS.            263

all as it should be. We, cloistered theorists, are wedded to

speculative truth, and you, a faithful minister and zealous arch
Ideacon, look more to practical matters.
                                          wish most especially

you could come here and take up your abode at the Lodge for

a week or two, and we should have an infinitely better chance
of understanding each other, or rather we should come to under

stand each other sooner and better than we could do any other

way. You will find me and my wife tranquilly settled in a

condition which we love to look upon as ours for the rest of

our lives.

      This letter was followed a month later by another,

still full of his pleasure in talking over matters with the

Master of Downing, though admitting that he was not
anxious to attach too much value to his system as a
system. The same letter contains some interesting re

marks upon the value of uncongenial subjects of study,
as drawing out the whole mind of the student, instead
of only that part of it which he is himself naturally

inclined to use and cultivate.

To Archdeacon Hare]                       March 13, 1842.

      I am glad you are so tender at being reproached with want of
love of system, for I feared that you considered the making of

systems to be a dangerous employment; at least in any one
since Coleridge. But indeed I might easily have known that
Isuch an opinion did you injustice.
                                     certainly believe that we

want systems, true systems, made with all sobriety, and im

pregnable to disbelief, and so, armed against your Greek line.

I believe we want such systems more than anything else ;

because at the root of all improved national life must be a steady

conviction of the reason, and the reason cannot acquiesce in

what is not coherent, that is, systematic. But you do not believe

that Worsley's expository views are a sound system. Probably

not. I never attached much importance to them as expositions,

but they have led him, as exposition often does, to a systematic

analysis of his subject, religious duties and their corresponding

conditions. And even this part of his work I have not seen.
264 LIFE OF DR. WIIEWELL.                             1342

Only I find that he, entering the subject of morality on the a
priori road, through the views of religious teaching, and I,

Iadvancing to it on the other side, from psychology through
jurisprudence, come to very many close coincidences.  have
Ibegged him not to give me his scheme till I have finished my

exposition of my own, which do in my lecture to-morrow.

     Then again as to the question of how far students should be
subjected to uncongenial kinds of study, you will allow me to

wrangle with you, will you not ? Well then, I say that on

etymological grounds, as well as others, mine is the genuine

education. Your poetical or critical man you educate by

educing his reasoning powers through the discipline of mathe
matics. The faculty is in him, and you draw it out. His poetry

and his criticism he gives you spontaneously, you do not need

to educe that; it is an effusion. And in like manner the

spontaneous mathematician is educated by educing his imagina
tive and philological faculties. You took Airy as an example.

He was driven to read Greek by our Trinity system, is very
fond of it, and so is an educated man. Without this, he would

have been a mere mathematician ; and such a one is not an

educated man. It is a view of men which tue must not take, to

hold them to have each only a part of the faculties of humanity.

You do not educate except you educe the whole humanity. I

hope we shall never become a College of mere scholars and

mere mathematicians. The effeminacy of mind which can only

attend to its favourite and selected pursuits is not the temper

Iwhich becomes us. Observe, do not want much mathematics

from our classical men ; but a man who either cannot or will

not understand Euclid, is a man whom we lose nothing by not

keeping among us.

     On March 16 we find from Dr. Whewell's Journal

that he requested leave at a Seniority to present to the
College a marble copy of the statue of Bacon at St.

Albans.

    It was executed by Mr. Weekes the sculptor by per

mission of Lord Verulam, and is now in the ante-chapel
of the College.

     On March 19 is the first mention after Dr. Whewell's
1842     JUDGES' VISITS.                 265

Mastership of the arrival of the Judges of Assize at

Trinity Lodge, and of their formal reception there. The

custom dates from the year 1610, when the College

generally and the Lodge especially having been recently

ofenlarged and beautified by Dr. Thomas Neville, Master

       the College from 1593 to 1615, Chief Justice Coke,

liimself a member of Trinity College, and accustomed to
resort there on other occasions, was first lodged there as

Judge of Assize.

       He appears to have visited Cambridge in this capa

city in five successive years, and the steward's accounts
from 1610 onwards contain occasional entries of expenses
incurred in the reception of the judges. It was after

the enlargement of the Lodge in Dr. Neville's time, and
by his munificence, that the series of royal visits to
Cambridge of James I. and his family began ; and, no

doubt, to Dr. Neville's hospitable spirit and to the hand

some accommodation which Trinity College was now

able to ofl'er, may be ascribed its frequent selection

thenceforward as royal quarters on the occasion of visits

of the Sovereign or of the Sovereign's family. In the

previous reign Queen Elizabeth had been entertained at

King's College. Dr. Neville's first royal guests were

Prince Charles (afterwards King Charles  and his
                          'a
brother-in-law, Frederick, Prince Palatine of the Rhine.'

Dr. Hackett, in his life of Archbishop Williams, whenI.)

noting the absence of the Chancellor, the Lord of

Northampton, who was expected, for tradition imme

morial required his presence at such season, but the

frugal old man appeared not,' adds, The charge of

great fare and feasting was not more costly than wel

come to the brave mind of Dr. Neville, the Master of

Trinity College, who never had his like in that orb,I

believe, for splendid, courteous, and bountiful gentle
      a
266 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1641'

man.' No Sovereign appears to have remained the night
at Trinity between the days of James I. and the present
reign, but whilst James I.'s palace at Newmarket con
tinued to exist, visits of a few hours in duration seem to

have been very frequent.

     At a later period the question of the judges' right
to lodgings in Trinity Lodge led more than once to con
troversies between Dr. Whewell and the judges, and

shortly before his death he had taken some measures
for the purpose of having it settled in an authoritative

manner.

      Arrangements have, however, since been made be

tween the College and the Home Office, which rendered
the prosecution of these measures unnecessary.

     The claim of the royal family to a reception at

Trinity Lodge whenever they visited the University of

Cambridge was first brought under Dr. Whewell's
notice in a letter addressed to the Vice-Chancellor in

1842 by the Duke of Northumberland, on occasion of

his inauguration as Chancellor. Without formally ad
mitting or disputing the claim, Dr. Whewell practically
forestalled it on each occasion by the ready offer of all

the accommodation in College which the Crown could
possibly wish for. When the Prince of Wales was a
student at the University, residing at Madingley, about

three miles from Cambridge, rooms at Trinity Lodge
were placed at his disposal by the spontaneous action of

the Master, an arrangement which, no doubt, was very
convenient both to His Royal Highness and to those in

attendance on him.

     In May Dr. and Mrs. Whewell were for a time in
London at Mr. Marshall's house in Upper Grosvenor
Street, and in June the British Association called Dr.

Whewell to Manchester. Later in the summer they
1S-42  LAXCASTF.lt DIXNEU.              267

were for some time at Tunbridge Wells ; and at Bedg-

liixxy, Collingwood, and Hurstmonceux they paid visits

to old friends of his, now to be friends of both. Before
the end of the vacation they made their way to Filey,

where the Master of Downing and his wife were staying ;

to Hallsteads ; and to Lancaster, where a dinner was

 <z;iven to him and to Professor Owen. Whilst they were

at Hallsteads Mr. Wordsworth, in whose society Dr.

 "Whewell had for several years taken ever-increasing
 pleasure, was also a guest, and a companion in many a

 long ramble which was to enable Dr. Whewell ' to walk

 in imagination on the sides of Helvellyn when confined

 in body to the shores of the Cam.'

        In his speech at Lancaster on the occasion referred
  to, he gave warm expression to the feelings of local at
  tachment which in him were very strong.

        The early scenes of youth -- the castle towers -- the waters of
   the Lune-- have haunted me when absent, and been a source
   of especial pleasure to me when present. My heart has leaped

  up when I revisited them, with a delight wholly different from

   that which other scenes, not devoid of enjoyment, have brought
   to me. We owe to the early years of our boyhood, influences
   which remain with us through all the years of succeeding life.

   The poet Wordsworth, with whom I have within the last few

    days had the advantage of associating, says

       The child is father of the man.

and    I could wish my days to be

 Bound each to eacli by natural piety.

ISo feel that the boy is indeed the father of the man --that

the early sympathies he may enjoy -- the love of poetry among
schoolfellows -- the facilities he meets with in the prosecution of
his favourite studies and pursuits -- that these have more power

than when his nature is more matured and his mind more

expanded. His must be a hard nature indeed who does not
feel this ' natural piety ' on reverting to the scenes of his boy
2G8             LIFE OF DR. WUEWELL.                 18-13^

hood. I feel it with joy every week of my life. I am grateful

to you for having now connected the past with the present
feeling of my life -- for having called up the days of boyhood

with their charms of sunshine, and their thousand tender asso

ciations, and connected them with the experience of middle

life, in a unity in which nothing is disjointed and incoherent.
     In the drama of my life there are but two scenes -- Lancaster

and Cambridge ; and the early scenes of Lancaster have been
Ifenhanced by the transition lrom one to the other.
                                                     ever a

man had cause to love an English University it is I, who owe

s.) much to one. To me has been given all that the mind of
man could desire -- leisure and the means of prosecuting studies
which were the dream of my early youth --and which not to be
enabled to pursue was a bitterness worse than death -- the op

portunity of mingling with and enjoying the friendship of the

greatest men and the most lofty intellects of my time, at onee

the most modest and the most profound thinkers, the worthy

representatives of the soul and mind of their age.

     An interesting letter will be found in its place at
the close of this year addressed to his brother-in-law,
Mr. James G. Marshall, another of the relations gained

by his marriage, ' dear as if in their veins flowed ' bis

' own family's blood,' with whom he had many interests
in common, to be treated of with delight in ' many a

brotherly discussion.'

To his Sister]  Trinity Lodge: March 20, 1842.

I have been complaining to Cordelia for some time that I

had a pain in my conscience occasioned by not writing to you,
and she has recommended me to try to relieve it by a proper

application of pen, ink, and paper. We have in truth been very
Ibusy with business and with society.
                                       have only just finished

my lectures, and am still engaged two or three hours a day,

almost daily, with college business. Then we have been visiting

at Audley End. It was a great pleasure to take Cordelia there,

and to make her acquainted with old and valued friends like

Lord and Lady Braybrooke, and we spent a few days there very

pleasantly.
 3-42 INSTALLATION OF DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND. 269

    At present we have Lord and Lady Mont eagle for our guests,

hough to-day they are gone to Ely to visit the Dean, and we

lave also the Judges in the house, who take up their abode

tiere when they come to hold the assizes. They occupy the

w^hole of our lower storey, including our dining-room, so that our

theycompany-keeping is straightened during their stay. When
            go to Court or to Chapel they walk across the court of the

college in their robes with their train-bearers, and Cordelia, who
staxids at the drawing room window and sees them from behind,
laughs at the ceremony very irreverently.

To his Sister]  41 Upper Orosvenor Street : May 7, 1842.

      You are not to suppose that we have forgotten Grange and

Lindale in the bustle of London. I am trying to make out

what great people are coming to us at the Installation of our

Chancellor, which takes place in July. Prince Albert, who was

spoken of, does not come, but the Duke of Wellington and the

Prussian ambassador, M. Bunsen, are to be among our guests.

         Some interesting details of the Duke of Wellington's
   visit are given by Dr. Whewell in his Journal.

        Monday, July 4.--The Duke of Wellington arrived ; his car

    riage stopped at the Great Gate and then proceeded to St. John's,
    where he went to attend the Duke of Northumberland's levee.

   He then walked with me to Trinity Lodge, and the Fellows were
    presented to him by me. He then went again to St. John's

    Lodge, and accompanied the Duke of Northumberland to the
     Senate House. After his return to this Lodge he came into the
     dining-room, and then he conversed a good deal.

          With reference to the news of the Queen having been shot
, at by Bean, which arrived this morning, he spoke of an attempt

     made to shoot him at Paris. He had previous information that

     he was to be shot at. The man tried in vain to find an oppor
    tunity in the streets. The Duke had said before the event
     that the assassin must inevitably make the attempt at his own

    house. So it turned out. The man placed himself behind a

     watch-box and fired as the Duke entered his own Porte cochere.

          The postilion saw him raise his arm, and urged his horses to
270 LIFE OF BR. WHEWELL.                        1842

a gallop, so that the Duke thought he had knocked down one of

the sentries in driving in. ' I asked him why he had done so.

and he told me that a man had fired a pistol at me from a place
close by. ' Mr. M
                     [Mr. Milnes ?] reminded the Duke that
Napoleon left the man a legacy. ' Yes ' he said, ' Napoleon left

him 10,000 francs for trying to rid the world of an aristocrat.'

   I spoke of the attempt made to kill the King of Portugal

in the last century. ' Yes,' he said, ' that was under the Marqui?

de Pombal's administration. It was one of the circumstances

which led to the expulsion of the Jesuits. That event was an

evil to Spain and Portugal. It ruined the education of the

upper orders. They are now men of no education, no moral

and religious education.  You never find a well educated

nobleman in Spain. Consequently they are regarded with no

respect by those of lower rank, and are a worthless set. No

thing can save a country but a moral and religious education of

its upper classes.'

He spoke much of the Afghan war. He had always dis

believed the accounts, he said, of the abandonment of

Ghuznee.1 He never could believe that a person put in a com

mand so important could be so destitute of resources as the

accounts represented him. ' I never could believe that such an

officer could say that he was obliged to surrender for want of

water, when he was snowed up. I never could believe that he

could say that he had left the soldiers' bayonets in the citadel.

There is no more convenient way of disposing of a bayonet

than at the end of the musket or in the scabbard by the soldier's

side.'

     Speaking further of India, he said, ' You have there the

blessing of a free press; in that country, in a country quite

unfitted for such a thing. You might as well try a free press

on the quarter-deck of a man of war.'

     Passing the picture of Perceval, he said he was a good
debater and always spoke well when he had had previously to

explain a measure to a meeting of his friends.

When the Duke had been in this Lodge a few minutes, he

    1 By Colonel Palmer. A survivor of the Afghan war says ' the sur

render of this strong fortress greatly aggravated the difficulties of our posi

tion at Cahul.5
1842  DUKE OF WELLINGTON.  271

wished me to return to St. John's Lodge, where the Duke of

Northumberland was. I tried to detain him by representing
that the Chancellor could not possibly go to the Senate House

for some time, and that we should see him, and could join him
when he passed the College gate. But he was not to be

detained, so we walked together. As we went he said, ' I came
to do honour to the Duke of Northumberland, and I must be on

the spot for that purpose. Nothing like being on the spot.'
     When he had stayed at the Lodge some time after his return

Ifrom the Senate House, conversing as above, proposed to him

to go to Magdalen College, where the Master had collected a

party of distinguished visitors in the Lodge garden, with a band
of music. We went there by the back of the Colleges and
through Northampton Street. When we arrived near the gate the

Duke asked who was the master of Magdalen, and when I told
him Mr. Neville Grenville, he said ' Oh, I know him, he officiates
sometimes at the Chapel Royal. I usually go to the Chapel
Royal. Sometimes I am there alone with the reader.' Then aside,

' Dearly beloved Roger.'
      The Duke of Wellington went from Magdalen Gardens with

the Bishop of London, and returned to Emmanuel to the Vice-
 Chancellor's dinner. Here he stayed but a little while and went

 away before dinner, having determined to sleep at Hatfield.

So far as I know he had no dinner till he got there, which must

 have been near eleven o'clock at night.

    I left the dinner at the Vice-Chancellor's early and came

 home to receive a few friends at the Lodge.

    July 5, Tuesday. -- In the Senate House, after the Doctors'

 degrees had been conferred, the prizes were recited. The
 Installation Ode was then performed. Afterwards there was
 given a collation in St. John's grounds. Tents were erected
 in the new courts for the collation, and in various other parts for
 ices, dancing, &c. A public concert was given in the evening.

     July 6, Wednesday. --A public oratorio in the morning.

 Dinner given by Trinity College to the Chancellor at a quarter
 to five. Invited Heads, late Fellows, Professors, Noblemen, and
 other distinguished visitors, Inceptors, M.A.s on the Boards
 gentry of the neighbourhood. Gallery for ladies.
272 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.             1S42

To his Sister]        Trinity Lodge: June 20, 1842.

    I go to Manchester to-morrow to take my share in the

business of the British Association. My abode there will be

at Sir B. Heywood's. I shall be obliged to come back again as
soon Ias can, for we shall have our preparations for the Instal

lation to make, and even some of our visitors arriving in the

course of next week.

To his Sister]        Bedgebury: Aug. 11, 1842.

For the last month we have been living so quietly that I
hardly knew how the days went on, and yet I have seemed to

be very busy. We took a house at Tunbridge Wells, the waters

there being recommended for Cordelia. We had a pleasant

furzy heath before us, only a few little villas like our own

visible from our windows, so that we seemed to be in complete

seclusion ; and indeed we were so, for we fell in with scarcely

any persons whom we knew, though, as we found afterwards,

there were several of our acquaintances there. We had our

horses with us, and rode about the country every day. The

region is well suited for such a life, for the rides are numerous
and beautiful. The country consists of long-backed hills with

wide valleys between, all richly wooded, and riding paths every

where meandering through the woods.

During the time that we were at the Wells we made one

visit to Lord Camden at Wilderness near Seven Oaks ; and when

our three weeks were over we came to this place. This is the

seat of Lord Bradford and his wife. Her son Mr. Hope was a

favourite pupil of mine, and is just married to Lady Mildred

Cecil. Our visit here came almost before the honeymoon was

concluded. To-day we go to Sir John Herschel's, which is only

a few miles off. Then we go on to Mr. Hare's at Hurstmonceux,

who as you know, very old and intimate friend. We stay
there over Sunday, and then turn our faces to the north. We
is,

            if
                               a

                    I

                                                                                                                   a
return by Cambridge, where we have workmen employed upon

the Lodge, and possible wish to show Cordelia the Cathedrals
at Peterborough and Lincoln. We wish very much to make our

way to Filey Bay near Scarborough, where our most intimate

friends, Mr. and Mrs. Worsley, who were married about
842              LANCASTER DINNER.              273

noiith ago, are staying. He was my especial friend and com

panion, and she was Cordelia's, so that their marriage is a source

Fromextreme delight to us. He is Master of Downing College.
              thence we make our way to Hallsteads, and by the time

we get there our holidays will be so far used up that we shall not

t>e able to execute any further excursions.

II Some of my friends in Lancaster want to give me a dinner,
      suppose by way of claiming me as a creditable Lancastrian.
    do not see how it can be managed, unless it be made to fall in

with my passage through Lancaster on my return.

To his Sister']  Halhteada: Sep. 1842.

       We are still in the mind of going hence to-morrow, and

must set off early, in order to be sure of being in time for the
dinner without hurry. We are to sleep at Dr. Ainslie's 1 at
Kellet.

     ISince my return here have had some grand long mountain

walks with William Marshall, and with Mr. Wordsworth while

Ihe was here. am now beginning to know this neighbourhood

pretty well, and shall be able to walk on the sides of Helvellyn

in imagination, when I am confined in body to the level banks
of the sluggish Cam.

    IWith regard to the ' Encyclopaedia Metropolitana,' believe
it is going on and likely to be completed. I have heard nothing

to the contrary, and am myself taking it in on that supposition.
There are in the early part of it some articles of mine--one

upon Archimedes, another on Electricity. The committee of

the dinner have sent to offer Cordelia a place to hear the

speeches on the occasion, but as she will have to travel all that

day and to rise early the next, she has declined this proposal.

I Iwill recollect to send you a Lancaster paper, which have no

doubt will make ado enough about the occasion.

To his Sister]   Trinity Lodge : Nov. 9, 1 842.

     I am afraid it is a long time since I wrote to you, but then

you have sometimes letters from Cordelia to fill up these inter

vals, who I dare say tells you of our goings on much bet ter than

                 1 Master of Pembroke College.
                                          T
 274 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

 I could. She has told you, as I see by what you say, of the
 almost uninhabitable condition in which the Lodge has been till

 lately. She cannot easily have described it as a scene of greater
 desolation and confusion than it was. We had seven sets of

 people, whom I used to speak of as our seven plagues ; although

 this was rather an unreasonable way of speaking of them, as
 they came at our command and did our bidding. These were
 the masons, bricklayers, carpenters, painters, glaziers, slaters,

 and bellhangers.

     We have at last reconquered our drawing-room and dining-

 room, and are now tolerably at our ease. The Vice-Chancellor
 ship nat urally adds very much to my employments ; however,

I suppose I shall get through it, as others have done before me.

      The post a day or two ago brought me a piece of news

which I was very glad to hear. Mr. Owen, who as you know

was joined with me in my exaltation at Lancaster, has hitherto
been in circumstances not very pleasant to him, inasmuch as
the Council of the College of Surgeons, from whom he held his
professorship, showed a jealousy of his scientific labours, and
tried to restrain him in his Natural History investigations at
home ; and on the strength of this Sir Robert Peel has offered
him a pension of 200/. a year, which, with other resources, will I
trust put him at his ease.

      This must be very agreeable, too, to our good friends at
Lancaster, as showing that the Government of the country

appreciates Owen no less than his townsmen. I find that

my pupil and friend Mr. Conybeare is just elected to the head
of a large Collegiate Educational Institution, which they have
founded there upon a very dignified scale.

      On the day following his appointment to be Vice-
Chancellor, Dr. Whewell recorded in a private diary his
determination to deal with several matters in the con-

duet of the University which seemed to require to be

forwarded or undertaken. The first of these was the
revision of the University Statutes, which had been pro
ceeding several years, but of late had been at a stand.
His object, no doubt, was to treat this matter in the
1842 VICE-CHANCELLORSmr.  275

same spirit in which he had treated the College Statutes.
It will be seen hereafter that this intention was carried

out some years subsequently with more considerable

results than he probably at this time contemplated.
     Another subject which engaged still more of his

personal attention, and was preliminary to his later
labours in the same field, was the enactment of regula
tions which should have the effect of moderating the

influence of private tuition, and of bringing the mathe
matical and classical examinations of the University

into correspondence with the lectures of the professors,
which he regarded as being of still more importance
now than in former times, in consequence of the disuse

of the Disputations in the schools. Having procured
the appointment of a Syndicate to consider these ques

tions, he expounded his own views at their first meeting.

Among other suggestions he proposed to require cer
tificates of attendance at the professors' lectures, and to
establish a permanent Syndicate of Examinations, of

which the professors should be members. In these
proposals we see the germs of measures which, after an
interval of some years, were adopted. In spite of his

vigorous advocacy, a Grace, embodying the recom
mendations of the Syndicate, which were the fruit of his
untiring industry, was rejected by a majority of the
Regent House, March 31, 1843. He at once gave notice
of his intention to bring the Grace again before the
Senate with a slight variation, but he was persuaded
that such a course would be contrary to the practice of
the University, and thereupon withdrew the notice.

     A third matter which Dr. Whewell determined to

deal with during his Vice-Chancellorship was one winch
had long vexed and disturbed him, and which was the
occasion of more serious annoyance to him during his

                                 I2
276 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  11*4:2

 second terra of office some twelve years later. This
 was the conduct of the undergraduates in the galleries
 of the Senate House at the Bachelor of Arts Commence

 ment and other public ceremonies. In several previous
 years the Vice-Chancellors had found it necessary to
 make representations to members of the University with
 a view of enforcing order and decorum. Dr. Whewell,

 in anticipation of this annual ceremony in 1843, issued
 a paper to the tutors of colleges, requesting them to

 impress upon their pupils what was due to their own

character and that of the University. It was not his

 wish to prevent the applause with which it was the

 custom to greet the Senior Wrangler on his presenta
tion. He considered that the occasion naturally called
forth such expressions of generous sympathy, but he
hoped that there would be no manifestations of feeling
of a different kind upon matters unconnected with the
immediate ceremonial of the day. He pointed out that

conduct intentionally designed to interrupt the business

of the University lowered its dignity and insulted its
authority, and that it was inevitably so interpreted both
by the friends of the University and by strangers. These
remonstrances, whatever their immediate effect, certainly
did not produce a permanent result. But on the oc

casion of the Queen's visit during this same year he had
the satisfaction of seeing his wishes obeyed. Professor

Smythe, who from his great age was unable to be present
during the Royal visit, wrote to the Vice-Chancellor

from Norwich:--

   I was particularly anxious that the young men should behave

with propriety, and that they did so in the most perfect manner

I am assured, and that the Prince contrasted their conduct with

that of the undergraduates at Oxford. The truth is that how

they would behave was quite a matter of doubt. You have not
1842 VOLUNTARY THEOLOGICAL EXAMINATION. 277

been popular among them. . . . Why you have not been

popular I have repeatedly explained to others, and, to myself at

least, satisfactorily. . . . You have proceeded [towards them]
upon the system of the University Statutes and Ordinances as
always understood and practised in my time. . . . Collision
therefore between you and them could not possibly be escaped.

       Dr. Milman, afterwards Dean of St. Paul's, writing

about the same time, said :--

       There is but one opinion about your reception of the Royal
personages at Cambridge. Your praises from Vice-Chancellor
down to the latest freshman are on all tongues. To say the

truth, I will not only forgive but thank your Orator, who could
not refrain from a sly hit at that ' unruly Isis.'

      In 1843 the first Voluntary Theological examination
was held. Having been a member of the Syndicate
which recommended its institution, he watched its
results with considerable interest, and took special pains
as Vice-Chancellor to bring them under the notice of
the bishops in the following circular letter, dated
October 28, 1843 :--

      My Lord, -- In the course of the last year a Grace passed
the Senate of this University, establishing (1) a compulsory
 examination in certain theological subjects for those persons
 who on taking their B.A. Degree are not candidates for mathe
 matical honours ; (2) a voluntary examination of the like kind
for those persons who on the same occasion are candidates for
mathematical honours ; (3) a further theological examination

 at a subsequent period, to be conducted by the Regius and Lady
Margaret Professors of Divinity and the Regius Professor of
 Hebrew ; this last examination also to be voluntary, and the

names to be published of those students who pass it to the

 satisfaction of the examiners.

     These examinations do not fully come into action till 1846,
but the Regius and Margaret Professors of Divinity and the

 Regius Professor of Hebrew have this year commenced examina
 tions of the kind directed by the Grace.
278 LIFE OF Di:. AVHEWELL.

     I take the liberty of transmitting to your Lordship copies
of the papers of questions proposed in these examinations, and
a list of the persons who have passed them to the satisfaction

of the examiners.

     As one of the persons interested in the success of this at
tempt to improve the theologieal instruction given in this

University, I take the liberty of remarking that, with regard
especially to the voluntary examinations, their importance in

the eyes of our students, and their influence upon the theolo

gical studies in this place, will depend very much upon the
weight which their Lordf-hips the Bishops are understood to
assign to the circumstance of a person having passed them

satisfactorily.

     Several expressed their warm approval of what had

been done, and among the rest Bishop Pliillpotts of

Exeter, who    concluded   his letter by remarking  s:ay'inSgh--all
                            the liberty of further
I be forgiven   if I take
Iwhen consider who it is who has thus conferred with
Ime on this interesting subject -- that hail with thank

fulness this consecration of the highest attainments in

Science to the service of God and of His Church.'

Not long before this the contemplated union of the

sees of St. Asaph and Bangor had been defeated on the

motion of Lord Powis. Dr. Whewell as Vice-Chancellor

had successfully seconded the efforts of certain members

of the Senate who wished the University to petition the

Legislature in support of Lord Powis's motion.

     The Regius Professorship of Divinity became vacant

during this year. A legal question arose in consequence

of Dr. Graham, the Master of Christ's and one of the

electors, announcing himself to be a candidate. It does

not appear how the question was settled, Dr. Ollivant

having been the candidate elected.

    A dispute had been for some time pending between

the University and the parish of Great St. Mary, about
1S42  GREAT ST. MAItY'S.  279

the use of the church, in which both had rights. The

University service on Sunday mornings was held at an
hour which inconveniently postponed the parish service.
The University authorities, anxious to make some struc
tural alterations in those parts of the church which

were appropriated for the exclusive use of the University,
had petitioned for a faculty, but this was opposed by
the parish, and the opposition produced some ill feeling
on both sides. Dr. Whewell, on becoming Vice-Chan
cellor, found matters in this state, but after some little

negotiation he had the pleasure of bringing all dif

 ferences to a termination. The hour for the University

service was changed to suit the convenience of the

 parish, and the opposition of the parish to the faculty

 was withdrawn.

To James Garth Marshall]
                                        Trinity Lodge: Dec. 27, 1842.

    I was very glad to receive your letter and its enclosures, as

we cannot at present have the pleasure of seeing you in person.

Your account of your schools interests me much, and I shall

Ialways he glad to hear of the progress of them. Indeed

should like much to see them on the spot, as well as your other
establishments, but this is a project which belongs to the
indefinite future.

    I am not surprised that your attention was taken by the
examination papers 1 which I sent to Myers. The earnestness

and inquiring spirit which appeared in them is an indication
of a temper which prevails very generally among our young

men on such subjects ; and I do not at all wonder, though I am

much pleased, to find that your thoughts have been turning

that way. I should be very glad to talk with you on such

matters, and rather expect that we should make a considerable
progress towards agreeing with each other. At least we should

      1 Possibly the Philosophy Papers of the Fellowship Examination at
 Trinity, 1842.
280 LIFE OF DR. WI1EWELL.

start from a common principle, that in order to bind men

together, either in their social relations or in their spiritual

sympathies, that is either in State or in Church, we must have

something which we believe, and which they believe, as the

foundation of all external rules and arrangements.

And this something being true in itself, cannot depend upon

the power or will of numbers or upon any other extraneous
Ifthing.
             we can find social, moral, and religious truth, we

must disregard the voice of the strongest and largest multitude

when it utters falsehoods.

    Now I myself do most firmly believe that such truth is to

be found, that Providence has given us means of discovering
                                                    it
                                                                   it,
and we are strenuous and faithful, of carrying into the
is if

                                     is
arrangements of society and the business of life, at least so far

as requisite for the continual progress both of ourselves and

of our nation in all that really good and great. There may

be, and there certainly are, great difficulties in the way both of

discovering what doctrines we ought to hold, what arrangements

we ought to make, what objects we ought to aim at, and then,

in doing what we ought to do. Still most entirely believe,
                                         II
as have said, that Providence has given us the means of seeing
I                                                     it
                                                             it
the Truth, and of shaping our lives and the relations of our
                                                                 I

                                                                                          in
community according to it. Without this belief would be

impossible to act in any comfort or hope.

So far am sure we agree. Now for the next step.     could
        iIf I
not possibly believe that Providence has thus enabled man to

discover moral and social truth, and to embody in his institu

tions,       believed that man had as yet made no progress

doing this, and that the great step was still to be made -- that

we were to learn our duty and our work by some new lights

entirely different from the old ones.    cannot but believe that

Providence,    if  He gives us the means of discovering truths

speculative and practical, has given like means to former genera

tions, and has never withheld them from any generation. If my

belief in the vocation of myself and my neighbours to improve

ourselves and our community depended upon my supposing the

conditions of this generation to be something novel and un

paralleled, should expect to change and shrink when my
        I

                                     it

views of the relations of the present generation to the past
1342  LETTER TO JAMES G. MARSHALL.  281

ones came to be modified ; which modification a study of

Ihistory and many other things are almost certain to produce.

If then believe in Truth at all, I must believe that there is

a great deal of truth already in the world, and a great deal of

it embodied in the frame of society. Indeed I must believe
that all which is most true and substantial and permanent

in the convictions of men, and in the structure of society, is
a part of that Truth which we are concerned to discover and

to act.

     Nor is there any difficulty in seeing that it is so. We see
that in the relations of society, for instance, there are a number
of principles practically embodied which are necessary for the

existence and development of men and man, and which are
never shaken, except in certain convulsive disorders to which
man's career is liable. Such are marriage, property, contracts,

 government ; constitutional government, that is, liberty ; im
 provement, that is, reform, progress, or whatever else you choose

 to call it. All these principles have long been acknowledged

 as necessary to society, and however lively our desire for truths
 may be, and our persuasion that new principles are needed,
 we shall find no social principles more important than these.

 We must therefore accept them, and act them out, whatever

 more we do.

       And the same is the case in the internal world of men, as

 well as in the social world. The principles on which man's
  well-being, as to his soul, depends, have not been hidden in the

 dark till now. They have been disclosed to former generations,
 and at one great epoch so fully disclosed, that all our main
 light must be borrowed from that one Revelation. We may

  persuade ourselves that we make some progress in developing,

  for our own use, the great doctrines which were then delivered.

 It may be so. But we shall never, by any such development,

  obliterate the great leading conditions of the relation of man to
  his Maker, Vn which all our spiritual hopes depend. No develop

  ment of our views, however lively and luminous, can make

  our catechism false, which we learnt as a child, if it were

  ever true.

     I come therefore to this --that however much I may feel a

  craving for a new view of the truth, suited to our age, or rather,
282 LIFE OF DR. WIIEWELL.              1842

probably, to my own special state of mind, I have no hope of

finding any view of the truth, which is really true, if it do not

include and rest upon that which has been true up to the

present time. As firmly as I believe there is a truth for me,
so firmly do I believe that it has not been kept back till now,

and reserved merely for me and my contemporaries. We may

have our new portions ; we may add our share of struggle and

progress ; but we are but one generation, many have gone

before. I cannot believe but that our share will have some
proportion to theirs, and therefore I look with reverence upon

that which they have accumulated, no less than with hope and

joy on that which is my own especial boon.
     I believe in Truth. I believe there is a Truth. Many of

our friends, zealous, active-minded, generous-spirited men, say

the same. Good ! Then let us confer. What, 1 ask them, is

the truth which they believe in ? They are silent, or they

repeat that they believe in truth without having yet found it ;

or probably they turn round upon me, and ask me what is my

truth ?

    I have my answer ready, and you must not start at it,

I believe in our National. Constitution and in our National

Religion. I believe that these embody more of the truth, are

better approaches to the true form of Church and State, than

have ever yet been established. I am ready to act on this
belief. I love them because I believe this. This is what I call
believing, and this is my notion of the truth in which I believe.
And again I ask our friends who talk of the necessity of believ

ing, what they believe ?

    But I believe in the National Church and the National

Constitution, not as mere formulae, but as living things, as the

most essential part of the social and spiritual life of the nation.

Therefore that in which I believe is not a dead, stationary,

immovable thing, but something which is developed and

expanded and renewed with the development and expansion of
Imen's social and spiritual workings.
                                       cannot believe in any

Church or State which is not constantly unfolding, enlarging,
and renewing itself--which must not have from time to time
Reform and Reformation -- except we are happier still, and keep

up, constantly alive, a formative spirit which makes reform
1S42  CHURCH AM) STATE.  233

unnecessary. To do this is not easy. Very far from it. But
it is necessary to attempt this. This is the object at which we

must aim, each in our way. And if the object have ever been

missed, so that some convulsive movement in the progress of

society has been occasioned, we must, as soon and as energetic

ally as possible, work ourselves back into the true path of

gradual, tranquil, slow progress, depending on a belief in the

Igradual progress that we have hitherto made.

        do not know how far I carry you with me in these views.
Perhaps they deviate a little from your notion, if you entertain
it, of an entirely new scheme of Church and State. But they
fall in excellently well with what you are doing, whether or not

they agree with your speculative thoughts. For, to supply
deficiencies in the present state of education arising from the
insufficiency of the national scheme and the national means
hitherto directed to that purpose, is exactly one of those vital

processes by which the national life is kept in healthful union
with the national organization. Church and State are the skin
and hide of the living creature, the nation ; and it cannot be

sound if its skin be cracked by its growth, still less if it drop
off in dead strips as a thing worn out. And if this happen,
right sore will the creature be till it gets another skin, even if

it do not perish in the process.

     One of Mrs. Whewell's occupations in the early
months of 1843 was making extracts from her husband's

letters to his family, carefully preserved by his sister,
and now lent by her for the purpose of having drawn
from them a continuous history of his life.

     During March and April a more than usually frequent
interchange of letters took place with Archdeacon Hare.
Humours from various quarters had reached Arch
deacon Hare that the natural vehemence of character

for which he had before now taken his friend to task

was increased rather than diminished by the burthen
of the Vice-Chancellorship added this year to all his
ordinary business. Two or three years ago Dr. Whewell
284 LIFE OF Dr>. WIIEWELI.                                                          184:1

had assured him that he had no disposition either to
deny or to defend the failings he was wont to point out.
Relying upon this assurance, and moved by deep and
affectionate friendship, he writes with the utmost frank
ness and courage a letter of remonstrance and rebuke. It
is such a letter as few friends would have ventured to

write at a distance, supported only by hearsay evidence.
Perhaps no one in whom vehemence and impetuosity

had degenerated into arrogance, or in whom the desire
to be thought right had become predominant over the

desire to do right and to be right, could have received
    as Dr. Whewell did, without irritation or offence at

the time, and without the slightest subsequent diminu
tion of affection or intimacy. The matter fully and
calmly discussed, and only dismissed at last with the
wish that Hare would come and judge for himself as to
the truth of the charge, and with the conclusion that,
after all, each must try and do his duty in his own way

as best he can.
it,
                                                                                is

To his Sister]              Trinity Lodge Feb. 23, 1843.
                            II
                                 I

                                    I
                                                               :
All Vice-Chancellor that am, must find time to write to

you now and then and as am afraid the then during which
is                                                                                  is
                                                                                            is
         it
                                                                                              I
                  is ;

               I
have not done so rather long, must try to find the now.

Cordelia has however told you most of what there to tell,

which mainly that am very busy but as my business                                   so
                            I
constant that leaves no time in which anything else requiringI

                                            ;
much attention can be done, am liberated from the struggle

in which used to be involved, of trying to live a life of study
I

and of business at the same time.            have laid aside my specu

lations for the year and almost wonder, in looking back, how                        in
                    ;
the middle of my tutor's and other business contrived to write
                     I                         is

                                                I
                                                      I
so many big books.      suppose the fact       that am growing

old, and have no longer the activity and diligence of those

years.                      it      pleasant to keep on good terms
      As we must grow old,
                                is
1843           ARCHDEACON HARE.                       285

with our earlier days ; and I have been much pleased with the

memoranda of past events which Cordelia has extracted from

my letters which you lent her. It was in part living the past

time over again, and then in my memory, and among my papers,

and in my sketch-hooks, I found many other memorials of the

Isame time which served to fill up the outline of the picture.

was very glad that Cordelia should come to know something
about my past history and employments, to which reference

very naturally often comes in our way.

Archdeacon Hare to Dr. Whew ell]
                                       Hurstmonceux : March 29, 1843.

      I am glad to hear your Lodge is finished, and should much

enjoy visiting it, and you and other good folks at Cambridge.

Much too should I like to see you in your Vice-Cancellarian
chair ; but I fear it will be quite impossible for me to find time

for so long an excursion from home this spring. My com

pulsory absences, though they have not been of long duration,

have made me half a stranger in my own parish.

    Of Cambridge doings I hear from time to time with much

interest through one channel or another. . . .

   A thing, which I have heard from a number of quarters, has
grieved me very much, and I feel some difficulty in speaking

Iabout it. But the kindness with which you received what

said on the subject when you were appointed Master, encourages

me to hope that you will still feel it is nothing but my deep

and affectionate friendship that induces me to speak to you

Iabout it. Last year was greatly delighted at hearing from

several persons how kind and gentle and affable your manner

had become since your appointment to the Mastership ; and

when you were here, my sisters were particularly pleased with
                                                      But from
this union of  gentleness with strength and power.
many reports   which have reached me in the last six  months, I

am very much afraid that the additional burthen of the Vice-
Chancellor's cares has somewhat ruffled you again, and called

out the vehemence of the natural man, which it is always

difficult to repress. I know well that a wearing, daily-renewed

load of practical business is hard to bear patiently, especially
28(5 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

for a man who would fain be sailing away over some unknown

seas of speculation. Still this difficulty may be overcome, and
ought to be, not merely because it must so materially hurt your
character and popularity, but still more because it inust so

much diminish the influence which you would exercise other

wise in the University, and which might be so beneficial.
IAnd now I must beg you to forgive what
                                         have said.                        I

should rejoice to find that there is no ground for it ; but the

repeated reports have made me feel that it was a duty of friend
ship not to be silent. You may tell me, if you like, that ' a

libeller' 1 has no business to talk about gentleness; but often

the very defects we feel the keenliest are those we ourselves

are most prone to.

   Of course I am glad that you should have petitioned for the
preservation of the Welsh sees, but I wished that your Vice-

Chancellorship should have been distinguished by measures of

greater difficulty and of higher importance to the University ;

by an attempt at least to do something toward lessening those
two terrible evils in our system, the practice of private tuition,

and the use of emulation as the one great spur to the acquire

ment of knowledge. You know how deeply I feel the mischief
of these two evils. I believe it is very much owing to them

that our position relatively to Oxford has altered so much in

the last twenty years.

Oxford has risen, and we have sunk ; and we shall continue

to sink, unless we get rid of our system of drilling for parade

and of our morbid stimulants, and adopt a system which will

call forth a living power and train our students to walk with

out leading-strings. You are the person to whom I look for

these improvements, and Worsley will help you heart and hand

in effecting them.

   IAbout the Welsh sees, send you our petition. My belief

is that we shall fail this year, because practical men, all but

the very greatest, are often obstinate in proportion as they are

wrong. Still I trust that the two sees will be preserved. If

the present feeling continues, assuredly they will be.

     1 This expression has reference to an action which had recently been
brought against the Archdeacon, who however obtained a verdict in his

favour.
1843              ARCHDEACON HARE.                287

    I have sent you a long letter, instead of a personal talk ;
Ithe latter would be far better, but see little likelihood of it.

Pray remember me very kindly to your wife and to Worsley, with

Iwhose wife long to become acquainted. You I fear will have

little leisure for voyaging this year ; but tell him he ought to

come to us, and that we shall rejoice much to see him, not his

worst half merely, but both halves. -- Ever yours,
                                                                       I. C. H.

To Archdeacon Hare]   Trinity Lodge: March 31, 1843.

      I was glad to hear from you about your ' libel,' for in truth
Iit escaped me in the newspapers, to which indeed do not give
Imuch time.
             had heard of it in talk, and Bunsen spoke with

satisfaction of the result, which made me suppose that you
Imust be satisfied too ; but I am much more glad to learn from
you that you are so.  wish to see the Brighton newspaper

which you promise to send me.

    I write immediately on receiving your letter, as the best

chance of being able to answer it at all, and you will excuse

any additional vivacity which is given by this quickness to my
reception of your advice. In the friendship which dictates the

Iwarning I rejoice ; but do not much believe in the alleged
Ifault, think the charge arises from those who have no inter
Icourse with me.
                  have every reason to believe that those who
have to do with me do not think me ' ruffled,' and do not find
Ime more vehement than what amounts to firmness.
                                                  think
this, because I have not been vexed with the V.C.'s office, but

rather have enjoyed it, giving up all my other pursuits, and

making it my business to do it well. I have things to do

which some people will call oppressive offices ; but only persons

whom you would not agree with, any more than myself. I have

tried to suppress pigeon-shooting in the outskirts of the town,

uproar in the Senate- house galleries, and dinners at taverns ; and

of course this makes detractors and railers. I have not been

neglectful of the object which you speak of--diminishing the

influence of private tutors. To-day I brought in a Grace with
that view : it is non-placeted. I am still going to try to travel
Itowards the same object. think you expect things inconsistent
if you would have me attempt objects so difficult, complex, un
288 LIFE OF DR. WI1EWELL.

popular, as what you speak of, and still would have me spoken of

by no one as eager and self-willed. I have had the people in the

newspapers writing against my measures, and the Johnians have

thrown it out for the present. I send you some papers about it.

You will not see the whole bearing of the measure at first. Any

thing which is to be done with regard to such objects as you

mention, must in the University be done with great caution,

and must be of such a nature as to take effect slowly. So you
must not expect to hear of a revolution.

    I am sorry to find you give us so faint a hope of your coming

here soon. We could talk on the matters which you speak of,
but it is not easy for either of us to find time to write about

them. My wife and Worsley's wife want to see you here as

much or nearly as much as we ourselves do.

    I fear you are not too unhopeful about the Welsh bishop
rics. I had a letter from Thirlwall about them which de

lighted me by its earnestness.

     The next letter from Archdeacon  Hare is as

follows :--

                                   Hurstmonceux : April 8, 1843.

    Most gladly would I believe that the reports of which I

spoke in my last letter were altogether unfounded. But they

came to me so repeatedly, and from so many quarters, and some

Iof them certainly not unfriendly ones, that I thought could

hardly fulfil the duties of friendship without saying something
to you about them ; more especially as even among a man's
friends there are very few who are not readier to note his defects

Iin his absence than to his face. At all events felt sure that
Iyou would receive what said in kindness, and there could be

no harm in a warning that might make you still more vigilant

over yourself.

     As to your more general position, that it is scarcely possible

to attempt the changes I wish for in the University without
incurring a charge of self-will, I should be disposed to assail it.

My own experience has shown me what an extraordinary practi
cal influence such a man as Bishop Otter can exercise over his

whole diocese, in great measure by the sweetness of his manner.
184.*?  WELSH SEES.  289

So again it is by his singular winningness that Manning is now       ·
able to carry almost everything he wishes at our Diocesan

Association, notwithstanding the jealousy which a supposed
taint of Newmanism arouses against him. In Taylor's ' States
man ' he speaks of the power Wilberforce acquired by having
' the cream of human kindness.' And thus every day we see
instances of the fulfilment of the saying that ' the meek shall
inherit the earth.'

    IOf the Grace which has been thrown out, can in some
measure guess the drift, though I dare say I do not see all its
bearings ; and I am very glad and thankful that you have

begun to attempt something against one of the two besetting

and overriding evils of our University. At the same time I

am very far from expecting any rapid revolution with regard to
them. My own experience here again, in my warfare against
pews and black monsters, has taught me that except when a
nation is set in motion by the blast of some mighty principle,
the contest against every kind and degree of selfishness is carried

on under great disadvantages, and must be carried on long and

patiently and perseveringly, if it is to succeed.
    I am very glad you have had a letter from Thirlwall about

the Welsh sees that has ' delighted you by its earnestness.'

Which side does he take ? I was told he had expressed himself

doubtfully in presenting a petition. Perhaps he may be very
anxious for the new see of Manchester. But 1 cannot see why
that should not be established at once. There are various ways

in which the difficulties may be got over. If they do not like

another bishop in the House of Peers, let the junior bishop
not be called up ; and then there would be the advantage that
he might get to know something of his diocese before he was
called away from it to his chaplaincy of the House of Lords. It
certainly is one of the most wonderful anticipations in history,

that, when Gregory sent Augustine to England, he should have
drawn up the scheme of a Church with two archbishops and
twenty-four bishops. What would Niebuhr have said of the
preservation of this number after so many vicissitudes and above
twelve centuries. One should be loth to alter the sacred number,

if it were only to add one ; but as I should rather wish to add

forty-eight, and think that such an addition would be the best

                                                        U
290 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                               1S43

temporal means of energising the whole body of our ministry,

I cannot let the charm of a number hinder such an object.

     Along with this you will receive the sermon preached at Thirl-

wall's consecration, which ought to have been published long ago,
but which was kept back, as being too worthless to stand alone,

till it could gather followers enough to make up a volume, and

of which I have struck off a few extra copies for distribution

before it comes into public along with its companions.

    I have had a good deal of correspondence lately with

Henslow, and have had great pleasure in seeing the warm in
terest he takes in his parish duties ; and there has been a

simplicity and humility in his letters that have been very

delightful.

    What do you say to Mill's ' Logic ' ? I know not whether
I shall ever find time to read it. As yet I have only cut it open,

and seen that he is perpetually breaking a lance with you.

To Archdeacon Hare]       Trinity Lodge: April 12, 1843.

You are certainly a most resolute monitor, for you repeat

your admonitions without any regard to the answer which is

made to them, or any information as to details. If you will
tell me of any special error of the kind you mention, I will

task my memory and my conscience very strictly for it. Can
                                                 I
you tell me any better     course   to take ?         am ready for the
assault you talk of, and                       shall   have much diffi
                          I do not   think I

culty in disposing of your examples.

Wilberforce certainly did incur, from a very large body of

Ipersons, a most vehement charge of self-will. Bishop Otter

was a very excellent person in many ways ; but, so far as have

heard, might sometimes have saved inconvenience to his friends

if he had not only been accused of having, but had a little

more self-will, for he might then have avoided the appearance

of inconsistent promises, to which the kindness of his nature

led him. And, whatever you may think, I assure you that there

are not wanting persons who think that the present Vice-

Chancellor combines his firmness with great temper and
Ipatience. If you saw the attacks to which the papers
                                                       send

you contain answers, perhaps you might think so too. But, be

that as it may, we must each of us do our work in our own
1843       WELSH SEES.                                                                                    291

way, as well as we can. It will not be easily nor perhaps soon

Ithat shall make much way in this matter, for though many

people talk on the right side they are lukewarm in acting.
     My letter from Thirlwall was a most earnest condemnation

of the suppression of one Welsh bishopric. I was not told that

he expressed himself doubtfully in the House, only that he

professed to wait respectfully for the Archbishop of Canterbury's
Idefence.
           never dreamt that you could doubt on which side

he was.

    Thank you for the Consecration Sermon. I had heard of it,
and wanted much to see it. I do not think you will find Mill's

* Logic ' repay your study very well. He is far removed from his

former opinions, but equally positive in every phase of change.

     The last letter of the series was the following from
Archdeacon Hare to Dr. Whewell.

I                                Hurstmonceux : April 17, 1843.                                        ;
                    I
    I must write a few lines more, since my last letter was so                                                 it if,
                         IIclumsily expressed as to give you the notion that meant to

                                   it is* repeat my admonitions.' To have done so after what you had
said would have been exceedingly impertinent. But it seemed to
me that you might also justly charge me with impertinence, as                                          I
you appeared to fancy, had spoken in the first instance on no
better authority than that of persons whom you had been com
pelled to offend in the faithful discharge of your duty and was
to escape this imputation stated that this was not the case.
However, defending oneself always rather an awkward business,
and must have performed awkwardly.

      As to your attempt to repel the three men whom had
sent to assail your position, you seem to me to have missed your
aim. Wilberforce might indeed be charged with obstinacy,
for insisting so perseveringly for so many years in attempting
to accomplish his great work, by those who could not under
stand the high principle or sympathize with the feelings which
animated him. But no one, think, can ever have taken the
least offence at his behaviour personally indeed, the exceeding
suavity of his manners tended greatly to aid him and his cause.
And Bishop Otter was wanting in firmness, only strengthens

                                                      v
      if
                                I

                                                                      2
                                                                                                    ;

                                                                it
292 LIFE OF DK. WHEWELL.  11-43

my argument when, in spite of that want, he was able by the
sweetness and affect ionateness of his character to do so much.

But I merely mentioned these cases because it is pleasant to
turn off from a personal topic to a more general one. I know

well that we must each of us endeavour to perform our ap

pointed work with the faculties which we have received, though
of course keeping them under control, and seeking to have them
purified. I know, too, that Luther was not gentler than Melanc-
thon, and yet did a thousand times as much.

       Alas ! such is the way of man. We must make up our
minds to find that many of those who are forwardest in sup

porting us with words shrink from everything beyond. But
we have just been prepared for this by reading that woful story,
how all the disciples forsook their Lord and fled.

      My uncertainty about Thirlwall arose from my having been
told that he had expressed himself doubtfully, which he has

rather a knack of doing. And I do not think that he took

much interest in the Chapter Bill. Since he has been a bishop

he has indeed seen how much an active bishop may effect in

his own diocese ; and if he had not been so strongly in favour

of the Reform Bill, I should have fancied that he would gener

ally be desirous of revivifying old institutions rather than of

 destroying them.
       The Consecration Sermon is hardly worth reading. You

Iknow have often been apt to stick fast in a Euripidean pro-

 logue, and can seldom get on beyond the first act ; and this

 time Carlyle paid me a visit just two days before I came up to

ILondon, and thus the very two days which had assigned to

 the sermon were spent in listening to him. The time was

rather unhappily chosen on both accounts ; for though I enjoyed
 his visit exceedingly, I should have done so more freely at

 another time.

     On April 14, 1843, Dr. Whewell addressed a re
presentation to Sir John Cam Hobhouse on the subject
of Thorwaldsen's statue of Lord Byron, which, after

having been refused admission to Westminster Abbey,
was now immured in orffe of the vaults of the London
Custom House.
1843  THORWALDSENS STATUE OK BYRON.                      293

      Dr. Whewell suggested the College Library as a mostis,
fitting resting-place for that fine work of art. He                      is
pointed out that the College was the place of Lord                                                              a
Byron's academical education ; that he there formed
                                                                                                                                                             ;
friendships to which he attached great value, and which
continued through his life ; and that he was still re
collected with regard by resident members of the

College.
       This suggestion was met by a proposal on behalf of

the subscribers to place the statue in the ante-chapel,
 but this Dr. Whewell refused to entertain. Early in
 the autumn of 1845 the statue was conveyed to Cam
 bridge under the directions of Sir Richard Westmacott,
 and placed on the admirable site originally selected by
 Dr. Whewell's artistic sagacity. In many other ways
 the College derived benefit from his taste and know
 ledge in matters of architecture and art. From the

 circumstances of its foundation by Henry VIII., the

 College is the impropriate rector of many churches, the
 chancels of which it on that account, bound to keep
 in repair. During his Mastership many proposals, in
 volving restoration or reconstruction, were entertained,
 and in every case of this kind Dr. Whewell examined
  the plans and designs with great care, and not unfre-

  quently went to see how the works were being carried
  on. His advice and supervision were always valuable

  some of the most successful renovations carried out by

  the College owed everything to his suggestion and

  guidance.
        Dr. Whewell was no advocate for excessive orna

  mentation. The chapel of Trinity College, though not
  without some artistic features, architecturally poor
  though substantial fabric. The Master would never
  consent to any embellishment of the chapel itself; but
294 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1843

the ante-chapel, which had long been a memorial-place
for deceased members of the society, was enriched
during his time by many stained glass windows and
other monumental works of art. Some of the windows

were, like the statue of Bacon, contributed by himself.
The bust of his old friend Sheepshanks, by Foley, bears
an inscription from his hand, as does also a statue of
Barrow, which was presented to the College by Lord

Lansdowne, in 1838, under the following circumstances.

Lord Lansdowne stated, in November 1856, that, 'Ever

since seeing the statue of Bacon, given by Dr. Whewell
to the College, and placed with that of Newton in the

ante-chapel, he could not help considering whether the
history of English literature and philosophy could pro

duce a name representing a genius so exalted as to be
worthy of such companionship, and as such fitted to
fill the corner on the opposite side.' As the result of

his consideration, he had originally, by a codicil of his
will, bequeathed to the College a sufficient gum to meet
the cost of a statue of Milton ; but it subsequently
occurred to him that he might possibly have the satis
faction of seeing the statue erected in his lifetime, and

accordingly he requested the College, through the
Master, to receive as a present what had been intended

as a legacy.
     The Master replied that a memorial statue of Milton

could not fitly be presented to Trinity, nor placed with
in its walls, inasmuch as he was not a member of the
College. He suggested as alternatives, George Herbert,
Dryden, Pearson, Barrow, or Bentley. Lord Lansdowne's
own feeling was in favour of Dryden, but he consulted
others on the subject, and among them Lord Macaulay
and Professor Sedgwick. Macaulay, in a characteristic
letter, supported the claims of Bentley. Sedgwick, in
1843  NOBLE'S STATUE OF BARROW.  295

a letter equally characteristic of him, wrote in favour

of Barrow. His choice was adopted by the Master and

other resident members of the College, and was acqui

esced in by Lord Lansdowne. The following extract

from Professor Sedgwick's letter shows some of the

grounds on which he based the claims of Barrow :---

        Barrow was a great inventive mathematician, and a fore

runner clearing the way for the vast discoveries of Newton.

He was great also as a moralist and divine, and was a man of

gigantic learning. What grand old-fashioned eloquence, what

earnestness in the cause of moral truth, do we find in the works

of Barrow ! They will live so long as majestic eloquence and

moral truth and Christian hopes are dear to the hearts of men.

      The statue was executed by Mr. Noble, and on
February 10, 1838, Lord Lansdowne wrote that it gave
him great pleasure to learn that it was considered

decidedly successful, and was universally approved.
      The honour of a statue in the ante-chapel, which

had been refused to Byron and accorded to Barrow,
was claimed not long after for Lord Macaulay.

      After his death a fund was raised by subscription

among members of Trinity College for the purpose of

presenting to the College a statue commemorative at
once of his genius and of his affection for Trinity. Dr.
Whewell's opinion was that a bust of Macaulay should

stand on the floor of the library, among the busts of 'our
 other great men ' ; and that a bronze statue might also
 be placed against the river front of the library, where
 in course of time other statues might be erected by the
 side of it. These opinions were not generally shared

 by the subscribers of the fund. The statue, eventually
 executed in marble by Mr. Woolner, has found a place
 in the ante-chapel, opposite to one of Dr. Whewell him

 self, by the same artist, which was erected and placed
29G LIFE OF DR. WIIEWELL.

there by the College after his death. A bust of himself,

executed by Bailey, and bequeathed to the College by
his will, stands in Trinity Library. Other additions to
the fine collection of busts possessed by the College
were made during his time, including those of Hare,
Sedgwick, Robert Leslie Ellis, John Mitchell Kemble,
and the present Poet Laureate.

      Shortly after the return to Cambridge a correspond
ence took place between Dr. Whewell and Mr. Edward
Coleridge of Eton, on the subject of a College for the
Education of Missionary Clergy. Mr. Coleridge origi
nated the idea of such an institution, and in its first
state communicated it to the Master of Trinity, and
doubtless to other persons in authority at both uni
versities. The reasons in favour of the plan as urged
in the circular, and his own against its being carried
into effect at Cambridge, are given in Dr. WhewelTs
answer to Mr. Coleridge, of which a draft is found in

the journal. The scheme eventually took shape at
Canterbury, where, to use Mr. Coleridge's words, written
April 1G, 1879, 'The Missionary College was finally
built on the very foundation of St. Augustine's Abbey.
There it now stands and flourishes, full of students. It

was my idea, and was carried out partly by my exer
tions, and still more by the effectual aid of Beresford
Hope. The Master of Trinity gave me 100/. towards

the project.'
     The Master's letter is important, because the views

expressed in it were his through life. He always
maintained that the necessary expenses of the university
were but small, and that the effort to avoid such as are
unnecessary gives both a test of real superiority of
character and leads to valuable results in the way of

self-discipline.
1843  COLLEGE FOR MISSIONARY CLERGY.  297

      He also maintained that to separate, artificially, the
poorer from the richer students in any place of public
education was to injure both classes and to deprive
them of one very great advantage of a university educa
tion, namely, the mingling of persons of different con
ditions and destinations, and thereby giving them ' a

fellow-feeling and mutual understanding as cultivated
Englishmen. '

       This is the letter, copied from the draft in the
Master's journal.

 To the Rev. Edward Coleridge]
                                        Trinity Lodge: Aug, 27, 1843.

     In a ' private circular ' which I have received from you, you

 state your wish to obtain assurances of general support to the
plan there described, of creating a College in one of the two
ancient Universities, for the purpose of educating Ministers for
 the Colonies. Perhaps those who cannot engage to support
 such a plan are not called upon to express their opinions any-
 otherwise than by their silence ; but as this course may be

misunderstood, I am desirous of offering for your consideration
 a few remarks on your plan. It may under any circumstances

 be of use to you to know what objections suggest themselves to

 some minds as to the proposed method of attaining the very

 important and desirable object you have in view. I will there

 fore state without reserve some of the difficulties which occur

 to me on this subject.

      A great and fundamental difficulty is the very serious

 expense of erecting a new college in Oxford or Cambridge.
 For a small number of students at first, you have to incur the

 formidable charges of purchase money of the ground, building

 chapel, hall, and lodging-rooms ; to which you must add salaries
 of some college officers, teachers, and governors. To provide
 for these in addition to the expenses of the students themselves

 appears to me a most bold undertaking.
       And is this formidable undertaking necessary for your

 object? Why should you not educate such ministers as you

 speak of at some of the existing colleges?
298 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                    1&43

     It will be replied, I presume, that the expenses at the
existing colleges are too great, the mode of living too luxurious,

the education not exactly what is wanted.

    To the first of these objections I would reply that the

necesmry expenses of the existing colleges are small, so small
that I doubt whether in any new college they can be made

smaller. The expenses habitually incurred by persons who

imitate those of larger fortune than themselves are great ; but

persons intended for such a life as those of whom you speak

ought to be able to resist this temptation. If they cannot

do this their characters are not suitable to their destination.

Even in a separate college they will not be safe from this

temptation ; and so far as they are safe by having less com
munication with the rest of the university, they will lose some

of the special advantages which in the course of our university

education such communication bestows.

    But I will grant that the education of Oxford and Cam

bridge, under any circumstances, may be too expensive for a

colonial clergy.

Then why not apply any funds which you raise directly to

meet this expense ? Why not found Exhibitions or Scholarships
for persons who are willing to devote themselves to the colonial

ministry ?

By this means you save the expenses of ground, chapel, hall,

officers ; in short, all the heaviest part of the expense of your

plan. I conceive, as I have said, that the destination of your

students ought to be a sufficient guarantee for their frugality

and regular habits. But if you want something more, appoint

some person (a resident member of the university) as the
superintendent of the colonial clerical students. By communi

cation with the deans and tutors of the different colleges,

added to his own intercourse with the students, he may fully

Ijudge of their habits and characters, and may, at least in Cam
bridge, direct and control their expenses.  have no doubt

that the deans and tutors would very gladly lend themselves to

such communication.
     The second objection, the luxury of our colleges, is not

well founded. The sizars in Cambridge do not live luxuriously ;

many of them live as frugally and simply as can be desired.
1843        COLONIAL CLERICAL STUDENTS.  299

The colonial clerical students must of course take care to be of

this class, and their superintendent must satisfy himself that

they are.

      The third point, the inappropriateness of our teaching,

must be remedied by special tuition as far as it is needed.

The superintendent must see to this, and must himself teach

the colonial students, and see that they are taught, such know

ledge as they need.

Perhaps it will be said that these students will be humbled

and disturbed by the difference between themselves and other
Istudents.
            do not think this need be. We have very poor

men as students, who never think of concealing the difference

between their condition and destination and that of their

contemporaries. But I think the humiliation would be quite
as marked if they belonged to a separate college ; and there

would be added very great evils in their education, arising from
their associating almost exclusively with each other. One of

the great advantages of our education is that by mixing persons

of different conditions and destinations it gives them a fellow

feeling and a mutual understanding as cultivated Englishmen,

and I have been assured, by persons whose authority on such

subjects is of the greatest value, that this feature in our educa
tion is of especial importance to those who have to act in our

colonies. I have spoken with great freedom, &c. &c.

     It was probably his long experience as tutor, which

made him familiar with the circumstances of every
individual pupil, that led Dr. Whewell to speak with
so much confidence on the subject of the expenditure
incident to a university education. The Cambridge
system, which puts the college tutor completely in loco
parentis in relation to his pupil, must necessarily, in a
large college like Trinity, give him the means of forming
a correct judgment of what each individual class of

students ought to be able to live upon. Seven years
subsequently to this Dr. Whewell, in his written evi

dence given to the Royal Commission for the University
of Cambridge, pointed out with great force and earnest
300 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  18-13

riess that the faults of prodigal and inconsistent expen
diture so often attributed to university students were

not occasioned and could not be wholly remedied by
any regulations of the university, but were in great
measure due to the conduct of those parents who,

while not discouraging young men in living in the costly
style of their social superiors, gave no assistance to the

college authorities in their endeavours to use such mea
sures as the law allows for checking the extravagance

of minors. But wherever any rule was likely to be of
use in checking extravagance or otherwise promoting
good order and discipline, Dr. Whewell, undeterred by
the irksomeness of small details, was ready either to

invent or revive one for the purpose.
     The minute attention which he gave to the variety

of small matters which necessarily came under his
notice as Master, is shown by the careful manner in
which he kept notes of all proceedings of the Seniority.
These notes are contained in a journal, in which not

only reference is made to the subjects discussed at the
meetings, but full copies of his letters on all business
matters are transcribed. The agenda papers of all
Seniority meetings he attended were found after his

death chronologically arranged and carefully annotated.

      The rules brought into force under his administra

tion frequently resulted in great and salutary changes,

which he himself perhaps scarcely contemplated. As
an illustration of this may be instanced the intro
duction of regulations relating to residence of under

graduates during the Long Vacation.
     In the first vacation after his appointment as Master,

it came to his knowledge that an undergraduate had
been lodged in the house of a person living in the town
without the permission of the College, and apparently
1843  LONG VACATION KESIDENCE.  301

without sufficient control. This led the Master to pro
pose a series of rules for granting permission in such

cases. These remain in force to the present clay, and

owing to them the Long Vacation has become to diligent
students the most beneficial period of the year. College

discipline is then stricter, idle and desultory companions
are absent, studious men are drawn into closer inter

course, and more real work is done than in term-time.

      The rules originally directed merely to the pre
servation of discipline have happily resulted in giving
to studious undergraduates a fourth and most import
ant term, and thus mitigated very considerably the
reproach frequently brought against the university of
short terms- and long vacations.

      In his evidence given to the Koyal Commissioners,
 1850, the Master alludes to the expenses of students

arising from their amusements, and suggests that the
places of their sports should be more closely connected
than they then were with the college and university.

He points out especially that there might be in the

fields behind the principal great colleges, cricket
 grounds, fives-courts, and the like. This suggestion has
 long since been carried into effect. Dr. Whewell him
 self initiated in 1862 the plan for the Trinity Cricket
 Ground, and gave several hundred pounds towards it.

It cannot be questioned that very great economy of

 time and money to the undergraduates are the fruit of

 the very liberal and well-directed expenditure then in

 curred." To return to the reforms of 1843. It was at

 this time that the Master induced the Seniority to have
 an additional college examination at the end of the

 Michaelmas Term, into which subjects bearing upon

 Moral Philosophy were introduced.
       The great event of the autumn of this year was the
302 LIFE OF DR. WIIEWELL. 1643

Eoyal visit to Cambridge. On October 12 Mrs. Whewell
wrote to her mother that the Master of Trinity

had a letter from Mr. Goulburn, saying that when he was at

Windsor yesterday, the Queen and Prince Albert expressed a

strong desire to pay a visit to the University of Cambridge, and

commissioned him to communicate with W  on the subject.

Mr. Goulburn had informed them that Trinity claimed on all

occasions the honour of receiving Her Majesty or her represen

tatives, and that we should feel highly honoured by her visit.

The probable time of the visit would be some day in the week

after next. The 25th was finally settled. Imagine my diffi

culties in finding out first what was necessary on such an

extraordinary occasion, what ought to be done, and what on

such short notice could be done. However it ended in my

having twenty-one bed-rooms and four sitting-rooms prepared
for the Queen and Prince and their attendants in the house,

besides two kitchens and three sitting-rooms for the different

classes of servants. The employment was of great use to

me ; if I had not been so busy, I should have grown very nervous

about it.

The morning of Wednesday 25th was dull, but cleared

up to the most brilliant sunshine. The Great Court began

to fill at twelve, and parties of ladies passed across to the rooms

of different friends who had windows looking on the scene of

action. Mrs. Worsleycame to us. At one, streams of gownsmen

poured rapidly- in, and before two o'clock, the time appointed

for the Queen's coming, there were about 2,000 in the Court.

It was a fine sight to have the whole University collected

together, all in their academical full dress, the doctors in their

scarlet robes, the noblemen in their purple and gold.

The clock had scarcely finished striking two when we heard

signals that the Queen was come. My husband as Vice-Chan

cellor hurried away with his Bedells to meet the Queen outside

the College Gates and deliver up the Mace to her, to signify re

signing his power into her hands, and made a speech to that

effect. She graciously returned the Mace, which during her

stay was carried with the crown end uppermost. The Great

Gates were thrown open, and the Queen and Prince drove in,
QUEEN'S VISIT.  303

attended by the Vice-Chancellor and Heads, and were received

Iwith such acclamations as never heard.
    I ran down to the door, to be ready to perform my part,

trembling a little as you will easily believe ; indeed, the

Ithrilling shouts were enough alone to make one do that.

had not even the comfort of my husband with me, for he had

to meet the Queen in the middle of the Court as Master of
Trinity, with the eight Seniors, and deliver to her the keys of
the College. She made a reply of which he could distinguish
no words, only the' sweet tone of her voice, for the cheering
still continued. Then they drove up to the door and alighted,

the Master and I receiving them.

      After luncheon had been served to the Queen and Prince

in the green drawing-room, the Address was the first thing.

It was settled the Queen should receive it in the College Hall

and Prince Albert his immediately after. All this time the pro
cession was forming itself in the Court, for it takes a long

while for two thousand people to get each one into his proper
place. At three o'clock the Queen and Prince with their
attendants passed through the study and south drawing-room
and down the back stairs, which looked as well as they could,
poor things ! in crimson cloth, to the Hall. There a raised
platform was prepared with Bentley's chair upon it and a canopy
over it. The presenters of the Address were ushered into the
 Queen's presence by Lord De La Warr. The Registrar (Mr.
 Romilly) produced the address, which the Vice-Chancellor read.
 Then Mr. Goulburn presented to the Queen her answer, which

 she read in a beautifully soft clear voice, very distinctly.
       The address to Prince Albert was read in like manner, and

 he read his answer.

      Then the Queen and Prince drove off immediately to King's.

We tried to follow, Mr. Myers, Susan, and myself, but it was
 hopeless. When the Queen and Prince returned it was dark,
but in a few minutes our chapel was lighted up for them to see.
 Crimson cloth was spread, but it did not quite reach to the

chapel door, so the undergraduates threw down their gowns to

fill up the space, a feat they have practised frequently since.

    I heard that the young noblemen holding wax lights for the

 Queen to see the statue of Newton in the Ante-Chapel made
301 UVK OF DR. WIIEWKLL.

quite a pretty picture. When the Queen retired to her room,

the Prince, with the Master as cicerone and an escort of flam

beaux-bearers, went all over the College. W        and I received

commands to dine with the Queen at eight o'clock ; hasty

notices were sent out to those whom she would receive in the

evening. At dinner the Queen and still more the Prince

asked my husband questions about the University and College,

to which he gave such full answers, and the}' seemed to take so
much interest in hearing them, that it quite took off the dis

agreeable effect of a royal categorical conversation. Surely if

people keep a command over themselves, bo as only to follow

their lead and continue the subject no longer than it is en

couraged, they must like full free answers better than short dry
replies, which make conversation a burthen. Certainly the

Queen and Prince seemed to like it.                asked me if
     After dinner, in the drawing-room, the Queen
                                                   I had taken
those were curious prints which lay on the table.

care to place some interesting ones there, for the chance of her

looking at them. The book she took most notice of was an old

book by Sir Edward Stanhope, of coats of arms of our founders

and benefactors, which we had got out of the muniment room.

I punted out some of the changes. Henry VIII.'s for instance,

with the rouge dragon of Cadwallader the last of the Britons

for a supporter, James I.'s the first with the Unicorn. When

Prince Albert came up-stairs she pointed it out to him. He

seemed a very good herald, and told me several foreign coats

which had quite puzzled me, and also Lord and Lady Bray-

brooke, who are great heralds.

Next day, 26th, we went directly after breakfast to the

Senate House, where being on the platform we had no crowding,

saw everything and were much gratified. The newspapers will

tell you all about that. Then the Queen and Prince went to
Professor Sedgwick's Museum ; he showed it very well, and the

Prince proved himself acquainted with Geology. A number of
people were admitted who did not impede the progress in the
least, but had the pleasure of hearing something of what was

said. Then they went to the Library, a well-behaved crowd

following and plenty of cheering.
     The Queen came in a little before one and dismissed her
1843                              QUEEN'S VISIT.                         305

ladies till half-past two. They came to us immediately, and

said they had a great desire to go to the top of King's College

Chapel, so Mr. Myers and I set out with them. Mr. Worsley

joined us, and we showed them all we could in the time.

      At half-past two the whole cortege, the Vice-Chancellor

with them as before, drove to see various colleges, &c. Half-

past four was fixed for their departure, so I held myself in readi

ness to perform my last duty in escorting the Queen to the

door. Miss Stanley came and said the Queen had sent for me.

I Icame to the green drawing-room and waited there. Soon

was summoned to her in the next room. She gave me a beauti

ful bracelet, saying she wished to give it to me with her own

Ihands. hardly knew how to express my gratitude sufficiently,

and my surprise was so great it added to my difficulty. She

spoke very kindly indeed, and Prince Albert came and said the

only thing he regretted was the shortness of the visit. They

proceeded to the door ; the Master was on the stairs. We ac

companied them, walking as much backwards as we could. The

Prince shook hands heartily with the Master and bid him good

--byeth. eyThweerQe ueinen   put   on her   cloak   in the hall,  shook    my hand
                            the   carriage           last shouts   and
                                            -- the                       it was all

over.

      The weather was brilliant the whole time, and the greatest

satisfaction was that the Queen was received with such enthu

siastic expressions of loyalty, a crowd wherever she went, but no

disturbance, no hindrance ; she could pass through the thickest

_ of them without difficulty. Even the town, which has no beauty
 to boast of, contrived to make a very good appearance, the

streets being quite gay with banners hung out.

To his Sister]                              Trinity Lodge : Nov 21, 1843.

      I ought sooner to have written to you after the Queen's

visit, but we have had a series of occupations, some agreeable

and some disagreeable, which have taken us up very much

since that time.

      Very soon after the Royal visit came Mr. and Lady Mildred

Hope, who stayed some days with us. Then came Mr. Hallam ;

and then came something of illness, for Cordelia had a very bad

                                            X
306 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                 1843

cold --and I fell in lighting Mr. Hope to his room, and hurt
Imyself a good deal. It turned out after some days that
                                                         had

broken a rib, and when this discovery was made, I was pro
Iperly bandaged and set about recovering as fast as could. I

am thankful to say the inconvenience was slight and the amend

Iment rapid ; so to-day have been able to get on horseback,
and I shall soon I trust have no traces left of my mishap.

    I do not know that I can tell you much of the Queen's visit

that the newspapers have not told you, for she was in public

almost the whole time of her being here. She was very kind

in all her expressions to us ; told Cordelia that everything in
her apartments was ' so nice, so comfortable,' and at parting

gave her a very pretty bracelet. The Prince was very agreeable,
intelligent and conversable, seemed much interested with all

he saw, and talked a good deal about his German University,

Bonn. It appeared from the general management of matters
as if his amusement and gratification were the main objects

of the expedition.
At dinner I was opposite the Queen, who talked easily and
Icheerfully.
              had also a good deal of occasion to talk to her

in showing her the lions of Cambridge, which she ran over very

rapidly.

    I was aware of what was intended about a week before I

was at liberty to speak of it ; and this advantage of time

enabled me to have the workmen in the room, which was

refurnished before any one knew what the preparation was for,

and altogether I think we did quite as well as if we had had

more time, for the suddenness of the affair was an excuse for

all that was wanting. It is no small matter to provide for the

Queen's reception even as we did. We had about forty servants
of the Queen in the house, besides a dozen men belonging to
the stable department who were in the town. The Queen's

coachman is reported to have said that he had taken Her

Majesty to many places, but never to any where she was so well
received or where the ale was so good ; the latter circumstance,

I suppose, in his estimate, set the seal upon our merits.

     Dr. Whewell's correspondence in 1844 opens with a
letter urging Mr. James Marshall to come and see Pro-
1844  MR. HULLAH'S CLASSES.           307

fessor Sedgwick's museum, listen to his lectures, and
hear the Master himself lecture upon Morals, ' first

tying his knot and then loosing it,' stating the difficulties

of constructing a system and then proceeding to solve

them.
      In the spring Dr. and Mrs. Whewell were busy with

Mr. Hullah's singing classes, Mrs. Whewell taking all

the burthen of arrangement upon herself, and being

rewarded, as the Master playfully remarks, by hearing
in all probability such singing as was never heard

before, but as might naturally be expected from large
gatherings of untrained vocalists. During the summer
he. was frequently in London, writing daily letters to

his wife, from which a few extracts are given. In this
year her health first appears to cause suffering, if not
 anxiety, and to demand on the part of both an exer
 cise of resignation, which was by no means one of his
 favourite virtues, as he reminds her in a letter written
 in June. His remarks about Dr. Arnold, both to her
 and to Archdeacon Hare, are given in full because it

 is interesting to observe what hearty admiration and
 sympathy coexisted with great divergence of opinion
 and dissimilarity of taste.

To James Garth Marshall] Trinity Lodge: Jan 29, 1844.
      I think you expressed some curiosity about my Lectures on
IMorals. am afraid they alone will not repay a journey hither ;
Ibut then recollect that we have other inducements to bring
you here, including Sedgwick's lectures, so that I write not
Iwithout hopes of drawing you to us.
                                      believe Sedgwick's

lectures will begin in about a fortnight, and mine which begin

in a week will still be going on then ; so you may kill both the

birds with one stone, and go to Sedgwick's museum, where

stones are abundant. The subject of my lectures is the diffi

Iculties of constructing a system of morals ; which difficulties

try to tie in a knot first and then unloose them ; doing that in

      x2
308 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                        1844

Imy lectures which have had to do in my head for my own
                            I do not know whether such a per
relief and satisfaction.
formance would amuse you at all, but I hope the prospect of

this and other amusements may suffice to tempt you to us for a

Ilittle while. You cannot take us wrong, coming as have said

any time from the beginning of next week.

To his Sister]              Trinity Lodge: Feb. 20, 1844.

      In a day or two we are expecting Mr. Hullah, the musical

professor. He is going to open singing classes here, such as
his pupils have established in your neighbourhood, and we

have arranged to have some of these classes meet at the Lodge.

I dare say we shall make a wonderful discord. I find that we

are to have a discord in our neighbourhood of another kind.

Some of the zealots of the Free Church of Scotland, as they call

it, are to try to collect an audience and state their case here.
One of them is my old friend and foe--he has been both, for he
                                       (Sir D. Brewster) --the
has   written very crossly   about me                           other
is a  Professor Forbes,1                know nothing, for he    is not
                            of whom I

my Professor Forbes, who is now in Italy with his lately married

wife.

     On February 28 Dr. Whewell notes in the Journal
that the statutes have been returned with the Queen's

signature.

To the Rev. Frederic Myers]

                                  Trinity Lodge: April 19, 1844.

    II send you some speculations of mine which have just

printed. Having puzzled and unpuzzled myself, it is allow

Iable, hope, to try how far I can perform one or both of these

operations upon my friends. My arguments are by no means
foreign to the matter of your ' thoughts,' at least according to
my view of the subject. In paragraphs 10 and 13 of the
Memoir2 you have my main objections to the philosophy of

your ' thoughts.' I think that the opposition of Doctrine and

     1 Professor Edward Forbes. ' My Professor Forbes ' is' Professor James
D. Forbes, an intimate friend of Dr. Whewell'a for many years.

     1 Dr. Whewell's ' Memoir on the Fundamental Antithesis ' is probably
referred to here.
1844  MR. MYERS'S 'CATHOLIC THOUGHTS.'     309

Facts from which you start is not a real or intelligible opposi
tion ; and that it will not lead us right to try to fasten upon

the Idea and reject the Form, because we cannot fasten upon
Ian Idea except by means of the Form.
                                       ought to say, however,
Ithat agree with many or most of your conclusions, except
Ithat should probably modify the expression of them in con
Isequence of my different philosophy.
                                       am reading your
' thoughts ' over again with great pleasure and with great
Iadmiration. I go working on myself towards a book, and hope
   am not very far from my conclusion, but transverse winds of

business from time to time blow me away from my course. We

have just finished the scholarship examination, which is a com

plete interruption of other things while it lasts, and now the

term begins.

    I am glad to hear good accounts of you. Your mountains

must be looking beautiful in this glorious weather. We go on
making ' trim gardens ' as the kind of beauty which is within

our reach. We were yesterday evening at Downing Lodge,

where at present is Delia Rawson.

To his Wife]                       London: June 15, 1844.

IIt is very hot, and am not at all in love with London,
Iwishing often for you and the leafy trees to look at. Indeed
Ilong for Cambridge again. I have been a good deal interested

in Arnold's life and letters, which have been reading between

whiles ; there are several letters to James.

    June 16. I want to be quiet and at work again. I find

Ian expression of the same feeling in Arnold's journal after

returning from a tour. have read his life with great pleasure.

His faults, to my thinking, are such as I knew before, and

arise from a want of reverence for the past ; but his earnestness

and his religious view of all things run through his life and
Iletters in a very delightful way.
                                    am not surprised at the

influence he exercised over the minds of his pupils, though it

has its inconvenient effects.          ..

To the Same]                       London: June 18, 1844.

I am grieved that you speak of pain and weariness, but

they may lead to comfort and gratitude. For gratitude at any
310 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                  1844

Irate we have abundant cause ; and if need be  must make
common stock with you in your ' resignation,' which I used to
Iexclaim against. hope this change in my estimate of qualities
Iis because am become more reasonable.

To his Sister]       Trinity Lodge : June 27, 1844.

     You will have seen that we have had another royal visit, for

I think Cordelia sent you the newspaper which contained the

account of our receiving the King of Saxony. He came here

incognito ; that is, though everybody knew who he was and
called him ' Your Majesty,' he did not keep up the forms of

Royalty. He himself does not talk much, though he is very

good-humoured and laughs readily. He brought with him a

distinguished German physiologist, Dr. Carus, whom I intro

duced to our Mr. Carus. They were both amused at finding

namesakes in foreign lands without any known connection.

To Archdeacon Hare]  Trinity Lodge : July 5, 1844.

  IThe July rains which Wordsworth promised you have begun,
Iso suppose you will be going into his neighbourhood soon.

want especially to request you to lose no time in making the

acquaintance of Frederic Myers, my brother-in-law. He is

married to Mrs. Whewell's sister Susan, and lives at Keswick,

the minister of a church which the Marshalls have built there.

He is a thoroughly excellent person, a worthy friend of Words

worth and Arnold. He has written a book about the Church,

of which the spirit is admirable, and of which I think you

Iwould like the views, as they are very nearly those of Arnold.

   suppose, by your talking in the plural of your going into

Westmoreland, Mrs. Hare goes with you.

   I was as much delighted with the Life of Arnold as you

describe yourself to be. In one point perhaps Arnold's pro

Igress appeared more decidedly in his writings than in this

' Life ' ; mean his progress towards Conservative views. He

hated the word, and in his hatred persisted in confounding it

with Tory ; but he was very near the reality, according to my

view of it.

   I do not know whether we shall go into the North this
1844            DEATH OF MR. MARSHALL.                               311

year. It would be very pleasant to meet you there. Pray

let Myers know when you arrive in his neighbourhood.

      The winter of 1844-45 was spent entirely at Cam
bridge. Like that of 1813-14 it brought with it not
only sharp cold, but the fear, at least, of a short supply

of coal, the river communication being still the only
one, and frost of course interrupting that. In May they

were summoned to Hallsteads, by anxiety about Mr.

Marshall's health, and early in June came the fatal ter

mination to his illness. Mrs. Whewell remained with
her mother, whilst her husband returned to Cambridge
for the meeting of the British Association.

To his Sister]              Trinity Lodge : Nov. 20, 1844.

I hope all is going on well and happily with you at Wormen-
Ihall, and that Martha is reconciled to the place.
                                                    was glad
to hear from James that you had paid a visit to Oxford. You

will now be able to compare the two universities, having seen

Iboth at no long intervals of time. You are to look upon
Cambridge as still going on improving.  am planting a few
willows on the river bank, in situations where I think they will
Iimprove the effect of the river and the bridge, and am going

to put a carved vault to the great gateway.1 You may recol
lect that in its present state it has six corbels, the beginnings
of a stone vaulting which has been the original intention, but

Ithese corbels project from the wall and have offered their
services in vain hitherto.  think the vault which I shall put

up will be a great additional grace to the gate tower, especially
by night, when the lighted lamps make it conspicuous.

     We have just had for our guest Mr. Wordsworth the poet,

Iwho was am glad to say in excellent health, and gave us

great pleasure by staying with us a week.
     How do you make up your mind to living in such a dull

and featureless region as your present abode ? Very different

from Grange and Lindale with their mountains and sea.

1 This was probably done by the College at the Master's suggestion.
312 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELI.  1844

To his Sister]  Trinity Lodge : Christmas Day, 1 844.

    I suppose you are shrugging your shoulders at the cold, as
we are doing ; for the cold is reinforced by an iced fog and is

very penetrating. We have been in danger--that is the town,
for we at the Lodge are well supplied --of being in want of

coals ; for the stock was low, and the river, the highway along
which it comes, was frozen. Perhaps you recollect a similar

calamity falling upon us in one of the first winters I spent in
ICollege. However we have had a thaw, and believe an increase

of the supply. We have no one with us this Christmas but
Mr. Goulburn (Chancellor of the Exchequer). He and William
Spring Rice, and Mr. and Mrs. Worsley, make our Christmas

party.

To his Sister]  Trinity Lodge : Jan. 19, 1845.

We have not left home this winter. If we had been wanted

to save Hallsteads from solitude and silence we should have

gone there, but there has always been one or another of the
younger generation with Mr. and Mrs. Marshall. Dr. C.

Wordsworth, the son of my predecessor, has been visiting us.

He brought with him two Romish priests, Father Pitra, a

Benedictine, and Abbe Devoncoux, a canon of Autun. We

Ihad a great deal of talk with them, and are think none the.

worse for it.

     The month of February in this year brought
a new and valuable treasure into the possession of
Trinity College in the shape of Sir Joshua Reynolds's
exquisite portrait of the Duke of Gloucester as a boy.
This picture, which the public have had a recent op
portunity of admiring on the walls of Burlington House,
was left to the College by the Princess Sophia of Glou
cester, on the condition that it should hang in the Hall
of the College, in recollection of her visit to Trinity in

1818.

     In November Dr. Whewell received the following

letter from the Vice-Master Professor Sedgwick.
1845  STATUE OF BACON.  313

      Aly dear Master, -- The enclosed letter, though dated Nov.

1, only reached me on Wednesday evening, and I employ my
first moment of leisure in complying, as far as I am able, with

Ithe united wishes of the Resident Fellows of the College.
          may say with truth that a more delightful task could not

Ihave been imposed upon me, for feel in common with every

good member of the College that the noble monument with
which you have adorned our chapel entitles you to our heart
felt thanks, and the expression of our deepest personal grati
tude.

    I am sure that you have given us credit for such senti

ments, and it is in no hope of convincing you that we

entertain them that we now address you ; but we do so to

satisfy our feelings, and to perform a positive duty we owe to

Iourselves and the College.
         have often longed to see a statue of Bacon erected in our

chapel, and it is a matter of most honest and heartfelt exulta

tion to see one now, worthy, as far as any sculptured stone can
be, of that illustrious philosopher, given to us by one who has

3pent the best years of his life as our brother, who has drunk

deeply from those fountains from which Bacon and Newton

drew their strength, and whom Providence has placed at the

head of this society.
     When the heart is full a few words will best tell its mean

Iing, but hope you will allow me to add a few words more on

my own account. Let me then congratulate you on having so
well completed an object you have long earnestly wished for.

The statue you have erected is a noble work of art, combining,

as it does, the severity of the old monument with the grace
and freedom of more modern sculpture. It is in this respect

worthy of a place by the side of our glorious statue of Newton.

It represents Bacon as we may figure him to ourselves in his

latter days, when he had fallen from his high worldly estate,

and when his life was most truly great and glorious.
     Our College history is our best inheritance. You, my dear

Master, by your example, your great intellectual labours, and
your munificence, have done your utmost to keep in our minds

Ithis goodly inheritance, and to make us worthy of it ; and

trust that under Providence you will be permitted (to whatever
314 LIFE OF DR. WT1EWELL.

station you may be called) to enjoy the happy fruits of your
long-continued services in the great cause of sound academic

learning.

    It delights us all to think that there is a moral fitness in
having the sculptured figures of Bacon and Newton in our house

of daily prayer ; one represented in the repose of philosophic
age, the other in the vigour of life, gazing towards the heavens
under the inspiration of some great discovery.

      The philosophic labours of these men were not carried on

to exalt themselves ; they bowed before a power above all
material nature, and they had an aim far above this world's
knowledge and all the honours it could bring them. They
laboured honestly to erect a rich storehouse at once to the

glory of the Creator, and the good of the human race. It is a

high privilege to have contributed as you have done to keep
alive such remembrances as these, both among the older and

Ithe younger members of our society. And trust that the

sobering as well as the exalting influence of these sentiments
will continue to be felt among us and those who follow us so
long as England shall last as a nation, and its institutions and
monuments be the admiration of wise and good men. Pray
accept the expression, however feeble, of my hearty good-will

and gratitude, and believe me, my dear Master,

                                 Affectionately and gratefully yours,
                                            Adam Sedgwick, Vice-Master.

     To this he replied on the 8th with a few lines
addressed to Professor Sedgwick individually.

I enclose herewith a letter containing my acknowledg

ments of the kind things you have said to me on the part of

Ithe Fellows who requested you to address me ; and cannot
Ihelp adding a few lines to thank you, though cannot do it

adequately, for the manner in which you have discharged this

office. I think it fortunate that the communication on this

Isubject was to be made through you, who know and feel so
well the purport and value of what Bacon did.  have already
said, in a book in which I have ventured to treat of Bacon's

philosophy, that you seemed destined to be my fellow-labourer
8-45  STATUE OF BACON.  315

n such a task, and we have lately had fresh reason to say so.

jfrhe admirable and noble sentiments respecting the influence

     our monuments which your letter contains give an addi
tional value to your expressions of kindness relative to the

monument now erected. May you, my dear Sedgwick, long
continue to exercise upon us and upon the world a beneficial
influence by the utterance of such sentiments ; and may you

and I long see the continued and increased prosperity of the

College which we both so dearly love.

       The following letter is the enclosure to which re
ference is made above.

To Professor Sedgwick]  Trinity Lodge: Nov. 8, 1845.

    IMy dear Vice-Master, -- have to acknowledge a letter

which you have sent me, addressed to you by the resident

Fellows, and a letter from yourself, both of them containing

expressions most gratifying to me, relative to the statue of

Bacon which has recently been placed in the ante-chapel. The

acknowledgment of my share in this work, and the accom

panying expressions of good-will, both from yourself and from

them, are deeply grateful to my feelings, but are, I fear,

beyond my just merits, as they certainly are far beyond my

highest expectations. I look upon myself as having had a

great privilege conferred upon me in being allowed to erect the

statue of Bacon near the place where my predecessor erected

the statue of Newton. It has long been one of my heart's

Idesires to see such a memorial among us ; and when was

placed by Providence in a situation which seemed to justify me

Iin asking to be allowed to fulfil this desire, did not delay to
do so. I feel grateful to yourself and to the other Seniors for

indulging me in this matter.

    IIn executing this design could not hope to obtain a work

of art which could rival the noble monument already erected ;

Ialthough if my lamented friend Chantrey had lived to whom

Ihad already mentioned my hopes, we should have seen what the

power of genius so inspired could do. But trust that Mr.

Weekes's work, borrowing interest, in addition to its own merits,

from the resemblance which the philosopher's friends and
316 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                       1845

disciples loved to dwell upon and to perpetuate, and from the

burial-place which he himself selected, may always be looked
Iupon with satisfaction.
                          hope, too, it may serve to keep alive

among us and among our successors who worship in that edi

fice the spirit and the sentiments you, Mr. Vice-Master, so well

describe : the spirit of a vigorous yet reverent philosophy, the

sentiment of gratitude for the great and good men who have

adorned our land. And I trust that by God's blessing upon

such dispositions, the College may continue to prosper and

nourish in our time, and for long ages after us.

   For myself, Mr. Vice-Master, I will only thank you and the
Iother Fellows in whose name you have spoken ; and thank

you from the bottom of my heart for your kind expressions and
Igood wishes.  beg you to believe that I am deeply grateful
for this your kindness, and I wish to each of you all happiness

and all blessings, both while each of you continues a member

of our family, and after he may have been called to other con

ditions. I am, my dear Mr. Vice-Master,

Your faithful and obliged friend and servant,

                          W. Whewell.

To the Vice-Master.

     Extracts from a letter written by the Eev. F. Myers
to Dr. Whewell, acknowledging the receipt of his little
book called ' Indications of the Creator,' will best ex

plain Dr. Whewell's letter of March 16.

    Mr. Myers writes :--

     The book will be considered, 1 think, as a reply to Vestiges

of the Natural History of Creation, and certainly if so con

sidered it is as dignified a response as that book will receive,
and will tend to excite a great suspicion not only as to the
legitimacy of its logical inferences, but also as to the soundness
of its scientific assumptions. And this will be doing perhaps

nearly all that need be done. . . .

      The author of Vestiges does, indeed, offend me greatly

when he leaves the unspiritual world and speaks of that spirit ual

one which I conceive to be not its analogous supplement. As

far as his science is concerned he seems to me to be in some
1845  'INDICATIONS OF THE CREATOR.'  317

parts of his book rather behind than before the highest science
of our time, and to discover a larger acquaintance with philo

sophical societies' papers than with Nature's own publications ;

Ibut notwithstanding this, and more, cannot but recognise a

certain superiority in the book which will keep it alive, and am
disposed to think that after all the scientific and other errors
are deducted there will remain such a residuum of originality
and truth as will demand and obtain for it a protracted con
sideration. The book is so far notable to me that it is the first

sustained attempt within my knowledge to combine the highest
results of astronomy, geology, physiology, and chemistry, into

such a series as may serve to indicate, if not to demonstrate, the

existence of a law of creation more general than any yet

announced, a great law of life which shall bear the same
relation to organised nature that gravitation does to mere

matter ; and, if such should be the tendency, though not the

 conclusion, of future scientific speculations, doubtless our present
theology will be interfered with many times in the process and

Iat many points, as it has been already ; but in this matter

 trust with great confidence to those kind of considerations

which I have already referred to as affording me such pleasure

in your 'Indications.'

     I will add no more than a repetition of my sincere thanks

 for this fresh contribution to that kind of unecclesiastical

Itheology in which take so great an interest.

Dr. Whewell to the Rev. F. Myers]
                                     Trinity Lodge: March 16, 1845.

    I am glad that my little book has reached you and that it
has interested you. It was published with some reference to

the Vestiges, as you suppose, and as an answer to it so far as
truth must in some measure be an answer to falsehood on the

Isame subject. But never supposed it would be felt as an

answer to the Vestiges doctrine by doctrine, and should have

been sorry to make any such attempt, or, indeed, to see such
an attempt made by any one, however well qualified by science
and philosophy for the Defence of Truth. For the Vestiges has

its hold on its readers, as it seems to me, by their want of the

apprehension of the difference of the nature of truth and
318 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                  ]B4o

falsehood in science and philosophy ; and this is a support

which no argument can remove, but which on the contrary

blunts the point of every good argument. If the mere com

bining chemistry, geology, physiology, and the like, into a

nominal system, while you violate the principles of each at

every step of your hypothesis, be held to be a philosophical
merit, because the speculator is seeking a wider law than
Igravitation,
               do not see what we, whose admiration of the

discovery of gravitation arises from its truth, and the soundness

of every step to the truth, have to do, except seek another
audience. Astrology aims at laws wider than gravitation ; and

it would be difficult, I am quite sure, to shake the faith of a

man whose belief in astrology was fastened on him by his love
Iof the grandeur of its views and combinations. at least would
Ifnot try to perform the feat.
                                you were to point out to me

palms, and lions, and crocodiles, and giants, in the masses of

Western cloud-scenery, and tell me that you could not help

believing them because the scene was so grand, I should never

try to talk you out of your belief.

In some very important points, the opposition between the
IVestiges and the Indications appears to me very direct.
                                                          have

attempted to show that, dim as the light is which science

throws upon creation, it gives us reason to believe that the

placing of man upon the earth (including his creation) was a
supernatural event, an exception to the laws of nature. The

Vestiges has, for one of its main doctrines, that this event was a

natural event, the result of a law by which man grew out of

monkey. As to the degree of resemblance between the author

and the French physiological atheists, he uses reverent phrases :

Itheirs would not be tolerated in England. But do not

recollect any reference to final causes in him. His whole

scheme and view are opposed to their introduction in any

really significant way, just as much as St. Hilaire's. Nor do I

see how the development of the different kinds of animals, on

his plan, is to be performed, even in our imagination, with

out Lamarck's process of appetencies operating, or something

of the same kind. As to his special form of the doctrine of
the development of species, I have answered it in the preface;
Ithat is,  have shown that it is contrary to the established
1845            'VESTIGES OF THE CREATION.'  319

doctrines of geology and physiology, if that is of any force

as an answer.

      Books which, like the Vestiges, derive their charm from
bold, unscrupulous, and false scientific generalisations, built up

into systems, always take with those Iwho, as have said, have

no power or habit of judging of scientific truth ; but they put
men of science into great indignation. You would be surprised

to hear the contempt and abhorrence with which Owen and

Sedgwick speak of the Vestiges.

    I have been telling you my own view of the reasons why
people like the Vestiges, without at all fearing that I shall

annoy you thereby, because you admire it very partially only

Iand moreover do not take you for a person to be offended by
plain speaking on a speculative matter. I have said much the

same in the preface in less pointed terms. The preface is the

Ionly new part of my book. The passages to which you refer,
you will find in the philosophy.  have always considered

myself fortunate in having been able to say so much with

out giving offence to any one. At least I never heard that

these passages had offended anybody. Perhaps they have
owed this escape to their being towards the end of a fifth

thick volume.

    I am afraid you will be disappointed with my book on morals,

which I am printing. It is not either the history or the philoso
phy of morality, but simply morality itself. I cannot write the
history or the philosophy of any science till I have it in a shape

in which the truth is systematically connected and the false

rejected. It was the having the inductive sciences in such a
shape that enabled me to do what I did for them. In my

Ipresent book the task may be a dull one, but in my way of

looking at things it is inevitable, so in hope have under

taken it.

To his Sister}  Trinity Lodge: June 8, 1845.

      You will not be surprised to hear my news, though it is sad.

Mr. Marshall died on the 6th, in the morning, passing away

quietly. Cordelia was with him when he died.

    I came here as I intended, staying the Sunday at Hevershain.
The old generation is quite gone at Deepthwaite. I could dis
320 LtFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                  1840

cover very few known faces. The railroad runs close by Deep-
thwaite and alters the face of all my old haunts.

     Mrs. Whewell remained at Hallsteads, and received
from her husband frequent accounts of the progress of
things during the meeting of the British Association at

Cambridge.

To his Wife]  Trinity Lodge: June 18, 1845.

Our guests begin to arrive. Herschel came in time for

dinner yesterday, bringing with him a very bad cold and
Ihoarseness, the result of some imprudence.
                                                     wish you and

Lady Herschel were here to doctor him. The Vernon-Har-

Icourts come to-day, and hope Mr. Everett and Mr. Hallam.

Herschel tells me that Peacock is as hoarse as he is, so

that the entertainment of to-morrow evening, in which they
are the principal performers, will not be very brilliant as to

voice.

To the Same]                        June 19, 1845.

Of ladies I have only the two Harcourts, who arrived in

time for dinner yesterday. The two Wilberforces came some

what later. Myers too dined with us, and a German named
Schonbein. After dinner various people came in -- the Bishop

of Norwich, Sir Charles Lemon, &c.

To the Same]  Trinity Lodge : June 20, 1 845.

I find the time between chapel and breakfast that in which
I1 can most easily creep towards you for a little while.
                                                          had

about twenty to breakfast yesterday morning, amongst them

Archdeacon Manning and his brother. My ladies are pleasant

enough, except that a sort of boy and girl raillery goes on con

tinually between them and the Dean of Westminster,1 which is

in the way of all rational talk. In the course of the day came

Lord Burlington, Mr. Hallam, and Mr. Everett. The perform

ance in the evening was at the Senate House. I did not go

        1 Wilberforce, afterwards Bishop of Oxford.
1845           BRITISH ASSOCIATION.  321

there. It appears to have been dull so far as the original plot

went, for Herschel read for an hour and a quarter without being
heard, but it was well relieved by a speech from Mr. Everett,
which all agreed in admiring as beautiful.

ITo the same]                        July 21, 1845.

      did not go to the Senate House yesterday evening. Airy

was the performer, and appears to have outdone himself in his

art of giving clearness and simplicity to the hardest and most

complex subjects. He kept the attention of his audience quite

enchained for above two hours, talking about terrestrial

magnetism.

To his Sister]

                   41 Upper Qrosvenor Street: July 28, 1845.

      We have been here for some days, having left Cambridge
last Monday, so quiet and so full of leaves and flowers that it
seemed a pity to leave it. We mean to go onwards to the sea
side, pausing a day or two on the road to examine Rochester
and Canterbury Cathedrals, and then seek the beach somewhere

near Dover. I am going this morning to sit for my portrait, or

rather to stand in my gown for the accompaniment of a portrait

Iwhich has already been executed. The artist is a Mr. Lawrence,

and think he has made a much better picture than the one

Iwhich Mrs. Carpenter painted, and should say much more

like.

               T
322 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

                           CHAPTER Vn.

                                                      1845-1850.

Elements of Morality -- Mr. Myers -- Archdeacon Hare -- Archdeacon MannnE
     -- Lowestoft Tercentenary -- Dr. Wordsworth's Death --Morals again--
    Prince Albert's Election as Chancellor of the University -- Installation
    -- Professorship of Civil Law --Jenny Lind --Oxford -- Visit to Paris-
     Lectures on Great Men -- Mr. Spedding's Evenings with a Reviewer
      -- Kreuznach-- Breakfast at Dr. Holland's --Jane Eyre-- Prizes for
    Moral Philosophy --Students --Great Frost -- Gorham Case --Sea FeU
     Pike -- Consecration of St. John's, Holbeck.

During this year Dr. Whewell was writing his ' Ele
ments of Morality,' the work in which he sketched out
the system of ethics to which he constantly referred in
previous letters to Archdeacon Hare. This was a sub
ject in which Mr. Myers was deeply interested, and it
naturally formed a principal topic of discussion in the
correspondence which passed between them.

     The book was sent to Keswick early in the summer.
Mr. Myers acknowledged its receipt in a letter dated

July 31. Some extracts from this letter are given,

as necessary for the comprehension of Dr. Whewell's
answer to dated September

To Dr. WheweU]

               St. John' Parsonage, Kestvick: July 31, 1845.

      The most valuable portions of the book to me are those
which deal with the concrete rather than with the abstract-

All that treats of fact or feeling-- whatever touches on the
it,

                        8

                                        6.
845               LETTER FROM MR. MYERS.       323

Listory or the philology of the subject, on national or inter-
lational justice --pleases me most. . . .
     It is, however, Ias have said, with the abstract portions
...I>f your work that am the least satisfied.
                                             To the aim and
structure of these portions of it I demur.      To claim for

my elements of morality a foundation philosophically similar

to that of the elements of Euclid seems to me so much too

...much as to permit, even from the most pacific, at least a
private protest.  In your system of morality it appears to

me that the axioms are by no means self-evident, while the

postulates are innumerable, and a good many of the definitions

arbitrary. Scarcely a page of the introduction but contains

some assumption which is not axiomatic, some postulate which

you could not get granted instantly by any promiscuous jury.

No such jury (if not all Scotchmen) would, for instance, be

unanimous in granting that 1 the general relations of objects

and facts, separated from the objects and facts, may be termed

ideas' (No. 5); nor would any jury be sure to allow you to
say, ' The will is stimulated to action by certain springs of

action; among which springs of action are rules or laws.' . . .

You must observe that I do not say that these assertions are

not true, but only that they are not mathematical ; and that

any system which is made out of combinations of elements

such as these has no right to be called a science, and least

of all to be compared with the purest of them all. . . .

    Your very first axiom (which it is very unlike Euclid that

we should have to look for at No. 269), ' Man is to be loved as

man,' appears to me to have no characteristic of geometry. It

has not commanded the assent of nations whose moral culture

has been the highest: nor is it a proposition, however true,

so differing in its character from others as to need no limita

tion or explanation. It appears to me particularly vague in its

significance, and leaving far too dim an impression on the mind

to be made one of the seven pillars of the science. And what

foundation for a science does * the universal voice of man

kind ' (No. 293) or ' the universal understanding among men '
(No. 269), or the ' universal moral sympathy of mankind ' (No.
313) afford for rigorous reasoning.        Truly, we know very

far too little of mankind to say what its universal voice is.
324 LIFE OF DR. WIIEWELL. l£4o

It is to me so considerable     a blessing that I    am very jealous

of it-- namely, that morality  need be very little  mathematical --
that it depends in a very                           demonstration --
                               small degree on

that it is a matter of instinct or intuition, or at worst of
sympathy or taste --capable of culture through experience

and exercise rather than through reasoning. Indeed, herein
I recognise one
                 very considerable element of the self-evidenc
ing divinity of  Christianity -- that it assumes morality to be

this, and teaches it in no wise systematically, but rather by

example than by reasoning. And, indeed, do you not re

cognise this in No. 233, where you say, ' In order to describe

the character conformable to the supreme rule, we may

speak of it as the character and conduct of a good man. That
is right which a good man would do.' ' That is right which
a good man would feel ' (and some of the Germans, as you
know, paint portraits of good men before they begin their

systematic labours). Now this is what makes the New Testa

ment so impressive as a book of morals, not chiefly its precepts,

but its model of duty. By studying in it (as a divine ideal of

duty) the recorded character of Christ, we practically supersede

innumerable systematic ambiguities. Yes, the exhibition, not

imaginary but historical, of a perfect character : the portrait of
a person divinely human and in close relationship with our

selves, through acts of beneficence and words of promise of

immeasurable value--this I believe will more and more be

proved to be the moral magnet of mankind. . . .

     And finally, herein [i.e. in moral science] the object and
subject of the science is one. In all natural sciences what you

have to classify, to speculate about, and to investigate, is some

thing external to the mind, a series of phenomena and properties

and relations governed by laws distinct in kind from those of

the power which enables you to observe and arrange them.

But in metaphysics and morals the mind has to analyse and
comprehend itself --to explain itself to itself. Thus are the

mental sciences to me but as aerostatics ; the power we have to

move with is the same in kind with that which we have to

move in. It is as if we had to move the world from a point

not without it -- or to anatomise the body with a knife of flesh.

    For these, and for several other reasons, I cannot but
1845  'ELEMENTS OF MORALITY.'                                         325

regret that your Elements of Morality assume a geometrical

structure, because I think it in a good measure lost labour,

and in a world where there is so much to be done, and so few
like yourself to do it, bad cosmical economy is a bad thing.
Had you been content to claim for Morals the rank of an in

ductive science, in some points of a higher certainty as well as

of a higher importance than any, while in others more indefi
nite there would have been little to object to in it, beyond

some arbitrariness and obscurity of arrangement. But as it is
there is more effective labour in your work, and more felicitous
definition than is to be found in any other half-dozen books on

Morals I know of. And a great portion of your general results

are of great practical worth independently of the way by which

you profess to arrive at them.

To the Rev. Frederic Myers]  Salisbury: Sep. 6, 1845.

    I have just read over your letter on my 'Elements of
Morality,' and I am very grateful to you for the quantity of

thought you have bestowed upon the book, and for the trouble

you have taken in giving me your impressions respecting it.
The remarks of any candid person would be much valued by
Ime so given, and yours much more particularly.
                                                 will reply

directly and briefly to some of your criticisms, for first thoughts
in such a case have a sort of interest of their own ; and to do

this will not prevent my referring to your sheets 1 and answer

ing them with more thought hereafter.

Your praise, and your selection of the parts which you

praise, is a great pleasure and an encouragement ; but on this

I will not dwell.
    IWith regard to the fourth book (Religion), hope I have

gained the advantages which you describe as arising from dis

Icussing Morality separate from Religion ; and having done this

  do not know how to complete a Christian system of Morality

except by taking in Religion, and I could not help taking in
Ireligious ordinances as well as rules of action, because must

in my plan take in political ordinances, and the two are indis-

solubly connected. The relation of Church and State is a

      1 The letter consisted of twenty closely written quarto pages.
320 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1845

subject so far in my apprehension from being a heterogeneous

appendage to the system, that it was one of my primary

objects in writing the book. You say that I have given a

much less decided theory of the union of Church and State in

England than previous writers. But that is, as you do not fail
Ito see, because the union is now less close than it was.
                                                           do

not see anything lax or undecided in the proof that the polity
of an established Church, when it is possible, is far the hap

piest and the best fitted for all the noblest ends of a State's

existence. I could not pretend to say that the polity of an

established Church is the only admissible ecclesiastical polity,

Ibecause could not declare nineteen-twentieths of civilised

nations to be in a condition which Morality refuses to acknow

ledge. That what I have said about an established Church in

an imperfect condition, or passing to its ruin, is very incom

plete and needs development, I am well aware. The task will
be a melancholy one, but it may be proper to take it in hand.

     But to come to that which mainly occupies your letter, and

which seems to have been most prominent in your thought,

my claiming for Morality the rigour of geometrical reasoning.

I cannot but be sorry that I should have had to say this, in
order, as I thought, to make my object intelligible ; for the

claim has been received in several places not only with dissent,

Ibut with resentment. This result is far from my desire ; for

intended not to force men to adopt a new view of Morality,

but only to reduce to system their own approved thoughts.
In order, therefore, to conciliate those who are thus offended,

let me remark that the objection is to the preface, not to the

system. The preface omitted, there is nothing about geo

metry or geometrical demonstration. There is certainly an

attempt to reason exactly from first principles : but why should

any one object to this ? All persons reason in morality ; even

the most practical and common-life talk about such mat

ters implies reasons. Reasons may be good or bad ; the

good ones must hang together coherently, and must depend

upon first principles somewhere or other. I try to find out

what these first principles are, and to deduce the others from

them. Why should this offend any one ? It is what all

systematic moralists have tried to do ; and the unsystematic
1845             MORALS.                                       327

also in a great degree. In making my system depend upon

first principles by reasoning, I do not differ from my prede
cessors. And in this respect only do I pretend to resemble

Igeometers.      think, conceive that there is something so

       But you,

peculiar in the reasoning of geometry as to make any sup

position of a resemblance between it and moral reasoning very

improper. You think that geometry depends upon arbitrary

definitions and nothing else. I think very differently of

geometry, and have written at some length 1 to show that this

Iopinion is false : and I believe what have written has con

vinced many. But at any rate, whether my doctrine about

geometry be accepted or not, my having such a doctrine would

reduce our difference to a difference of opinion about the

nature of geometry, not about the nature of morality. I think

that we must in geometry form our conceptions before we can

define them ; and that in the process of forming them we estab
lish in our minds axioms which are the first principles of our

reasoning. I think the same of morality. I may add that I think

the same of other sciences also which deal in demonstration, for

instance mechanics. And as this process is to most persons

who are acquainted with mechanics more familiar than it is in

geometry, I would have taken mechanics as my illustration of

the portion of my science (morality) with which my book was

Iconcerned. But thought that this would startle and offend

men more than the reference to geometry ; besides which it
would have been still less widely intelligible. But mechanics

would really answer my purpose of illustration much better ; be

cause in that science, although we have now axioms, defined con

ceptions and vigorous reasonings, we can point to persons, and
to whole ages and nations, who did not assent to those axioms

because the mechanical ideas of their minds were not suffi

ciently unfolded. In this we have, as seems to me, an answer

to the objection that what I assert as moral axioms are not

evident to all men. They are as much evident to all men as the
axiom that a body will not alter its motion without a cause,

or the like. They become evident to all men in proportion as

     1 Appendix to ' Mechanical Euclid,' 1st and 2nd edition.  (This note is
Dr. Whewclls.)
328 LIFE OF im. WHEWELL.                   1845

all men have their conception of the terms of the science

rendered clear and definite ; they become evident to all men

in proportion as all men get rid of their individual perplexity

and bias, and share in that community of mind which only is

the import of human language.              Imorality with ' the
     You would have had me rather compare     do not know to

lower orders of the Inductive Sciences.'

what classifications of high and low orders of sciences you refer.

I cannot range the sciences in such a gradation. But I could

not arrange morality as an inductive science to any good pur

Ipose, because do not know any propositions in morality which

II should wish to state as collected by induction from facts (as
  have in mechanics and hydrostatics stated propositions to be

collected by induction from facts). For though many facts are
involved in moral propositions, they are none of them known to

us by observation alone, but all by observation interpreted by

Iour own consciousness. And if compare morality with any
Ipart of mechanics, must compare it with the deductive part,

in which conclusions are derived from principles, not with the

inductive part in which principles are derived from facts.

    But I must further try to conciliate you to my claims of

strict (I will     no longer say  geometrical) reasoning for morality,
                   out that the
by pointing                       portion for which I especially make

this claim is the portion beginning with the principles (art. 269,
                   and extending to the end of the cases of conscience.
I2t70a,pp2e7a1rs)  to me that in the discussion of cases of conscience as

here carried on there is a real and practical advantage in sys
tematic morality, at least the cases there given are problems of

which I never was able to obtain a solution satisfactory to
Imyself till treated them in that way. The reasons given are,

I hope, such as commend themselves to all moral men ; but

the place of these reasons in reference to first principles and

to each other I cannot assign without calling in the aid of sys

tematic morahty.

     Claiming demonstrative reasoning for this part (omitting

Ithe sequel only for simplicity of explanation), am desirous of
explaining that I do not include in this claim the parts which

you refer to, in the first book, in which an attempt is made to

give precision to the common language in which we speak of
man's moral and intellectual constitution.
8-45  MORALS.  329

     Those parts, if I might once more refer to my offensive
malogy, belong to the philosophy of morality, rather than to
norality : they resemble attempts which might be made to

sliow how we come to believe the axioms of geometry or of

mechanics, by examining the constitution of the mind. I
must say, however, that I have here invented nothing. I have

taken the common phraseology in which we must speak of the

mind if we speak of it at all ; and have tried to limit the terms

so as to make the use of them consistent. The assertions
which you quote as examples of what a promiscuous jury would
not allow, are what everybody must allow who allow us to talk

of will and action and rules at all. At the same time T must

reject the notion that such questions can be decided by a pro
miscuous jury, for this reason amongst others, that if so you
 might have two opposite decisions on two successive days.

       To your objections to my claim of geometrical or rigorous
 reasoning for Morality, you add various reasons why you think

 it is improbable that any system of such reasoning can be estab

 lished. But your reasonings appear to me, for the most part,

  such as might be alleged against the possibility of any science,
  chemistry for instance, till it really exists. When an asserted

  system of science is produced, it is to be shown to be a failure,

  not by reasons against the probability of such a science a

 priori, but by showing where are the fallacies in its reasonings.

 Nor do I allow that there is evidence of the improbability of a

  scientific morality in the non-existence of such a science

   hitherto. Every treatise of morality which has had great

   currency has contained something sound ; and in morality as

   in other sciences these partial truths are precursors and parts
   of the general truth. Nor is there anything to make such a

   science impossible, in the fact of the mind being (required) to

   observe and reason upon itself ; for the mind has a power of

   reflexion by which it can do this. All the phenomena of
   language show that it can, and language (of course combined

   with thought) is the very instrument by which the analysis

    is to be performed.

         You rejoice that we come to conclusions in which we can

   agree and which you think you can obtain by better and higher
    methods ; as that ' he who acts against his conscience is always
330 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                               184*1

wrong.' I hope that we do agree in this ; and especially agrrr

that, this being so, it is very important to know what consciemr
in, and how it is to be guided. For that a man's gtiide is to be
any set of views or feelings which he calls or thinks to be his
conscience would be a very formidable doctrine. And to me it

appears to be a very important advantage in the systematic

mode of getting at the above maxim, that it is balanced by
another, ' To act according to our conscience is not necessarily
to act rightly,' and the reason for it ' because we may have
                                                  and no less
neglected to inform and enlighten our conscience

that more general doctrine, that 4 Conscience has no ultimate

or supreme authority.' These are propositions which are, 1

think, quite as necessary for the moralist to insist on (whether
he be a systematist or not) as those you mention ; for this
reason among others, that moral truth may conform to the first

Icondition of truth, of being consistent with itself.  cannot
     As to the practical impression made by the book,
pretend to judge what that may be. I should guess that it

would vary much with the habits of mind of the reader. Cer

tainly many men not only relish, but require, in this as in

other subjects of thought, coherence, proof, and system. They
Icannot be satisfied without these merits.
                                            did not invent

such men, nor originate the practice of writing books for them.

I writ<; for them because I am of them. I share their craving?.

For me at least there can be no conviction without some

insight. Let practical men get at their results in their own
way, in mechanics as in morals, but it is my task to write

systems.

     The last sheet of this letter is missing, but the sub
ject, as we shall find later, is recurred to again in corre
spondence (as well as in personal intercourse) between

the two brothers-in-law. It is well to remember that

Mr. Myers was seventeen years the junior of Dr. Whe-
well. The fact that full and candid criticism was

sought by the elder and given by the younger is the
more remarkable.

                                                  -- - ,,J
1845            ARCHDEACON HARE.  331

To Archdeacon Hare]  Walmer: August 16, 1845.

      I grieve much to hear of your loss. I had seen and known

enough of you and your brother to know that his removal must

"be the breaking of a most brotherly union. I have never since
Imy boyhood enjoyed such a relation ; but know how the loss
of early friends even less closely bound to us becomes more

grievous as their number lessens and they have been longer

knit of time. When such sorrows come we recollect how

happy we are in having the privilege of forming in middle life,

Ias you and have done, unions dearer than the dearest friend

ships, and such as keep off the wintry and desolate feeling
which otherwise would gather round us.

      We will not think of disturbing your sorrows, while they

Iare so recent. We shall go to Hastings, believe, next Tues
Iday, and shall stay there suppose three or four days. At the

end of that time perhaps it may not be oppressive to you if

we come to you for part of a day ; but you must tell us truly

whether it is so. We shall, I think, be no longer in your part
of the country at the time you mention. I should like to talk
on various matters with you, but I fear we shall hardly have
the opportunity this time. If I could find on your Sussex
coast a little villa to which I might run without doubt or

preparation when the summer days make us wish for the sea

side, perhaps I might be a more frequent neighbour of yours ;
and it is partly to see what your shores are like that I am now

going to them.

To Ms Sister]        Chichester: Aug. 30, 1845.

      We have been meandering about the southern counties in

various directions, and have now got so far as you see by the

date of this. We stayed nearly a fortnight at Walmer, where
our friends Mr. and Mrs. Worsley were. While we were there

the Duke of Wellington Icame, and had the pleasure of seeing
and talking with him. He is very well, and less deaf I think

than he was some time ago. Thence we went to Hastings,
where we stayed some days, and then to my very old friend,

Archdeacon Hare. I had not seen him since his marriage,

which took place last year. We spent two days very pleasantly
332 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                   I
                                                           l«5f

                                                                                         1
at Hurstmonceux. From him we went to Mr. Goulbura's,

the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who is a frequent guest c*f
ours at Cambridge, and who has a very pretty place ntsr

Keigate, in Surrey. The country is very beautiful, we£L

wooded, and infinitely varied, and there seemed to be no end

of the pleasant rides and drives.                          I

    Although I do not willingly dispraise Cambridgeshire,

was obliged to acknowledge that to a person who rides every

day, as I do, the difference was sufficient to excite envy. From

this place (Betchworth) we went to the other Sussex archdeacon.
Mr. Manning, who lives at an equally pretty place on the other

side of the county, Lavington, near Petworth, and thence

yesterday, came here. I wanted to see the cathedral, which I

have not seen for some twenty or thirty years. I saw it in the

Iancient times, when was a zealous visitor of cathedrals as a
student of architecture, and I return to it with great interest

on the same grounds.

To-morrow we go to Dr. Wilberforce, the Dean of West

minster, who has the living of Alverstoke, near Gosport, and

thence to Salisbury, and finally we return towards the east and

go to Winchester, where there is a meeting of antiquarians to

begin on the 9th. As soon as that is over, which I suppose
will be in about a week, we shall return to Cambridge, where I
Ishall be glad to be, as have a book in the press.

     The letters of 1846 do not require much supplement
or explanation. We have found Dr. Whewell expressing
to Archdeacon Hare the wish that in his neighbourhood
might be found ' a little villa on the Sussex coast."
which could become a seaside home to which he and

Mrs. Whewell might resort at a moment's notice. None
such was discovered during their tour, and probably on

consideration the distance from Cambridge was thought
too great. Instead of this a house was bought at Lowe
stoft, Cliff Cottage by name, afterwards a very favourite

residence. It was hoped that the quiet and sea air

would re-establish Mrs. Whewell's health. This was not

to be, but the place afforded her great enjoyment. Mrs.
46                    TERCENTENARY.       333

Carshall's death in January 1847 brought to an end the

nrmal visits to Hallsteads, the last of which took place

a 1845.

    In 1846 an event of some interest in the history of

^rinity College was the celebration of its tercentenary
estival. This took place in the month of December, on

lie annual commemoration day for that year. A large
mmber of distinguished guests, for the most part old
Trinity men, dined in the College hall. The Master pre

sided at the banquet, and, contrary to the usual practice,

toasts were drunk and speeches delivered. Among the

speakers may be mentioned especially Bishop Blomfield,

Mr. Bancroft, the American minister, Lord Macaulay,
Lord Monteagle, and Professor Sedgwick. Prince Albert

 was invited to attend, but was unable to do so.

To James Garth Marshall] Trinity Lodge: Jan. 5, 1846.

    I shall be glad to see the design for your Church,1 and shall
be ready to give you such advice as I can frame out of my own

architectural recollections, or can get from Willis, who . is a
Imuch better counsellor. I am very much rejoiced to hear that
you like your clergyman.  look with interest at your under
Itaking, and am very solicitous for its success on all accounts --
Imean on yours, that of the nation, and that of the church.
wish I could see such things doing on a scale suited to the

Iwants of the times or to the expression of a reasonable gratitude
for what we possess.  was interested, too, in your account of

your festival, and amused to find that your audience were not

Iso wise as the Edinburgh critic who discovered that such poetry

' would not do.' To be sure you did not, suppose, venture

upon 'the Excursion' to which that profound criticism was

applied.

    I do not know if you have seen the 1 sequel ' to the ' Ves

tiges.' The writer stands to his guns in spite of all our can
nonading, and is more serenely impudent than ever in

    1 St. John's Church, Holbeck, Leeds.
334 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

identifying his set of inventions with the general conception <i

order. As my ' Indications of the Creator ' is out of print. I
shall publish a new edition with a new preface, and hope to Ar

able to send you the preface soon.

    Corrie and I intend to go to Yarmouth to-morrow, havii;

discovered that the seaside is very near us now that the rail

way in that region is completed. We have been taking -i

house at Lowestoft on that coast, and wish to see what it wanu
of being furnished. I hope some day or other you will acknow
ledge that * Cliff Cottage ' is a pretty place, at least in our Ea>r

Anglian scale of beauty of scenery.

IMy loving wishes to your wife for many happy years to her
and to her children. Cordelia is in the next room, and                   can

feel through the partition that she joins me in all kind thought-.

To Professor Sedgwick at Norwich']

                                       Trinity Lodge : Feb. 1 0, 1 846.

     We were not here taken by surprise on hearing of Dr.
Wordsworth's death, for we had previously heard of his being
very ill, and knew that his two sous were gone to him. I
understand that his final disorder was seated somewhere in or

near the spine, out of the reach of medicine. He had prayed
to be released for several days, but continued sensible to the

last, though speechless during his last hours.

      Besides our great personal regard for him, we have much

Ireason to mourn him as a college ; for, so far as know, we have

had few masters who were the authors of so great benefits to

the house.

To the Rev. Frederic Myers]          Trinity Lodge : April 11.

    I think I may reckon upon your willingness to do me the
friendly office of looking over a part of my lectures ;--the put

about 1 Church and State.'
II want you to tell me if there is anything likely to offend
Ianybody, for that want to avoid.    do not finish these lectures

with any great pleasure, for they seem to me wofully scanty and

shallow in proportion to the subject ; but they contain some

corrections of my book which I do not want to remain uncor

rected till the time of a second edition.
u>  CHURCH AND STATE.     335

  The request in the preceding letter produced the

Wowing reply :--

r. Myers to Dr. WheweU~\  St. John's Parsonage, Keswick.
                          men will discuss the theory of
 I have no doubt that
hurcli and State often and long, and that they will try to
ettle it ; I only say, as one who has tried, that I cannot do it ;
nd that others who have tried, with incomparably greater
id vantages, have failed-- not only in my opinion, but in the

·pinion of each other ; and that the causes of failure appear to
me to lie not in the qualifications of the theorist more than in

:he qualities of his materials. I have no doubt that it is pos

sible ; whether it be easy or not must depend on individual

gifts and tastes, to make several theories of moral polity for

Iideal states ; but this in itself is not very interesting to me ;

but have doubts, which every fresh attempt upon the part of

thoughtful and accomplished minds confirms, whether it be

possible to apply consistently to the existing state of things in

our uniied kingdom any theory which shall admit of rigid moral
demonstration; or indeed whether it would be wise to attempt to

alter the existing relations of Church and State to conform more

nearly to any such theory. And among the preliminary diffi

culties which present themselves, by no means the most con

siderable, I think, are those which you mention in your note.

Whether the State has the right and the duty of educating the
people, and whether for this purpose it must recognise and
support religious teachers. Let this be at once admitted ;

these things it may do if it can, but how to do them ? How to

educate people ? how to frame general forms of education which
dissentient multitudes will conform to? how to make apolitical

education combine with various ecclesiastical ones? how the

    State is to teach as truth that which the Churches proclaim to

    be error or the reverse ? how, in fact, for it all resolves itself

    into this at some point or other, how a state like ours, which is

    not at unity in itself, should yet frame and render efficient an

    educational unity which should reduce into unity a most divided

    people ? how legislators of all creeds, creeds which anathemat ise
    each other, should make a collective creed which shall be used
336 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

with anything like unanimous consent of all the people as an
organ of education ; and how such legislators varying from
year to year according to the will of the people whom they
are to educate should ever establish any such forms ? all this

Iand much more, which have no time to write of, is to me a

less surmountable difficulty.

To the Rev. Frederic Myers]

                                  Trinity Lodge: April 19, 1846.

I send you another sheet, and shall be glad of any of your

remarks upon it. Do not imagine that objections to the argu
Iments came too late.
                       have modified the last sheet in con
sequence of what you said, for I do not want to protect

establishments to such an extent that reformation shall not be

possible, even by proceedings in the direct course of the con

stitution ; only I would have a protection of the Establishment

of the same order as the protection of other fundamental parts of
the constitution --the monarchy for instance.

To his Sister]  Cliff Cottage, Lowestoft : Sep. 6, 1846.

     We have had several visitors here, but never so many as      to
fill the house. Lady Alderson, who had it before us, made
                                                                  it
hold thirty people ; but I believe we have not skill enough
                                                                  to

squeeze in more than half that number.

    I am sorry to say my wife does not make steady progress,

though the place agrees with her well ; she has alternations of

good and less good in her health. I am going to leave her for

Ia few days to join the British Association at Southampton.
Ishall return hither again in about a week. trust your numerous

family party will enjoy their meeting as numerous family parties

usually do. We have still glorious summer weather, unbroken

and almost uninterrupted, and shall go back to Cambridge with

regret at the end of this month, except the aspect of things

changes.

To his Sister]         Trinity Lodge : January 28, 1847.

     After what you have heard already you will not be surprised

by the news of Mrs. Marshall's death. She departed on Mon
day about 3 o'clock, having been long in a state of weakness
and gradual sinking, which made the approaching end very
1847  DEATH OF MRS. MARSHALL.                              337

plain. She was during her illness in a state of most blessed
resignation and hope, and as she said ' unutterable peace ' ac
companied with constant prayer. Of her daughters, only Lady
Monteagle was with her. Her great weakness made it im
possible for her to have others with her except at intervals, and
Cordelia had seen her not long before.

      Mrs. Whewell joined her invalid sister, Miss Marshall,
at Brighton, and the next two or three letters were
written to her there.

                                    Trinity Lodge: Feb. 1, 1847.

I am very glad that you went to Ellen when you did, and

that you were in that way enabled to spend Saturday so sooth

ingly. May God bless to us the influence of such occasions,

and enable us to feel that we are not finally separated from
Ithose who are thus taken away from us.
                                         do not wonder that
you and Ellen have bursts of sorrowful recollection, for I, to

Iwhom your dear mother was so much less than to you, think

with anguish that shall never more on earth rejoice in the

glad society of her happy nature, nor see the tokens of the love

Iwhich hope there was between us. I trust you will soon

overlive all that is painful in the memory of our loss.

                                                         Feb. 2.

      INo letter from you this afternoon, my beloved Cor.  sup

pose you think like Mrs. Rawson, that there is no use in being
Iaway from one's husband if one is always to be writing to him.
am glad you are making it a part of E    's plans that she
should come to Lowestoft. I have an illegible letter from
Humboldt, in which he ealls it · votre terre de Levenstoke '

or some such word.

                                                                                                  Feb 3.

    I can easily imagine there must be much that is painful in

your first interviews with your friends at present. But if our

dearest friends understand us, we become more and more in
different to the notions that others take up. As life advances,
and we find in how small a degree our happiness depends upon

                                                  z
                                                               /

338 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

Ithe sympathy (of our acquaintances), the difficulty is to
for it at all or to take any pains to seek it.  do not

that this is the temper at which we should aim, but it is the

feeling which prevents one's being much disturbed when one ii

misunderstood as to one's inward sentiments.

      On February 12, 1847, Dr. Whewell was in London,

when the death of the Duke of Northumberland, Chan

cellor of the University, was announced. It immediately

occurred to him that Prince Albert should be requested
to accept the vacant office, and to ascertain the Prince >
feeling in the matter he wrote next day to Mr. Anson,

then Treasurer of the Prince's household. A prompt

reply from Colonel Phipps intimated that, should such

a requisition be presented to His Eoyal Highness as
should prove it to be the general desire of the Univer

sity, he would feel much pleasure in consenting to be
put in nomination. Dr. Whewell communicated this
reply to his relative, Lord Monteagle, who proceeded to
take the necessary steps in London. He then returned
to Cambridge, and at once saw the Vice-Chancellor,

who had already received a similar suggestion from two

other heads of Houses. Professor Sedgwick, then Vice-

Master of Trinity, had also made the same suggestion
independently of Dr. Whewell, so that the latter on his
arrival in Cambridge found the idea of the Prince's ap
pointment familiar to many of the residents, and more
especially to the members of his own college.

      There was no time to lose, for the appointment to

the vacant Chancellorship had been fixed for February

25, and there was already a candidate in the field. This

was Lord Powis, a member of St. John's College, in

whose behalf a committee had been formed. A requisi

tion was set on foot, to be presented to Prince Albert,

and it was hoped that Lord Powis would withdraw when
1847 CHANCELLORSHIP OF THE UNIVERSITY. 339

he learnt that there was a general expression of feeling
in favour of the Prince. Lord Powis was communicated
with, but he referred the matter to his committee, who

advised him to go on.

     To promote the Prince's election, meanwhile, another

committee was formed at Cambridge, and a large num

ber of signatures were obtained to the requisition ;
amongst them those of fifteen of the heads of Houses
and of a large majority of the most eminent resident
and non-resident members of the University. The re
quisition was presented to the Prince on February 20.

It was ascertained through Lord Lansdowne that the

Government were favourable to the movement, and that

it would not be unacceptable at Court. In answer to

the requisition the Prince repeated that he should feel
both pride and pleasure in yielding to the unanimous
wish of the University. As Lord Powis persisted in his
candidature, the Prince's reply was at first regarded as
tantamount to a refusal, and a telegram to that effect
was sent to the Cambridge committee. But it soon be
came known that this was not the interpretation put on
the Prince's reply by Lord Lansdowne, Bishop Blomfield,
and other distinguished men in London. The Cambridge
committee determined thereupon to proceed with their
canvass, and Dr. Whewell as their chairman at once is
sued a circular asking for the votes of members of the
Senate in favour of Prince Albert. These proceedings
were not formally notified to the Prince, but in the short
interval before the day of election, committees both in
Cambridge and London worked hard to obtain the
promises of electors. The days of election were February

25, 26, and 27.

     At the close of the poll it was announced that

the Prince had a majority of 116 votes. The Prince,

                                                            z2
340 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1847

on being informed of the result of the poll, readily

accepted the office.
     The feeling in Cambridge and in London during the

contest was very hot on both sides, and the scenes in
the Senate House were more than usually discreditable.

The London newspapers, which were most of them

adverse to the Prince's claims, contained much angry

correspondence, and some anonymous letters couched
in very vituperative terms were addressed to Dr.

Whewell.

     The Master entertained and never failed to testify
much respect and strong regard for Lord Powis. His

conduct on many occasions had met his hearty ap
probation ; especially had he sympathised with him in
his earnest and successful endeavours to prevent the
absorption of two of the Welsh bishoprics, of which
mention has been made in the correspondence with

Archdeacon Hare. But he had no sympathy with Lord

Powis's most active supporters, who belonged to the

Tractarian party, and proclaimed him as the champion
of the Church against the encroachments of State inter

ference. On the other hand, he sincerely believed, and

had good grounds for believing, that in the interests of
the University the appointment of Prince Albert was an
object very much to be desired. In his opinion the
Prince's illustrious station, his independence of party,

unblemished character, and warm and enlightened sym
pathy with the spirit and studies of the University,

marked him out for the position. But Prince Albert
was at the time a young man of but six-and-twenty, and
the public generally had as yet no proof of the capacity
and attainments so conspicuous in later years. Thus it

was readily asserted and as readily believed that the
offer of the Chancellorship to a royal personage of com
1847  PRINCE ALBERT.  341

paratively small experience in matters relating to the
English Universities was an act of blind sycophancy, and
that the Prince's supporters could only be influenced by
interested motives. There can be little doubt that many
persons, actuated by this feeling, voted for Lord Powis,
or abstained from voting for the Prince, who a few years
later, when his talents and earnestness had become

known, would have been among his warmest supporters.
But the reason why Dr. Whewell and the vast majority

of the most eminent men in the University supported

the Prince was that they had had the opportunity of

discerning what the public generally had yet to learn.

During his previous visit to Cambridge the Prince had
resided at Trinity Lodge, and the influence of his con

versation and society had no doubt made itself felt then
in Cambridge, as it did whenever and wherever persons

eminent in literature and science were admitted to his

personal acquaintance. From this point of view it
cannot be questioned but that in promoting the cause of
Prince Albert Dr. Whewell acted in a most loyal spirit
towards the University. Proof of this is afforded by a
letter which he addressed to the Prince immediately

after his election, bespeaking his interest in the im
provement of the University system, and asking leave
to draw his attention to the consideration of plans by
which the course of the University studies might be
enlarged, so as to include some of the most valuable

portions of modern science and literature.' In further
ance of this object he had an interview with the Prince

shortly afterwards.

    It is no less certain that the result of the election

has fully justified Dr. Whewell's hopes. Not only in
Cambridge itself, but in other centres of learning and
education, the influence of the Prince's example and
342 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  Mffl

precepts has been to enlarge the bounds and intensify the!

aims of academic teaching. Had Lord Powis beeaj
elected Chancellor he would have been forced by tie
nature of the support he received to oppose all change,
and the course of progress in the University which has
been very marked during the last thirty years would in

all probability have been much impeded.
     Dr. Whewell's conduct has also been impugned on

the ground that he involved the Prince and the Uni
versity in an unnecessary and unpleasant contest, am!
that against the Prince's own wishes. But it is quit*
clear from unpublished papers found after Dr. WheweU's
death that he was not primarily responsible for the con
test. The chief London supporters of the Prince having

interpreted the Prince's answer to the Vice-Chancellor
as a qualified assent, Dr. Whewell, though chairman of

the Cambridge committee, found himself powerless to
control the zeal of some of the younger committee-men,

who were determined to go on after learning the views
of Lord Lansdowne and others. Dr. Whewell might, it
is true, have resigned his chairmanship ; but this would

not have averted the contest, and would probably have

been fatal to the Prince's cause, which he had so much

at heart. He deliberately put a statement to this effect
on record when the events were still recent, and that

statement is entirely confirmed by the correspondence.
      Although Dr. Whewell was throughout the contest

the chief mark for all the abuse that was levelled by

Lord Powis's supporters against their antagonists, he did
not attempt to retaliate. He fought the battle with the
vigour and determination which formed an essential

part of his nature, but when it was over he showed his
usual magnanimity. Those who knew him at all knew
that he was incapable of harbouring resentment. In a
17        PRINCE ALBERT CHANCELLOR.                 343

onKaracteristic letter, written immediately after the elec-
         was decided, to one of his most violent assailants,
t that time a junior Fellow of his own college, he con-
exited himself with saying that when he had had longer

xperience of the University he would know     what great
                                             but that so
ivils are produced by a contested election,
ar as he was concerned nothing that had happened
would lead to any estrangement, and that he had dis

missed all unpleasant recollections from his mind.

      The Prince was formally installed as Chancellor at
the Commencement in July. The Queen accompanied

him to Cambridge. This visit, being more formal in

character than the last, occasioned much more careful

and elaborate attention to details of state aud ceremony.

As early as March 2 the Master had written to Colonel

Phipps, offering as usual the accommodation of the

Lodge to the Royal Chancellor, and requesting directions.
The Queen and Prince arrived July 5. Everything

passed off with brilliant success. Splendid weather

showed Cambridge to great advantage, and means were

found to house and entertain an astonishing number of

distinguished guests, both English and foreign.

    No record of this visit remains from Mrs. Whewell's

pen. Her mother was no longer living, and Lady Mont-
eagle was one of the guests at the Lodge. The young

niece, hereafter so frequently a visitor, was also

present.

    The royal visit is briefly referred to by Dr. Whewell

in a letter to his sister on March 14 : --

     We have, as you say, had a great bustle here, and our
success was much less gratifying than the same result would

have been without a contest. However, they would have it so,
and the victory will have some very good consequences. You

need not expend much pity upon me on account of the trouble
344 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

and fatigue ; for though I extremely dislike the interruption

and confusion of an election, when that is over I dismiss the

matter from my thoughts.

    We mean to go to London to-morrow, to instal the Prince
in his office, and I suppose he will come here in July and give

the prizes, as the Duke of Gloucester did, to me among others,
in 1814.

In April 1847 the Professorship of Civil Law seemed
oflikely to become vacant by the resignation
                                                Dr.

Geldart. As may be gathered from the three concluding
books of Dr. Whewell's ' Elements of Morality,' his

edition of ' Grotius,' and the liberal provision he made
by his will for the study of International Law at Cam

bridge, he took a very great interest in subjects con
nected with this Chair. In anticipation of a vacancy he

addressed a letter to Lord Lansdowne, then a member

of the Government, suggesting that some attempt might

be made in the appointment of the new Professor to give

to the study of the Civil Law a more philosophical cha

racter than it had generally possessed at Cambridge.

He considered that the choice of the new professor

might have an important influence in elevating the study

of Civil Law into a general study of Jurisprudence.

The person appointed by the Crown was Sir Henry

Maine, whose well-known legal works exactly correspond

in character with the ideal thus foreshadowed.

     The following letters to Miss Whewell tell of the pre
parations for the installation and of visits to Lowestoft
and Norwich.

                      Trinity Lodge, Cambridge: May 29, 1847.

     We have been in London the last three weeks, and returned
here only yesterday. We stayed a little later than we should
have otherwise done, in order that we might go to the
Drawing Room, held on the 27th, in honour of the Queen's
d47              JENNY LIND.  345

oirthday. We are to have Her Majesty here as well as the
Prince, as you may have seen in the newspapers. We have
been furbishing up the Lodge for the occasion, and as I said

It>efore, we find the paint so unwholesome as well as disagreeable

tttat think it not unlikely we shall go to Lowestoft in a few

Idays.

        am glad you like my German translations. I pique my
self much on their fidelity, which, I hold, surpasses that of any

other translations. Whether by being thus close to the original
they are tame and prosaic, you must judge for yourself.

                                                               June 6, 1847.

      We go on Tuesday to Lowestoft for a fortnight, having, in
a great measure, made our preparations for the royal visit so

far as the Lodge is concerned. The Queen and the Prince dine
in the College hall on Tuesday, July 6, and various other

Ifestivities are in contemplation.
          shall be at Oxford on the 23rd, and for a few days during

the meeting of the British Association I shall be with Dr.

Hawkins, the Provost of Oriel.

                       Clif Cottage, Lowestoft: Sep. 5, 1847.

     It is a disappointment to me as well as to you that we do

not meet this summer. We had some intention of making an
expedition into the north this year, and this month ; but when

we were wavering we were decided by receiving an invitation,
not only to hear the celebrated singer Jenny Lind, but to meet
her. She is to be at the Bishop's during the days when she
sings at Norwich, and we are to go there at the same time.
She is universally spoken of as being not only a most delightful
singer, but also a most amiable and excellent lady, as you may
suppose from the bishop receiving her into his family.

To his Wife]     Oriel Lodge : June 24.
     IHere am, with no time at all to write, for it is already

dinner time, and, as you know, at British Association time,

nothing waits for nobody. You see my grammar is as exemplary
                 I wish with all my heart you could have been
Ias Mrs. Fry's.
                 should then have enjoyed everything much
with me, for
346 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

Imore. But have been thinking over and over again that yon
and I must come here together some time and look at all the
Icolleges, halls, and chapels and courts.  still think them, as I

always thought them, a very pleasant series of sights, and well

worth a systematic inspection. Our B.A. business is going on
Ivery prosperously.
                     have made acquaintance with Le Venier,
and am pleased with him. He is to visit Cambridge soon. I

hope while we are there, and when we are not in the turmoil of

Iour royal visit. Herschel has been here, but fear is already

gone. Airy is here and many more, and altogether it is a very
prosperous meeting --but dinner, dinner, dinner !

     The following letter was written to Mr. Aubrey de
Vere on the receipt of a volume of posthumous poems
by his father, Sir Aubrey de Vere.

                     Trinity Lodge: Oct. 3, 1847.

I did not receive your volume of poetry till a few days ago,
I Iwhen returned from the sea-side hither.
                                             was very glad to
Ihave it as your gift, although had already possessed myself of

the volumes, and had read to my wife the whole of Mary Tudor

and portions of the rest. We were much interested with many
Iparts of the drama, especially, I think, with Elizabeth.
                                                           can

well understand that it must have been a very affecting task

to you to complete such a monument to the writer, connected
with him by the love of poetry, in addition to all other ties, as

Iyou are ; and believing, as know you do, that poetry is a very

serious thing to those who really have any insight into it.

   IAfter saying this, am almost ashamed to send you a little
Ivolume which t have printed for my friends, and which in
Itended to send you when began this note ; for it consists, for

the most part, of mere trifling. You will, however, look at it
Iwith good nature if you look at it at all.  forget whether I

sent you some translations from Schiller and Goethe which

IMurray published for me in the spring (not the hexameters),

and which, some of them, are really think very good transla

tions. You know how candidly translators judge of their own

performances.

    I hope your task of distributing meal to your poor country
1847                     VISIT TO PARIS.         347

Imen is by this time no longer necessary, and that the necessity
is not likely to recur.  am sorry we did not meet while you

were in England.

To his Sister]           Paris, Hotel Vantine: Dec. 20, 1847.

I told you we had some intention of coming to Paris soon,

and here we are. We lost no time after my visit to Cuddesdon,

for we reckoned that we were more likely to have good weather

before Christmas than after. I went to Cambridge on Wednes
day the 15th, and the next day I presided at the distribution

of our prizes in College, and was present at the Commemoration

Isermon. The same day we went to London, and gave a

lecture at the Royal Society ; on the following day we went to

Folkestone and crossed over to Boulogne, where we slept. We

had not a very smooth passage, but pretty well considering the

Iseason of the year. On Saturday we went on to Amiens by the
railroad, which is as good as our English ones.  stopped at

Amiens, partly in order that the journey might not be too long

for my wife, and partly to gratify my eyes with the sight of my

early love, the cathedral at Amiens. It is two or three and
Itwenty years since first saw that building, and it then appeared

to me one of the most magnificent works which is to be seen in
the world ; and so it appears to me still. We attended the

service there, which certainly shows far better than any English

service can how the cathedrals are adapted for the magnificent

ritual of the Middle Ages, and how every part of the edifice

contributes to the effect. We saw the cathedral under various

aspects, by daylight and by candlelight, full and empty ; and

Iwe heard, must say, a very good and unexceptionable sermon

upon the various festivals of which the series is just begin

ning. We shall stay here about three weeks, and if we have
tolerable weather I have no doubt we shall find full occupation

and amusement for the time.

     The Christmas of 1847 was passed in Paris, where,
among many other friends, English and foreign, with
whom pleasant intercourse was enjoyed, the names of
Mr. John Austin and his wife were prominent.

     The first letter written by Dr. Whewell after
348 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1848

returning to England is one to his sister, dated Jan. 16,
1848, Folkestone.

      We arrived here yesterday from Boulogne, and have enjoyed

our visit to Paris very much, notwithstanding that it was very

cold all the time we were there. We have come home earlier
than we intended, because we are summoned to Windsor on
Wednesday next. We are to stay at the Castle two days, and

on Saturday next I hope to be at Cambridge.

     Shortly after their return to Cambridge came the
news of the events in Paris, which filled them with con

cern and alarm for the friends they had left there. A

letter to Mrs. Austin expresses these feelings, and also
records the lively sense of gratitude left by the kindness
the Austins had shown them in Paris.

                      Trinity Lodge, Cambridge: March 9, 1848.

    I have just heard that you are in England, and cannot

refrain from sending you a line to express my satisfaction at
this, among all the miserable events of the last three weeks.
We have been perpetually casting our thoughts towards you in
the Rue Lavoisier, while all the sounds of wreck and ruin have

come to us day after day, and fervently hoping that you were

safe and unmolested.
     We knew well the grief you must feel at the fall of some of

the great persons of this deplorable drama, and at the frustration
of so many years of labour in building up the edifice of peace

and order ; and we hoped that you had no more special troubles
of your own to grieve for. The great kindness which you showed
us in Paris made us take to the place more than we could

otherwise have done ; and so we were better able to follow the

story from one part of the city to another, and from one person
to another, than we could otherwise have been ; and all this

was mixed up with recollections of you, because to you we owed
so much of it.

    I hope we shall hear that all the Guizot family are well

and tranquil under the change. M. Guizot must be supported
by the knowledge of the general respect in which he is held,
1848 NEW EDITION OF THE 'MORALITY.' 349

Iand am glad to hope that Madame Guizot may find a tranquil
haven after the storms of her Paris life. I am puzzled how to
write to my Paris friends ; for, I suppose, one ought to take it

for granted that they have cordially accepted the republic ; and

Ithat is so new a tone that it is not easy to fall into it at once.
   suppose we shall by degrees come to an understanding.

To the Rev. Frederic Myers]  Trinity Lodge : March 3.

    I am meditating a new edition of my ' Morality,' which it

Iappears is wanted ; and though, am afraid, you do not think

the book a good one, nor easily capable of being made so, yet

there are, you know, degrees of badness, and it may perhaps be
rendered better than it is ; especially as one mode of correction
Iwhich I intend to apply copiously is omission.
                                                 shall leave
out indeed almost half the book, not because I think it does

not belong to the subject, or that it is not put in its proper
place in the work as it now stands ; but because it has reference

to living controversies, and requires to be more carefully written,

and also because, as my critics have abundantly shown by their

objections, there are parts which obscure the general scheme

and connection of the work. And I want to engage you to

give me a little advice on some of these points ; not absolutely

engaging to follow it, but having a great value for your judg

ment in such a case, and knowing that it will be both patient

and friendly. So take the book when you have time, and open

it, and I will tell you what I intend to do, that you may suggest
anything which you think right ; either to omit more than I

intend, or to spare some of my condemned passages. Although

Iin truth they are not condemned, but only kept back ; for

shall very probably publish them again in some other form. . . .

Now tell me frankly what you think of these various changes.
It is impossible not to think of the French Revolution,
which I fear is only begun. One sees what a house of cards is
Ia monarchy without an aristocracy.
                                     have fears for Guizot,
for I think he is Stoic enough to offer to take his trial as soon
as there is a calm, and I have no trust in Lamartine's abolition
of capital punishment. I should like much to talk with you

about this and about other matters, for example, Stanley's

Sermons ; but I have no time to write at present.
350 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

     The book which is the subject of the following
letter is a collection of Lectures on Great Men delivered
by Mr. Myers in St. John's School-room, Keswick. The
book was privately circulated during the author's life,

and has been reprinted and published since his death.

To the Rev. F. Myers]  Cliff Cottage : June 18, 1848.

     After giving you my premature objections to your Great

IMen which you heard so patiently, intended to take the first

leisure hours to read them through, and to tell you what it was
I Ithat really had to protest against.
                                        was not able to execute

Ithis intention till we came to this scene of quiet and solitude ;

and now that I have really read the lectures, find so much
Imore to agree with and delight in than to object to, that have

lost much of my disposition to make any protestation against

Iyour teaching. For truly your discourses are full of excellent

things excellently said, and do not doubt that many would be

much the better for hearing them, and you are to be deemed

happy in having the heart and mind which made you write

them. And indeed there is hardly anything which I could have

wished to have said in order to obviate any erroneous impres

sion from parts of them, which you have not said in other parts.

I altogether assent to the force of the reasons which you put

forward at the end of the last lecture (that on George Washing

ton) why you deem it good to think and talk of great men, and
especially to that reason, that it may help to correct the
tendency of the present times to moral cowardice. Still, if you

are willing that I should bring out upon my paper the last

drops of my dissent from you, that nothing but cordial admira

Ition and sympathy may be left behind, should say that there

is in this very plan of putting forward certain men as great,

and as forming a class of great men, and as being by that cha

racter objects of especial interest and instruction to us, some

Ifthing which tends in no small degree to mislead too confiding
hearers.  you had called your men eminent, or remarkable,
Ior admirable men, do not think there would have been the

same danger : but when you call a man great, you call on your

hearers to acknowledge in him a certain superiority which pre-
1848    LECTURES ON GREAT MEN.  351

vents their judging freely whether he is good, since by his very

greatness he seems to be placed above their standard and beyond

their full comprehension ; and I think that you do judge your

great men with something of this submissive spirit, not without

peril to the cause of goodness. Moreover, from this selection

of greatness as the characteristic to which your attention is

mainly directed, you are led to dwell prominently on firmness

and perseverance and skill in leading men, and overcoming

difficulties, as admirable qualities. And so they are ; but their

Ivalue depends on the cause in which they are used, and hold

it not to be good moral teaching to put them in the first place,

or seem to do so -- which your scheme appears to me to lead to.
For though you praise these qualities as used in the cause of

justice, and truth, and humanity, yet when you have made your

hero a great man, you do not lightly grant that justice, and

truth, and humanity are with his adversaries ; for that would
doubtless detract much from his greatness. Nor does it appear

to me very consistent with this mode of describing men, to

allow a due force to established rules of justice, and truth, and

humanity. For your great man is above rules, knows that they

must at times be violated, and proves that he does so at the

right time by his success, or at least by his energy. This I
hold to be a dangerous tendency. It leads you at times to
speak as if rebellion, insurrection, and revolution were good and
        in general and in the abstract. It is true that you
great,
Ihave, as have said, passages of an opposite tendency (as p. 77
of Cromwell). But still this general colour of an admiration of

the violation of rules and subversion of institutions appears to

me to predominate, and to show through other parts of the

painting. And though, of course, it is taken for granted that

the great man, in making his revolutions, has justice and truth

on his side, yet it is taken for granted, or left undiscussed as a
matter in which his greatness leaves the presumption much in

his favour, and which is perhaps too hard to solve. This is the

impression made, I think, by leaving the main question of

right and wrong open, as the regicide in the case of Cromwell.

For if truth on this subject be important, your ordinary hearer

Iwill think, why do you not try to set him right by deciding it ?
      The difference between us have sometimes expressed, as
352 LIFE OF DR. WIIEWELL.                               1*4?

you probably recollect, by contrasting worship of heroes witi
reverence for ideas. It appears to me that a reverence for rt*1

ideas of truth, justice, humanity, and for the forms in which

--they have been embodied --law, institutions, books, national

habit 8, including, of course, religious light and heat that

these are more truly deserving of reverence than anv man"-

character. And the progress of mankind in which you rejoice,
and in which I rejoice so far as I dare, consists in the pro£^res>

ifof these things, and not in the energy with which at intervals
this man or that labours to promote their progress,     your
Cromwell really had a great share in the improvement of the
English law, or in the promotion of toleration, I should admire
Ifhim more than I do ; but I do not find that he did anything
intelligent, certainly nothing permanent, in this way.  he

did, as you think, it appears to me hardly of any value in

making him one of your great men, for they are made great by

other qualities. The person who really fought the great battle

of toleration in England was a man greater, in my opinion, than

Cromwell, namely, William the Third. And when you aslr

what superiority the Revolution of '88 had over the Rebellion

of '41, the answer is very simple. That the Revolution deviated

from the constitution no further than was absolutely necessary,

and stopped as soon as liberty was secured. And this historical

fidelity and political moderation had their reward. They led to

the noblest constitutional structure that has ever existed. On

the contrary, not one of Cromwell's constitutions would stand

or work. In the same manner Savonarola's reforms were all
swept away in a few years. So it must be, if men, however

great, begin to make all things anew. Only a slow progress is

Igranted to man, and only a slight share to any one man, and

the men to whom the greatest share is due are not, think,

those whom you call great men.

   I am not, however, insensible to the value of great reformers,

even when they are intemperate, convulsive, revolutionary ; for

I know that the reverence for the established forms in which

the great ideas of moral and religious truth are clothed may

end in being a regard for the forms when the idea has slipped

out of the clothing; I know that institutions may become

worthless when their spirit is gone, and they become the
1848   LECTURKS ON GREAT MEN'.  353

instruments of error and injustice ; and then it often happens
that a bold and vehement reformer breaks to pieces the dead
form, and leaves room for a newer life to work. But this is

only one way, and that not the most ordinary or hopeful, as it
seems to me, in which human improvement takes place ; and is no

sufficientreasonfor making all bold and vehement advocates of re

form, if they meet with any considerable success, into great men.

      You will say, and truly, that you have other sort of charac

ters than those among your great men. Cranmer and Coligny,

for instance. And in truth I have no fault whatever to find
with them, or rather I read them with unmingled pleasure and
Isympathy. The character of Cranmer is more truly given, as

conceive it, than in any other modern representation thereof ;

and with regard to these, my objection, if indeed I needs must

object, reduces itself to some small discontent at having these

good men classed with your great men. They are not great in

the same sense ; and it appears to me that they have not justice

done them by being put into a class with Cromwell, and even
Iwith Savonarola.
                   say this not contesting the truth of your
Ipicture of the religious character of the two latter, because

think that the religious sincerity and earnestness of a man,
though it be something far better than greatness, cannot be

looked upon as making him great -- that is, I think the manner

in which this feature is introduced, shows still further the in

convenience of trying to make a gallery of great men.

    IBut I believe am growing captious in my criticism, and
certainly it is much longer than I intended when I began,
though I have left out many things which I intended to say.

These must wait till we can discuss them viva voce, if you
think my views worth discussing. At any rate I have had the

pleasure of dwelling somewhat the longer upon the thought of

your book, which I really think of with great delight over and

over.

     The spring was passed as usual at Cambridge.
Mrs. Whewell's letters and journals tell of mornings

spent in business connected with allotment grounds
and clothing club, afternoon drives or rides with her
husband, evenings of talk and reading aloud. To Dr.

                   AA
354 LIFE OF DU. WHEWELL.         1846

IMackreth on March 21, Dr. Whewell wrote, ' am

I Iglad that you like my sermons, for to tell you the truth
like them myself.  like the opportunity of speaking

seriously to the excellent young men that compose almost

the whole of our congregation.'

Their summer movements included visits to Clifton

and the neighbourhood, and in Cumberland.

     The journal shows us that after the return of Dr.
and Mrs. Whewell to Cambridge from their visit to
Norwich, they received on October 30 M. Guizot, his
son, and two daughters. It was one of several visits

paid to them by the Guizots and other French exiles

with whom they had had pleasant intercourse in Paris.

     In the autumn of this year Mr. Eobert Leslie Ellis

lent to Dr. Whewell a book called · Evenings with a

He viewer.' This book was written by Mr. James Sped-

ding, and privately circulated with the intention of
calling out the 'corrective criticism ' of his friends, as
an assistance to himself in preparing for a labour to

which many subsequent years of his life were to be

devoted, that of placing Lord Bacon, his character, and

his works, fairly before the public, and thus appealing
against the popular view of his character, especially as
represented in Lord Macaulay's article on Lord Bacon
in the ' Edinburgh Review.' Dr. Whewell read the
book with great interest and sympathy, and a corre

Ispondence took place between him and the author,

which by Mr Spedding's great kindness am enabled

to give entire.

To James Speddmg, Esq.']
                                        Trinity Lodge: Nov. 17, 1848.

     Ellis has been kind enough to lend me your printed re

marks on Macaulay's article on Bacon. I have read them with

very great delight, and go to the whole length that you do in my
1848  'EVENINGS WITH A. REVIEWER.'                   355

belief in his goodness as well as greatness ; one or two minute

Iscruples which have about your views are not worth mention

ing. But you have the less merit in winning me to your

Iopinion, or rather, in making me admire the manner in which

you have maintained it, inasmuch as never believed the

usual calumnies about Bacon ; and, for instance, with regard to

Essex, always thought his own defence of himself quite satis

factory. Those who condemn him very strangely shut their eyes

to Essex's atrocious guilt, which was such that if Bacon on the

discovery of it had broken off all friendly relations with him, he
Iwould have been quite justified.
                                   will venture to suggest an

explanation of a passage which you say you do not understand.

It is p. 68 : ' Of all nations the English are not subject, base,
Inor taxable.' suppose this to refer to the description given by

the French people in their law books : that they are 'peuple

ba-9, a0umi$, (or some such word), taillabie, et corvSable a merd
et a misericorde-? Bacon means to say that the English may

not be taxed arbitrarily and indefinitely, though perhaps some

nations may. Is not this the probable explanation ?

Your speculation as to the distinctive character of Bacon's

Iphilosophy is very interesting, and will bear a great deal of

consideration. Perhaps may have more to say about it.
Cowley appears to have understood it nearly as you do, as
you may see in his ' Proposition for the Advancement
of Experimental Philosophy,' which of course was a view less

Ibiassed by the subsequent history of science than the

view of our day is likely to be. But think Bacon's design
is better apparent by his New Atlantis. In his proclama

tion of a new epoch he had been anticipated by Telesius and

Campanella, and even by Roger Bacon, who was, I think, as
extraordinary a man as Francis; but all this I have said, and, I

Ihope, proved, in print. He also borrowed from Gilbert, and
Ithink borrowed images as well as thoughts, as have also
Ishewn. And almost the only matter for which find reason to

blame him is his injustice to Gilbert, whom he scarcely ever

mentions, except to blame him for the narrowness of his

method, but whose philosophy was really almost as wide as

Bacon's own, and solid precisely on account of his starting

from such a reality as magnetic forces.

      aa 2
356 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

   I do not know whether I should be taking too great a
Iliberty if were to enquire whether you have a spare copy of

your 'Remarks.' You could not bestow it, if you have, upon

any one who would use it more faithfully or with more pleasure.

IIf were not afraid of making the mistake which Bacon

notes in James's dealing with his Parliament, treating a matter

Ias a bargain which should be put on grounds of kindness,

should say that I have a copy of my ' Philosophy ' very much
at your service. If I could separate the twelfth book from the
rest I should not hesitate to offer it you, for it is all about
IBacon, his predecessors and successors ; but fear you will lie

 alarmed at my two volumes.

     A rough draft still in Mr. Spedding's possession
 shows that to this letter the following answer was
returned : --

     I need not tell you how much I have been gratified by your

 letter, which, going round by Mirehouse, only reached me last

 night. I have sent you a copy of Vol. I. by the post, and hope
 to send Vol. II. in a week or two, the last proof being now in

 ray hands.

     I am aware that it seems absurd to print a book, and yet

 to wish not only to keep it private, but to prevent it from
 circulating privately. But after a great deal of consideration
 of the matter, and looking only to the interest of the subject

 Iitself, -- mean to the chance of making a successful and
 durable impression on public opinion-- I am satisfied that to

  present the question first in this form would not be judicious.

 It would be very likely to provoke controversy, and the re

  viewers would be the judges. Until they have heard the
  evidence as well as the argument they will not be in a condi
  tion to judge, and so long as the body of evidence is not easily
  accessible, and bound up with the argument, they will proceed
 to judgment without hearing it. In such a case, considering
  the strong current of popular prejudice against my view, and
  the tendency of all first appeals against popular prejudices to
  raise a dust of popular objections, the verdict would in the first

 Iinstance go against me. And though might appeal with a
1S48        'EVENINGS WITH A REVIEWER.'                         357

better chance to second thoughts and the next generation, yet,

Ithe appeal would be conducted at great disadvantage, because
    should stand in the position of an advocate with a personal

Iinterest in the cause. The ' occasional works,' as hope to
edit them, will contain all the evidence, clearly and impartially

set forth.     Everybody who possesses   I them will possess    the
means of                                                        for
            judging for himself; and if    can get that credit
Ijustice and impartiality which I mean to deserve, do not

much doubt the issue. But the first reception of the work

(upon which in these times so much depends), will itself

Idepend very much upon my coming before the public with a

clear and unsuspected character ; which if shall have pre

viously incurred the reputation (justly or not), of an advocate

Iengaged to make good his own position, cannot expect.
    It is true that private circulation among friends does not

expose a book to public or unfriendly criticism. But since

some half-dozen copies which I had distributed during the last

few months, with injunctions of privacy, have already brought
me about half a score of applications from other friends for the

Ilike, fear that private circulation is likely to extend beyond

my own friends to the friends of Macaulay and of some others

whose names are not very ceremoniously dealt with ; in which

case it would be but fair that they should be informed of what is

going on against them. And then what becomes of the privacy ?

     I could add much more to the same purpose, but you will
easily see how difficult it is to keep a printed book really private.
My object in printing it was partly to secure it against being

Ilost; because in case should be prevented from going on

with the greater work, my objections to the publication would

Ibe removed, and should be glad to think that so much is
Ileft in a producible form ; but chiefly that may have the

assistance of what Myers calls · corrective criticism,' of which

in so large a subject a much wiser and more learned man than

myself would stand in need, and for which one cannot ask when

it involves the reading and returning of a manuscript. There

Iis no one from whom should hope for more valuable assistance

in this way than from yourself, if you think my labours worthy
of it ; therefore no one to whom (if I had thought myself at
liberty to ask so much) I should have been more desirous of
358 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                            1848

submitting the volumes. But I hope you will agree with me
in thinking it better for the present that they should not get

into many hands, and use them with discretion accordingly.
I am much obliged to you for the explanation of the pas
Isage
                                                                    never
have                                                                Could
in p. 68 :   (subject,  base, and  tIaxthabinlek)   which should
found for     myself,   and which                  quite decisive.
Iyou refer me to the book where the words occur ? should have

been glad to hear of the other scruples which you do not men
tion ; for it is one of the advantages of delaying publication that

it enables me to keep the whole subject open to the last.

   IWith regard to the distinctive character of Bacon's philo

sophy, expect Ellis to take care of that. It is a question

Iwhich should not have presumed to treat, except as it bears

Iupon his personal character, and those aspirations and endeavours
which I suppose formed the greatest part of his life.               can

easily believe that the results attained or attainable by his

method were not so great as those contemplated by Gilbert ;

Ibut I confess that shall be slow to be persuaded that the

results which he expected were not both different and greater.
IMy conclusion as to this rests (as
                                                   think) upon positive
Ievidence. Perhaps may be a little biassed in favour of it,
Ibecause, if am right, it saves him from the charge of injustice

to Gilbert.

To James Spedding, Esq.]

                 Trinity Lodge, Cambridge: Dec. 12, 1848.

I IAgain have to thank you for an invaluable volume.
have read it through with even more delight than the former

Ione, and go along with you every step. It appears to me that

' A ' is very hard to convince, and suppose you intended to

Iconvey that impression, or at least to set him up as the re
presentative of those who are so.  am so much moved to

indignation at your complete exposure of the injustice of common

Ifame, and of Macaulay the advocate of that Diabolus, that

cannot without much reluctance assent to your delaying the

I Ipublic remedy of the wrong till you can put it in a more formal
and complete shape.     dare say you are right. But cannot

conceive how the public should not be strongly interested in

the discussion as you have now printed it. The criticism is a
1848  'EVENINGS WITH A REVIEWER.'  359

model of patience, clearness, and fairness ; and when you give
your own view of Bacon's history it is to me deeply affecting.

IObserve, do not really wish you to deviate from the course
Iyou have marked out for yourself ; for believe you have a

sager view of the nature of the beast, ' public opinion,' than I,

especially fresh from your whole book, have. And no doubt

few, except patient readers, or those already impatient of the

vulgar way of talking about Bacon, would be willing to spend

so many evenings with you in the tranquil frame of mind which

the right estimate of the case requires. So I can only thank

you heartily on my part, and long for the time when you shall

publicly come forward as that executor whom Bacon designated

to clear his fame in future ages.

    I am especially delighted that you have found your great

Ipuzzle where always found mine-- in the contrast of Bacon's

demeanour immediately after the accusation against him, and

again when it had been urged a little further ; and your solution

of the problem, though quite new and unexpected, strikes me
much : but you are aware that, being so new, it is well for ' A '

to ponder a moment to decide upon it, or at least to get full

possession of it.

    I will notice one or two small matters (p. 382). I think if

you look again you will see that ' his Majesty ' must be the

King of England. Bacon means to say that the Indies are

worth more than all the islands, even though the King be, as

he says, · the greatest islander in Christendom.'

    I have not yet found in any formal shape the French phrase
Ito which suppose Bacon to refer in the passage which I for

merly mentioned to you. And this brings to my mind that,
Iwaiting to do that, have not yet thanked you for giving me
Ieo kindly the first volume.
                              shall not fail to regard your

Idesire of privacy in the use of these excellent volumes.

    I said that had some scruples about some points, or per
haps I should rather say, one point. In the case of Essex, you

suggest that one reason why Bacon might be willing to appear

against him was that he might press the case less severely

than another advocate on that side. It appears to me that
this mood of mind --an intended or foreseen modification of a
positive duty by an adverse affection --is a dangerous moral
3G0 LIFE OF DR WHEWELL.  1848

Icondition. Indeed  do not expect you to deny that it is
dangerous; and I dare say if I were to look back I should find
that your phrases are careful of the moral condition. Only on
my first reading I set this point aside to be meditated morally.
   I told my publisher to send you my two volumes. In page

214 of the second you will see noticed several remarkable point s

which Bacon, I think, took from Gilbert. But undoubtedly he

did contemplate something greater, as a practical and definite

plan, than Gilbert did. I am afraid I should have to say that

the defects of this plan as he conceived it, and without working
by light which rose afterwards, made it certain to fail. But

this is not your question, you will say. Again thanking you

for what you have done for our noble-minded, ill-used friend,

believe me, &c.

     To this letter the following was Mr. Spedding's

reply :.--

     Your judgment upon my last volume, or rather upon the
case as there expounded, has given me great delight and con

solation. I am very glad that you think no better of my friend
A's judgment. I meant him to represent by it the impression

with which a man of a candid and just and open mind, but
one who set out with a full belief in the popular estimate of
Bacon's character, and was not much disposed to admire the
kind of man he really was, might be expected to rise from a
first perusal of the book ; giving him credit for a moral taste
unlike my own in all those points in which moral tastes may

Ifairly differ ; and making him concede no more than think

Icandour would compel such a man to concede. Many men,

hope, will think him, as you do, unreasonable. More, perhaps,
will in the first instance agree with him, and will modify their
opinions by degrees, and so come nearer to my view ; the rather

Ibecause they will feel that am not blinded by enthusiasm,

but can put myself in their position and see the thing as they
see it.

    Your two volumes arrived duly, for which I am much
obliged. I had read the passage to which you refer me. In
deed I believe I had read everything you had written concerning

Bacon ; and that, without finding anything in your exposition
1848  'EVEMXGS WITH A REVIEWER.'                                  3G1

which I could not easily acquiesce in as consistent with what
little 1 know of those matters myself. It was not from any

unwillingness to admit either great deficiencies or great errors

in Bacon's philosophy -- errors in his estimate both of things
and of men --nor from any anxiety to glorify him, that I was

led to my conclusion with regard to the distinctive difference

between his philosophy and those of his contemporaries and

Iimmediate predecessors ; but really and truly from a difficulty
   found in reconciling the language he used in describing his
mission, and the course which he took in working it out, with

the notion that the difference was no greater in kind or degree

than that which you point out. This difficulty I felt the less

hesitation in urging, because it was more likely to be perceived
in endeavouring to follow closely the character and career of

the man than in tracing the history of science. As far as the

man is concerned   my solution (if otherwise tenable) is I        think
                                                                  judg
satisfactory. It  implies indeed a considerable error of

ment ; but a kind of error into which such a mind was peculiarly

liable to fall --the error of a great imagination, great hope,

great sense of power ; which transported him too far beyond

the ignorant present, and showed him the future in the instant ;

an error which, if one could have the secret and personal history
of any of the greater discoveries in philosophy, I should expect

to find had been fallen into by some great mind or other in the

course of it. Now, I suppose- Bacon to have regarded Gilbert

(without the least thought of disparaging him, but honestly
and seriously) much as you might regard a man who, having

diligently investigated the ebb and flow of his native river, and

discovered a law in; should have set himself thereupon to

              it,

                  it

                                            ;

                             I

                                                       a
frame a theory of tides, without first consulting the Atlantic,

the Pacific, and the Mediterranean.  suppose such theory
                                                          I
might have been constructed, and might have contained a great  a

deal of the truth and yet might have been reasonably rejected

as in its nature unsound and unphilosophical. Nay, suppose,

if his river had been luckily situated, such man might have

actually hit upon the true law have assigned to the moon her

actual function, and possibly led by anticipation, or by another

path to the discovery of the universal law of gravitation.        I

can well believe that Bacon, acting under this impression, and
362 LIFE OF DR. WJIEWELL.                 1848

being himself subject to certain ' idols ' of his own, which were

beckoning him in quite an opposite and (as it turned out) an

utterly wrong direction, might have paid less attention to

Gilbert's great and fortunate generalisation than it really

deserved ; just as Professor Airy paid less attention to Adams's

calculations than they deserved ; thinking, and it would seem

not without reason (for I am told that there was much of luck
in that discovery too), that there was no hope of discovering
I Ithe place of the external planet upon those data.
                                          said that

might be a little biassed in favour of this opinion ; but it is not

Ibecause am unwilling to admit faults in Bacon, but because

the fault implied in his alleged injustice to Gilbert is one which

Idoes not seem to me to belong to his character, but supposes

an element in it which cannot square with the rest. On the

other hand the charge of borrowing from Gilbert, or from

IRoger Bacon, or from any one else is one which find no diffi
culty in allowing, because I believe that minds like his are the

greatest borrowers of all, and least able to say from which source

each borrowed item came : not to add that a very strict and

solicitous account of debtor and creditor in such matters is not

in my opinion to be recommended ; for it tends to interrupt

the proper process of the mind, which is unconscious assimilation

of all that is best and truest, to encumber discussions with

irrelevant matter, and to divert attention from the work itself

to the rival pretensions of the workmen.

With regard to the moral question which you raise upon

part of the Essex case, my expression is perhaps not so guarded
Ias it should have been.
                          meant merely to anticipate an

objection which might be made by those who are not satisfied

with my own view of Bacon's true duty in that case, namely

that of unhesitating fidelity to the larger interest and thejuster

cause, and say that he ought to have preferred the private to

Ithe public obligation. To which answer, that even upon that

supposition it would have been natural for him to take the

course he did ; for that his sole chance of serving Essex at all

was by interfering to prevent any unjust or undue pressure of

the evidence against him ; and it was only as one of the counsel

for the prosecution that he could have any opportunity of such

interposition. His choice lay not between speaking for Essex
1848  'EVENINGS WITH A REVIEWER.'     363

and speaking against him ; but between taking a part in the

examinations and prosecution, and leaving all to Coke. I

Ithink have expressed strongly enough my dissent on moral

grounds from Macaulay's suggestion that at least he ought not
to have answered the arguments which Essex put forward in

palliation of his crime.
IThe passage (vol. ii. p. 382) where  suppose that ' his
IMajesty ' means the King of Spain, puzzled me long. While
took it to mean the King of England, I could not understand

the argument; and the explanation which you suggest does
not quite remove my difficulty. The least success to be hoped

for from the proposed enterprise, (says Bacon,) is the cutting
off the returns from the Indies ; the loss of which, he says,

would beggar the King of Spain and make him the poorest

King in Europe. And in that case, he goes on--for the
intervening sentences are parenthetical --(i.e. if the returns from

Ithe Indies were cut off), ' if all the lands that belong to the

Crown of England were offered to his Majesty, would not

Igive my advice to receive them, much less to conquer them.'

Now, think Bacon could hardly mean that if the King of

England had to choose whether he would have the treasures of

the Indies or keep the British Isles, he would advise him to
choose the treasure, but he might very well say that if the

King of Spain had to choose whether he would keep his Indian

treasure or conquer the British Isles, he would advise him to

keep the treasure and leave the British Isles, even though he

could have them without fighting.1

     Early in 1849 Dr. and Mrs. Whewell were in Lon
don, and a lively letter of Mrs. Whewell's to her sister,
Mrs. Temple, relates how on March 29, when resting
after a Drawing-Eoom, and preparing to dress for din
ner with Mr. and Mrs. James Marshall at seven o'clock,

     1 Mr. Venables's explanation of the passage in question is certainly the
right one. ' That case ' is the case of the conquests by England in France,
and the meaning is that the King of England is better without all the lands
in France which England claims, even though they should be offered to him.'
1851.
364 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                  I&i9

her husband not yet come in from his clnb, a messenger

arrived with a command to dine at Buckingham Palace

Iat eight o'clock precisely. ' could not even begin to
Idress, for was not sure if we ought to go in colours

or in black, for the Court was in mourning, but the

Drawing-Eoom was in colours. W            did not come

in  till  five  minutes  to  seven     '  However, the important
                                    !

point was settled in time, and a black velvet gown put

on ^ ' and at ten minutes before eight we were in the

picture-gallery, a most pleasant waiting-room with all

those beautiful pictures to look at.' ' Lord Castlereagh

took me in to dinner, and we had to walk all the length of

Ithat long table before we could find a place. However,
  was settled at last between him and the Queen's chap

lain, Mr. Courtenay, both very agreeable neighbours.'
' On the whole the visit left a most pleasant impression

I. . . and enjoyed without disturbance or drawback

seeing our Queen's kind and gracious looks (especially

when bestowed on my husband and myself), watching

the Prince's most handsome and intelligent countenance,

and also looking at the splendid rooms, pictures, Mowers,

plate, &c.'

    The following letters to Miss Whewell and to Pro

fessor Sedgwick tell how the summer holiday of this

year was spent. After returning from Germany Mrs.

Whewell went to Lowestoft, and the letters from her

husband of September and October were addressed to

her there. A visit was paid by Dr. Whewell to Hurst-

monceux in November, where he had much talk with

Archdeacon and Mrs. Hare and Mrs. Alexander, though

not, he declares, at ' railroad speed.' A letter to his

sister, written at the close of the year, tells her of the

appointment of the new Bishops of Llandaff and Carlisle,
and bids her never believe ' such foolish stories as
1849             CATHEDRAL AT COLOGNE.                                         365

Mackreth told you out of the newspapers. My work is

Ihere, and am well contented that it is so.'

To his Sister]                            Bonn: August 19.

      I have been down the Rhine as far as Cologne, and am now

on my return up the river, willingly staying at some of the
Ipoints where I have friends with whom
                                                                 formerly became
acquainted, or churches and antiquities which I have formerly

speculated about.

    The Cathedral at Cologne, which I am inclined to think the

finest building in the world (for it is the finest Gothic cathedral,
and a Gothic cathedral is the finest kind of building) is an

object of interest in another point of view. The King of

Prussia has undertaken the restoration of or rather, should
       ;                                                         I

                it is                                                       ;
                               :
                            it
                                                            it,
say, its completion for was never above half completed and

this completion now going on on a gigantic scale --that is,

as to the design, for the expense bestowed upon                  it            not

                                                                      is

excessive but goes on steadily, through all the troubles and
agitations which have shaken Germany, and will, we ma)' hope,
be completed in the course of twenty years or so -- small
                                                                 :
period in the building of great cathedral, even in the ancient
                    a                                               a
days when people laboured in earnest on such objects even ina

the ages of faith,' as Digby calls them.             ;
'
       have the pleasure to find here an old architectural friend,
    I

M. Boisseree, who published a magnificent' work upon the

Cathedral of Cologne a long time ago and by that and by

other labours bestowed upon the history of the Cathedral con

tributed in very great degree to the great undertaking of its
             Ia
completion.      shall stay here day or two longer for the

pleasure of seeing him, and then return to Kreuznach.

To Professor Sedgwick']

                   Kreuznach, Rhenish Prussia: Sept.
I                                                                1849.
                   I

                                                                                          3,
                                                                                                                        a
       always rejoice when the forms of our old friendship take

the place of our casual relations of master and vice-master, and

was glad on that account, as well as on others, to receive your

letter here, which  found yesterday on my return from

week's excursion as far as Switzerland. The railroad which
366 LIFE OF DR. W HE WELL.                                184?

carries you along the line of the Bergstrasse as far as Bask
Iwas too great a temptation to withstand, though was obliged
ofto content myself without going further. The view
inmountain shore of the old Rhine basin seen in this way  the

                                                          the
course of a single day is exceedingly beautiful, and as the rail
way keeps to the flats it is as if you were gliding along on the
back of a dinotherium -- if they ever condescended to take

passengers in the time of the pre-adamite lake.

    I was very sorry to hear that you still have some stiffness
in your leg. I hope you will persevere in some medical treat

ment of it which may restore it to its former flexibility.

    I had seen the account of the death of the Marchese in the
newspaper, and had heard some time before that it was an

event which could not be far distant.

Noggenrath passed through this place a week ago on a visit
Ito the agate mines of Oberstein, but did not see him, being
Ithen on a short tour.
                        had, however, seen him at Bonn a

little while before, and had found him very much occupied

with speculations concerning the formation of agates. He has

made a collection of them on purpose, which he showed me at

Poppelsdorf.

    I should be very glad to see your Preface,1 in proof or other
wise ; I have been looking for it with great interest, though I

hope the extravagant wonderment about the Vestiges has died
away. The great difficulty in satisfying the mind of general
readers on such subjects is that you have to oppose to at

tractive positive generalisations, nothing but negations and

doubts. The ordinary reading world are always ready to ask,

* if the world was not made as this man says it was, you must

tell us how it was made.'

    But I am merely talking from general notions without
knowing the line which you have taken ; and I am full sure

that what you have written will be full of valuable philosophical
thought and sound geology, which will make its way with all

reflecting readers. I suppose you will not have to refer much

directly to the author of the Vestiges. The world will listen

     1 This is the Preface to the new edition of his Sermon referred to in a
later letter.
r
              PltOFESSOR SEDGWICK'S PREFACE.                 367

>re -willingly to instruction independently delivered than to
a continuance of so old a controversy.

I> h-is Wife]              Trinity Lodge : Sept. 30.

liave been dining in Hall to-day. I sent to ask Willis,
liat I Iho came, having arrived only last night. He assures me

          suspected, that possess all the books which I want to
orrow of him, so when you come back I must try to find them.
Yiave no expectation of finding anything till that happens.

Sedgwick, it seems, has been here great part of the summer,
iririeipally employed I think in writing and printing the
'reface to the new edition of his Sermon. The Preface will in
Iact be a book of 200 or 300 pages.
                                            gave him my paper
ibout Hegel, which happens to fall in well with some of his

criticisms of German philosophers ; so he goes on discoursing

and laughing about it with great vivacity.

The Bishop of Manchester has not yet appointed an Arch

deacon of Lancaster, though everybody wishes that he would

put Mackreth in the office, which indeed he is by the Act of

Parliament bound to fill.

To the same]               Trinity Lodge : Oct. 3.

I got your letter about business a little before dinner, while

1 was busy with the answers to my mathematical examination

Ipapers. contrived to finish my papers by four (working from
Ione) ; good evidence that it is not a very heavy examination,

and then went to walk in the cloisters, where I found Martin
Iand Remington, and subsequently Rothman.
                                              had ordered
my horse, thinking that I saw some gleams of good nature

through the gloomy drizzle, but there was no mitigation till

about five, when the showers ceased and I walked towards the

Observatory. And then there was the most brilliant blue, wet

sky that you can conceive, with tawny gold edged clouds,

looking as if they had been combed out of the wet rain-clouds.

   IBut suppose that you, business-like woman, think that

all this is not talking in a business-like way ; no more it is.
IBut do not despair of me nor despise me.
                                            have read all that

you say about accounts. It is very wise and comfortable.
368 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                1840

    II hope shall be wise enough not to do as the Duke of

Buckingham did --go on buying land and houses till he was

Inot able to pay for his eating and drinking. But am not
Idisposed to let Cliff Cottage till see better than at present

whether we shall be constrained by not having it to go to.

IAnd as for the fifty pounds, or whatever it is you get for it,

had rather write a book to obtain the money ! Do not laugh at

Ime for vapouring. Have not a note from Mr. Deighton this

morning to tell me that he wants a new edition of my Conic
Sections ? And do you not like to have the Cottage to go to

at a moment's warning ? However, we can talk about all this.

To the mine]    Trinity Lodge : Oct. 6.

About the bed-maker's place I have many applications, but
I am helpless and stupid about such matters when you are
Iaway from me.  am sure it requires great insight and great

steadiness to deal justly and kindly with these poor people, and
II want you much to help me -- but there is no hurry.
                                                       am
Iglad you find plenty to do at the Hospital and elsewhere.

wonder what impression Lady Alderson's reading produced
upon the ' rough ' men ? Among other pleasant reasons for
returning to Lowestoft is the prospect of meeting the pleasant

Aldersons.

To the same]    Trinity Lodge : Nov. 8, 1849.

I have been considering how much of their interest all the
Iletters which have opened lose by your not being here to
Iread them and talk them over with me.
                                        am disposed to
think that if I were to say they lose nine-tenths of their charm
Iit would be saying too much ; but if were only to say that

they lose five-sixths, it would certainly be saying too little.

But you do not comprehend these fractional ways of talking of

such matters !

   I had a very pleasant breakfast at Dr. Holland's with Mrs.
IHolland and the two girls, and Lord Lansdowne, with whom

afterwards walked down to Berkeley Square. Then at the

Athenaeum I met James Eoss, just rushing in from Baffin's Bay.
I was sorry to find that he had no belief in the Esquimaux

stories which they have put in the newspapers, and very little
1849 'JANE EYRE.' 369

hope about Sir J. Franklin. I was glad to see him safe and
well, and also to hear from him that Sir J. Eichardson was

safely arrived at Liverpool.

   I am glad you find the ' Lives of the Lindsays ' better, or

at least less factitious and fictitious, and more real, than you

at^fst expected. I, on my part, have been somewhat disturbed

at having to send on ' Shirley ' without your reading it. For a

good novel which we both read is like a new and clever ac

Iquaintance which we have in common, and ' Shirley ' is, think,

much cleverer and more dramatic than ' Jane Eyre.' Then it

puzzles me much as to the sex of the writer. It has even more

of the cleverness, largeness of speculation and audacity, which
made me think ' Jane Eyre ' a masculine performance ; but then

there are some ways of dealing with male and female relations

which look like feminine workmanship. For instance, all the

women fall in love with the men, which is I think a female

characteristic. But if it be a woman's book, women are growing

to be very strange and alarming creatures.

There goes the fly, rumbling, rumbling, rumbling, across
Ithe court with Sedgwick's female creatures,
                                               told you he had

a party to-night.

To the same]       Trinity Lodge : Nov. 11,1 849.

I must write and send you the various matters which have

come to hand, as you will not yet come and take them.

   I have been working very hard to-day -- sermon writing.

Then I have my architectural lecture to-morrow, the meeting
Iabout Smyth the next day, which find will take more trouble
than I reckoned on ; this sermon on Thursday, and another on

ISunday put me, idle sermoniser that am, quite in a bustle.
IThen to-day when I was writing as fast as could, and hoping

to get through, they very stupidly set the roof of St. Michael's

Church on fire, with the flues of the stove, and came to ask for

the college fire-engine, disturbing the whole town out of its

Sunday propriety, though of course the young men were

delighted to form lines and hand fire-buckets. Yesterday

brought a graver piece of bad news. Dr. French 1 had a para

lytic seizure.

                   1 Master of Jesus College.
                                   BB
370 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

II have been dining in Hall, as I mostly do on Sunday*]
when you are not here, a very disagreeable when,       took m I

Sir Edward Cust. Sir J. Stephen was in chapel, bat dined is
his own college. I have to-day Dr. Lee's announcement cl<
Ihimself as candidate for the Regius professorship.
Ianswer Hare's letter of which I told you yesterday.   raoa j

                                                       hope no

more bed-makers, grooms, or professors will come into the field,

for they, along with sermons and lectures to deliver, and syndi
cates and committees to attend, and proof sheets to correct, g"

Inear to bewilder me. However, must fight through as well
as I may, and you will come and help me bye-and-bye.
   Sir J. Stephen comes to choose furniture rather than Lady

S , because, as he said, men always like the first thing

which is offered them, and that saves time and trouble. You

speak of having written yesterday, but no such letter ha?

arrived. I suppose all this happens to me that I may know
how much I depend upon you : the lesson, however, is disagree

able (as most lessons are) and superfluous.

    I have got your letter of the 10th, and send the envelope
that you may see why I did not get it sooner.

     Addressed : --

                                 ' The Rev. the Master,

              The Lodge,

                                          Cambridge.'

     · The Postmaster, unable to decide which Master this is
intended for, begs to send it to the Vice-Chancellor.'

To the same]  Trinity Lodge : Nov. 1 3.

   I am glad I shall have no more letters to write to you.

I have so much to say and to hear, it seems that pen, ink, and

paper are a slow way of dealing with it.

Dr. French died yesterday afternoon ; a very sudden re

moval. Those who thought his attack very severe still spoke
Iof an imperfect recovery. But it was not to be so.
                                                       did not
Iknow that it had happened when gave my lecture yesterday

evening at the Philosophical Society, and heard the news only

Ias I came out of the room. My lecture was, suppose, suc

cessful. There were many people there, and a great number
1849  MORAL PHILOSOPHY PRIZES.                 371

of ladies. They seemed much interested, and what was much
more to the purpose, Willis said he was · quite charmed ' with
the names of my three principles.

      On November 12, 1849, the Master offered to the

University two prizes of 15/. each, to be given every year
so long as he held the professorship of Moral Philosophy,
to the two persons who showed the greatest proficiency

in Moral Philosophy in the examination for the Moral

Science Tripos. This examination was appointed to

commence in 1851. The prizes were given in every year
from that time to the year 1855, when he resigned
the Professorship and was succeeded by Professor

Grote.

To James Garth Marshall]
                             Trinity Lodge: Christmas Day, 1849.

     This letter cannot do otherwise than begin with loving
thoughts and good wishes to you and your wife and children.
May the new year bring you and us all good, and especially the
best good, that we may grow better than we are. When we
look back at the past we see that Providence has managed so
much better for us than our own wishes and fancies could have
done that we may well and thankfully trust Him with the
future.

I sent you my reply to John Mill. I have now said my say
about him, and I do not suppose that he will think any re
Ijoinder necessary, so the matter will rest.
                                               could easily have

said a great deal more about his book, and could have shown, as

I conceive, the errors of several of the doctrines of his logic ;
but I was resolved to confine myself to induction, which is my

Ispecial business. You will see that have refused to pursue

the controversy about Ideas. My ' Fundamental Antithesis '

will, I think, now stand without further help.
    Sedgwick yesterday had a fall in riding, and I grieve to say,

broke his right arm just below the shoulder. He is doing well,

but his accident quite saddens our Christmas.

      is u 2
372 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                  1849

To his Sister]  Trinity Lodge: Dec. 31, 1849.

I suppose this will find you at Woodside at the opening of
the year, enjoying the season, I hope, with our cousins. My best

wishes for all the blessings the new year can bring, come with

my letter. Tell William Newton that I shall be glad if he can

get me exact information about the height of high water at

Liverpool during last week and this morning and afternoon,

and also how much it rose above the usual spring tides. Also

I should be very glad to know if the tide was expected at

Liverpool in consequence of any local knowledge or local tide

tables. It does not appear that a very high tide was predicted

by the Government tide tables ; but the Yarmouth boatmen

expected it and prepared for it. The railroad between Cam

bridge and Lowestoft has been rendered impassable by it.

     The letters of 1850 tell their own story. Some
on Church questions to Professor Sedgwick may be found

interesting.

    A part of the summer was again spent at Kreuz-

nach, and during his stay there Dr. Whewell translated
into English Auerbach's pretty story of the Frau Pro-

fessorinn.

     The month of September was spent in the north,
and in November they went to Yorkshire, to be present
at the consecration of St. John's Church, Holbeck, built
by Mrs. Whewell's brothers.

To his Sister]  Trinity Lodge : Jan. 1 9.

     We came here yesterday from Lowestoft, which we found

Ivery cold, as suppose all places were at that time, and rather

desolate, which we never thought it before ; but the expanse of

frozen inundations and snowy flats which lies between us and

the sea, and the sea itself, rough and dirty beyond, were not at
all attractive. In order to get there we had to go in the railroad

carriage through an inundated tract, seeing no rails of course,

and pushing the ice floes about as we went along, and throwing
little cataracts through the spokes of the wheels. On one
1850                    GORIIAM CASE.  373

occasion the water put out the fires of the engine, but we escaped
better.

To the same]                         Trinity Lodge : Feb. 4.

      We are here beginning to be very busy. My lectures are
commencing, and will take more time than they have hitherto

Idone, as must accommodate them to our new scheme of studies,

which now begins to make itself felt.
      We have staying with us a Benedictine monk, Dom Pitra, a

very learned and very agreeable man, who is here for the pur
pose of copying manuscripts.

     The election of the Divinity Professor also will take up a
good deal of time ; for we must hear from each of the candidates
a Latin discourse more than an hour long, and there are eight
candidates. To insert these eight or ten hours into days which
are already occupied with business, will take up nearly the

whole week.

    I do not know whether you have seen Mr. Evans's last book,
I' Parochial Sketches,' so send it. I think you will like it. I

want you to tell me whether the Hincaster Hall opposite p. 71

is your Hincaster House. It is a genuine Westmoreland ' house,'

Ibut suppose yours to be more of a cottage.

To Professor Sedgwick]  Trinity Lodge: April 2, 1850.

I have no doubt that your clergy and others at Norwich are

Iagitated, as many persons in all quarters are, by this judgment of
the Privy Council in Gorham's case.    think I cannot be mis

taken in supposing that you will be one of those who strongly

disapprove of the agitation which has been set on foot to over

turn the judgment and to eject Gorham. It will be a lament

able narrowing of the circle of persons whom the Established

Church has hitherto included, if all those whom the Bishop of

Exeter, and bishops of the same tendencies, conclude, on ex

amination of their doctrines, to hold interpretations of our

. formularies different from theirs, are to be driven out of the

Church ; and this when they are not trying to evade the language

of the Church, but using it heartily and with affection. You

must have seen how hotly the Archbishop of Canterbury 1 has

              1 Archbishop Sumner.
374 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

been attacked, by addresses to the Bishop of London and other

wise. The Archbishop's friends conceive that it would be a

satisfaction to him to have an expression of confidence and

Isympathy addressed to him ; and the draft which send you is
in circulation with that view. I should be glad to know whether

many of the clergy and gentry in your neighbourhood would be

likely to sign it. I understand your Bishop 1 is against the
judgment, though not, I suppose, agreeing quite with the

Bishop of Exeter. The Archbishop of York 2 has just been here

as my guest for a few days, and confirms the opinion that such

an address would be well received.  The High Church party, on
the other side, are very vehement.  Mill has gone so far as to
preach at St. Mary's a sermon on    the text, ' Father, forgive

them, &c.' Hare, as you may suppose, is against this agitation.

He has just sent me a charge, in which are some excellent re

marks on this question, as well as upon several others.

    I hope your ailments go on mending. I was sorry to hear

from Charles Wodehouse that your leg, as well as your arm,

gives you trouble still. I hope you will bring all your limbs

Ihere in a state of perfect ease and use at the end of the month.
Our niece Kate has left us, to our great sorrow.  hope yours

is well. Our kind regards to her.

To the same]  Trinity Lodge : April 10, 1850.

IThe address to the Archbishop, which sent you, was sent

me by Jones, who hoped and expected that it would be signed

by a great body of leading public men. Since then he has

written to say that those whose sentiments it expresses, think
it better to pause till Parliament meets, and till we can see

Iwhat steps are taken on the other side. In this judgment

Iagree, and think it possible that a meeting and a separate

address such as your clergy propose may give the agitators an

advantage. At present the friends of a comprehensive interpre

tation of our formulae are on strong ground, as having nothing

to ask for. The decision of the Privy Council is in their favour,

and a few protesting bodies of the clergy on the other side do

them no harm, and do not need to be answered. Indeed, such

              1 Bishop Stanley.
                Archbishop Musfrrave.
1850            SCA FELL PIKE.       375

protests do not appear to me at all blamable, for we know that
there are clergymen who differ much from us, and we have no

wish, I hope, to extrude them. If by meetings and addresses

on one side a provocation is given to the like proceedings on
the other, men's minds may be inflamed, and the event may be,
not comprehension, but a stronger separation and ultimately

extrusion or secession, which I should think great evils.

       The purpose for which the address was supposed to be
needed was to support the Archbishop, who should feel that

he has a strong body in the nation with him. I am very sorry
for the line the Bishop of London 1 has taken. He is most

 unofficially incautious in the expression of his opinions as well
 as very vigorous in his doctrine.

To his Sister]  Trinity Lodge: August 26, 1850.
      I see that your Liverpool neighbours have been almost wild
ahout Jenny Lind. I suppose you did not try to hear her, nor

venture into the crowds that accompanied her wherever she

went. She was singing in Germany while we were there, but

not where we were. I heard that the first rank of her audience

consisted entirely of arm chairs occupied by reigning sovereigns.

To the same]                Trinity Lodge: Sept. 22, 1850.

      We arrived here yesterday after a pleasant circuit among

sisters and brothers, beginning with you. From you we went

Ito Coniston, whence made one or two short expeditions with

James Marshall, one to the top of Sea Fell Pike, the highest

Imountain in England, believe, and certainly the harshest and
Irudest and most disagreeable of all the English hills have

ever climbed. Thence we went to Patterdale, then to Keswick,

where we stayed at Derwent Island some very pleasant days, till

the time came for running southwards. We passed your house
on Friday last. The day was very misty but still we could see

at a distance the grey battlemented towers of Sizergh, and we
recollected the odd broken English in which Mr. Strickland's

valet had talked to us about the old falconet which they had
· blowed off ' when he came of age, and the various old-fashioned

things which we saw there.

                1 Bishop Blomfield.
376 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.            IS-50

   I went to Kendal while I was staying with James Marshall
at Coniston. I found they had disclosed the foundation of the

piers only the day before, and the result was they were in such

a condition that all who saw them wondered they had stood so

long ; especially one old lady who had been in the habit of
sitting near the most dangerous piers, and who seemed quite

shocked at the danger which she had escaped.

To the same]                        Nov. 28, 1850.

This has been a very busy time. Among other employments

has been an expedition which brought me a good deal nearer

to you. This was a visit to Leeds, to be present at the opening

of a new church which my brothers-in-law have built and

endowed. The church is a very beautiful one ; early English,

with three aisles of equal height, and a stone roof ; the lofty

clustered pillars rising in two rows, and the windows being for

the most part lancets, but some in the choir with circular

Itracery. Dr. Hook preached the sermon at the opening, and

preached the next day, which was Sunday. A little before we
had had another opening of a church here in Cambridge ; St,

Michael's, re-opened after damage by fire, on which occasion
I Ialso preached.
                   believe they pretended to report my sermom

in the Cambridge Chronicle, and altered it much, whether for
the better or worse I do not know.

To Dr. Mackreth]                  Trinity Lodge: Dec. 13, 1850.

I learn that our friend Benjamin Satterthwaite is removed

from this life. He has been so long on the verge of the grave

that the event hardly seems a change, and had survived so

many of his nearest relations that he makes no blank in a

family circle ; but to me his loss has its especial sorrow, for he

was one of the very oldest of my friends ; a friend who sought

me out at the very beginning of my course. And this year has

removed so many of my friends that such an addition to the

list has its especial solemnity.
                               377

                               CHAPTER VIII.

                               1860-1855.

University Reforms --Studies --Moral and Natural Sciences--Statutes --
Memorial to Lord John Russell --Royal Commission -- Address of Heads
to the Vice-Chancellor --Constitution of Commission --Evidence of Dr.
Whewell --Private Tuition --Caput -- Council of the Senate -- Report--
Lord Palmerston's Letter-- Reply from Master and Seniors of Trinity --
Science Fellowships-- Scholarships --University of Oxford Act-- Dr.
                               --Cambridge Bill --Protest of ex-Royal Commissioners
--WhDerw. eWll'hsewNeoltl'ess   Attitude --Two kinds of Reform --Resignation of Pro
fessorship --Vice-Chancellor again--Seat on the Council of the Senate --
Westminster Scholars ---Regius Professorships --Governing Body of
Trinity Refuse Assent to Revised Draft Statute --Master's Remarks --
                                                         --Outline of Code  --Master's Circular
--MeeStti.ngsJohonf 'stheCiGrcouvlearrn--ingRevBisoeddy    Draft--Code of     Statutes --General
Annual Meeting -- Retrospective Sketch of influence on Studies --Lord
Lyttelton --Divinity Examinations -- Progressive Sciences--Moral and
Natural Sciences Examinations --Boards--Triposes --Mr. Henry Sidg-
wick's Review of their History --Mrs. Austin --Lancaster School --
Mr. Myers's Death --Kreuznach --Aubrey de Vere --Grotius -- Plurality
--Royal Visit --Proposed Lecture at Leeds --Sermon at Heversham --
Dinner at Lansdowne House --Glasgow Meeting -- Sydney Smith.

During the three years that had elapsed since the
election of the Prince Consort to the Chancellorship,
Dr. Whewell had not been idle in promoting what, in
his judgment, had been the chief object and justification
of that election. He had already published in 1845 his
work 1 ' Of a Liberal Education in general,' which, how-

     1 This treatise, to which Very frequent reference is made in the text,
was published in 1845 with the title ' Of a Liberal Education in general,
and with particular reference to the leading studies of the University of
Cambridge,' and was followed in 1850 by a second, and in 1853 by a third

eeries bearing the same name.
378 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

ever, contained particular reference to the leading
studies of Cambridge. The work attracted much at

tention there, and led to the adoption by the Senate of

changes both in the Mathematical Tripos and in the

Ordinary Examination for Degrees. A Board of Mathe
matical Studies was also established. In all the pro
ceedings requisite for bringing these changes about Dr.

Whewell took the most active part, but the most con
spicuous testimony to his influence as a reformer was

the success which attended his proposal for the estab
lishment of Honour Lists in other subjects besides

Classics and Mathematics. The scheme for the Moral

Sciences and Natural Sciences Triposes, which was made
law for the University by a vote of the Senate passed in
October 1848, was in substance, though not in form,
his own. In 1850 Dr. Whewell published a second
part of his work on a Liberal Education, and the nature
and probable effects of these changes was there set
forth, and discussed with great care and minuteness.

      Another important branch of academic legislation
had in the meantime received his attention. On March
7, 1849, a Syndicate was appointed by grace of the
Senate to revise the Statutes of the University ; it was

renewed in 1850 and again in 1851.

     For some time past it had been universally admitted

that the various fragmentary ordinances and regulations
governing the University ought to be consolidated into
 one code, that the written law should be brought into
harmony with the salutary practices of the University
 as established by long custom, and that manifest defects
 should be removed, and obsolete and impracticable in

junctions rescinded. Such was understood to be the
 task entrusted to the Syndicate ; but an agitation for
 larger changes had arisen within the University, and
ia5o  UNIVERSITY REFORM.  379

was not without its exponents on the Syndicate itself.

Indeed, the question of University Reform had by this
time been mentioned in Parliament, and mooted else

Itwhere beyond the boundaries of Oxford and Cambridge.
      is not surprising that under these circumstances the

Syndicate was inclined to overstep the immediate object

of its appointment and, among other changes of a less

important character, discussed some which affected the
 constitution of the University itself.

        Before the Syndicate had entered upon their discus

 sions a memorial had been addressed to Lord John
 Russell, then first Minister of the Crown, praying that a

 Commission might be issued to reform the Universities

 ab extra, and alleging that they could not efficiently re
 form themselves. Dr. Whewell imagined that the best
 answer to the memorialists would be to make known the

 movements then going on at Cambridge with a view to

 improvement, and accordingly he sent to Professor Owen,

 who was one of their number, a Syndicate Eeport
 recently issued, in which the scheme for the new Tri
 poses was recommended for adoption. This was in ac
 cordance with his well-known doctrine that ' University
 reformers should endeavour to reform by efforts within
 the body, and not by calling in the stranger.'

       The memorial remained for two years unheeded,
 but on April 23, 1850, Lord John Russell announced in
 Parliament the intention of the Ministry to advise Her

  Majesty to issue a Commission.
       The Heads of Colleges at Cambridge at once drew

  up an address to the Vice-Chancellor, informing him
  that he would have the feeling of the University

  with him in any steps which he might take to op
  pose the intended visitation. This address was signed
  by about 160 resident members of the Senate ; a very
380  LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1860-52

large proportion of the whole number. Indeed, Dr.
Whewell, writing to the Provost of Oriel about this
time, expressed an opinion that there were not five
resident graduates at Cambridge who wished to see the

proposed Commission appointed.
     The terms of the address were communicated by the

Vice-Chancellor to Prince Albert, as Chancellor of the
University. It was at the time generally supposed that
the Prince was favourable to the contemplated measure,

but Dr. Whewell asserted confidently to the Provost of

Oriel that this was a mistake, that the Prince was not

privy to the Prime Minister's announcement, and that
he was extremely grieved that such a project was

entertained by the Ministry.

    However this may have been, Commissions for Ox
ford and Cambridge respectively were issued in August

1850. The Cambridge Commissioners were Dr. Graham,
Bishop of Chester and late Master of Christ's College,

Dr. Peacock, Dean of Ely, Sir John Herschel, Sir John

Eomilly, then Attorney-General, and Professor Sedg

wick.

     The selection proved that the Government had en
deavoured to confide the task of enquiry to men who
from their connection with, and their known attachment
to, the University, would attempt to second the work
of improvement which was already in progress there.
Nevertheless, in spite of his personal regard for the
Commissioners individually, Dr. Whewell retained his
strong objection to the Commission collectively. He
thought it his duty to take legal advice on behalf of the
College, as to the attitude which should be assumed to

wards any such body, and, acting on the advice thus
received, he reserved to himself the right of withholding

any information which could not be furnished consistently
1850-52  ROYAL COMMISSION.  381

with what he might conceive to be his duty to the

College and to the University. Subject to this reserva
tion he expressed his readiness to give the Commissioners

every assistance in his power.
     The enquiries of the Commissioners were submitted

to Dr. Whewell in three capacities ; first as Head of a
House, taking part in the government of the University,
secondly as Master of Trinity, and thirdly as Professor
of Moral Philosophy.

     Every enquiry addressed to him was answered with
great care and precision, but he never failed to preface
his answer with a protest against the undue exercise of

power implied by the question. It was not unnatural

that he should feel aggrieved at seeing his own long-
continued and spontaneous labours in the work of reform

superseded by the interference of Government, at the
instance, as he believed, of persons who were not very
friendly either to the University or to the Colleges. All
this gives to his evidence an air of opposition, which
ought not, however, to detract from its real value.

    It is not necessary here to notice in any detail the

evidence he gave or the suggestions he furnished. Most
of those relating to the University studies are repetitions
of what he had already urged in his treatises on Univer

sity education. He assailed the practice of private
tuition as strongly as ever, and may perhaps have hoped

 that external authority might avail to extinguish what
he found by experience to be beyond the reach of
 domestic reform. Perhaps the most interesting part of
 his evidence is that which refers to the expenses of the
 Universities and of the Public Schools. This has been

 already referred to in a previous part of this work.

      Before the Commissioners issued their Report, in
 August 1852, the Syndicate for the revision of the
382 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1852

Statutes, which had been simultaneously labouring on
a portion of the same field, had, after considerable

controversy, arrived at a unanimous decision on the
question which had been at once the most important
and the most difficult to settle. So much afterwards

turned upon this point that it may be as well to
explain it here at some length.

     It had reference to the Caput, an ancient institu

tion, which seems originally to have been intended to

advise the Chancellor, or Vice-Chancellor, in the se

lection of those Graces which he might think proper
to pass or to reject, though in course of time each
individual member of the Caput obtained a right of
veto in this matter. The appointment of the Caput
under the Statutes of Elizabeth was made by the

Heads of Colleges and Doctors, out of three lists of

five persons each, all possessing a prescribed qualifi

cation for the office, and severally nominated by the

Vice-Chancellor and the two Proctors. In practice,
this body, which was appointed for a whole academic

year, was usually so selected as to place the chief
legislative power of the University under the control
of the Heads of Houses.

     The particular questions discussed by the Syndicate
respecting the Caput were, first, as to its mode of elec

tion, and, secondly, as to its constitution and powers.
Dr. Whewell was prepared to acquiesce in some change
as to the mode of election, but firmly adhered to a re

solution he had formed not to sign any report which
interfered with the power of the Vice- Chancellor, as a

member of the Caput, to reject any Grace which he
thought unwise or inexpedient. The Syndicate, which,

on the whole, was working harmoniously on the revision
of the Statutes, was divided into two antagonistic parties
1852       CAPUT.  383

on this point. When it reported in December 1851, it iit,
suggested some change in the mode of election, but re
frained from making any recommendation which would
have the effect of diminishing the powers of the Caput
either individually or collectively. The report was
signed by a majority of the Syndicate, but a consider
able minority, consisting chiefly of the younger members,
withheld their signatures, probably on the ground that
the extraordinary powers of the Caput were left intact.

Graces embodying the recommendations contained in
the report were offered to the Senate in April 1852, but
were not passed.

      The Syndicate was again renewed, and in May 1852
made a special report dealing with the constitution and
powers of the Caput. The Syndicate now unanimously
recommended that the Caput elected and constituted
as prescribed in their former Report should retain the
power of submitting Graces for conferring degrees, but
that for all other purposes its authority should devolve
on a new body, of a more representative character, to
be called the Council of the Senate. This council was

to consist of fifteen members, three to be appointed by
 the Heads of Colleges, three by the Doctors in the

 several faculties, three by the Professors, and six by

 the Colleges, according to the cycle of Proctors. A

 council so constituted could hardly be called represen
 tative of the Senate, but nevertheless the recommenda

 tions contained in this Eeport were entirely approved

 and endorsed by the Eoyal Commissioners.
      After the publication of the Commissioners' Eeport,

 August 1852, and in consequence of a communication
 from the Home Secretary drawing the attention of the
 University to the Syndicate was again renewed, sftid

 resumed its labours.
384 LIFE OF DR. WI1EWELL.  1S54

     It was found convenient that the mind of the Senate-

should be ascertained on the subject of each important
proposal of change as the occasion occurred. The
completion of the draft of new Statutes was thus de
layed until October 1854 ; but this draft was never
offered to the Senate for confirmation ; probably be
cause it had by this time become certain that Parlia
ment would deal with the whole subject of University

and College legislation.
     The work of this Syndicate had been protracted and

laborious. A perusal of the questions discussed and of

the recommendations adopted, when separated from all

extraneous matter and arranged in the classified form

they ultimately assumed, gives an idea, though but an
imperfect one, probably, of the magnitude and difficulty
of the task. Several of the points were in reality ex

tremely minute, but not the less troublesome on that

account. Whether minute or important they all re
ceived the most careful attention from Dr. Whewell,

and were actually made the subject of detailed discus
sion in the third part of his work on a Liberal Educa

tion, which was composed solely and expressly for that
very purpose. In that work he takes each of the

thirty-six changes proposed by the Syndicate seriatim,
and explains, in some cases at great length, the bearing
of each, adducing arguments in favour of those which

he thought desirable, and sometimes expressing his
opinion when he thought the changes uncalled for.
This little book is a remarkable evidence of the extra
ordinary industry and patience which he brought to
the performance of a duty certainly not congenial, but
which he conceived to be of great importance to the

interests of the University.

    It explains also how he acquired his extensive and
1862  ROYAL COMMISSIONERS' REPORT.  385

exact knowledge of the minutia? and formalities of
University practice ; a knowledge which could scarcely
be attained except by one possessing*his habits of mind
as well as his official opportunities ; and it was his
special praise that he was both able and willing to give
to the outside world a clear insight into such matters,
even when he was dealing with the more recondite and
peculiar institutions of the University.

      The suggestions and recommendations contained in
the Royal Commissioners' Report were in general con
formity with the reforms already proposed by the
respective Syndicates which had been engaged on the
task of revising the University Statutes, and enlarging
and improving the University course of studies. The
tone of the Report was studiously careful and moderate.
The Commissioners did not advise any immediate

interference upon large and fundamental questions.
On that of religious tests, for instance, they contented
themselves with foreshadowing, as likely to result from
the effect of time and the wisdom of the Legislature, the

just and generous policy which found its full accom

 plishment some twenty years later.

      In October 1852 the Report was officially com
 municated to the Chancellor of the University, and
 reference was made to it in the Speech from the Throne
 at the opening of Parliament in the following month.

      In the next session a statement was made to the

 House of Commons on behalf of the Government, to the

 effect that no legislation on the subject of the Commis
 sion would be proposed for the present. Reference,
 however, was made to some essential points with
 respect to which the Government conceived that it
 would be the desire and expectation of Parliament, with
 a view to the public welfare and to the extension of the

                                                  cc
386 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1803

useful influences of the Universities, that plans of im

provement should be entertained. These points com
prised, first, the introduction of a more general and
effective system of representation in the constitution
and government of the University ; secondly, the
admission of University students unattached to any
College ; thirdly, the removal of appropriations and

restrictions from fellowships and other College emolu
ments ; fourthly, the conditions of tenure for fellow
ships ; fifthly, the propriety of requiring the Colleges
to contribute out of their funds towards the general
purposes of the University.

      On December 12, 1853, the Government, considering
that a sufficient interval of time had elapsed for the
consideration of all these matters, and of the various

recommendations of the Commissioners, desired to be

informed what measures of improvement the University
and Colleges of Cambridge were about to undertake, and

what aid they would desire from Parliament in carrying
out those measures. The enquiry was addressed to the
Chancellor of the University in a letter from Lord Pal-

merston, who was then Home Secretary. A hope was ex

pressed that there would be no occasion for repeated and
minute interference by Parliament in University and
College affairs, which would best be obviated by some
declaration of enlarged designs of improvement on the

part of the University and College authorities them
selves. And it was intimated that it would be convenient

if the answer to this enquiry were received before the

month of February ensuing. Lord Palmerston's letter
was communicated by the Vice-Chancellor to the several

Colleges, and the reply from Trinity College, which was

drafted by the Master and settled by the Seniority, was
sent to the Vice-Chancellor on January 10,1854. The
1854  DR. WHEWELL'S SCHEME OF REFORM.  387

Master and Seniors having pointed out what improve

ments they were prepared to undertake, and having
expressed their dissent from some of the principles
which had been enunciated in Parliament during the
preceding session, and reiterated in the Home Secre
tary's letter, stated that they would require no aid from
Parliament: that the Governing Body could establish

the necessary changes by its own authority, or, if

that were insufficient, by obtaining the sanction of the

Crown. The improvements referred to were suggested
by Dr. Whewell, in a paper which he drew up almost
immediately after the publication of the Commissioners'

Report. In this paper he suggested a plan for making
the funds of Colleges available towards the general
purposes of the University, without however directly
taxing the Colleges, either in proportion to their re
spective revenues or the number of their students.

     The plan now propounded by him in a definite and
practicable form had been foreshadowed in his evidence

on the subject of College expenses and teaching. It was

(1) , that four of the College Fellowships should be called
Science Fellowships, and should be appropriated to the
encouragement of the Moral and Natural Sciences, the

Science Fellows being required to act as quasi Professors
in some of the branches recognised by the Moral and
Natural Science Triposes, but in return being freed from

all obligations as to Holy Orders and celibacy ; and that,

(2) , six new Scholarships should be established, to be
assigned with other of the existing Scholarships to the
encouragement of the same studies, a certain number of
the Science scholars being employed as lecturers or as

sistants to the Science Professors and Fellows, and thus
performing the functions which, in the case of Classics

and Mathematics, were performed by private tutors.

      cc 2
388 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1851

The candidates for the Scholarships were to be persons

who had distinguished themselves in the Science Triposes,
without regard to their Colleges.

     The grand and final object of the scheme when
brought into complete operation was that, while the

Science Triposes supplied candidates for the Science

Scholarships, and the Science Scholarships candidates
for the Science Fellowships, there would be maintained

a body of cultivators of the Moral and Natural Sciences
residing in the University, and employed in studying

and teaching those sciences.
     This scheme, when compared with that of the Com

missioners, had in Dr. Whewell's judgment this advan
tage, that while it would be equally efficient in

encouraging the new studies of the University it would
retain the administration of College funds within the
control of the College authorities, and strike a blow --

though an indirect and partial one --at the system of

private tuition.

     The following session an Act was passed to make
further provision for the good government and extension
of the University of Oxford. The most important pro
vision of the Act, as it proved, in its bearing on the future
legislation for Cambridge, was the constitution of an

Hebdomadal Council to discharge the functions assigned
in the Statutes Revision Syndicate to the Caput and pro
posed Council of the Senate. This constitution, while
allotting to the Heads of Houses and Professors a decided
preponderance of seats on the Hebdomadal Council,
established at the same time the principle that all its

constituent parts should be elected by one and the
same body, viz. the aggregate body of graduate officers
and residents in the University. And this, in point of

fact, determined the final shape which Parliament sub
1655  DR. WHEWELI/S NOTES.  389

sequently gave to the constitution of the Council of the
Senate at Cambridge.

      While the Oxford Bill was under discussion, Dr.
Whewell published some notes upon it in reference to
the Colleges at Cambridge. The pamphlet omitted all
consideration of those clauses of the Bill which referred
to the constitution of the University, and was mainly
directed to the provisions relating to the conditions of
award and tenure of College emoluments, and the
requirement of College contributions for University
purposes. The conclusion of the pamphlet betrays the
deep dejection with which he foreboded the result of
all this University legislation. And for some years

 afterwards he could not allude to the subject without a

 touch of sadness.

      Early in 1855 a Bill for the University of Cam
 bridge, analogous to the Oxford University Act, was
 introduced into the House of Lords, and was ordered to

 be printed on March 30.
       The Bill, as first drafted, proposed to leave the power

 of the Heads of Houses practically untouched, but sub
 stituted for the Caput a Council identical in its constitu

 tion and jurisdiction with that recommended by the

 Statutes Revision Syndicate and approved by the Royal
 Commissioners. The model of the Oxford University
 Act was followed in many particulars which were not

  applicable to the Colleges at Cambridge, and this alone

 would have rendered it necessary to reconsider several
 of the provisions of the Bill ; but in one particular the
 Cambridge Bill differed from the Oxford Act, and that

  was by disregarding the principle that all the members
  of the Council should be elected by the resident
 graduates in the University. The Bill had been already
  read a second time in the House of Lords when the ex
390 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  ISoo

Royal Commissioners, with the exception of the Bishop
of Chester, drew the attention of the Lord Chancellor to

this point. A considerable agitation had already arisen

in Cambridge among those who were favourable to the

principle of the Oxford Act, and the proceeding of the

ex-Royal Commissioners, who addressed a second
memorial to the Lord Chancellor, was interpreted as
indicating an abandonment of their own deliberate con
victions in deference to popular clamour. The Heads of

Houses were particularly indignant at what they deemed
to be a breach of faith, and their views were urged by
Dr. Whewell in a succession of pamphlets during the
months of April, May, and June.

     The Lord Chancellor was indisposed to alter the
provision in the Bill, as it had passed the second read

ing, but the Government was compelled more than once

to make concessions. The Bill passed through some
further stages, and the names of the proposed Commis
sioners were divulged ; but it made no effectual progress

that session, and was eventually withdrawn.

    It has sometimes been thought that Dr. Whewell

was an uncompromising opponent of those changes in
the government of the University which resulted in
deposing the Heads of Houses from the power they so
long had exercised. That he believed that power to

have been on the whole judiciously exercised in later

years is true ; and he thought he saw special reasons
for continuing the government of the University by the

Heads rather than by the Senate, in the then -- as he
imagined --critical condition of those newer studies

which he had been so long endeavouring to foster and
encourage at Cambridge. But in October 1855, when
the first heat of the controversy had cooled down, and

while the question still remained unsettled by Parliament,
1855  TWO KINDS OF REFORM.            391

he stated in a letter to Lord Monteagle that he was ina
clined to think the Oxford scheme for the constitutiona

of the Hebdomadal Council better than the one whichit
                               a it,
had been proposed in the first draft of the Cambridge

Bill, and which he had hitherto advocated so strenu

ously. In truth, his opposition to constitutional1
reforms in the government of the University was based
chiefly, if not wholly, on an apprehension that they
would render all other reforms impossible. According
to his own description, contained in a private letter
written about this time, two kinds of reform occupied
the minds of the contending parties ; ' the one, the

/encouraging Sciences, Professors, and the useful applica

tion of College funds, which is the reform am for ; the
other, the putting elections entirely in the hands of the

Senate. . . . These two kinds of reform do not go

together ; on the contrary, those who are most

strenuous in asking for elective power are among the

strongest opponents of the Professorial system and the
 University application of College funds.' Dr. Whewell

feared that if the ' Elective Reformers,' as he called

 them, won the day, the University would have a series
 of retrograde measures forced upon and the position

 already gained for the new studies would be lost.

       This was certainly the judgment of Dr. Whewell at
 this time. Of his sincerity in the cause of those parti

 cular branches of reform which he advocated there

 could not possibly be doubt, but may be questioned
 whether he did not take mistaken view of the ten

 dencies among the younger resident graduates, and this
 he probably found out for himself at later period of

 his life.

       During the year 1855 Dr. Whewell resigned the
 Professorship of Moral Philosophy, an office with which
392 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1*56

his name would certainly have been always associated

in Cambridge had he not held the appointment of

Master of Trinity. At the end of the year he was ap

pointed Yice-Chancellor for the second time, much to

his regret, for he foresaw the 4 vile waste of time ' and

the uncongenial occupations which it would entail upon
him, especially with a University Bill under discussion.

     The Bill was passed in 1856, very much in the
form which it had finally assumed in the preceding
year. But the constitution of the Executive Commission
created by the Act was, with one exception, changed,
and, in the opinion of Dr. Whewell, not for the better.
The effect of the Act was, as had now for some time

been anticipated, to transfer the substantial government
of the University from the Heads to the new Council of
the Senate. Dr. Whewell was elected a member of the

Council on its first establishment in November 1856,

and continued to be a member by successive re-elections
to the time of his death.

      There were two subjects upon which he never lost
an opportunity of insisting during the earlier stages of
the Bill. One of these was the necessity of abolishing

the close Scholarships at Trinity College, attached to
Westminster School. In this matter he proved himself
a consistent reformer, and it was on his urgent repre
sentation to Lord Lansdowne, a distinguished and
 patriotic ' Old Westminster,' that a section was intro
duced into the Cambridge Act empowering Trinity
College to abolish the preferential rights of Westminster
 to Scholarships, and to compensate the School by an

 arrangement more advantageous to its educational

 interests.

      This was the first matter taken up by Trinity College

 as soon as the legislative powers conferred upon it by
157  REGIUS PROFESSORSHIPS.  393

tie University Act came into force. A Statute embody
ing the views of Dr. Whewell was framed by the
Droverning Body of the College in December 1856, and,
ifter approval by the Commissioners, became law in
rune 1857.

     The other subject related to the three Eegius Profes
sorships of Divinity, Hebrew and Greek These were
founded by Henry VHI. in 1540, but, having been

subsequently connected by him with his newer founda

tion of Trinity, they partook of a twofold character, and

became at once University and College endowments.
 The Professorships were subsequently regulated by a
 Statute of Queen Elizabeth, when she gave a code to
 Trinity College in 1560, this Statute being expressly made
  a common Statute of the College and the University.
  The Professorships of Hebrew and Greek were after
  wards affected by a Koyal Letter of Charles H. in 1662,
  as well as by an Act of Parliament in 1840, which

  assigned to them two stalls in the Cathedral church of

  Ely. Finally, among the revised College Statutes of
   1844 the Statute of Elizabeth was retained unaltered,

   but the Letters Patent by which the revised Statutes

    were confirmed, revoked and annulled all Statutes,

   Ordinances and Decrees, other than those which they

    confirmed. This having been done contrary to the
    intention of the College and without the concurrence of

    the University, questions had arisen as to the exact state

    of the law regulating the Professorships, and these were
    specially noticed in the Eeport of the Commissioners.

     They recommended that a new Statute should be framed
    for the purpose of removing all ambiguity. Dr.
    Whewell lost no time in submitting to Lord Palmerston,
     then Home Secretary, a draft of a Statute which would
     have the desired effect. No reply was received from
394 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1837

the Home Office, but the interpretation of the law was
practically settled by a decision of the Visitor in a case
that occurred shortly afterwards. The earlier drafts of
the Bill of 1855 did not provide for the settlement of

difficulties which might arise between the College and
the University in dealing with an endowment common

to both, but this defect was eventually removed upon
the repeated representations of Dr. Whewell, and it was

enacted that no statute should be submitted to the Senate

for modifying the relations between Trinity College and the
three Professorships without the assent of the College.

     Out of this arose the first occasion which brought
Dr. Whewell into conflict with the majority of the
Governing Body of the college. In May 1857 the

Governing Body refused their assent to a draft Statute

for the three Professorships, which was submitted for

their consideration by the Council of the Senate and

supported by the advocacy of Dr. Whewell. A revised
draft Statute, more in accordance with the views of the

College, which was afterwards submitted to the Govern

ing Body, received its assent in the following month.
     In explanation of this unusual antagonism between

the Master and the College it must be stated that the
University Act did not recognise the Master and eight
senior Fellows as the Governing Body for the purpose of

framing and revising Statutes, but conferred this new

power and authority on the whole body of Master and
Fellows. A meeting of the sixty Fellows coirid not but be a
promiscuous gathering of men of all standings, resident
and non-resident, who had never worked or consulted
together for a common object, and the great majority of
whom were ignorant of almost everything that concerned

the affairs of the College.

    It was probably on this account that the Master and
1857  GOVERNING BODY.  395

Seniors had, with questionable wisdom, refrained from
calling the Governing Body together for the purpose of

considering the general question whether the Statutes

needed revision or not. This was resented by some of
the junior Fellows, who naturally felt some interest in
the welfare of the College and were prepared to discharge
to the best of their ability those functions which Par
liament had deliberately entrusted to them.

      The first discussion on the Statute for the three

Regius Professorships led to other discussions more
vitally affecting the constitution and government of the
College. Before the meeting of May 1857 was dissolved
a committee was appointed to receive and consider
proposals on the subject of the revision of the Statutes.
Many of the Fellows took advantage of this opportunity
to suggest fundamental changes in the College system,
and more especially in connection with the tenure of
Fellowships. The committee issued its Report in June
1857, but as the long vacation was at hand it was

resolved to print and circulate the Report at once, and
to defer the discussion of the proposals relating to
Fellowships until a meeting to be held in the October

following.

      The injudicious conduct of the Master and Seniors in

attempting to stifle discussion had thus left the Govern
ing Body only two months and a half for the considera
tion of the many and important points which were now

to come under its notice.

     In the interval before the proposed meeting, the Master
circulated among the Fellows a paper of remarks on the
proposed changes in the College Statutes. This was
dated September 23, 1857. It took for its text the

suggestions which had been submitted to the committee,
among which were proposals of change in the constitu
396 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                                                1857

tion and government of the College, which he naturallya
regarded as of a very fundamental and sweeping kind.
Nevertheless, on certain points in which there seemed toit
be a pressing call for change, he professed his readiness to
do his best to come to some arrangement. The tone of theis
pamphlet was generally fair and moderate ; more so, in
deed, than that of others which succeeded when the pro       it,
longed struggle with the Commissioners had engendered
                                                                                      a
party heat on both sides. Even when discussing pro                                                  a
posals for curtailing the power and authority of the
Master, which, apart from personal considerations, was

   subject offensive to his love of strong government, he
wrote in language of studious self-restraint.

     The pamphlet chiefly interesting as showing the
Master's views of the College system, in theory and in

practice. According to him the College was family,
and was necessary for its beneficial and effective

working that there should prevail among the Fellows

love and devotion to the College inciting them to make
exertions and sacrifices in its service. That service
included the duty of giving instruction to the College
students, and taking part in the College administration.

It also required such of the Fellows as were in Holy

Orders to undertake spiritual duties in connection with
livings of which the College was patron, in return for

which special advantages were secured to this class of
Fellows. It was true that many Fellowships were held

under looser conditions of service, but these Fellowships,
with two exceptions, were tenable only for limited
term, and were not without advantage to the College,
being objects of competition to many, and thus forming

   nucleus of zealous students who made zeal in study

habitual and general in the College.
     Such, according to Dr. Whewell, was the College
a
                                                                                     a
1857  DR. WHEWELL'S REMARKS.  397

system in theory, and such, for a long time, had it been

in practice. If it were not so still, this was due to the
decline of College spirit. If it were found necessary to

provide additional inducement in order to get College
offices filled and College work done, he admitted that
the removal of the restriction of celibacy would be the
most powerful that could be offered, and he would be

willing to do his best to overcome any difficulties which
the introduction of such a change in the constitution of
the College must necessarily occasion. On one or two

other points of less importance he professed himself
 open to a compromise. But he was altogether opposed
 to the proposal that the College emoluments generally
 should be thrown open to the competition of the whole

 University, after public notice and examination. A

change of this kind must subvert the family character
of the College, and would bring the whole system of
University and College teaching under the empire of
examinations, confounding all traditionary distinctions

between the older foundations in Cambridge and making

one and all of them conform to one model, and that

model Downing College.

     It was also objectionable, as he thought, on other
grounds. It would give a great stimulus to private

tuition and tend to supersede College lectures, while the

monopoly it would ensure to Classics and Mathematics
would greatly increase the power of resistance to the
one reform which he most earnestly advocated, viz. the

establishment of Moral and Natural Science Triposes on
an equal footing with the old Triposes.

      The October term of 1857 was spent in discussing
the matters which formed the subject of this pamphlet,
and more especially that of College Fellowships. Nume

rous meetings of the Governing Body took place, but the
398 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1858

time was too limited to admit of framing a new code,

even if it had been thought desirable to do so. All that

was done was to submit sixteen amendments in the
shape of revised Statutes, for the acceptance of the

Commissioners. All of these but one, and that the least

important one, were rejected ; and thus matters stood

when the Commissioners entered upon their powers of

framing Statutes for the College on January 1, 1858.

     Previously to this they had circulated a paper

enunciating what they called their general principles.

In May 1858 they sent to the Master and Fellows, for
consideration, an outline of a code of Statutes, which

was, in fact an embodiment of those principles. This
outline was not the official document which had to be
submitted for acceptance or rejection by the College,

but was intended to serve as a preliminary and tentative
mode of ascertaining the sentiments of the Fellows, the
dissent of two-thirds of their whole number beincr

necessary to veto a Statute of the Commissioners.
     In June 1858 the Master, in a circular letter, invited

the Fellows individually to express their disapproval of
certain of the Commissioners' proposals which he thought
it would be expedient, if possible, to reject, and he

succeeded, in most instances, in obtaining a sufficient
number of signatures to convince the Commissioners

that the proposals in question would not be carried.

    A similar outline of Statutes had in the meantime

been prepared for St. John's College. There seemed

to be a prospect that the general principles enunciated

by the Commissioners were to be made applicable to
every College in the University. Under an apprehen

sion of this kind, a requisition was addressed to the

Vice-Chancellor to convene a meeting of members of the

Governing Bodies of all the Colleges. At this meeting
1859  DRAFT STATUTES.  399

the two outline drafts were discussed, and the general
feeling expressed being adverse to the views of the
Commissioners, served to support the opposition which
Dr. Whewell had aroused in his own College. Even the
Fellows at Trinity, who were more or less favourable to
the principles of the Commissioners, began to feel that
those principles must not be pushed too far. Accord
ingly in December 1858 they addressed a communication
to the Commission, suggesting several modifications in
the outline draft which they believed would have the
effect of conciliating all parties.

     In February 1859 the Commissioners sent a second
or revised draft of Statutes, containing the modifica
tions thus suggested. The Master was now required to
be in Holy Orders. The opening of Fellowships and
Scholarships to the whole University was to be optional,
not compulsory. The tenure of Fellowships was to be

terminable, but subject to exceptions specially favour
able to clerical Fellows. The rule of celibacy was only
to be relaxed in favour of University Professors and

officers, but married Praelectors were to be recognised
in the tuition of the College. Regulations for attend

ance in College chapel were to be left to the considera
tion of the Master and Seniors. The dividends of the

Seniors and other Fellows were not to be equalized, but
a simpler and more reasonable scale of gradation than
that in force was proposed. Finally, the College was

not to be required to contribute for University purposes

until all the other Colleges were placed under the same

obligation. The Master expressed to the Commissioners
his gratitude for these concessions, though they failed
to remove entirely his objections to the Commissioners'

proposals.

     In April 1859 the Commissioners at length sent
400 LIFE OF DR. W HE WELL. 1S59

down, for acceptance or rejection, the code of Statutes
as finally settled by them under their official seal. But
in this code one important change had been introduced.

It had been recently discovered that the Commissioners
had no power under the Act to allow a preoption of a

College living to a former Fellow ; and it was by a
device of this kind that the terminable tenure of clerical

Fellowships had been made acceptable to several among
the Fellows. This concession being now deemed illegal,
the clerical tenure was put on the same footing as the
lay tenure, except in the case of certain contingencies

which were likely to prove rare and unimportant. In
this form the two important Statutes relating to con
ditions of tenure of Fellowships and presentations to
benefices were rejected. Two other Statutes of less

importance shared the same fate, but the remaining

forty-seven became law in due course. In November
1859 the four rejected Statutes were replaced by eight
new Statutes ; these were accepted. They reserved to
clerical Fellows all rights of tenure which they had
hitherto enjoyed. The alteration effected by the new
Statutes in the tenure of Fellowships was thus limited
to a relaxation of the rule of Holy Orders in favour of

certain College and University officers and teachers,
and a relaxation both of the rule of Holy Orders and of
celibacy in favour of certain University Professors and

officers.

     This practically brought the whole business of the
revision of the College Statutes to an end, although
certain formalities requisite for repealing the existing

Statutes and replacing them by the new code deferred
the actual completion of the work until the month of

April 1861.
      When the Statutes were definitively in operation the
18Ct  NEW STATUTES IN OPERATION.  401

Master loyally accepted them. One of the innovations
which he most disliked and opposed was the provision

requiring, once at least in every year, a general meeting

of the Master and all the M.A. Fellows of the College,

for the purpose of discussing propositions for the more
efficient government of the College or the promotion of
its interest. Yet, when it became the law of the College

that such a meeting must take place, he contrived that it
should be held so near the Commemoration Day as to be

generally convenient to non-resident Fellows, and while
many of the senior Fellows habitually neglected to attend
the meeting year after year, the Master was always to
be found in his place, and ready to take an active part

in the proceedings. It was at the meeting held in

December 1864, the last but one which he ever attended,
that he successfully defended the order of Fellow Com

moners against an attempt to abolish it. He considered
the question of sufficient importance to state his argu
ments in writing, as well as verbally at the meeting. .

      As soon as the heat and excitement caused by the
controversies connected with the new Statutes had

passed away, Dr. Whewell returned with increased
vigour and interest to his self-imposed task of placing
the new studies of the University on a more satisfactory

footing.

     This will be found a convenient place to look back
on the work of educational improvement at Cambridge,
in which Dr. Whewell had been engaged for more than
forty years. It was natural that his first attention
should be bestowed on mathematics. When he took

his B.A. degree in 1816 the study of mathematics at
Cambridge was so far below the continental standard
that the symbol of differentiation had not yet been used
in a Cambridge examination paper. In 1819 it had

                                                             T) I)
402  LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1819-40

altogether superseded the symbol of the fluxional cal

culus. This progress was due to the labours of

Herschel, Peacock, and Babbage, who first introduced
the French analysis into Cambridge by publishing

various mathematical works.

     Following their example Dr. Whewell published a

treatise on Mechanics in 1819, and another on Dynamics
in 1823. These were followed at intervals during the
next thirty years by a series of works too numerous to
mention on the same branches of mathematical study.
He filled the office of Moderator in 1820, and again in
1828, in which latter year the practice was originated
of printing all the questions proposed in the Mathema
tical Tripos. While engaged as a College Lecturer and
Examiner in Mathematics he constantly endeavoured to
improve the examinations both for Honours and for
ordinary degrees. The necessity for such improvement

was by this time generally recognised. The ancient
practice of Disputations was rapidly falling into neglect,
and was finally abandoned in 1838. The examination
for a degree in Honours was every day assuming more

and more an exclusively mathematical character.

Syndicates were appointed in 1827, 1831, 1836, and

1838, to consider the whole question of reorganizing
and improving the examinations for the B.A. degree.
Dr. Whewell was the most prominent member of each
of these Syndicates, and the main author of the several

new regulations which were the practical fruit of their

labours.

     In December 1840 Dr. Whewell, writing to Arch

I Ideacon Hare, says : ' have done what could, or at
Ileast in a few months shall have done all can, to im

prove the mathematical studies of the College and of
the University.' But in the first part of his work on a
18-18  CLASSICAL TRIPOS.

Liberal Education, published five years later, he showed
that he still saw room for improvement in the mathe
matical examinations. The improvements he wished
for were effected under his guidance by Graces of the
Senate which passed in 1846, and came into operation
in 1848. The alterations in the questionists' examina
tions for Honours thus produced remained in force up
to the time of his death.

     In dealing with the Classical Tripos, Dr. Whewell

was not so fortunate in enforcing his views during his
lifetime. Those views were set forth with considerable

persistence in the first part of his work on a Liberal
Education. The late Lord Lyttelton, who was a distin

guished Cambridge scholar, after reading the book,
wrote to Dr. Whewell, confirming from his own experi
ence the account there given of certain evils attendant
upon the state of classical studies and examinations at
Cambridge. Lord Lyttelton's letter was quoted in the
second part of the same work, in which Dr. Whewell
discussed some recent proposals for making the classical

examinations of the University more comprehensive
and philosophical. In the interval between the publi
cation of the first and of the second parts a paper in

Ancient History had been introduced into the Tripos.
Dr. Whewell would have added other substantial ele

ments, such as the Phdosophy, Antiquities, and Philology

of Greece and Rome. These have been added since his

death, and the scope of the Classical Tripos has been
thereby extended very much in the manner recom

mended by him.
     The examinations in Theology were at one time, as

has already been noticed, the subject of a correspond
ence between himself and Archdeacon Hare, whose

advice and assistance he sought, in the hope of thereby

                                           bsa
404 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                   I80C

improving the means of clerical education at Cambridge.it,'
He was to some extent interested in the matter as Proa a ita
fessor of Moral Philosophy, or, as the instrument of his
foundation termed Professor of Moral Theology and;
Casuistry. But the tone and purport of his letters to
Archdeacon Hare show that his interest was not purelyit
official. In 1841 and 1842 he served on Syndicate
which established the first Divinity examination atit
Cambridge, formerly known as the Voluntary Theolo
agical.' He lived to see supplemented in 1856 by an
Honour examination in Theology but was not until
         it
                itafter his death that the examination was accepted as

                                                        asufficient to qualify for degree, although this measure

had been recommended by the Eoyal Commissioners in
1852. When this change was made was at once
raised to the dignity of Tripos.

      The expediency of adopting this course had been
discussed in the University Studies Syndicate of 1853,

and conflicting resolutions passed, the last of which was
unfavourable to the claims of Theology. Dr. Whewell
drafted several of the papers and reports printed for
this Syndicate, but does not seem quite clear what
side he took on this question, which was ultimately de

cided by majority of one. A Board of Theological

Studies was, however, created in 1854, and remained in

existence until was superseded by another board,

somewhat differently constituted, under Statute which

became law, 1860.

      The great object, however, which Dr. Whewell had
in view while labouring to improve the studies of the

University, was to procure academic recognition for the
more modern branches of science and philosophy. His
earliest project for establishing in the University system
what he called the progressive sciences, was sketched in
1849  PROGRESSIVE SCIENCES.  405

a crude form in the concluding pages of his first treatise

on a Liberal Education. It led to the appointment of a

Syndicate, whose task, however, was confined to the

consideration of those progressive studies for which
Professorships already existed in the University. The

Syndicate recommended that these Professorships should
be rendered more generally useful by requiring all
candidates for ordinary degrees to attend the lectures of
some Professor occupying one or other of these chairs,
and it further proposed the institution of two new Honour
Triposes to be called the Moral Sciences Tripos and the
Natural Sciences Tripos, which should be open to students
who had obtained the degree of B.A., B.C.L., or M.B. The
lleport, drafted by Dr. Whewell himself, was published in

April 1 848. Graces confirming it passed the Senate, after

some opposition in October of the same year. As a sequel to
 the action of the Senate the Professors in question were
' charged with the execution of the regulations respect
 ing the new Triposes and the Professorial condition for
the ordinary B.A. degree.' In the discharge of this
duty they drew up a body of subsidiary regulations,
which were also drafted by Dr. Whewell. These, with
 a programme of Professors' lectures, were published in
June 1849, and were in due course approved by the

Vice-Chancellor.

     It is clear, from the papers Dr. Whewell left behind,

that he not only gave the first impulse to the movement
 which brought about these educational changes, but

 that, in the whole process of elaborating details, his was
 the guiding and constructing hand. The result attained

 inadequately represented all he aimed at, for the new
 Triposes were placed in an inferior position, as compared

 with the older ones, by not being made avenues to a

 degree. Moreover, the subjects they respectively em
406  LIFE OF DR. "VVHEWELL.  1859-GI

braced were restricted to those sciences for which chairs

happened to exist. This accounted for the imperfect
syllabus of subjects introduced into each Tripos. In one

were comprised Anatomy, Physiology, Botany, Geology,
Mineralogy, and Chemistry. In the other, Moral Philo
sophy, Political Economy, General Jurisprudence, the

Laws of England, and Modern History. Although Dr.
Whewell was most fully alive to the importance of
physical science, and never, when urging the claims of

new studies to recognition, postponed its interests to
those of moral science, he, from this time forward, left

to others the task of organising the Natural Sciences
Tripos, and took up the Moral Sciences Tripos as his
own peculiar charge. This was but natural in one who
filled the chair of Moral Philosophy, and who had long

devoted much thought and attention to the systematic
teaching of ethics.

      His first contribution to that subject had been a
preface to Mackintosh's dissertation, written in 1835.
This was followed by various writings connected with
moral philosophy, most of which were already published
before this time, though he continued to write on the

subject up to a later period, his last work being the
' Platonic Dialogues for English Readers,' which appeared

at intervals from 1859 to 1861. Whilst still a Fellow of

Trinity, and, as such, taking part in the annual Fellow
ship examination, he had succeeded in giving substan

tial reality to moral and intellectual philosophy as an

element of that examination. A paper of questions

bearing on philosophy had always been set, but hitherto

it had attracted a merely nominal attention both from
candidates and examiners. Some trifling element of

philosophy had in the same manner always formed part
of the regular College examinations. But the text-books
1853  STUDIES SYNDICATE.                  407

in use were not satisfactory, and one of Dr. Whewell's
first steps after becoming Master was to amend the

examinations and change the text-books.
     The first examination for the new Triposes took place

in 1851.
     In order to mark his special interest in the study

connected with his own chair, Dr. Whewell offered 50Z.

a year so long as he held his Professorship, to be
awarded to those candidates in the Moral Sciences Tripos

who showed the greatest proficiency in Moral Philosophy.
The offer was gratefully accepted by the Senate. The
new Triposes did not prove very successful, and it was
evident that the studies for the promotion of which they

had been instituted must languish unless their conditions

were modified.            was appointed   to consider
                          be adopted for  augmenting
     In 1853 a Syndicate
whether measures should

the existing means of teaching by public professors and
lecturers, and for regulating and encouraging the studies

so taught. The Syndicate was a numerous and import
ant one. The recorded minutes of its proceedings

prove that its business was conducted in a very method
ical manner, and that it embraced every topic of dis

cussion that could properly come under consideration.
This was attributable to the fact that it had as its text

the carefully digested and classified recommendations
contained in the Royal Commissioners' Report, which
had, a few months before, been brought under the

notice of the University by the Home Secretary, for this
very purpose. Early in the year 1854 the Syndicate
reported, and in the following May Graces were pro

posed to the Senate for carrying out its recommendations.
Three separate Graces were submitted, for conceding a
B.A. degree to Honour men in Classics, Moral Sciences,
408 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1861

and Natural Sciences, respectively. The concession was
granted to the Honour men in Classics, but the two other
Graces were lost.

     The Syndicate, on the motion of Dr. Whewell, at
once resolved that it was not expedient to prolong its
deliberations further, and therefore adjourned sine die.
His feelings at this disappointment of wishes he had so
long nursed will best be gathered from a letter written
by him to Professor Sedgwick, on May 12, 1854. He

says --

     The rejection of the Graces on May 3 was a very unfor
tunate reverse in our progress. . . . The motive, alleged in a
printed paper, for opposition to the proposals, was that special
sciences give information not education. But the result went
beyond this reasoning, for the proposal that Honours in Classics
alone shall give a degree was carried and thus the event is

even worse than if all the Graces had been rejected : for now

the classical men are required to read nothing but classics,
except for the previous examination. The real motive for the

Iopposition was, suppose, dislike to the innovation proposed :

but a manifestation of this feeling in that manner and with
such an utter disregard of consequences, is certainly as childish
a proceeding as can well be imagined, and very little suited to
give other persons a belief that we are fit to manage such
matters for ourselves. The Syndicate which made the pro
posals considered the rejection of them so final a measure that
there could be no further use in their deliberations, and they

Ihave suspended their sittings, nor do see how any scheme of

improvement can be resumed with any hope of success.

     In this letter to Professor Sedgwick there is one
sentence eminently characteristic of Dr. Whewell's atti

tude towards external legislation in University matters.
We have seen how he dreaded and disliked and

easy to imagine his mortification on finding that the
Senate by its own deliberate vote had seemed to invite

interference from the stranger.'
'

                                              it,
                                                    it
                                                                   is
1800 BOARD OF MORAL AND NATURAL SCIENCES. 409

      After this unfortunate reverse there ensued at

Cambridge, as we have already shown, more than five
years of turmoil and agitation, partly in contemplation
and partly in consequence of the Cambridge University
Act. But as soon as the storm seemed to be fairly over

Dr. Whewell returned to his self-imposed task of forcing
the claims of the progressive sciences upon the attention
of the University.

     In the latter part of the year 1859 a new Syndicate

was appointed to consider whether any changes should
be made in the regulations concerning the new Triposes.
The Syndicate reported in December of that year

recommending that students passing the examination
for these Triposes with credit should be admissible to

the degree of B.A. The Report was considered by the
Council of the Senate in February 1860, and a few weeks

afterwards a Grace was passed confirming the conclusions

of the Syndicate. At the same Congregation Boards of
Moral and Natural Sciences were constituted. Dr.
Whewell was a member of the former Board, which
proceeded at once to frame the requisite regulations for
reorganising the Tripos with which it was associated.
At this task he worked with unabated ardour. The

selection of standard works bearing upon the Tripos was
in the first instance sketched by himself, and was most

carefully revised and elaborated by him in consultation
with his younger colleagues. The detailed arrangement
of the examination, which now comprised a more com
plete scheme of the moral sciences, seems to have been
suggested by him. Finally, in the first two examinations
under the new rules he undertook to act as one of the

examiners. He had so acted in an official capacity

when the Tripos existed in its original form, but, having
resigned his chair in 1855, he had not taken any part

in the examinations since that date.
410 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                 l«6i

     Dr. Whewell had now at length the satisfaction of
seeing accomplished the great object which he had

steadily pursued for so many years, and by acting as
an examiner he was able to impress upon those studies
which he regarded with especial interest, the character
which he wished them to assume.

     Except on one occasion, he took no further prominent
part in discussing or defending the system of University
examinations which he had done so much to introduce.

In March 1864 he circulated a paper drawing the
attention of the University to the part assigned to the
moral sciences and the natural sciences in the conditions
of the ordinary B.A. degree. The compulsory attend
ance of certain students at Professors' lectures had been

attacked, and the matter was then under the considera
tion of a Syndicate. Dr. Whewell stated temperately,
but earnestly, the reasons why this condition had been
introduced in 1848, and contended that they were still

in force. The paper concludes as follows :--

The Moral Sciences Tripos and the Natural Sciences Tripos

were established as parts of the University system at the same

time as the Professor's certificate. It is much to be regretted

that the candidates for these honours have not been more
Ifnumerous.
             those Triposes had become a more usual road to

University distinction, the task of the Professors would probably

have had more interest and dignity given to it, by a superior

class of hearers, and by the sympathy felt in the examinations

Iby the academical public. All persons to whom the reputation

and the usefulness of the University are dear, will am per

suaded still look forward to such a result, aa an event which

would be very happy for the University and the country.

     Dr. Whewell s foresight has been justified by the
partial realisation of these hopes in recent years, and

there can be no doubt that the new Triposes are destined
853 SCIENCE FELLOWSHIPS AND SCHOLARSHIPS. 411

:o become more and more a road to University and

College distinction.

     We have seen that in 1852 he proposed to his

College to appropriate certain Fellowships and Scholar

ships for the encouragement of the progressive sciences.

This proposal met with little or no response. A year

later, in a Syndicate which was considering the recom

mendations of the Eoyal Commissioners, he moved the

following resolution :--

      ' That it would tend greatly to the advantage of the

University in general and of the Colleges in particular
that the Colleges should declare their willingness to

contribute from their corporate funds to the support of
Professorships of special subjects ; ' but this resolution

was defeated.  ·

Among his papers, after his death, was found a

rough draft, showing how, according to his judgment,

special Professorships might be assigned to special
Colleges. The proposals recently put forward, by the

Cambridge University Commissioners of 1877, were thus

in principle anticipated by Dr. Whewell, at a time when

there were few men either in his own College or in the

University able to recognise the importance of measures

which have since been pronounced by Parliament to be

most urgent and indispensable.

     We may fitly conclude this chapter by quoting the
following extract from a paper in ' Mind,' written by

Mr. Henry Sidgwick in April 1876 :--

    Very early in the career of this new [the Classical] Tripos it

began to be felt that Greek philosophy deserved more distinct

recognition in the classical course. In Trinity College a suc
cession of remarkable lecturers -- Julius Hare, Thirl wall, and
Thompson --laboured to secure in their own College a somewhat
more intelligent study of the works of Plato and Aristotle.

Meanwhile on the other, mathematico-physical, side of Cam
412  LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1830-50

bridge studies, some general philosophical interest was aroused
by the appearance of Herschel's ' Discourse on Natural Philoso

phy 'in 1831. A couple of years afterwards, Sedgwick's ' Dis

course on the Studies of Cambridge,' and the controversy which
followed it, still further stirred the waters. But it is to
Whewell more than to any other single man that the revival of

philosophy in Cambridge is to be attributed. Although (as I

have noticed) in his controversy with Hamilton and elsewhere,
he maintained the superiority of mathematics and classics over
all other studies, as the main instruments of University educa

tion, this conviction did not prevent him from making sincere
and sustained efforts to secure for other sciences that place in

the academic system which he conceived to be their due. For

this end he worked not only in the modern external fashion by

constructing examinations, but also by the older, more spiritual

method, of teaching and speculating earnestly and effectively on

philosophical subjects. In 1839, from the long silent chair of
Casuistry, he began to deliver lectures on Moral Philosophy ; of

which at least the earlier, historical, courses were found highly

attractive. Some years previously he had transformed the
traditional paper on philosophy in the Fellowship-examination
of his own College, and made it an effective instrument for
inducing the abler candidates for Trinity Fellowships to under
take a systematic course of philosophical reading after their

first degree. Meanwhile his own elaborate investigation of the
methods of modern science was being prosecuted to fruitful and
stimulating results. In 1840 his 'Philosophy of the Inductive
Sciences ' appeared. Ten years later he took a chief part in
constructing the first Moral Sciences Tripos. The scheme of

this examination, however, was quite inadequate, being in fact
formed by a combination, not of the different divisions or

aspects in which philosophy is commonly studied, but of certain

subjects in which the University happened to possess Professors :

thus it did not include Logic or Metaphysics, or even Psycho
logy, except under the head of Moral Philosophy. But from
the point of view of the students whom it was intended to
attract this Tripos had the graver defect that it did not confer

a degree : for the badge of inferiority thus attached to Moral

Sciences, in comparison with Mathematics and Classics, rendered
1851      DOMESTIC HISTORY RESUMED.                    413

it difficult for them even to aspire to the substantial rewards

which the Colleges had to bestow. In 1860 this badge was

removed, and at the same time a more complete scheme of

examinations constructed ; of which, though it has since been

twice modified, the main features still remain.

      From the history of Dr. Whewell's academic labours,
which has carried us far ahead, we must now return to

the correspondence and domestic events of 1851. Early
in this year Mrs. Austin writes to thank him for the
' Professor's Wife,' which he has sent her in its English
dress. She says :--

      I Icannot tell you how captivating find it. There is a

homely freshness, a genuine simplicity mixed with intimate
Iand delicate touches of feeling, far superior to anything else
Iever read of Auerbach's.
                           suspect be owes a great deal to

you, for you are at ease in the most vernacular language, and

find wonderful equivalents for words and expressions that others

leave in despair.

    I send you a packet of letters, that you may make out of

them what you can of the present state of things-and of minds

in Paris. The whole thing seems to me utterly baseless, and,

if I may make an awkward word, cementless. Let me thank

you once more for poor Lorlei, who is the type of so many a

Ivain attempt to make happy by self devotion. Auerbach's sen

timents about the English are, fear, all but universal in

Germany.

      To this letter the following was the answer :--

To Mrs. Austin]            Trinity Lodge: Jan. 26, 1851.
      I hoped that you would read the Professorinn before you

Iwrote to me, or rather that you would write to me after you

had read it, that might know what you thought of it ; and

Icertainly have great reason to be glad that you did so, when

you can find such pleasant things to say of the translation.

IYour praise on such a point is of first-rate value.

       am glad you like my Lorlei. She was my companion all
414 LIFE OF DR. WIIEWELL. 1851

the summer, and parts of her story were written at every place
Iwhere
        stayed ; several pages on the top of the Faulhorn,
8,000 feet high. It is much the prettiest of Auerbach's stories,
and I think the greatest favourite in Germany. They have
Imade a play of it.
                       was somewhat consoled for Auerbach's

bad opinion of the English by seeing how plainly he is quite

ignorant of us, and takes his view from our revilers, coloured by

his own notions about religious observances. Do you suppose
that the work by a ' Person of great pretensions ' which the Colla
borator attacks, alludes to Bunsen's ' Church of the Future ' ?

I was much amused with the manner in which Auerbach makes
Iit the summit of the Englishman's insolence to criticise German

philosophy, about which suspect Auerbach knows as little as
he does of English life. We English are as stupidly servile in

looking with reverence on all German philosophy, as we are

stupidly conceited about our social institutions and manners.
       I am much interested with the letters you sent me, on account
Iof their private as well as public bearing.
ICirecourt.                                   am quite sorry for

             do not see how the French are to get out of their

present difficulty ; but it is one not peculiar to them, though

aggravated by the circumstances that their last revolution was

the most absurd of revolutions. It has always been hard for

the assembly and the ruler of a constitutional government to

settle into their positions of equilibrium. The ruler has to

learn that he is no ruler, and the assembly has to learn to allow

Ihim to be something ; hard lessons which neither Germany nor
France can yet learn.  think Germany a more melancholy

spectacle than France, for they have not only put out the con

flagration, but seem to be extinguishing all traces of domestic

fire.

    A letter to Dr. Mackreth of February 2 repeats what

we have found before, that Dr. Whewell did not con

ceive himself to be under great obligations to Lancaster
School, though he owed much to Mr. Rowley, and
recalls with much regret that in the speech he made at

the Lancaster dinner in 1842 he had missed the oppor

tunity of expressing this as heartily as he felt it. A
1851  LANCASTER AND HEVEKSHAM SCHOOLS.               415

letter to Mrs. Austin of March 30, it is thought, will gain
in interest by the addition of two extracts from her

correspondence. The summer of this year brought one
sorrow, and the succeeding winter another. Mr. Myers
died in July and Mrs. Temple in December 1851.

To Dr. Mackreth]  Trinity Lodge: Feb. 2, 1851.

   I am really very much obliged to you for offering me your
Iadvice with regard- to any subscription which may make to

wards the rebuilding of the grammar school at Lancaster.

   I Ido not conceive that owe much to Lancaster school as a
I Ischool, though do think that owe much to Mr. Eowley, my

mast er, who was one main cause of my coming to College. My

I Iobligations to him have always been ready to express ; and

am only sorry that on the occasion of the dinner given to Owen
Iand me did not sufficiently take advantage of the opportunity
Iof expressing those obligations.
                                   did soon afterwards write to

him, and express my great regret for this omission.

To the same]      Trinity Lodge: Feb. 9, 1851.

I must not rashly promise anything too magnificent (as a
contribution towards the rebuilding of Lancaster school) for the

following, among other reasons. Some time ago Evans wrote
to me and told me it was necessary to rebuild Heversham

school, and that he wanted subscriptions for that purpose. Now,

Ito that school have considerable obligations, though, of course,

my native place has special claims upon me.

   IEvans's project was to obtain an architect's design for the

school and to rebiuld it, presume in an ornamental form.

IFrom this plan attempted to dissuade him, thinking that it

would suffice if the school were rebuilt in its present form, or

with little alteration. I do not know how far he intends to
I Ifollow my advice, nor do exactly recollect how much pro

mised him. But if he persists in his more magnificent project,

and both my early nursing mothers put on fine clothes in their

old age at the same time, there must be some proportion be

tween my filial offering to the one and to the other. Do you

think you can ascertain what is intended to be done about
41G LIFE OF DR. WIIEWELL.                             135:

Heversham from Evans ? or perhaps from Edmund Shm-pr ?

for I think he was the architect that Evans intended to employ.
If you can do so, the information may in some measure gukk

me.

To the same]    Trinity Lodge, : Feb. 16, 1851.

With regard to Lancaster school I am quite willing' to gv.v

501. , which, as the Corporation give 5007., may be considered
Iperhaps a fair contribution.
                               am obliged to aim at some

thing like proportion in such cases, for very few posts come

that do not bring applications for aid to schools, churches, and

the like ; and I do not lightly reject such applications, thinking

that there is now a season of zeal amongst our clergy, and of

opportunity in the state of our population and of the law,
which may not be easy to recover if it is not taken advantage

of at present.

     The next letter from Mrs. Austin to Dr. Whewell
enclosed one from Victor Cousin, full of lamentation*

over revolutionized France, his diminished means and

advancing age.

                Weybridge: March 27, 1851.

There's a philosopher for you ! You may suppose, best of
Masters, how I scolded and scorned him in my answer. I said.
I' Je vous trouve lache vis-a-vis de la vieillessei'
                                                      can't under

stand how a man lives to be sixty without preparing himself to

relinquish the privileges of youth.

     Mrs. Austin here gives details as to his loss of
means consequent on the Revolution.

    But now, dear and honoured Master, it would be ganz aiut-
8erordentlich schorl if you would write him a few lines -- of--not

condolence, but sympathy, and such kind things as you know
how to say and to feel, and administer to him a cordial that

shall dispose him to rub up his armour and gird it on.

   I rather frightened my husband on Thursday. I was so ill.
ITo-day am better and in very brave spirits ; but though these

vary extremely, you will understand that the 1 fonds ' remains
51               VICTOR COUSIN.              417

Ile same. I am under no illusion and no terror. I wish felt
ure that my extreme serenity and cheerfulness about death
I?sted on a better ground.
                            feel so much love and trust, and
) little fear, and yet why ? Is this anything more than con-
:itutional ? For as for merits or claims -- oh ! as grounds for
eliance they are out of the question, and I am not sure that
ay faith in any scheme of Atonement would explain my serenity,
t seems to me rather a boundless trust in the Source of all
I Ijood, such as His Son reveals Him to us.
       wish could talk with you about this.

To Mrs. Austin]  Trinity College: March 30, 1851.

    It was very kind of you, my dear friend, to send me Victor

Cousin's letter, even though the privilege brought with it the

task of reading the epistle, which is not a very easy matter.

But it was still more amiable of you to think that I might

gratify the dear old Eclectic by expressions of interest in his

future labours. I dare say he will not derive much pleasure

from my doing so ; but, that you should try to procure him such

pleasure as my encouragement could give, was one of those kind

thoughts which make us love you.

    IAccordingly, inspired by your suggestion, have sent such
a letter to him. It so happened that I had with me at the

time a French man of letters just about to return to Paris ; and

to him I committed my exhortations to Cousin to continue his

speculations, pointing out some questions on which we should

all, in England and France, listen to him with deference. I was

glad to learn from my friend that Cousin is supposed to be so

rich as not to be seriously distressed by his losses, even should

they come upon him as they threaten.

     With regard to his fear of age, which is a more inevitable

evil, if it be an evil, I hope your exhortations will not be wasted
on him. It is no doubt a little mortifying to human conceit,

that we must leave the world to a new generation ; for it appears
to me more mortifying because it interrupts what we do than

what we enjoy. We have done so little, and matters seem to

be going on so ill"! But we must make up our minds to this,
and ' trust the Ruler with the skies,' and with the earth too, and

really trust Him ; believe that He is ruling well, and will do so

                 EE
41S LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                     1853

Iwhen we are no longer actors in the scene. Only think there

is nothing presumptuous in hoping that we may know a little

how it does go on ; follow the later scenes of the drama, ami

see the denouement to which it is tending. This is a kind o{

consolation which cannot deceive us, for we shall have this or.

Iwe may humbly hope, something bet ter. trust it will be long,

my dear friend, before you have to seek for the consolation*

which belong to the close ; but I must say that an entirely filial

Ispirit of resignation, hope, and love is what have seen witb

most satisfaction in the cases of others who were dear to me,

and what I most desire for myself. Any special view of thr

manner of acceptance only leads to this. This seems to lead u=

beyond the bourne directly. May God bless you and restore

you, is the prayer of              Your affectionate friend,

                                   W. Whewell.

To tliis letter Mrs. Austin replied a few days later : --

I must thank you, my dear Master, for your letter, which

gave me great pleasure and comfort. You are very generous to

Ilove me pour si peu. What have to do with this rag of my

life, but to think of anything that can give the least pleasure

to my friends.
ICousin will certainly be extremely gratified.
                                                thank you
Ifor him. I wish I could respect, as much as admire and like

him, but that is impossible. He has great weaknesses, and they

are not English weaknesses. . . .

Thank you, dear and good friend, for the few words at the
Iend of your letter.   can get no further than that -- but as you

say, is not that the consummation, and is not our Divine Model

great and touching above all in that absolute self-giving ?

To his Sister]         Westminster School: May 27, 1851.

IWe have been in Loudon some time and have taken a house
in Birdcage Walk close to Lord Monteagle's.     am now

engaged in the examination of Westminster scholars, an em

Iployment which brings me here every year on the day before
Rogation Sunday. I think have frequently written to you

under the same circumstances, as during my sitting of many
1851          DEATH OF MR. MYERS.  419

hours I have time to write letters. The Dean of Christ Church

comes from Oxford on the same errand, and he, the Dean of

Westminster, and the Master of Trinity are here called the three
Deans. The poor Dean of Westminster's place is supplied by
the sub-dean, Lord John Thynne, and Mrs. Buckland kindly
supplies me with a room at the Deanery.

      To-day we dine in the hall of Westminster College, and after
the dinner the scholars come to the high table in order and recite

Latin epigrams, on which the guests at the high table bestow
upon them shillings and half crowns; curious old practices

Iwhich, suppose, go back to the time of the foundation of the

school.

      Cordelia and her niece, Kate Marshall, are gone to the Great
Exhibition at the Crystal Palace.

To the same]  Trinity Lodge: June 15, 1851.

      We shall spend the summer in our cottage at Lowestoft.

We shall be very glad if you can come and see us there. We
shall be there the greater part of July, August and September.
In the beginning of July we go to the meeting of the British

Association at Ipswich, of which Airy is President.
      We saw the Mackreths several times, and hoped to have seen

Ithem again, but they grew homesick and suppose sick of the

noise and bustle of London, which are more than usually over

whelming this season, and ran away suddenly.

To the same]  Bath Hotel, Clifton : July 22, 1851.

       On Monday we went to Emsworth in Hampshire, where
Cordelia was to nurse her sister while her husband was away.
There we found tidings of a very sorrowful kind, not quite un
expected as to their purport, but awfully sudden. Mr. Myers,
the Incumbent of St. John's, Keswick, and the husband of our

sister Susan, died here on Sunday.

     He is to be buried in Keswick churchyard on Saturday ; it
is fit that he should lie there where he laboured so faithfully

among his people, where he has done so much good and where

he was so happy.

              ee2
420 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                                         1851

To the same]                               Trinity Lodge: Nov. 30, 1851.

I have been to London to give a lecture on the lessons of

philosophy and science which may be drawn from the Great

Exhibition. A great room-full of people came to hear me at the

Society of Arts, in the Adelphi.

     Mrs. Whewell went in the course of the autumn to

stay in Hampshire with her sister, Mrs. Temple, then
dangerously ill. During her absence she received daily
letters from her husband, from which the following are

extracts :--

                                        Trinity Lodge: Oct. 18, 1851.

    I rejoice with great thankfulness at the view which you are

now able to take of Dora's case. God grant that the improve
ment may assume a permanent form, and that she may be re
stored to you and to her family. Whatever be the result, one
imagines that every one must be at all future times fitter for
removal to another world, for having been so near the gulf which
we must all pass through at one time or other, in our way
thither.

                                                           Oct. 19, 1851.

We had this afternoon a sermon from Mill (Professor of
Hebrew), who preached on his special subject, prophecy, by no
means ill ; but when one saw all those hopeful young men

btolascikdeen, inI gco(ualndd   blue-ing)   the galleries   at St. Mary's  from  side
                               not help    wishing that    they had had    some  one

to speak to them more heartily and directly with reference

to feelings, that, coming here for the first time, they have or

might have excited in them. However, this is not so easy to

do as to wish ; and perhaps when it comes to our own turn we

shall make no great hand of it.

    I have been much interested, but rather painfully than

otherwise, by Carlyle's Life of Sterling.

                                       Trinity Lodge: Oct. 26, 1851.

    I am very glad, my beloved Cor., you are coming back to me

Iso soon ; for though continue to live in a sort of way without

you, it is a life which is a series of makeshifts and wearinesses.
1852            ' THE HOUSE OF GOURNAY.'            421

Do you recollect my hinting to Daniel Gurney a request for
a copy of his book about ' The House of Gournay,' and his staving
it off. He has sent me one, nevertheless, which I am glad of.
I want to send
                him a packet of my    small books,   (for the large
books frighten
                people), but I think  I must wait   till your return
Ibefore make so great an exertion in the way of recollection.

Besides other privations which your absence brings, you know

you take my memory away with you.

To Dr. MacbretK]
                       Trinity Lodge, Cambridge : Dec. 18, 1851.

     Mrs. Whewell a little while ago received a kind letter from
Mrs. Mackreth, expressing your sympathy with our great loss of

Jmy dear brother-in-law Myers, whom had come to love as a
Ibrother, and whom shall never cease to miss and to mourn.
We have had, I grieve to say, another shadow long hanging

over us in the alarming illness of Mrs. Temple, a sister of my
wife's, who has been supposed for some time to be in a hope

less state.

     The year 1851 closed in gloom. The letters of 1852
are few in number, and show traces of anxiety and

depression. Kreuznach was again recommended, and
again resorted to. In November an interesting letter
was written to Mr. Aubrey de Vere, thanking him for a
volume of poems which he ' sipped like a refreshing

beverage amid the turmoil of common employments.'

From this letter we perceive that his taste had altered

considerably since the days when he disliked all sonnets,

and especially those of Wordsworth. He dwells upon
the advantages of a profession as an aid to internal
resolution, like a man who had found the full benefit of
' common employments ' discharged in the spirit of
duty. And this was as characteristic of him as his
sense of the value in education of uncongenial studies.

To his Sister}  Trinity Lodge : May 2, 1852.

During the time that Lizzy was with us, we had the American

Ambassador also, with his wife and daughter. The young Yankee
422 LIFE OF DR. WUEWELL.                               ItSd

lady and Lizzy appeared to take much to one another. Tte

young American ladies are lively and conversable, but much
more forward than their mothers in most of the families which

I have seen. This characteristic, I think, struck Lizzy as much

as it did me.

    I was in London yesterday, dining at the Royal Academy
dinner. I was obliged to "come away early, so I heard no speech
after the Duke of Wellington's, but it was interesting to hear
him speak with pride of the military discipline shown on the

occasion of the wreck of the ' Birkenhead.'

To hia (Sisier]   Kreuznach: Aug. 7, 1852.
II have just returned from an excursion to Berlin, where
have not been since, I think, 1825. The railroads now make

that an easy and short journey which used to be a long and

laborious one. I was there for a week, and saw several persons
whom I was very glad to meet, especially some old friends. Of
the persons I was with there whom you will care most to hear

about are Ranke, who wrote the ' History of the Popes,' and

IHumboldt, the great traveller, whom had often before seen,

and who was friendly enough to come all the way from Pots

dam, an hour by railway, to see me, though he is eighty-two

at least.

   IBerlin is grown to be a very fine city since saw it, and I

should think is now next in splendour to London and Paris.

To the same]      Kreuznach: Sept. lO.

Soon after I return to England I shall be in the north,

Ithough only for a day or two. The distribution of prizes at

Lancaster school is to be on Monday, the 27th ; and have pro

I Imised to be there and also to preach at Lancaster on the 26th for
the school.      hope shall see you, if it be only for an hour or
Itwo, for must try to find time to go and look at our new church

at Kendal, and my excursion into your region must be brief, as

our Fellowship examinations begin almost immediately.

To Dr. MackretK]  Kreuznach : Sept. 7, 1 852.
I must also agree to preach at Lancaster on the 26th,

though in truth such an office is very far from being agreeable
1852            MR. AUBREY DE VERE.                    423

to Ime. have no pleasure in preaching to any congregation
except my own in College, and I much dislike preaching a charity
Isermon, but having consented to come at that time must

make the best of the proposal which you convey to me.

To Aubrey de Vere, Esq.]  Trinity Lodge : Nov. 21, 1852.

    I ought sooner to have thanked you for your kind recollection

of me shown by sending me your volume of poems ; and to

Ihave told you of the pleasure which the poems themselves give

us. They lie on the table and sip them from time to time,
like a refreshing beverage among the turmoil of common

employments. And they are not at all out of their place there ;

for it is one of the best merits of pure and dignified poetry like

yours, that it can impart a portion of its own tone to the most

common occurrences of life. Indeed a great portion of my most

common employments would be absurd occupations if they did

not require to be carried on with pure and large intentions.

And in reading your poems, and especially your sonnets, I have

often wished that it were your business, bound upon you by a

profession, to urge upon men the serious and weighty views

which you have there expressed so pointedly and weightily.

    It is true that an earnest and truthful writer does make his
employment hold the place of a profession ; but I think most

of us were intended by Providence to submit to the chains of

external profession as well as inward resolution. When we

have put ourselves in this position we have this advantage, that

none of our energy being required to keep us in our appointed

path, we may employ all our powers in going forwards.

To his Sister]            Trinity Lodge : Dec. 2, 1852.

I went up to London to see the Duke's (of Wellington)

funeral. The Managers, (the Court Martial) gave us Cambridge
Heads seats near the centre of the building, whence we saw the
Iceremony to great advantage.
                               went all the way from West

minster (Lord Monteagle's house, where we were staying) to
St. Paul's, along the streets on foot, in my Doctor of Divinity's

gown, to the great admiration of the spectators. Every inch of

that way the streets were many deep on both sides, and every
424 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

window was full, and was prepared for giving a view to as many

as possible. Everybody behaved well and feelingly.

    Very early in 1853 Mrs. Whewell went to Kreuz-

nach, there to spend the whole spring and summer.

Writing to Professor Sedgwick, at Norwich, on April IB,

Dr. Whewell says :--

I took Mrs. Whewell to Kreuznach very prosperously, and
left her there very pleasantly situated, with Valence Ainslie

and Maria Herschel for companions. Since then I have very
Igood accounts of her and of the girls. But am sadly lonely

in this great house by myself, and wonder how Dr. Wordsworth

Iendured it so long. And what is worse can hardly get away
Ifor a day. Besides which have got a detestable cold which

Iwill not go away, and which deprives me of sleep at night, a
new infliction for me, with which you can sympathise.  hope

in time we shall get through this merciless spring.

     Early in June he escaped from this solitude to
Kreuznach. The summer of 1852 he had devoted to
an edition of 'Grotius'; that of 1853 was spent on

' The Plurality of Worlds.'

To his Sister]  Trinity Lodge : April 6, 1 853.
I returned to Cambridge on Friday last, having had a very

prosperous journey to Kreuznach. On the road from Aix to

Cologne we saw a very grand exhibition in the sky ; mock suns

and halos more numerous and beautiful than I had ever seen

before. We had had a similar show at Cambridge about a fort

night earlier. The appearance arises from the coldness of the

Iupper region of the atmosphere, and was continued in part at

night and during the next day, when we were on the Rhine.

should like to know whether anything of the kind was observed

at Wormenhall or at Liverpool.

To the same]                    Kreuznach: July 14, 1853.

      The pony and pony carriage and my horse have enabled us
to see much more of the country here than we had ever seen
3 853  VISIT TO KREUZN'ACH.  425

before. A few weeks ago we were tempted to make an ex
pedition of about thirty miles to Langen Schwalbach, one of

the Brunnens of Nassau, which we executed in glorious June

weather, having among other things to cross the Rhine, there

Ihalf a mile broad, on a floating bridge. Then, have also been

on a week's expedition into the Eifel, a country of extinct

volcanoes, not far from the Rhine. You may perhaps recollect

in my book on German architecture, a picture of the abbey of

Laach which stands on the brim of one of these ancient craters,
now a lake surrounded with woods. My companion was Dr.

Daubeny of Oxford, who has written a book about volcanoes,
and is now on his way to Norway.

      The return to England took place at the end of
September, and two letters to Dr. Mackreth show with
what pain the truth was being recognised that Kreuz-
nach had done little for Mrs. WheweU's health, and that
cause for the gravest anxiety remained. In October
 they went to Cliff Cottage, and there such intervals of
 ease as were granted were enjoyed in the bracing air
 and grateful quiet of garden and sea shore. Dr.
 "Whewell was recalled to Cambridge for the visit of
 Prince Albert and the Duke of Brabant. To the niece
 who remained during his absence in charge of the
 invalid, some letters are given, less because, of any
 interest or importance attaching to the criticisms of the
 stories she was reading, than because, like everything

 else he wrote to her, they show how gratefully he re
 ceived love and sympathy, and with what pleasure and
 alacrity he turned to the interests and amusements of
 the young. Great part of the winter was spent at
 Lowestoft by Mrs. Whewell. They returned to Cam

 bridge in January.

To Dr. MackretK]
                          Trinity Lodge, Cambridge : Oct. 6, 1853.

     Perhaps you have been expecting to hear from me since

Iour arrival in England ; and should probably have written to
426 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                          185S

you if my mind had been more at ease. But with great

anxieties about the persons dearest to us, pressing upon our
minds, it becomes difficult to write any letters which are not
Iabsolutely necessary.
                           am full of the deepest trouble about
Imy dear wife. I cannot look forward without a very heavy
heart and extreme distress.  need not say to you that all
this is for your private ear ; for though these portions of the lot

of our human nature have nothing in them which requires con

cealment, we cannot but wish the overwhelming ebbs and flows

of hope and fear not to become matter of discussion to ordinary

acquaintances.

To the same]                 Trinity Lodge : Oct. 16, 1853.

    Your letter showed the same cordial kindness which you

Ihave always manifested to me ; and should not have hesitated
ifto take advantage of your and Mrs. Mackreth's kind offer,

there had been any occasion. But we have a very helpful

niece staying with us, and Lady Monteagle came as soon as

Ishe knew she was wanted, so that my dear wife has been,

trust, well nursed.

To Kate Marshall]            Trinity Lodge : Oct. 16, 1853.
I intend to send this with the third volume of ' Cyrilla ' by
Ithe five o'clock train.   am almost sorry to send you 'Cyrilla ' ;
Iit is such a dreary dismal story, and the people are all so very
worthless, or nearly all.    can hardly except ' Cyrilla ' ; for the

way in which she involves herself at first, and then her con

cealment and mystery ever afterwards, which make it impos

sible for her friends to understand her, render it difficult for

me to like her. As for Z     , he is a more complete villain than

Iought to appear in a novel ; too bad even for a modern tragedy.

However, there you have the book, and hope you will not cry

your eyes dim over it, for that would be a pity.

To the same]                 Trinity Lodge: Oct. 19, 1853.
IProbably you will read over again Sintram, which sent
Iyesterday.     do not think you will find so much in it as poor
ISir Guy did.
                     do not know whether you ever heard anything

of La Motte Fouque, the author. Once in my early days of
1853                LA MOTTE FOUQUE.        427

German travelling, I fell in with a German student, a cousin

of his, who gave me an account of him. He was himself

descended from those old Norsemen you admire so much, and
delighted in having about him all the relics of garments,
armour, and the like which reminded him of his descent. He

was a little spare man, and when he set himself down to write
Sintram and the like, he girded himself to a sword as long as
himself, put on a hat with awful brim and plume, and a very
savage looking gauntlet on his left hand, and then found
himself full of Norse fire and fancy.

To Lord Monteagle]  Trinity Lodge: Nov. 4, 1853.

    IIt is very plain that we sympathise in our proceedings, for

you, if rightly understand your letter, have been doing
exactly what I was thinking of doing ; viz. sending my re

marks on Induction to Cameron, to convince him that he had
been, to some extent at least, misled by John Mill, as to the

direction in which great future discoveries in science were to

be looked for. What you say about the different moral effect

of the two methods, the Inductive and the Deductive, upon

Ithe mind, interests me much ; the more so, as had tried to

say something to the same effect, in a former work, my Bridge-

water Treatise. If that happens to come in your way, pray

look at two chapters in the latter part of the work, ' On Induc

tive and on Deductive Habits of Mind,' where I have followed

almost exactly the same train of thought which you express.

It appeared to me, at the time, curious and important ; although

some of my scientific friends were rather disturbed by the

promulgation of such doctrines.

     But it is true, nevertheless, that the notion that we have

already possessed ourselves of the principles of all the knowledge

which is to be had, is adverse to humility, and to the hope of a
Ilarge increase of our knowledge of Truth.
                                            believe that there

  Iremains to be discovered by Induction, far more than has yet

' been discovered. But am running into a strain which is so

  familiar to my thoughts, that I may well fear tiring other

I Ipeople with dwelling upon it.      can find or make a vacant
        run over to Corrie, whenever
I Iday.
      left her yesterday, very comfortable, and gathering,
428 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

hope, health and strength by going out every day in a Bath-
chair upon the Denes. There is much malady still remaining;

Ibut hope likely to continue long comparatively inactive ; and

with the return of greater strength and more vigour of health,

and with the use of such medicines as Brodie most kindly ha?

devised, we must not let our hopes of a degree of permanent

restoration decline. She will stay at Lowestoft for the pre
... IIsent ; but hope before the end of the term she may come
here if it be only for a short time.  was much interested,
Ias you may suppose, with Cameron's letter, which return to
Iyou. It is something to find that what one has written is
incorporated into English life in that way.  am afraid if you
see a part of my ' Plurality,' you will be scandalised at my

doctrines, bat pray do not condemn them utterly till you see

how they hang together.

To James Garth Marshall]
                          Cliff Cottage, Lowestoft: Nov. 16, 1853.

   I have come here for a day only, and must return to Cam
bridge this evening. I find Corrie much stronger and better,
though I fear the original malady is still unsubdued, and

there seems reason to doubt whether the Kreuznach waters

ever produced any considerable diminution of it, though they

very likely retarded its advance. It appears best that she

should stay here at present, both for the sake of the air, the
Imode of life, and the opportunities of exercise.
                                                   come over
Ito her for a day when can, though my visits are necessarily
brief at the present time. Katie is still with her, but, I grieve

to say, goes away in a few days. However, her mother has been
Ivery kind in sparing her to us so long.
                                          must try to keep her

supplied with nieces and deputy-nieces so long as she remains

here alone.

   I shall soon have my ' Plurality of Worlds ' finished. There

are, as you said, three courses for my readers ; one to assent to

the arguments and to accept the conclusion ; another to reject
the conclusion and to answer the argument ; the third to do

Ineither ; and suppose most readers will agree with you in

adopting the third.
              DUKE OF BRABANT'S VISIT.                 429

ft. i-H Wife]

I Trinity Lodge: Nov. 17, 1853.
       have a letter from Col. Grey to say that their Eoyal

glinesses would come on the 22nd, and that he had written to
3 Vice-Chancellor and to Professor Sedgwick to consult with

ing The Duke of Brabant cannot go to any chapel service,
        a Roman Catholic, and cannot dine in Hall on the second

y, as they must go away at four. So they will dine with

e "Vice-Chancellor, and I shall have to provide breakfasts and
richeons. The persons they bring with them are, as I expected,

I. "Van de Weyer and Count de Launoy, Col. Grey and Col.

ordon. I have no doubt we shall manage very well.

"o the same]                              Nov. 18, 1853.

The only peculiar feature in the scheme for their Royal

highnesses' visit which has come from Windsor, is that the

v isitors should hear a lecture or two. So we have proposed a
lecture from Sedgwick on Tuesday, and one from Willis on

IWednesday. Sedgwick is for that day to exclude his lady
disciples, who fill all the best places.  am sorry to say he is by
no means well -- a great determination of blood to the head.

Paget bled him to a considerable extent on Wednesday, and by
Irights he ought to leave his work and go play.
                                                  recommend

Lowestoft to him.

We have here beautiful November weather.
I am glad you get on well with            I. You have, think, a
spare copy of the ' Hexameters.' Pray give him one from me,

and beg him to read ' Herman,' as the finest narrative poem of

modem times ; · the Walk,' as the finest philosophical poem ;
Iand 'the Diver,' as a good example of versification.
                                                       hope

young lovers of poetry like him do not share the prejudices of
Iour Latin grammar critics. Alas ! no Kate for love to go to--
at least through your hands.              grieve with you at your

having lost her for the present. She is a joy of the eye and of
Ithe heart to me, and must be still more to you.
                                                     have this

moment heard of the death of Campbell, our oldest Senior.' He

was a lawyer, who lived very secluded in the Temple. This will

of course occasion the election of a new Senior.

1 This is not correct ; Mr. Campbell was in Orders.
430 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                        1653

To. the same]          Trinity Lodge: Nov. 21, 1853.

I am glad you have got over your superstition that your
ISunday letters do not come here directly.
                                                assure you the

postman here is able (I presume by the aid of the calendar in
the Prayer Book) to · find the Sunday letter ' on Monday
morning, and so I have just got yours of yesterday.

     Nov. 21. -- We have been in a dreadful fright ; that is, not

I, for I did not care which way the result turned ; but it seemed

probable this afternoon that the Royal visit would evaporate.

The Queen of Portugal is dead in childbed, and this shocking

news came to London just as the Prince's carriage and horses

were setting off by the mail. The horses were already in their

boxes, but were stopped and a telegraph message sent to say

they were not to be expected, and in the meantime we waited

to see what Windsor would determine. However, a few hours

Iafterwards we learnt that the carriages were on their way, and
now they are arrived.  have just seen the head-coachman ;

quite a model of a coachman, such as your dear father would
have delighted in; a broad head and body and scarcely any

legs! I wanted him to have studied the ground before he
drove over it ; as to turning right, and left, and right, through

the Queen's gate to the Lodge. But he has been busy, he

says, and will not have time for such studies to-morrow morning

So George is to ride before him upon 'Winged Words!' and

he, George, seems much delighted at having to occupy so con

spicuous a place on a horse of so fine a figure.

    Nov. 22. -- So far all goes well, except that the air has been

filled all day with a dense fog, which has made everything look

ill, or more properly speaking, look no-how. The party arrived

punctually, and came in at the Queen's gate easily ; George
pioneering them on ' Words,' looking much delighted with his

office and really doing good service. We went to the Chapel,
Hall, and Library as soon as they arrived, and then to Sedgwick's

lecture. The Duke is a slim, quiet-looking youth, and appears
to take an interest in what he sees. The only disaster was

that the Master of St. John's, going upon a temporary staircase
at the Senate-house before it was fixed, the whole tumbled

down, and he was much shaken and his face cut.
1863         'PROJECT OF A PERPETUAL PEACE.'       431

To the same]                    Trinity Lodge : Nov. 26.

      You will be gfad to hear that our election of a senior
went off very satisfactorily, Thompson being elected without

hesitation.

To Lord Monteagle]              Trinity Lodge: Nov. 24, 1853-
      I am glad that you do not look upon us who publish on Inter
national Law as quite wasting our time. I believe, notwith

standing all the deeds of violence which we have seen committed,
that a ' Project of a Perpetual Peace ' is by no means a mere

dream, if it be based on received International Law. In the

cases which you mention, Cuba is protected simply by the re

cognition of such law on the part of the United States, and if

the Western States of Europe had boldly told the Czar that he

was violating such law (which they told one another but did not
Iftell him) it would have checked the aggression.
                                                   the Grotius
Isucceeds, shall probably edit in the same way Puffendorf and
Vattel, and shall hope to do some good by proving that ' such

deeds are quite atrocious.' Perhaps you retain influence enough

in the Edinburgh Review to get the Grotius reviewed there.

ICornewall Lewis wrote me a letter which showed that he took a
great interest in the subject.  am the more desirous of the

book having a circulation because the advantage will go to the
I IUniversity, to whom have given the copyright.
                                                   cannot say
that I like the tone of Conybeare's article in the Edinburgh
Review about church parties. It is a coarse caricature, in many

points seasoned to suit the popular palate by the pepper of

injustice, which he must have known to be such. And in this

way he does not spare his College. It is a base mob-pleasing
in him to talk of Cambridge as the ' luxurious seat of learning.'

He must know very well that he was not more luxurious as a

Fellow of Trinity than he is as Vicar of Axminster ; unless he

were unlike his brother Fellows. And he must know too that

such expressions feed false opinions and fierce passions in the

populace.

     As to his assertion that scepticism is increasing, it is con

Itrary to all my knowledge of the cultivated classes. What may

be going on among the labouring classes cannot tell ; but we
do know that they are imperfectly provided with the means of
432 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                        1R64

being taught religion, both when young and when older. I
should fear little from scepticism if the religious education of

the country were well provided for.
     We have just had a visit from Prince Albert and the Due

de Brabant ; very pleasant and well managed, except that there
was a dense fog all the while, so that we could not see beyond

our noses. They went to a lecture of Sedgwick's and one of

Willis's, and the Chancellor presided at the Caput, and conferred
a degree on the Duke, and other degrees, in a very orderly

manner. It was an ordinary Congregation in the common course

of University business.

    I am just going to Corrie for a day to take her another

niece.

To his Wife]         Trinity Lodge : Nov. 28, 1 853.

I have had a letter from Hare asking me to sign a protest
on the subject of Maurice's removal. I have some difficulty

about this, as having nothing to do with King's College, and

have suggested other ways of proceeding. It is difficult to

make anything good out of these signatures collected by letter.

To the same]                                    Dec. 5, 1853.

It was very good of you, dearest Cor., to work so hard and

be so prompt in sending me another design for the cover of the

P. W. [' Plurality of Worlds.'] (Observe, this is my second
P. W. The first was  ' The Professor's Wife.')   And it is very
                     will do nothing more till
imposing looking. I                             I hear from the
Ibinder, to whom have sent the former design, how far it is
practicable. In the meantime I have some notion of being

content with powdering my stars into letters; something in

Ithe way of the sketch which send you-- what do you think

of it?

To Kate Marshall]    Lowestoft : Jan. 2, 1854.

II cannot let the New Year make its start without sending
you a word of greeting and good wishes.         think you know

that my loving thoughts are always with you, but one of the

uses of a New Year is to give one an occasion of expressing such

thoughts, that they may be more present to the mind both of
1854            'PLURALITY OF WORLDS.'                        433

the giver and the receiver. May the New Year, my darling, be
a happy one for you, and the harbinger of a series of happy ones;

and may they bring the best of blessings to you, the gifts of
IGod, enjoyed with a tranquil and grateful heart.
                                                   owe so
Imuch to your dear society, that you are one of the blessings
have to thank God for, and I hope the year will not roll on far
Iin its course before have the pleasure of seeing you again.
I would have sent you a book as a New Year's gift, but your
Iaunt gives me such an account of your occupations that am

afraid you will not have time to read it ; and indeed it is rather

Iout of the line of most young ladies' reading. should not like
I Ito be set on the shelf unnoticed when came to you, so will
wait till you tell me you would like to have the book. There

is a little--not mystery, for that I hate -- but reserve to be used

in talking of it as my book, for it is published without my name,

Iand contains notions that may be startling to some persons,

though am persuaded that they tend to give us a true view of

God's government of the world.

    I suppose after all you must have heard me talk of a book
about the ' Plurality of Worlds,' which I was writing or finishing

when you were here, and now the murder (of the inhabitants of
Jupiter) is out.

    I hope your aunt is improved. To day she has scarcely any

pain.

To his Sister]      Lowestoft: Jan. 3, 1854.

We have here very severe weather. The neighbourhood of

the sea does not seem at all to mitigate the cold or to thin the

snow, and cold and snow-clad as the world is, I must go to Cam

bridge this afternoon, for we have there very important matters

going on. Among them the election of a Hebrew Professor in the

place of Dr. Mill, which will make it necessary for me and the

other electors to sit five hours in the schools (a very cold place)
listening to Latin dissertations.

To the same]    Trinity Lodge: Feb. 19, 1854.

I am glad you like my ' Plurality of Worlds.' It was a great

pleasure to me writing it at Kreuznach during the past summer,

and made my being fastened down to that place very pleasant

                FF
434 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                               18->4

Iinstead of very tiresome. only wish that our summer residence
Ithere had answered our purposes in other ways, as well as it did

in enabling me to put upon paper what have long had in my
head. The Grotius, which was the fruit of the preceding year,

was much harder work, yet even that made the summer pass

pleasantly, and rendered the burning heat of 1852 tolerable.

To the Honourable Mrs. J. 0. Marshall]

                                       Trinity Lodge: Jan. 13, 1854.

Corrie is decidedly better. In a few days we must make
I Ithe migration to Cambridge. It is now ton months since she
stayed at the Lodge.    almost wonder how have got through

the time.

     By the way, did you see that your quotation from Herbert

remains in the pages of the ' Plurality of Worlds ' ? It is to

me a pleasant memory of our intercourse at Kreuznach.

To Professor Sedgwick]  Trinity Lodge: June 8, 1854.

II am glad my dialogue pleased you. called it a supplement

to the essay, because there were objections to the argument,
Ifrom Lord Rosse's and Struve's speculations, which thought
Iimportant. I confess am quite at a loss to conceive how the
IPantheists can turn my views to their purposes.
                                                  have never

seen any arguments against Pantheism founded on the possible

existence of intelligent beings in other planets and stars, nor do

I see how such an argument can be constructed. The proper

antithesis to Pantheism is not intelligent creatures besides man,
Ibut a Divine Mind.
                      have never expressed any doubt of the
Iexistence of other orders of spiritual beings ; have repeatedly
Ispoken of them, but want both reason and authority to place

them on planets.

   IIn the first printing of my essay had pursued my specula

I Itions about the Divine Mind a good deal further than in the
published book.       suppressed what I had printed because

thought that the greater part of my readers would be repelled by
what they would call metaphysics ; but if you could find time
Ito read my cancelled pages, think they would interest you ;
Iand should be very much pleased to hear your opinion about
Imy speculations.
                      will send them along with this. You will
1854            OXFORD BILL.  435

see that the unpublished part comes after the chapter on the

argument from Design.

    I have just received a copy of the Oxford Bill as new

Imodelled. In the present state of the Bill all the parts which
   had objected to are omitted, being left to be regulated by the
Commission : and this Commission is not to enforce any regula

tions on colleges contrary to the wish of two-thirds of their
members. This is a bearable kind of legislation, and may be

made to produce good. The Hebdomadal Council, as they have
framed it, appears to me a great absurdity. The Professors are

to have as weighty a voice in it as the whole Congregation.

      Dr. and Mrs. Whewell remained at Cambridge until

July, and then, as the following fragment of a letter to
Miss Whewell tells, removed to Lowestoft. For a part
of the summer the niece whose presence was now more

than ever essential to the comfort and happiness of
both, was lent to them, and his letters to her in October

show how he continued to interest himself in a girl's
attempts to study as well as in her amusements. The
autumn of this year brought the death of Mrs.
Whewell's only unmarried sister, Ellen Marshall, at

Clifton.

To his Sister]  Trinity Lodge: Judy 14, 1854.

     We are just on the point of starting for Lowestoft. We
have been detained here till now by the meeting of the Archaeo
logical Institute, during which we had several friends staying
with us; among the rest Lord Talbot de Malahide, Lord

Carlisle, Dr. Milman the Dean of St. Paul's, and Mrs. Milman.

To James Garth Marshall]
                          Cliff Cottage, Lowestoft: Aug. 19, 1854.

    I should have been glad for yours and Mary's sake, and I
will add for the sake of your father, the founder, I believe, of

the society 1 in question, to show my goodwill by giving them

                               1 The Leeds Philosophical Society.

                               fy2
486 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.        1S54

Ia lecture ; but could not, at any rate, make an engagement
Iof that kind so long beforehand ; and very honestly doubt
whether I have anything to say which I could say or they hear
Iwith pleasure.
                  do not think there is any subject of physics
Ion which could lecture. The only two branches of physical
science of which I know anything are crystallography and the

undulatory theory of light ; and these require great previous
knowledge in the hearers, and great labour and ingenuity in
preparing illustrations. They are quite out of your way, and in

fact, considering all circumstances, out of mine. The history

Iof science, which is my special subject, would not much please

the audience, for the moral of what should have to say would

be that popular knowledge is hardly knowledge at all.

    The only subject on which I could lecture with any satis

faction is Socrates and Plato, of whom my thoughts are full, and

Ilikely to be so for the next year, so far as other business will

allow. have therefore returned to the President the answer

Iwhich I enclose, and which shall be obliged to you to forward.

To Dr. Mackreth]      Trinity Lodge: Oct. 8, 1854.

   I was very much grieved to find that illness prevented your
being present at the service at Heversham. It would have

been a pleasure to me to have had you among my hearers when

I Ipreached ; for willingly accepted the invitation to do so, as

giving me an opportunity of recurring to the recollections of

my schoolboyhood, and the reflections produced by the long

time that has intervened between that and this ; and though

Ithere were few or none of the persons whom had known when
I went to Heversham school, the younger generation would

perhaps be touched by the natural thoughts which such a

retrospect produces.

      The only friend of that early time who was there (besides

NmaytlaLanndc. astIerthfriniekndysouwhkonokwinhdilmy.came) was a Mr. Fawcett, of

To Kate Marshall]     Trinity Lodge: Oct. 29, 1854.

IIt seems to me very long since heard anything of or
from you--that
                      so far as know and according to my
                  is,

                             I

reckoning.
1854          DEATH OF MISS MARSHALL.                  437

      Of course it must be that all our hearts are feeling the
departure of our dear Ellen; so good and loving, so bright
and cheerful as she was, we must all think of her as a most

"bitter loss ; and then, besides all her good qualities, we loved

her more than for any qualities because she was herself. All
that there can be in death to make the recollection of it lose
its bitterness among friends there was in hers. So well pre
pared for and so peaceful ! May both you and I, my darling,

aim to be like her in the preparation ! You in your bright
Iyouth (may it long continue, my love !) cannot, think, un
derstand how in more advanced years we see reason almost to
Ienvy such an ending.
                       am glad to be able to tell you that

the event does not seem to have had any injurious effect upon

Corrie's health. It had been so long in the line of our pro

spects, and had so often seemed at hand, that there was

nothing of the shock which overwhelmed us last year.1

To the same]           Trinity Lodge : Nov. 12, 1854.

     You were so good in sending me an answer to my letter,

Ithough you had written to Corrie, that must not let you

wait long for an answer to your question.

      You want books that will teach you all that is known

about light. Such books are not so easy to write ; for to

Iunderstand what is known you must know something, and,

indeed, not a little, of mathematics, which opine, Katie, you

do not. But you will think that there may be books that

shall teach you all that you can learn, popular books as they

Iare called. So there might be, but cannot yet find one
Iwhich think will suit you. Mrs. Somerville's ' Connexion
of the Sciences,' though written by a lady, is, I think, the

hardest of all; there is a little book by Golding Bird and

Charles Brooke, which comes nearest to what 1 should like to

recommend. It is called ' Elements of Natural Philosophy,'

and contains the other sciences as well as the science of light.

It involves some quantity of mathematics ; and it has a very

laudable quantity of pictures of phenomena as well as mathe

matical diagrams. My belief is that what you want you would

    1 In the death of the Honourable Mrs. H. C. Marshall, suddenly at

Lucerne.
438 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

Iunderstand best in a historical form ; and should (I am quite

serious) think you might read with advantage the ' History of
Optics ' in WhewelPs « History of the Inductive Sciences.* The

part is short, and what I am afraid of is that the explanations
Iare too short ; but if you like to try, will send you the
Ivolume which contains what mean. Also if you do not like
Ito buy Bird and Brooke's book, will send you my copy.

    The fact is that the ' History of Optics ' does not contain
many connected facts. There is the explanation of the rainbow

I(still the most remarkable), and Newton's prism ; and then

the new discoveries of our own times, which are, fear, too

complex for general readers, though beautiful to the eye as
Iphenomena.     should like to lecture you on this subject ; that

is, dear Katie, as long as you would Uke to hear me !

None of the discoveries can be understood well without

some pictures.

To the same]                                      Nov. 18.

I Isend you three books, which will tell you, hope, what you
--Iwant to know.
                have marked the most essential passages
Iwhich are not very long --and
                                shall be very glad if you
Iwill tell me of anything which puzzles you, that may be
able to explain it, either to you or to the world when I print

again. And so may Athenian Pallas be your aid, my dear Kate,

for she is the goddess both of wisdom and of stoutheartedness,

and you have a right to her help, for you are not easily

daunted.

    I have just been reminded very pleasantly of a very pleasant

expedition made with you to Kheineck, to visit the Bethmann

Holwegs. A young candidat has brought me a letter from

Bethmann Holweg in which he sends your aunt and you, on

the part of his wife and daughters, kind regards ; they still,

he says, think with pleasure of your visit at Rheineck.

Bethmann Holweg is at Berlin, the leader of the Evan

gelical party there, attending much to Church history. Hengs-

tenberg, the young man who brought his letter, gives me an

interesting account of societies which exist in the German

IUniversities for stamping the 'Heidenthum' with       'Christen-

thum.' Societies among the students, mean.
1865                  CAMBRIDGE BILL.                 439

to The spring of this year gives us many letters written
        Mrs. Whewell during her husband's absence in

London. The Bill about to be introduced into Parlia
ment for the reform of the university of Cambridge

caused him anxiety and apprehension. The pressure of

domestic anxiety of the gravest kind diminished his

elasticity and hopefulness. The fact that several of the

friends he most valued were in opposition to him and

actively engaged in promoting what he thought likely

to prove disastrous and destructive, increased the pain

and made him exclaim, in reply to one who thought

Iand felt with him, and who expressed his sympathy by

saying, ' fear this is all very trying to you ! ' ' Trying !
it                             '
    is  breaking  my  heart       with  a voice  and  manner
                             !

which has been described to me as most pathetic. Many

of the dangers he most feared were averted . Many of the

changes carried out worked in a manner different from

Ithat which he anticipated. Courage and patience re
turned ; and happier, calmer days.      believe no inter

ruption in his friendships and intimacies resulted in any

single case from the antagonisms of this stormy period.

To his Wife]                            London : April 26.

    I offered myself to breakfast with Faraday to-day, and went
Ito him at eight o'clock to talk about his theories which much

want to understand fully. He seemed much pleased with my

interest in them, and still more so was Mrs. Faraday, who, as

the way of the wives of such men is, thinks the world does

not fully appreciate her husband.
    You might see by the newspapers that the Cambridge Bill

was read on Tuesday evening, and that Lord Cranworth and
Lord Lyndhurst were the principal speakers. But you would

not see there an incident which bears upon the subject, and

which has greatly pained me.

      You will recollect that the Commission spoke very strongly

of the constitution which we, the syndicate, had framed, and
                                                            1

440 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                 1855

the senate had voted, praising it highly. The Bill is founded
upon this ; and on the faith of this understanding we told
Lord Lyndhurst that we accepted the Bill. So far good. The
day before the debate came on, four of the Commissioners sent

a letter to the Lord Chancellor to say that they had changed

their minds and did not like the constitution. How John
Romilly, Peacock, Sedgwick, and, I believe, Herschel, can have

allowed themselves to be so led, is past my comprehension.
Luckily Cranworth has Monteagle by him to keep him steady

to his Bill, so I expect these four gentlemen will do us no harm.
    I shall, of course, have to speak of this matter in some

form or other, and it will be difficult to do so with moderation ;

however, I will try.

                                             May 12, 1855.
                                evening, as told you
To the same]

   I II employed
              myself yesterday
intended, in writing about the University Bill. It is a very

disgusting and disheartening subject. The bad faith of the
ex-commissioners and the democratic frenzy which prevails in

the University make it difficult to act or write with any hope of
I Idoing good ; but do not think can help taking up my
Itestimony against what they are doing.
                                         doubt whether any
I Ithing can be done with success ; still must do something.
Itried to see Lord Lyndhurst to-day (May 13), but failed.

wished to interest him about University matters, and to explain
about the ' Government of the Heads,' the cry which our Com

missioners have now so strangely taken up, never having said
a word in their Report about what they have now gone out

· of their way to represent as the greatest of the evils in the
IUniversity.  must in some way say my say about them, and I
Ihave got a few pages in the press on the subject, but have no

comfort in the work.

This treatment at the hands of friends, reckoned as such

during a whole life, is a hard trial. Disgust, grief, and hope

lessness swallow up even indignation.

To the same]                           Athenceum : May 14.
I Iam here, very weary after my day's work, as have not
been able to get my printed pages forward so rapidly as I
1855             UNIVERSITY LEGISLATION.           441

I Iwished. However, suppose shall have a number of copies
early to-morrow, and I must see if I can distribute them so as

to have a chance of producing some effect. The debate on our

Bill comes on to-morrow evening. It is very wretched to have
to speak so of such men as Sedgwick, Herschel, Peacock, and

Sir J. Romilly.
    I shall circulate my pages very sparingly, and only among

friends, though I think all that I have said is very moderate ;
Ibut do not want to be engaged in a paper war, but to put the

case before members of Parliament.

To the same]                               May 15.

   IOur Bill is put off for a week in consequence of the petition,

so we have time to turn ourselves, and think perhaps we

shall be able to prevent much of the mischief. By great
Iexertion yesterday and this morning got my Remarks printed,
Iand with a slight addition shall make, shall send them to
Iseveral peers and members of Parliament.
                                           do not find that
Ithey shock those to whom have shown them, as being too

strong or rude, and certainly the Commissioners deserve a great

deal worse treatment.                              heard

   I Ihave just been with Lord Lyndhurst, to whom
Ithat their petition had been sent, and gave him my Remarks.
IHis tone was not at all favourable to the petitioners, and

think he will adopt my arguments, which is a great matter.

To the same]                               May 16.
      I am just returning from Lord Lansdowne's, where we had

a very pleasant dinner party at a round table, as the wont is at
that house. The Milmans, Edward Strutts, Sir John Romilly,

Monteagle, and also the Matthew Arnolds, and John Barlow,
Iand Lady Shelburne, and Madlle. Flahaut.
                                           sat between

I IMrs. Strutt and Mrs. M. Arnold, and enjoyed the talk very

much, though when went thought myself too stupid for

any talk.
     The ex-commissioners have sent another letter to the Lord

Chancellor, in which they urge yet more revolutionary measures

in the University and in the colleges than any that have yet

been spoken of.
442 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

     The summer of this year was spent by Mrs. Whewell

at Lowestoft. I joined her at Cambridge in July and
Iwent with her thither. In September we returned

together to Cambridge, and left her in November,

never to see her again.

To his Sister]  Trinity Lodge : June 10, 1855.

   I II think you asked in your last letter why I gave up the

professorship ? Not precisely because had said all that had

Igot to say on the subject, as you conjectured ; for have a
great deal to say still, and may say some of it if I can find

time, but the task of lecturing was difficult to reconcile with
I Ithe University and college business which had to do, and
Ihad long been desirous of freeing myself.
                                             held the pro
fessorship only that I might induce the University to put some

of the arrangements about professorships in a permanent form,

which they did at the commencement of this year. Another

Ireason, if any other had been necessary, was that may very

probably have to take the office of Vice-Chancellor next year,
Iand that would make it impossible for me to lecture. But,

indeed, without any special reason had held the office long

enough, and it was time to consign it to younger hands. My

successor is Mr. Grote, one of our Fellows.

To James Garth Marshall] Trinity Lodge: Sept. 28, 1855.

   I Iam here, you see, without taking Coniston on my way.

Ifound Corrie desirous of having me at home ; and indeed was

very desirous to see her ; not, happily, because she was worse,

If Ibut because she was better than usual, as she still is.

could only hope that the improvement would be permanent,

I should be very happy.
   I found that she and Janet had been living together very

pleasantly, and indeed I believe merrily. Janet went on

Tuesday to Norwich on a visit to a friend there for a few days ;
and it happened luckily enough that by expediting my journey

Ias much as possible, arrived here a few hours before she left ;

so that Corrie was not left in solitude at all.
     Our Glasgow meeting was pleasant enough. You may tell
1856  BRITISH ASSOCIATION AT GLASGOW.             443

IMary that met there Mrs. Gaskell, and took her over Glasgow

Cathedral by way of getting for a time out of the atmosphere of
science. Milnes was there also. She appears well disposed to
acknowledge the reasonableness of his advice --not to write the
life of ' Currer Bell,' which she has undertaken, so long as the
father, the Eev. P. Bronte, is alive. His character, they say, is
so peculiar, and had so much influence in the determination of

his daughter's habits and course, that any account of her would

be imperfect without a good account of him, which could hardly

be given to his face.

       Mrs. Gaskell gave me an 'Okeawnt o the Greyt Eggshibishun
be a Fella fro' Rachde,' a specimen of the Lancashire dialect

which I shall try to read to Corrie and Janet ; though being
barbarians from Yorkshire, I fear they are not well acquainted

with our Lancashire Doric.

      The most noticeable persons at Glasgow were Charles

 Bonaparte and his daughter, who was a good deal thrown into
the care of my host the Lord Provost, and his sisters-in-law
who were with him, somewhat to the embarrassment of the

ladies, who could speak little or no French, and Madame Cam-

 pello as little English.

To Mrs. Auatvn]  Trinity Lodge: Oct. 28, 1855.

      IHow are you, my dear friend ? have heard nothing of you
Ifor a long time ; for have not been in London, and have not
Ifallen in the way of any of our common friends.
                                                  was in
IFrance for a few days -- only eight -- but there saw neither
ICousin nor St. Hilaire : the former was at some baths believe,

and the latter was not at Paris ; and though within reach of it
I Iby weekly visits,
Idissertations --for
                 missed him.  sent him some Platonic

                 too venture to write about Plato ; and

Ireceived in return a book about that Indian philosophy to
which he now gives so much attention.  cannot persuade

myself that the speculations of a quarter of the world which

has produced so little effect upon European culture are of any

great interest to us, though I quite believe that the Hindoos

are the most subtle and thoughtful race that ever lived, except

the Greeks.

   I the more want to recall myself to your attention, and to
444 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                         1SS

I Ihave a word of account of yourself, because am, fear, on ti-

brink of a year in which I shall be entirely absorbed in tL:
weary trifling which people call ' business.' Do you recollect

how heartily Cowley's muse abuses it ?

              Business ! the grave impertinence ;

              Business ! the thing which I of all things hate ;

              Business ! the contradiction of my fate.

In short, I am threatened with the office of Vice-Chancellor

for the coming year, and shall have to put aside philosophy
and poetry and everything else for that time. For the occu

pations are of a nature that never leave one sure of a moment,

and sure not to have many moments of leisure.
II have been looking at the new edition --or rather the
reprint for publication --of Sydney Smith's letters.             am glad
it is published, though I must own I was one of those who

hesitated to recommend the publication. The picture of such

a noble, upright, cheery, vigorous character is something which

it cannot but do men good to look at, and the book is to me
Iattractive beyond measure.
Ionwards as long as have time.never take it up without reading

     Adieu ! my dear friend. You must give me your sympathy,

for I have the pain of seeing my wife in much pain and in

considerable oppression. These alternations of ill are very

distressing.
                              445

                     CHAPTER IX.

                              1855-1860.

Mrs. Whewell's Death --Visit to Yorkshire -- Elegiacs -- Vice-Chancellorship
-- Fitzwilliam Controversy    --Railway    Accidents-Contested Election --
Professor of Music -- Mr. C.              ' Argonauts '-- Mr. Ruskin -- Eaye's
                              Kingsley's
' Sir John Malcolm '-- Mrs. Austin -- Johanna Wagner-- Ristori -- Visit to
                     and Hyde Hall-- Edinburgh-- His Nieces go
Hatfield Broad Oak   them -- Pictures-- Return to Trinity -- Lecture  to
Italy -- He follows                                                   at

Leeds -- ' Richard II.'--Lectures  at Queen's College -- Manchester  Exhi
bition --Marriages --Visit to Mr.   Arthur Stanley at Canterbury     --Mr.
                                   Whewell's Second Marriage --Bourne
Ellis's Sister Lady Affleck-- Dr.  to Spain -- Eclipse -- Coniston Cold
mouth -- Cumberland -- Journey

Spring.

The anxiety dwelt upon in the last letter to Mrs. Austin
was more than justified by Mrs. Whewell's condition.

The dark cloud, which had been so long impending, was
now about to burst. Lady Monteagle was summoned

to Cambridge early in December, and after some days
and nights of terrible suffering, borne with characteristic
courage, reinforced by the wish to spare her husband as
much as possible the sight of her pain, on the 18th
Mrs. Whewell was released by death. The few words
written to Professor Sedgwick on the 19th tell as
eloquently as any which follow of the complete desola
tion of one who in middle age had found the peace and

joy of perfect sympathy in home life, and to whom,

deprived of this, all life seemed emptied of its value.
The first thought and wish which gave any gleam of
comfort was the desire to draw closer the ties which

bound him to his wife's relations, especially to the sister
446 LIFE OF BR. WHEWELL.  lS->5

who, in her own bereavement, had sadly learnt the
lessons of faith, submission, and realisation of the Unseen,

to him so hard, and to the nieces who, frequent inmates

of his home, and tenderly attached to his wife and to
him, he felt could best cheer his childless age. His
wish to have two of them with him at once, to be

present at the funeral, was denied on the ground of

health. But as soon as he could leave Cambridge he
came down to us and stayed first in one and then in
another of the group of family homes near Leeds. To
dwell upon the thought of what he had enjoyed for

fourteen years, to talk of my Aunt to those who mourned
with, as well as for, him, was the consolation he pro
posed to himself to seek, and it did bring some solace

to his pain even in the first days of desolation. Nothing
was more touching than the gentleness of his mood, the

humility and tenderness with which he courted and
encouraged from others the expression both of their
sympathy in his grief and of their own sense of loss, as

well as of such thoughts as to them brought any measure
of calm or comfort. Whilst in the neighbourhood of

Leeds he went to see an exhibition of pictures, in which
was one by Horace Vernet representing the Angel of
Death carrying away a wife from her husband. The

picture moved him much. He returned again and
again to look at it and dwell upon every detail by which

the painter had skilfully succeeded in indicating love
and grief and hope. He made the picture the sub
ject of the Third Elegiac.

To Professor Sedgwick"]  Trinity Lodge: Dec. 19, 1855.

I am very thankful for your great sympathy in my deep
sorrow. It is a satisfaction to think that you saw in some degree

how kind and thoughtful she was. The riches of her goodness,

wisdom, and love no one could know whose whole life was not
1855       DEATH OF MRS. WHEWELL.                447

Iunited with hers. must go on with a life emptied of all its

value.

    II thank you for your offer of writing letters for me.

should be much obliged if you would inform the Herschels of
my loss and also Miss Sheepshanks.

To Kate Marshall]        Trinity Lodge: Dec. 21, 1855.

      Though to have you with me would be the sweetest con

solation I could now receive, I think your mother and your

uncle have judged quite rightly in deciding against your
Icoming here to-morrow.
                         should be immeasurably distressed
if you were to receive an injury to your health, by complying
with a wish of mine. And indeed my wish is already gratified ;
for the root of my strong desire to see you was the need of
feeling that we still belonged to each other -- that the tie that

binds your heart to mine was not broken, though she who was

the centre and heart of our common love is taken away from

us. Your dear mother's offer to come and bring you and

Janet here in a few days touches me inexpressibly ; it is most

precious to me as making me feel on what terms you are
willing that we should be in future. But I will not avail
Imyself of it in that form at present ; am more disposed to
come and see you--and then, my love, we can talk of what we
Ifhave had and what we have lost.
                                   you two were to cease to
Ibe my nieces, my daughters --as you were hers,
                                                 should

indeed be desolate. And you must let me write to you, and
Iyou must write to me as you used to do to her.
                                                 shall be

a stupid correspondent, but that will not make you cease to

love me.

To Dr. Mackreth]         Trinity Lodge: Dec. 22, 1855.

I must send you a single line to thank you for the kind

Ithoughts which rose in your mind when you heard of my
calamity.  am not alone. Lady Monteagle was with me

some days before, and has been ever since, and she is all that

the tenderest and most thoughtful of sisters can be. Above

all, we can talk together freely of what we have lost, which is

by far the sweetest comfort within our reach.
448 LIFE OF DR. WilEWELL.                                                                              : 1«]

In a few days shall go to Leeds, and shall be with soaJ
I                                                                                           do not kns«

    I

             it
                        I

                                                                                         :

                                                 I
nieces of hers who are very dear to me.

whether will be possible for me to come farther north, but
likeshould have a day or two to spare and you would
                                                                                            to ha^t

me, will let you know.

To Mrs. F. Myers]       Trinity Lodge Dec. 23, 855.
                                                                                            1
Precious indeed to me are your words of sympathy. In
                                                                                                     bj
the desolation which feel to be gathering round me, mj
                   is

                     I
                          I

                                            a

                                        it
gleam of comfort   that shall not cease to be bound

the tie of love to those to whom was so sweet to be bound

through her. She will still be bond of union between yoc
                                               already. You can
and me, even as your dear husband              is

hardly know how much that has been so.           I               began by loving

him because loved you, but ended by loving him for him
            I           I

self from the bottom of my heart, and to this day when any

new thought on speculative matters rises upon me, it is accom
panied with a pang of regret that cannot impart it to him

and have his view of it. And far more now will every thought
I

                                                  is

                                           it I

                                                             it
which arises of anything which to be done and felt be accom

panied with bitter grief, because must be done and felt
alone. For we shared our thoughts from hour to hour, and
                                                                                            I
                                                                                                    if
did anything good and right and wise was because had

her goodness and rightmindedness and wisdom to prompt and

direct me.

You speak as from experience of conscious communion of

spirit in carrying on the work which we began in our earthly
communion. May be able to feel this At present only
if

           I

                                                                                           !

                                       I

                                         ;I
feel as all my objects and occupations had lost their value,

and my life were emptied of all worth and meaning.
     Dear sister --you have ever been very dear to me let me

not lose any portion of your heart, though have lost what

gave me my claim to it. We have our two dear ones united                                      of
there -- let us cling together here. Your dear children are as

dear to me as my own could have been, and amongst the
solaces of my life must be loving you and them. You know

how sweetly patient she was--or rather though you know

her sweetness and patience, you cannot know how touching

they were as the end drew near. She often rebuked herself
r>5 DEATH OF MRS. WHEWELL 449

r expressing her pain in audible moans. The day before the

st, when she had long been in great pain, I went to her bed-
de Iand looked, suppose, sadly at her. She smiled very sweetly
lend said, 1 You Isee can still muster a smile.' The last day

      had been in pain for a day and night and could not obtain

moment's repose. She complained of dreadful weariness
till,rom time to time ; at night she became weaker and lay more

        and when I went to her and hung over her she said, ' I
Im not 80 weary now.' In praying by her side, said, more
Ifor myself than for her, ' this cup may not pass from me
I-xeept    drink it ' . . . and I could not finish the sentence,
D\it she finished it and said, * Thy will be done.' It is very
hard to say, my dear sister, but I must learn the lesson of you
as soon as I may.

She said, ' Do not put upon my grave-stone anything that
Iis merely sad and sorrowful.'
                                replied, ' We are not as those

who sorrow without hope.' 'Yes,' she said, 'not without hope;'

Iand added, ' Your own device which you gave to Susan : " We

live to die, we die to live." ' And, dearest sister, I want you

to give me a sketch of that jewel which she had made for you ;

for I think that would be the best form of monument to place

upon her grave. You will send me this soon, will you not,

dearest ?

We lay her in the cemetery to-morrow morning at half-past

eight. Immediately after the morning service the coffin will

be carried into the College Chapel and the service read there,

and thence directly to the grave. There is as yet no chapel in

the cemetery ground (only a gate-house where the service is

Icommonly read) : but we hope soon to remedy this want.
Some days before,  told her that I had in my will directed

that I should be buried there, and then we would have a

church there like St. John's at Keswick. We shall not have a

church exactly like that, for it will not be a parish church, but

I hope it will rise higher and sooner on account of her lying

near it ; as assuredly to all who know her it will be more full

of holy thoughts and good influences.
I would come to you soon and share my grief with you if it

were possible, but my office of Vice-Chancellor makes it diffi
Icult for me to be long absent, and
                                       have proposed to go

                   G0
450 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                              1855

Iduring the short time that can be spared to Leeds, that I
Imay see those beloved children Kate and Janet.

    Dearest sister -- go on talking to you, and you must let

I Ime do so, as used to talk to her, and then shall perhaps be

less utterly desolate in spirit. Pray tell me where are the lines

Iyou quote : ' Then parted -- she to Christ's embrace, to the

lonesome world again.' And now for the moment farewell.
God comfort you, and me, your brother in deep love and deep

sorrow.

To Mrs. O'Callaghan]      Dec. 27, 1855.

Your girls have always been so much to us--Kate from the
Iearliest period and so often, and Janet of late -- that when was
Ileft alone felt a strong yearning to know, by having them
I Inear me, that had not lost their love. But am well per
Isuaded that I have not ; and look forward to seeing them
Iagain as one of the best comforts which is left me.
                                                      should

Ilike to see them often, but at any rate you must arrange that
  shall see you and them sometimes.

Lord and Lady Monteagle left me on Wednesday. The

comfort of her company in my sorrow was more than words can

Iexpress. But indeed my main comfort now is the love of you

who loved her : and that trust you will let me anchor upon.

To the Hon. Mrs. J. G. Marshall]

                                       Trinity Lodge: Dec. 27, 1855.

     Marianne spoke of your intending to provide a separate

sitting-room for me, but that is not at all needed. My main
comfort will be to be with those who loved her whom 1 have

lost, and who I hope will love me still. I will not promise

not to be sad, for I cannot with fortitude look upon the ruins

of my life which seem to lie round me ; but the sadness has
many touches of sweetness, and need not make me repulsive
to your children, and they, be sure, will not be troublesome

to me.

To Mrs. F. Myers]     Trinity Lodge : December 30, 1855.

    You will let me write a few words to you, for I am very

' lonesome,' not in the ' lonesome world,' as you will suppose,
1855            SOLITUDE.                           451

Ifor have seen nobody except Worsley and Katharine, but

lonesome by being in a hopeless solitude ; while hitherto,

Bolitude, whether near her or far from her, has been ' blest

society,' because I could not be separated from her. You will
forgive my troubled way of expressing myself. I have been
working very hard since Marianne left me, and I hope have

done something ; but what trivialities such things are ! But

I Iam somewhat overtasked with this, and am glad that am
Igoing away to-morrow. I go first to James and Mary, and I
Ihave no doubt that shall find there any comfort which
can find anywhere, but I think my main thought of comfort

at present is getting out of the circle of daily memories
which meet me at every step. And yet, perhaps, these are
better than the want of them. But 1 shall return soon and

make the bitter trial.

    IDearest Susan, know you pity me for not being able yet

to find any comfort, or at least any sufiicing comfort, where
you, with your dear faith and resignation, so like hers, have

Ifound yours. But do not despair of me ; I shall see more

clearly, trust, soon, when the first dark gloom has passed

...away.
          II thank you for all the good and kind thoughts in

your last letter ; and, as you see, confide in your love.

      The history of the year 185G is principally contained

in the letters to his niece Kate Marshall. Upon her he

depended for interest in every daily trifle, and whilst

the deeper needs of his desolate heart were, as we have

seen already, expressed to the widowed sister, herself

acquainted with grief, to be near whom was the greatest

solace he could conceive, the thoughts and moods of

Ifevery day were poured out to this dear niece in almost
daily letters.  useful to him, the correspondence was

invaluable to her, comforting a young heart which also

had sustained an irreparable loss, and pouring a flood
of light from his mind upon all the tastes and pursuits

itswhich she and her sister shared and cultivated.
452 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                  1850

To Mrs. F. Myers]      Headmgly, Leeds: Jan. 4, 1856.

You will not be surprised that I have had a desire to put
                                                                   I
some   of my memories   of my beloved one in a  distinct form.
        that the kind                           the best for    the
think                  Iof verse send you is

purpose. It enables the writer to shake off entirely the en
cumbrance of poetical phraseology and the vagueness of con

ventional modes of presentation of thought, and is, to my

feelings, as earnest as prose can be, while many of the things
said derive force from the symmetry of structure which this

kind of composition favours. Whether this may be so for

others I cannot tell ; but I can say for myself that I could not
have written what I have written more solemnly and earnestly
in any other form. But I do not want so much to tell you of

my own notions as to know what impression my verses make

upon you and Marianne. There          are very  few persons whose
feeling for poetry and versification            so highly as yours
                                      I esteem

and hers ; and the deep interest the subject has for you wiJl

make you recoil from everything which is not perfectly just

and true in the expression, as well as sympathise with every

thing which is rightly said. Tell me what impression my little
record makes upon you. And if there are any harsh expressions

Ior awkward lines, tell me of these, that may give matter so

precious the best form that I can.

Adieu, dearest sister. My heart clings to you all with a

most tender love.

To the samel           Elmwood, Leeds : Jan. 11, 1856.

Your letters are the greatest comfort that I have ; and the
Igreatest solace I can conceive would be to be near you, where I
might see you and talk to you every day.        am here among
those who loved her, and who, I think, love me ; and especially
Kate's society is sweet as ever, and I live in some degree in her

dear looks. But it is vain to defer the hour which must soon

come, when I must return to my solitude and my work ; it will

not be quite a solitude, for her dear companionship will still

seem to be with me where everything reminds me of her, and I

must endeavour to derive strength from it, not weakness.
Your precious book 1 came along with your letter, and I

       1 Lectures on Great Men. By the Rev. F. Myers.
*oO         SECOND VICE-CHANCELLORSHIP.                      453

>ok upon it with strong affection, thinking of you and of him.

 t tiixik the preface is very satisfactory, and such as he himself
rould have liked ; and if it be from the pen of a stranger, there
ats least this satisfaction, that it shows that strangers, as well
is we, can admire and love the spirit that breathes in the pages,

md thereby affords a promise that the good, warm, and elevated

rhoughts which he so lovingly poured out for the benefit of

those who were near him may extend their influence to many
Iwho are afar off.
            am much pleased with what you say of my verses.  You

are quite right that the measure is suited for elegiac thoughts

rather than for effusions so lofty and solemn as the Psalms

are. . . .

     Your kind thoughts of me and for me are sweetness in the

midst of the bitterness which will not be bidden down. They

are most precious to me.

     Dr. Whewell's apprehension, expressed in October
1855 in a letter to Mrs. Austin, was verified by his
election as Vice-Chancellor in the following month. On
this, the second occasion of his holding the office, he

does not appear to have sketched out for himself, as lie
did on the first, a programme of changes and improve
ments he meant to forward. This would have been

 unnecessary, as the matter of reform was now fairly in
 the hands of Parliament.

     Early in the year 1856 he caused some excitement
in Cambridge by re-hanging the pictures in the Fitz
William Museum on his own authority and without
consulting the Syndicate, to which the management of
the Museum was entrusted. The new arrangement,
which proceeded on the principle of grouping by schools,
seems to have been in itself generally approved, but
most persons were disposed to regard the manner in
which it had been effected as high-handed and un

constitutional. A majority of the Syndics protested

 before the work was finished, but the Vice-Chancellor
454 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                  15H

it                                                     and therefore seven
                               a

                                           a
                                             a

                                                  it,
would not give orders to stop                                               wl d'
ofthe eight Syndics resigned. It was found difficult
obtain the consent of sufficient number                   persons m
act in their places, and in the then temper of the Sena:;
                                                                            j1
was doubtful whether new Management Syndicate

could be formed. The difficulty was overcome by the!                        j

appointment of fresh Syndicate to revise the existing
regulations for the general management of the Fitzl

William Museum. This Syndicate recommended that'

the placing of all the articles composing the Collection

should l>e expressly vested in the Management Syndicate.

This recommendation was adopted, but the Vice-Chan

cellor had by this time gained his point and the pictures

had been re-hung as he wished.

Mr. Goulburn, who had represented the University

in Parliament for four-and-twenty years, having died
                           a
                                                                                                  in
January 1856, contest for the vacant seat took place

between the Right Honourable Spencer Walpole and

the Honourable George Denman. Mr. Walpole was

elected. The polling lasted some days. The scenes in

the Senate House were so tumultuous that the Tice-

Chancellor took the extreme measure of excluding the

undergraduates from the galleries after the first day.

While the Cambridge University Bill was under

discussion, the Yice-Chaneellor addressed letters to Mr.

Bouverie and Mr. Walpole, in which he made some

'                          his individual capacity, on certain of the

                       in
suggestions,

provisions of the Bill. He had previously consulted

persons of weight in the University,' and he drew

attention to the small extent and moderate character of

these suggestions as evidence of                       a  wish to throw no

unnecessary obstacles in the way of the progress of the

Bill as then stood after the modifications introduced
it

in the preceding Session. In his letter to Mr. Walpole
185G  SECOND VICE-CHANCELLORSHIP.  455

he remarked that the mode of electing the Council had
been assimilated to that directed by the Oxford Act,
that he thought it a great improvement, and that he did
not know that any one dissented. This marks a great

concession after the strong opposition he had offered to
the first proposals of the Bill. He observed that he still
thought the Vice-Chancellor would have too little power,

but that he did not ask for any change.

     It became his duty before he resigned office to take

measures for the preparation of the Electoral Roll

previous to the first election of Councillors under the
University Act, and for making and promulgating the
necessary regulations for the election and assembling of
the Council. Thus the last official act of Dr. Whewell

as Vice-Chancellor in 1856 was practically the inaugura
tion of the new system of government which he had so
long struggled against, but which in the end he accepted
without demur.

      Dr. Whewell had in his second Vice-Chancellorship
the satisfaction of seeing a settlement of differences

which had long existed between the University and the
town of Cambridge. This was effected by Sir John
Patteson's Arbitration Award which received Parlia

mentary sanction in 1856, and thereby put an end to
vexatious inequalities and interferences of ancient date
which had become more and more matters of grievance
to the inhabitants of the borough.

To Kate Marshall]  Jan. 17, 1856.

      I write to you so soon not only because my heart is full of

you, which is reason enough, but because we had an accident in

our train yesterday, which you may possibly hear of, and may

like to know that I came to no harm. The wheel of a first class

carriage broke, and the carriage, after bumping dreadfully, as

those said who were in it, fell over on one side. Nobody was
456 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                    1S5G

much hurt. Sir William and Lady Herries were in the carriage.
He, though lame, and falling undermost, was not hurt at all ;
she had a fracture of the arm at the wrist. A fine boy on his

way to Eton, son of Colonel Smyth of Heath House, was much
scratched and bruised, but nothing broken or dislocated. This

was all, though there were several others in the carriage.
     The results would have been much worse but for the noble

Icourage of a fine young man (whose name could not learn),

who got out at the window and went along the tops of the

carriages to the driver. He brought the train to a stand soon.

To the same]                                Jan. 18, 1856.

I must send you one line to salute you on your birthday.
How can I tell you, my love, half the good things that I wish

you ? All that can make you happy ; and most of all that you
Imay be in spirit like her whom we have lost.
                                                 can wish you

nothing beyond.

    I sent you the account of my journey and its dangers.
I ISince then have been very busy. Not but that have sent

Ioff a long screed of verses 1 to your aunt Susan, and have been

especially busy with my picture-hanging.

   I I. . . So go on vapouring about myself, but told you it

was my way ; and you must let me do it to you, and you will,

even about duller matters than picture-hanging.
IWe are to have, besides, an election to enliven us.
Ifnot a contested one.                                     hope

                        Spencer Walpole will stand, which he

is asked to do, no one will have any chance. George Denman
is in the field also. Sir James Stephen's friends have talked of
Ihim, foolishly as think, and he tells me he considers the sug
Igestion absurd.
                   have not yet received the writ, so that the
election will be thrown into term-time ; but if it be a quiet

election there will be no great harm done.

God bless you, my dear child, and give you all good gifts.

To Mrs. F. Myers]       Trinity Lodge: Jan. 23, 1856.

    I may well go on writing to you, for your sympathy makes
you divine the tender places of my loneliness. It is, as you

1 One of the Elegiacs so often referred to. See Appendix.
-- - - ---
866                ELEGIACS.                        457

Iay, in the evening when Ifeel it ; for in my happy days
lad unlearnt the practice of reading to myself in the evenings,
ind I Ido not feel as if could resume it.
                                           walk about, or
Iscreech my recollections of songs, or copy out verses as am
Joing this evening. I copy them out, but do not write them
then ; this is done mostly by rising in the night when I can
Inot sleep. I send you another strain of my elegiacs, which
think will interest you.

    I am having the stone executed which is there described.
I Ihope you will come and see it, for hope you will come and
see me, and cheer my lonely evenings, if it be but for a
while. . . .
     IYou constantly produce such sweet snatches of song that

exclaim, like Wordsworth to his ' dear, dear sister,' that your
' Memory is as a dwelling-place to all sweet sounds and har

monies.' Where are those most wise and pathetic verses which

you quote, ' To weep or not to weep ' ? God bless you, dearest.

I am languishing for some of you ; and am trying to tempt

Mary Alice to come here on her way to London.

To Kate Marshall]  Trinity Lodge: Jan. 25, 1856.

     This is our day of great bustle and noise. There is an

abominable tumult in the Senate House all the while that the

Degrees are conferring. This is just over. I got through it,
I believe, successfully, in a shorter time than usual ; but all
Isuccess now only makes me cry, because have not her to share

it with, and loses all value. Tears were trickling down my

face great part of the time: so unlikely a thing in a Vice-Chan

cellor in his chair that probably nobody saw it : I hope so. And
Inow, darling, I tell it to you that may not feel so lonely, nor

life so very worthless.         with applications for the Pro
                                Iorganist's place.
    I am perfectly overwhelmed                      find that

fessorship of Music, and the

Charles Spring Kice is on Mr. Denman's Committee, and that

Mr. Denman is growing ' very excited,' which I fear means

obstinately bent upon going to the poll, however little chance

he may have.
458 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                            1*X

To the same]           Trinity Lodge: Feb. 1, 1856.

    I am writing early in the morning, 5 A.M. (by a good fire,
however), that I may send you a letter soon. It is not so much

I Ithat cannot sleep as that I really have so much work that

cannot otherwise get through it. I have to give my opinion
in the adjudication of the Smith's prizes to-day, and I have

I Iyet to look over the examination papers.

         suppose shall have the writ for the election to-day or

to-morrow, and must then make arrangements for the voting

which seems certain to take place. It will be a vile inter

ruption of all rational work.                       for the
                                                    time to
   I Inever thanked you as ought to have done
I' Bairnsla Fooks' Annual,' which have not yet had
study as it deserves.

Do you know ' Mrs. Spry ' 1 has all but given me up. She

comes in for a little while at dinner, but looks discontented

and soon goes away. She does not know that it is no fault of

Imine that am so stupid. She will not turn at the delicacies

she used to prize so much -- biscuit, cheese. One day to regain

Iher favour absolutely carried the wing of a pheasant into the

Igarden for her. She followed me thither from habit, but

turned up her nose at it when had thrown it on the ground.

To the aame~]          Trinity Lodge: Feb. 5, 1856.

I am afraid that for the next week I shall be able to write

to you only little. This detestable election is to take up all

my time. The two sides opposed to one another conspire to

destroy the Vice-Chancellor. The Walpolians thinking them

selves strong in the clergy wish to have as many days as pos

sible, which is five. The Denmanites trust in the London

Ilawyers, and want many hours each day, and (odious contrivance)
an evening sitting. I am not very easily frightened, but confess
I look at this prospect with horror. Besides, the mere sitting
so long will be 'awfully unjolly.' I expect trouble with the

galleries, where the undergraduates love to make a noise, which

is not only scandalous, but makes business impossible. If it
Iwere only for one or two days, think I could contrive some-

               1 Mrs. Whewell'a little dog.
185G           ELECTION.                        459

Ithing to keep them in order; but shall never find troops

staunch enough to fight them for five days.

I See what a life of fights I have ! My Fitzwilliam fight will,
   think, end without ill-humour. Dr. Philpott has agreed to

Ibe on a committee to make rules for the future ; and believe

there is no dissentient voice as to the goodness of the arrange
ment.

To the same]                  Trinity Lodge: Feb. 6, 1856.

    II told you was frightened at the disturbance and uproar
Iof the election (of course not at the labour). I think have
Itaken such precautions that shall be able to keep matters
Ipretty well in order, even for the five days. And at any rate
Ithink shall so manage that I shall not come into any personal
relations with disorderly people, and that if we are beaten from

the best po. ition, we can retire on the second best. This, you

are to understand, I conceive to be a wise line of proceeding;
if only I can carry it into effect !

     Thank you very much for your edition of Shakspeare's

ISonnets. rejoice very much to have it given me by you. But

what I am trying to find for you is an edition of the Sonnets

Iwithout the other poems which this volume contains, the Venus
and Adonis, and the Rape of Lucrece.   am preparing for my
Ifirst election day, and wondering whether can contrive to insert

a ride as well as a dinner between 4 and 7.30.

To the same~]                 Trinity Lodge : Feb. 9, 1856.

I Imust write to you, it seems so long since did so ; seems
Ilong because so much has been doing.
                                       have been obliged to

fight a battle, and it is still going on. The galleries behaved
so very ill on Thursday -- shouting incessantly, so that the

Ipolling could not go on except in dumb show --that was re
solved to keep the men o\it of them from that time. I had
Itaken my precautions, so that did this effectually all yesterday ;
but it made them very angry.

     They screeched and howled outside till they were tired;

and when I went home at four, they were assembled in great

numbers and hooted me all the way to Trinity. This was really

Imusic to my ears, for though I was sorry to vex the men, was
460 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                  1S50

Iglad to hear them own themselves beaten. When had to go

to the evening meeting at the Schools, it was reported to me that
the streets were full, the men, -- angry, had put out the gas at

the barricades, and seemed to mean mischief.

    I was counselled to go quietly by side gates; but this counsel
I rejected, and directed that we should go out at the front gate,

and in at the front gate. The Masters of Arts who were near

escorted me, and we got easily into the Senate House Yard ;

Ithe more easily inasmuch as the insurgents were collected at

the barricaded gate which is opposite St. Mary's, and went

by the Senate House Gate. This made them more angry still ;

Iand after had been taking the votes in the Schools under the

University Library for some time, the windows were assailed

from without, and broken glass began to jingle. They had

forced the crazy old gate opposite Clare Hall (I never thought
of securing that), and had got into the Library Quadrangle.

However, they made no way ; but when the sitting was over,

Iescort was necessary, for think they did mean mischief.
IHowever, I walked safely home, holding my head as high as

could. The Masters of Arts kept close to me, but there seemed

to be a large and fierce mob behind.

   INow that we have again time to repair our defences,

think we shall be able to repel all attacks. The senators are

so thoroughly committed to the conflict that they must fight
Iit out and stand by me. See how warlike
                                          am, dear

Kate !

To the same]  Trinity Lodge : Feb. 9.

I want to give you the earliest information that the election

is over. Mr. Denman has resigned, just in time to save me

from a somewhat perilous evening's walk.

 . The men were said to be still very angry : but I should not
have been afraid of them. It is the gownless rabble who are

the most noisy and mischievous on such occasions. The mayor

had promised me police, and to keep them in order. We

Ihave still the declaration of the poll on Monday, and must
keep the galleries clear on that day also, or I shall have all

my work undone.

   I am sorry for your solitude. How I wish I could come to
1850          ELECTION.                                      461

you as you came to me, that I might talk to you all my

' vapouring ' instead of writing it.

To the same]                   Trinity Lodge : Feb. 10.

      IYou see am growing very intemperate in the indulgence
of writing to you, hut it is a great comfort, and especially

Iwhen you tell me that you are thinking about me and may

suppose you like to know how the story goes on.

    I told you that Denman had resigned; but last night's

work did not end there. When the mob found themselves

defrauded of their expected uproar by my not going to the
schools, they raised a cry, ' To Trinity Lodge,' and rushed to

our gate. Our porter, luckily, was resolute and kept them

out single-handed. They afterwards went to St. John's, where

they tried to force the gate, and to Christ's, where they made

the same attempt. They failed at the front gate, but broke in

at the, kitchen-door. However, they went away, frightened,

I believe, at their own success. The provoking thing is, that
I can find no one who has courage and sense to face the men

and identify them. The greater part of them are not gowns

Imen, so 1 am writing to the mayor for police ; but do not

Iexpect there will be much more disturbance.
      You ask about my rides.  have ridden every day from
Ifour to five. It cheers and exhilarates me, and in riding
Icompose proclamations and schemes. Yesterday
                                                 had in

vented an excellent wire boarding-net to protect a weak wall,
Iand was going to have it executed when
                                              found the note
Iannouncing Denraan's retirement. The evening before, rode
Ithrough the streets a quarter-of-an-hour after
                                                 had been

followed home by what the newspapers call 'an infuriated
Imob,' but no one raised tongue or hand. One man, think,
Itried to groan, but am not sure ; and he was very welcome to
Ido it.  will close my letter later ; I am told there are to be
groaners on the way to St. Mary's, but I do not believe it.
      IPast 8 p.m. -- It was all nonsense, as supposed, and it is
reported to me that the streets are quite quiet. I shall finish the
Ielection to-morrow morning, and am just penning an address
Iwhich will be circulated soon after. intend it to be conciliating

to the undergraduates, but there are certain foolish senators to
462 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

Iwhom must give a slap --of course, in a grave and Yice-
IChancellor-like way -- so go on ' vapouring ' to you !

To the same]      Trinity Lodge: Feb. 11, 1856.
I must go on with my bulletins of the war, especially as I

now send you the last, what the Duke of Wellington called
' a Song of Victory.' We had the end of the election this

Imorning in what, believe, would be called a very ' slow way,'

that is, we got through the formalities as fast as possible, not

being disturbed by the galleries.

   ISo have sent a large parchment letter to London, to tell

the Queen that we have elected Mr. S. H. Walpole to be our

I' true and lawful Burgess.' And so everything has passed off

quite well, and I have been successful in all that tried to do.
And so -- I could not help crying profusely, while they were

counting the votes, to think how sweet all this success would

have been a little while ago, and how heartless it is now.

IDearest Kate, do not well to oppress you with my sorrows,
Ibut think you will feel them.

To the same]      Trinity Lodge : Feb. 24.
IWhere are you ?
                  have lost you and must try to find
Iyou, for my days are very blank without you.
                                                    suppose you

are at Dovenby, enjoying mountain breezes and the idle brooks

that are allowed to play without working, though very likely

your neighbours make them grind oatmeal.

      We are here growing more and more eager about the

election of a Professor of Music. I have fixed Tuesday, the 4th,

for the election. Mrs. Frere is very zealous for Mr. Sterndale

IBennett ; and, by way of falling in with her humour, have

Iasked her to come and stay with me here, and canvass the
College and the University to her heart's content.  think, too,
Lord Monteagle will come and vote, though I hardly know for
whom. It is wonderful what a stir this election seems to make

in London. Poor Lord Monteagle must be much afflicted at

the loss of his sister ; 1 they were so fond of each other, and had

mingled their enjoyment of literature and art so much.

                  1 Lady de Vere.
1850 LECTURE ON 'PLURALITY OF WORLDS.' 463

    I wonder what came of your lecture on the ' Plurality of

Worlds ' ; which side did the lecturer take and how did he deal
with the question ? What kind of impression was made upon

Theodosia and the younger hearers ? It is difficult to present

so doubtful a question to such hearers without misrepresenting
it. They do not understand doubting in teachers ; they want
to be told that a thing is, or is not ; and that is more than
your lecturer could really tell, whatever he may have pretended.

To the same]  Trinity Lodge : Feb. 27.

I Isend you a sermon which preached. You will see, if

you read it, what thoughts were in my mind. The words that
it contains are very weak ; all words are very weak for such

thoughts and such things.

    I rejoice much to think of you among the mountains and in

the pure air of the country ; last year we were trying to find
country in this neighbourhood --you and I.

   I II am sorry you are still puzzled about Light.
              wish

were near you to help you over some of your difficulties, or

rather to ascertain what it is you wish to know which can be

known, for there are many of the most obvious questions which
the philosophers cannot answer. For instance, as to the cause

of colour and change of colour in different bodies, Newton's

guesses (they are no more) are of do value ; nor those of any
body since him.

     You talked of an intention of reading Euskin's new

Ivolume while you were at Dovenby, and was going to do the
Isame that might be employed on the same thoughts as you.
I can read it as poetry and wit, and never mind the rest.

    I am supposed to have behaved with great ' magnanimity '
Ibecause, when a list of the rioters was offered me, said, ' The

election is over, they will not do it again,' and rejected the

record.

To the same]  Trinity Lodge: March 10.

I have got and read Kingsley's ' Argonauts,' which is cer

tainly told in a very animated and fairy-tale manner ; the
cleverer on his part, inasmuch as the ' Argonautica ' of Orpheus,

on which it is founded, is a book of small repute among Greek
464 LIFE OF DR. WIIEWELL.

Ifscholars. Have you read the · Wanderings of Ulysses,' wtkL
is a book by Charles Lamb, of the same kind ?  not I mar

get it for yon. The children would be sure to like it.

To the same']  Athenamm: March 15, 1856.

     When I am tired of walking about the dusty streets in thi*

cruel east wind, I come here to the Athenaeum and read Raskin,

and fency that you are reading him too. And in truth you have,

that way, led me to a very entertaining occupation ; for, as is
others of his books, in spite of his defects, I find a great deal t
Iinterest me and not a little to instruct me.
                                               have been ex

tremely amused by his 'chapters about the landscape-painting

of the classical poets, of the mediaeval and of the modern, and

by the moral of landscape ; all full of thought and ingenuity,

and sensibility, even where wrong.

Do you observe how he begins these speculations by a most

fierce denunciation of the distinction of subjective and objective;

knowing well (how can he help but know ?) that that is pre
cisely the distinction on which he has to insist? He calls these

two divisions of poetry sentimental and creative, which are very

good names, but do not make the others bad ones. The fact

Iis, that (as dare say I may have told you before) objective is

a very good word, for it means that which deals with external

objects, but subjective is not a good word, for the word subject

in the sense there intended is a technical word of very partial

propriety. Instead of subjective say, as Ruskin says, senti

mental, or mental, or reflective, and the meaning will be clear

to the common reader. And so much for subjective and ob-

jective. There is a witchcraft about this antithesis which

compels people to go on talking about it when once they begin.
But it is a pleasant discussion in Ruskin. And then his esti

mate of Scott, which is hardly too high, and which is very sug

gestive, comes out of it very pleasantly.

To the samel   Trinity Lodge : March 20.

Your letter came to me in London, which I hardly hoped,
Iso write to thank you for being such a dear good child as to
Iwrite
Isisters
it.     enjoyed being in London so         far as seeing dear
and                                           think you know
     brothers went -- not much else.
1850          'FINISH' IN PAINTING.                            465

Ithat am not enthusiastic about Jenny Lind's singing. I
Istayed over Tuesday to hear her in the ' Messiah,' which think

I do understand ; but her singing of it, though good, does not
Iseem to me to come up to the best that have heard. Perhaps
Ithat is an elderly gentleman's fancy.
                                        should like to hear her

at a morning oratorio in a cathedral, for there music is far

more sweet than in London in an evening.

    I met your friend Marianne North one evening in Park

Street, and was glad of the opportunity of talking to her of

Iyou. You may imagine all the harm we contrived to say of
you !  was amused with your account of your legal studies ;

but, seriously speaking, a little discipline in the precision of

law language and the application of legal principles is a good

element in education; just as Euclid is, which ladies some

times learn.

I II did not see Reginald when he came to London to see the
boat-race.    hope he was satisfied.    wonder whether he

was the man whom a friend of mine met in the street, and

on saying to him, ' What do you think of the great event ? '

(meaning the birth of thesis de France) was answered, ' We
were sure the Cambridge men could do it ! '
II am very sorry for the Dean of Carlisle.1
                                                               hear your

uncle William has offered him Hallsteads for his convalescents.

To the same]  Trinity Lodge : March 23.

IHow do you get on with Euskin ?        should like more and

more to have read it with you ; one cannot read such a book

over again with quite the same interest, and there is a great
deal to be said about his book and his subject. As to ' finish,'

I think it is very plain that his account of it is not the right

one. Take such an example as this. Landseer paints a dog,

or any other creature, so that the hair looks like hair, wet or

dry, rough or smooth, as he likes. You look near and you see

that the effect is not produced by painting hairs, but by won

derful dashes, and smears, and touches, which you never would

have thought of. Denner paints the same thing, hair by hair,

with the most wonderful fidelity and patience. His work will

            1 The present Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr. Tait.
                                               HH
466 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

bear the microscope. Which picture do we call finished?

doubt edly the latter. But does it differ from Landseer's
in ha\"ing mere truth? By no means. It has lost Landses-

kiud of truth, and given another kind which most people* 1
Inot like so well. What then do I say is ' finish ' ?
                                                           thai !

that the best definition of it would be microscopic truth ; thai

is, truth in which you discover new and true features the mo:

you look into the detail. But is this the best kind of pictorial

truth ? I think not ; Landseer's is a better picture. If jot

go a yard from it the merit of Denner's vanishes, and even is

the best finished pictures the microscopic truth soon fail*, &-

Ruskin himself teaches.

    The hairs of Denner's dog, if looked at with a microscope,

are seen to be mere streaks of paint. It is only finish up to a

certain point that is valuable in painting ; and on this account

there are merits in painting opposite to * finish.' What h
4 touch " in drawing ? Something by which you tell to the eye
what you cannot tell by finish. You cannot draw every leaf of

a tree, but by touch you suggest them.

Buskin's idolatry of Turner leads him to absurd and

ignorant depreciation of other artists. It is not true thai

Constable does not distinguish black shades from black mo**

patches. Constable was fond of truth, as Turner was, and
sought it most diligently and told it his own way ; and the

same i* true of all the other most admired landscape painter*.

     You are quite right to call to mind Schiller's Essay upon

' Naive and Sentimental Poetry.' It is really the starting-

point of all that has been written since upon the subject, call

it objective and subjective, or by whatever other names you

will.

    For the last few day* I have had the judges here, and also

an oriental historian, Mr. Kaye, who wrote a history of the wai

in Afghanistan, and also a life of Lord Metcalfe. He is now
employed in writing a life of Sir John Malcolm, who as you

know w.is a great Indian statesman and soldier, and a very dear

friend of mine. His daughter was, and is, one of the charming
Kates that, as I have told you, I have known. Kaye comes to
me to pick up such recollections as he can of his hero. I sent
Ifhim to Sedgwick, who also was a friend of Sir John's.
                                                           he
              CHILDERLEY.                                 467

2ould keep him to the subject he might get a good deal from

himI. am sorry you had not more pleasure from the Cathedral

Iat Carlisle. When last looked into it it was so cumbered by
workmen that I could see little of it ; but I recollect some of
the faults you mention. I took a ride yesterday to an old

building in this neighbourhood, Childerley, where Charles I.
slept two nights when Colonel Joyce had seized him and was
taking him to the army. The room in which he slept has

always been preserved, with its old decorations, but Mr. Calvert,
to whom the house belongs, has restored, almost rebuilt, it.

Among other parts, they have restored the chapel, which, not
Ibeing used, is merely a large vacant room.
                                                 asked the good
woman of the house what it was to be for. ' Oh ! ' she said,

* a chapel, or a school, or a smoking-room, or something of that

kind.'                                           My advice

    I Iwish were with you to discuss Ruskin.

would be, enjoy his eloquence and his wit (for there is a great
Ifdeal of wit), but do not let his paradoxes puzzle you.
                                                          you

try ever so hard, and seem for a time to understand them, you

will find they will soon have vanished out of your mind. To

attempt to preserve them is like making a collection of soap-

bubbles, on account of their beautiful colours.

To the some]                                     April 4.

ITo-day am going to ride a little further than usual to see

a church (Burwell), belonging to the University, which wants

mending. My ride is all along the edge of our · sublime fen,'

as my friend Kenelm Digby calls it.

    I have bought at the amateur exhibition here, a picture by

William Millais, the brother of John Millais, the Pre-Raphaelite,

Iand himself plainly a kindred soul, which should like to show

you with reference to the question of ' What is finish ? ' For

my picture, a waterfall, is full of immense detail and of laborious

Itruth -- mean in ferns, leaves, grass, rocks, water, and the

like-- and yet would not be called finished ordinarily, because

it wants smoothness in the ultimate touches.

It is pleasant to dwell upon the scheme of your meeting

your aunt Susan here, even though you seem to have so many

              hh2
468 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                          1856

ties and occupations that it is difficult to get you away from

home. It is pleasant, and, indeed, it is necessary, for me to

dwell upon such hopes ; for it is only such hopes that make

life to be life to me now. But I do not want to trouble you

with my sorrow ; only it is very true that the pleasantest em

ployment which my thoughts have is looking forward to the

Itime when shall again see your dear face.

To Miss Kate Malcolm]  Trinity Lodge : April 4, 1856.

It is a great pleasure after so long an interval to find our

correspondence resumed, and the old ties between us knit

together again. And this might be done much more com

pletely, but for the bad habit which you have of making only

short visits to England, and living the greater part of your
Iftime abroad.
                you will only come and stay at home and be a

good English woman, you have no notion how much we will

Ilove you and how much we will make of you. At least can
Ispeak for myself. So am very glad indeed that you speak of

not being again such determined absentees as you have been.

I am glad that your mother found Mr. Kaye ready to listen to

her representations. When he was with us here, he expressed

a strong desire to conform himself as far as he could to the

wishes and views of your family. Of course we are not to

expect that he will have the ardent admiration for your father,

which you, my dear Kate, and I venture to add, I, had. But

he seems to be desirous of doing justice. His notion of
drawing a contrast in all points between Sir J. Malcolm and
ISir C. Metcalfe was exaggerated and erroneous, as tried to
Iconvince him ; I hardly know with what success.
                                                  hope the

book will on the whole not vex you or your dear mother.

Having gone so far with him, the only thing at present is, to

remedy the errors in detail as much as possible.

    Your account of your aunt interests me much. I knew

your uncle well. He was here several times ; much esteemed

by my predecessor, Dr. Wordsworth. The resignation which
Iyou describe of Mrs. G. Malcolm, his widow, is touching --and
enviable. And   have no doubt, my dear Kate, that your

society soothes her much. Do you recollect the lines in the
1866  MR. KAYE'S 'SIR JOHN MALCOLM.'     469

Christian Year ? It came out after I was used to quote poetry

to you, but we all quote it now.

               Why should I faint and fear to live alone,

                    Since all alone, so heaven has willed, we die.

      The thought does not seem to me to be true.
      We faint and fear to live alone, though we may be ready to
die as God wills.

    IAnd now must say good-bye, dear Kate. I do not think
Iit likely that can leave Cambridge before the 1 8th, or indeed

before the 26th. But if you must go, come back soon, and be

always and ever the dear Kate that you have ever been.

To Mrs. Frederic Myers] Trinity Lodge: April 13, 1856.

IYou are very right in saying that loved your mother very
Imuch. I loved her at first better than
                                         loved any of her
daughters : and if to repine at the doings of Providence had been

Ipermitted, should not have repined at any former event so

much as that she was taken away so soon after she became my

mother. And indeed I think she had a mother's heart for me.
IShe told me so. And do not know whether you are quite

aware, dearest Susan, how necessary it is for me to have some

body to love me. I would if possible, inherit all the love that

you had for us both.

    I will, you may be sure, do all I can to help you in finding

a good school for your dear boys. . . .

To Miss Kate Malcolm]  Audley End: April 18, 1856.

I ISo, my dear Kate, you think that you have caught me ;
and that after the professions  have made must do your
bidding in the matter you mention. I think it is at least
I Ireasonable that should give you good reasons why cannot do

Iit ; which am very sorry for, since it would have given me

great pleasure to do justice to your father, and to do anything

Iwhich you wish. The fact is that have not the habits, con

nections, or talents requisite for the review which you want.1

   J.1 In answei to a request, apparently, to review Mr. Kaye's ' Life of Sir

Malcolm.'
470 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                     185i3

    I have written very few review-articles in the course of my

life ; and those have not been popular, except one or two on

scientific subjects. On other matters people are not disposed

to listen to me, and I am not skilful in speaking to them.
IWhen have written in the ' Quarterly Review,' a long time
Iago, have been disgusted with the way in which the editor
Idisfigured my articles. Lockhart used me very ill in that way.

At present do not even know who the editor of the ' Quarterly '
is, and have not the remotest expectation that he would insert

Ian article by me, even if were to write one. But especially

an article on Indian affairs, which he would very justly believe

I ought not to write and could not write well. For, as you
Imay guess, really know nothing about Indian affairs ; and

could not, even by reading your father's book and others, dili
gently for months, seem to know, so much as the reviewer of

IMr. Kaye's work should know. Therefore, my dear Kate, you

must excuse me though do not do this thing which you ask
me ; and must keep me in your kind regard notwithstanding ;

Iand must believe that should like much to do anything

which you wished, where the reasons the other way were not so

strong.
I hope Mr. Kaye's book will fall into the hands of some
Imuch fitter critic.
                      think that generally the readers of

biographies read the letters which they contain, and in doing

that, Mr. Kaye's readers can hardly fail to see that he has not

done your father justice.

   I sent yesterday, directed to you, a few verses 1 which will

explain themselves. They need to be read by indulgent eyes,
but your eyes will be indulgent. Such efforts of a sorrowful
man to soothe his grief by expressing it, are, after all, very
ineffectual.

     Thank you, dear Kate, for your kind sympathy, as expressed
in your last. Even when we are so happy as to attain to a

feeling of Divine companionship, we need here a sympathy in
the feeling.

To Kate Marshall]     Trinity Lodge: April 16, 1856.

INow that have finished my Elegiacs it seems almost a

profanation to have done it. Not, however, to send them to

         1 The Elegiacs referred to before.
1856             NIGHTINGALE FUND.             471

Iyou, who know when and how they were written. Every time

  look at them I feel how weak and worthless words are. May
you never, my love, have the like experience ! I send you

copies for dear Janet and your dear mother, and will send you
others for any friends to whom you wish to give them --for you
will not give them to any one who will not make allowance for

the efforts of a sorrowful man, to soothe his sorrow by giving

it utterance. But the verses must say all this for themselves.

To the same}                                   April 22, 1856.

      II am going to do a very idle piece of truant playing.  am

Igoing with Monteagle to see the Naval Review at Spithead to

morrow. It is not that care for the show, but none of you
Icome to me here, and
                       grow so weary of my own company
I Ithat must make a break.
                            do not mean to complain of you,
I am sure you will come when you can.

By the way, you may go on with your Buskin reading to a large

extent. Here is his fourth volume on my table ; and a long

and serious review of him (reviewal, Lockhart always wrote it,

when he meant a single article in a review) in the ' Quarterly,'

and another in the ' Edinburgh.' The new volume appears to

Ibe mainly about Turner, which is generally his best vein.
Ihave not read much of it (how wish you were here to read it
Iwith me !) but am amused with his present notion of truth

in painting. Your picture is true if you paint what you see in

your own mind. Accordingly, when Turner, painting a scene

where there is one mountain ridge 3,000 feet high, represents

three ridges each 10,000 feet high, it is true, because a dream

told him to do it. But through all this nonsense gleam

constant flashes of poetry and bright satire.

To the same]           Trinity Lodge : April 26, 1 856.

      I came home with Mr. and Mrs. Milnes and the Bracebridges

(Miss Nightingale's companions), as well as Lord Monteagle.

IWe had a meeting in aid of the Nightingale Fund, of which

was chairman. It was very interesting, even affecting, to hear

Mr. Bracebridge describe in the simplest way, by numerous

traits of character and small events, Miss Nightingale's way of

doing her work.
472 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

To Miss Kate Malcolm]  Trinity Lodge: May 1, 1856.

I was very sorry not to be able to make my way to you
Iyesterday.
             was seeing sights with some boy nephews, an
engagement which they much reckoned upon, and I was loth
Ito disappoint them. But cannot be satisfied without know

ing how your dear mother is, after hearing how ill she was on

Tuesday. So be a dear good child, as you are, and write me

news of her. And then you will tell me if your plan holds
of leaving England at the beginning of next week. It is quite

sad to me, after getting a sight of you once or twice after so

long an interval, to lose you again, nobody knows for how long,

or into what remote regions swept away. Even if I could
move into any part of Europe as easily as I used to do in
former times, I could not make any attempt to find you in

foreign lands this year. Undoubtedly, in those former days,

such a motive would have been very sufficient to determine the

Idirection of my summer travels ; but this summer I can go

nowhere except where can go with my three Esquire-Bedels

carrying their silver maces before me ; which necessarily makes

my motions somewhat circumscribed. So you must, like a

dear friend as you are, write to me from time to time, and let

me, at least in that way, keep my hold upon you.

    I forget whether I told you that Sir H. Rawlinson has

borrowed the Babylonian cylinder, inscribed with arrow-headed

characters, which your dear father gave to this College ; and

that it is found to contain a curious history of some portion of

the family of Nebuchadnezzar. He is going to send me a

translation of it.

     Various visits from relations and old friends came

as a most welcome break in the solitude of this sad

year. Lord and Lady Monteagle went down as often
as the claims of London would permit ; Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Spring Rice were most welcome guests ; Dr.
Mackreth paid a visit which is referred to in a few lines
written May 7 ; and Mrs. Austin, in whose society Dr.
Whewell had very great pleasure, stayed with him
shortly afterwards, bringing her brother, Mr. Taylor,
1856             VISIT OF MRS. AUSTIN.  473

with her. Miss Statter passed some time at the Lodge
in the later summer. The meeting of the British Asso
ciation tempted him to Cheltenham in July, and that
of the Archaeological Institute to Edinburgh in August.
His Lancashire and Cumberland friends were visited
both before and after. In fact, he was restless, and

wandered about hither and thither, drawn in one direc

tion or another by the attraction of sympathy in his
loss, or by the hope of finding comfort in the revival of
old affections and associations which, though never for

gotten, had remained latent during his happy married

life. Literary and intellectual occupations had lost
their charm for a time, and the general public was no

longer an audience he cared for.

To Mrs. Austin]  Trinity Lodge : May 23, 1856.

      I was glad to hear of you, my dear friend, and to hear of
Iyour being in harbour again.
                               hope you have as pleasant

recollections of the part of your voyage which lay through

Cambridge as I have. Your coming dispelled an almost in

tolerable gloom of solitude which was settling upon me ; and

though it may well be that such relief is only temporary, I am

not the less thankful for it.

    It seems to me, at present at least, doubtful whether

literary and intellectual occupations will ever supply any large

portion of such relie'. I have been led to feel that the main

value of such employments is the points of sympathy which

they supply with those with whom we live. Thinking, itself,

seems a very aimless and useless employment when there is no

one to whom one is in the habit of imparting one's thoughts.

IAs for the public and those who represent it, feel less and

and less care for its sympathy ; for the creature is very stupid ;

and very often says, or is made to say, very spiteful as well as

silly things. But I must not weary you with my weariness and

Iwailing. I am very grateful for your kindness --affection,

I gladly think that may write ; and feel a pleasure in all

speculation and literature which may give me a sympathy with
474 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                               18f>0

you. Whether anything of the kind remains on my side must

be seen hereafter.

    I shall read with great interest what you say of Goethe.
I really was partly won by what Mr. Lewes says of him;

Ithough Mr. Lewes is a critic who has been absurdly unjust to

me ; but hold firm to my opinion that the Hermann and

Dorothea is the best specimen not only of his morals and heart,
Ibut of his genius.
                     forgot to ask you when you were here,

whether you ever saw a long commentary on that poem by

Wilhelm von Humboldt ; another trait of the deep vein of

sentiment which ran through his mind, under all his learning
and wisdom ; and, indeed, it is a part of the wisdom of our

I Idear Germans that they have such a vein.                  shall be in
         hope we shall meet again before long.

London on the 29th, for a few days, at Charles Spring Rice's,

in Eaton Place, South ; and if you come to town about that

time I will seek you out if it be possible. I send you the

papers you mention, though they are of too temporary a kind
IIto be worth it.
               send you also your pen, though                would
I Imore willingly give it you ; but fear my memory.           hope

my way of packing it will succeed. Goethe once gave a book
to a lady of my acquaintance, and in wrapping it up for her,

said, ' If I can do anything it is to fold a packet.' I am afraid
I cannot even do that !

To Miss Kate Malcolm]  Trinity Lodge : May 28, 1856.

I ought not so long to have left your last kind note un

answered ; for it has been most pleasant to find myself once

Imore exchanging such notes with you. But have had a series

of visitors here, occupying my time and my thoughts. After a

season of very dreary solitude, a number of very dear persons,

Isisters and nieces of her who has left me so lonely, have been
with me. If you were to stay in England  should hope that

you and they or some of them might become acquainted ; for

it seems to me only reasonable to share our best possessions,

our friends, with our friends ; but so long as you go rambling

as you have done and only let me have a glimpse of you myself
               time, I must think                            indeed I
from time to                         thwahtenmIucmhy(saeslf            do),
and only look   forward to the time                           may see  you
1850 PLANS FOR THE SUMMER. 475

again. I am still in a good measure the prisoner of the silver

maces, and quite in need of all the sympathy that you can

Ibestow upon me for my hard fate. In the course of next week

  follow the maces -- I may say so, for they go before me -- into
Ithe Queen's presence, to deliver to her an address which have

had to compose, congratulating her on the peace; and on

Friday --but that to be sure, is without the maces -- I have to

go to a concert at the Palace, to which she is good enough to

Iinvite me. But, so far as can foresee, I shall for the most
part be a prisoner here during the summer ; and if I can get
Imyself free for a week or two, must go into my own beloved

north, and pick up the recollections that belong to the moun

tains and the valleys there. It is not impossible that I may

go as far as Edinburgh, for there is a gathering of antiquarians

there ; and there are to be some expeditions to the Scotch

abbeys, which I think will be interesting if your Scotch mists

will allow them to be so. But all this is very doubtful.

INothing is certain but that shall be here very solitary and

very dull during a great part of the summer.

    I go on writing about myself as if there were nothing else

to write about ; but in truth it is to induce you to do the like,
Iand to tell me about yourself and your dear mother.
                                                      hope

you made the crossing to Boulogne in comfort, after doing

INeptune the honour of waiting for his more tranquil moods.
Ihope especially that have not, by waiting so long, lost my

hold on you, and allowed you time to leave Boulogne and to

fly off into some unknown region.

To Kate Marshall]                  May 9, 1856.

I was right glad to see your handwriting again, not that I
mean at all to complain of you ; but I have nothing now to do

with my thoughts half so pleasant as to think when you will
Iwrite and when you will come. And yet have not been quite
Ialone these last two days.
                             have had with me Mrs. Austin

and her brother, John Taylor. He is quite a wonder of an old

man ; mild, kind, intelligent, and full of recollections of all the

things he has seen in his long life. He has been a very large

manager of mines in every part of the world, from South

America to Norway, including the copper-mine at Coniston ;
476 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                   1856

and is still much engaged in such matters, though he grows

feeble, and leaves them mainly to his sons. His sister is very
fond of him, and it is pleasant to see how she takes care of him,

and gives him the kindness which old age so much needs, and

to hear him call her Sally !

They are on their way to Norwich, which is the original nest

of the family, but where he has not been for forty years.
I shall send this to Eaton Square, where I think you were to
Iarrive to-day. hope you will enjoy your London sights, and
Istill more, as I know you will, your London friends.
                                                       see that

Mr. Ruskin has been publishing a pamphlet about the water-

colour exhibition. I presume you Ruskinians will read it

before you go or while you are there. It will not fail to be

amusing and probably instructive.

To the same]                  Trinity Lodge : June 22, 1856.

    It was a great happiness to see you as often as I did while
I was in London. I wanted to have been with you yet a little

more, and to have taken you with me to see and hear Johanna

Wagner. I did not propose it for fear of being thought un
reasonable. I should have enjoyed her much more if you had
Ibeen with me, but did enjoy seeing and hearing her very

much, as it was.

She is a fine tall, graceful, figure, with noble and impressive

gestures and attitudes, and her singing is to me very striking

and dramatic. Grand eloquent runs through wide intervals,

and most impressive contralto notes at the end of them, full of
Idramatic power.
                  believe the subtle connoisseurs find a want
Iof Italian refinement in her manner, but was satisfied and

delighted, and want to hear her again and again. And the
opera, ' Romeo e Giulietta,' contains the most pathetic posi

tion in Shakespeare's play, made even more pathetic than

he has made it. She is thrown into a death-like slumber,

which drives him to poison himself in despair ; and then she

awakes before he dies, but too late to save him. And Miss
IWagner made this really pathetic in acting.
                                                 see that Ris-
tori is acting that miserable play ' Pia dei Tolomei,' which I

saw her act in Paris. Worse even than the last act of Maria

Stuarda, for she is dying all through the play.
I
1856                    COMMENCEMENT.           477

    I went to Sir James Stephen's on my way here, and was

glad to be there. It was pleasant to see Milly, but one could

not talk much with her in two days.
II am as if alone here, (or though A
                                         and B  , and
Isuppose other persons, are here, feel little comfort in the
Ithought of going to them.
                            have turned to her dear letters,

which are sweeter than can be imagined, and it is not such a

Iheart-breaking employment now that may speak of it to you.

And yet it is unreasonable at your age to draw your thoughts

I Iagain and again to the subject, and indeed almost think

ought to destroy this.

To the same]                Trinity Lodge : July 1, 1856.

      I have had all the hubbub of the Commencement for the
last few days. I think you were never here at that time--
I Iindeed have generally been absent myself.
                                                have had
ILizzie 1 with me, and her brother James. She, am glad to see,

makes a very favourable impression upon all whom she meets.

IYesterday had an official dinner, and set her to sit at the

head of the table, with the Bishop of Lichfield for her partner.

She is not frightened at such distinction (she was the only
lady), simply because she is entirely frank and natural, and

has great pleasure in hearing men talk and in being talked to.

      To-day Madzie and Harty Doria and she have been to the

Senate House together, to see the great show of the Commence

ment, when the prize poems are recited and all the ladies

collect. The Senate House was full without being too full,

Iand the gentlemen had the grace to let the ladies have the

seats, so the house looked prettier than ever saw it look

before. Among the new Doctors we had Mr. Sterndale Bennett,

made a Doctor of Music, but he did not appear in the beautiful
' singing robes,' as Milton calls the poet's official dress, which

poor Professor Walmisley used to wear. Now that this is

Iover, believe the stillness of the real vacation will begin to

settle upon Cambridge.

To the same]                Lowestoft: July 12, 1856.

      Part of my Essex visit was to lay the stones of two churches

in a very large parish (Hatfield Broad Oak) which we (the

                        1 Misa Statter.
47S LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

College) have to do with ; part of it was a sort of ' Sentimental

journey.' I wanted to see again Hyde Hall, a house of Lord
Howden, where nearly or quite thirty years ago Sir John

Malcolm lived on returning from his government in India, and

Iwhere often was. His family (as I have often told you) were

Ivery charming persons, and especially a certain Kate, who was

then about the age that you were when first knew you, dear

child. I just gave a glance at the house to retouch the ancient

memories, and found that they flashed up into lively colours as
if they had been pictures of yesterday.
                                                           I
   IThen again had another revival of old recollections.
went with Thurtell (my Norfolk host) to look at a ' long-and-

short' church, and there we found the vicar and his pretty

pleasing wife. It soon appeared she was the grand-daughter of

my first classical schoolmaster,1 an old clergyman, who now at

eighty-seven does his daily duty. By dwelling among these

ancient memories, I seem as if the present hardly belonged to
Ime ; and yet will not say that, so long as you love and are so

good to me.

   I found in a church what seems to me a very pretty epitaph

on the memory of a family of persons who, dying at various

times and at various ages, are buried near to each other.

Epitaph in Onbohough Chubch, near Stoke Ferry.

 Here undisturbed repose the kindred just,
 Till when the trump of Grod shall wake the dust,
 They find, once more at home in Heaven on high,
 That kindred of the soul which cannot die.

To the same]

                 Granton House, Edinburgh : July 23, 1856.
    IHere am in a charming house on the extreme shore of the

Firth of Forth, in the middle of trees and sunshine. The water
is so calm that it looks like a lake, and its blue and sunny
surface, streaked with grey and white bands, which must be the
paths of the water nymphs, for there is no visible reason for

Ithem, spreads away from the tops of the trees as see them

                                             1 Mr. Rowley.
185H          VISIT TO GRANTON.               479

from my upper window. It is like one of our own lakes, only

the hills are lower and the water wider; but still it is a pleasant

Iplunge from Cambridge into lake and mountain scenery ; and

yet ought to ask pardon of the Firth for calling it a lake, for
it has tides, and light-houses, and all kinds of marine dignities.

    IThe place where am is Sir John McNeill's, whose name
I Iyou have seen lately. When accepted his invitation, did

not know that he was so far from Edinburgh (three miles at

Ileast) as to be somewhat inconvenient for the purposes of the

meeting; but the place is so pretty cannot wish myself

quartered elsewhere, and we shall manage to do what is re

quisite for the Archaeological Association some way or other.

You see I am like little Arthur. I think * this place feels like

Keswick, it is so pleasant.'

To the same]                Patterdale Hall: Aug. 3.

      Your letter found me here, and contributed to make me

happy here, as your letters always do. We have had, as you say,

lovely days -- even glorious ones --as bright and hot as the three

Iglorious days we spent in our Norfolk tour five or six years ago;

and have enjoyed them for the most part by sitting still in

the shade ; though unquiet spirits would needs go boating and

driving, and riding, in spite of the broiling sunshine.

    The first day that I was here, however, I spent in graver

pleasure ; for it was a pleasure, though full of sad thoughts, as
Iyou will easily conceive.
                            went to Hallsteads alone, and

rambled about the dear place for hours, to Old Church, and to the

Knotts, and along the walk by the boat-house, Skelly Neb is
Inot the point called ?
                         tried to find the stones which marked
the great marine mole which I built for you and Janet in the
I Iwater, so long ago that think you must have forgotten it.
Icould not be sure of any of the stones; suppose there must have

been stormy days on the lake since that time, and the greatest

works of us little men must yield to time and weather.

   II hope to make another visit to the north, and at any rate
Ihope may find courage to come and give a lecture to your
Leeds friends during the winter, if they will be content with a
Ilecture on Plato ; but must not authorise you to say so at
present. By living alone -- alone, that
                                         is,  to all purposes of
480 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                             1856

Ithinking-- seem to myself to have become so stupid that I
Icannot believe that anything that I have to say is worth hearing

or likely to interest anybody. But will try to get over this
feeling, and your sympathy will help me to do so.

To the same]  Hincaster House, MUnthorpe: Aug. 29.
I hope you enjoyed your music at Bradford. Mr. Mackreth

Ihas been to hear it, all the way from Halton, near Lancaster, and
gives a very favourable account of it.  should have enjoyed

hearing it with you, but to treasure up a few more summer re

collections of lakes and mountains for my memory to feed upon
in winter and in the flats of Cambridgeshire, appeared a more

important use of opportunities not so easily found.

We had a good walk over the hills from Derwentwater to

Coniston, and a charming day for the purpose. (The glass had
not broken the weather by falling). To-day there is an ex

pedition to the top of the Old Man.

To the same]  Trinity Lodge : Sept. 1 7.

I was beginning to weary for a letter from you, and now

your news is that you are going away for nobody knows how
Iflong !  it must be so, I am glad for your sake and Janet's 1
that you should see Italy at this period of your lives. If it is
to be Italy, I should suppose that Naples must be the place.

According to all accounts, the winter at Rome is very un

kindly, though no doubt it would be very pleasant to winter

Ithere. must needs grieve for your plan so far as it diminishes

the chance of my seeing you, but who knows? After November
I3, shall be neither Vice-Chancellor nor Professor, and there
Iare to be no more meetings of Heads, so that shall be much
I Ifreer to move than have hitherto been.
                                           have always had a
dream of visiting Italy. But I only whisper this in my own

heart to comfort me, and in yours who will not betray my

dream.

My newest news is of Spry, who had several convulsive fits
Iwhile she was walking with me to-day.
                                           went to see the

    1 I wbs ordered to winter out of England, and my sister and I joined

some friends who were going to Rome for the winter. Dr. Whewell came
there himself rather later.
1856                 MRS. AUSTIN.                        481

church which is building, and at the gate of the cemetery she

fell down. She was seized twice again as we came over the
IPieces home.
                suppose people thought it an odd sight to see

the Vice-Chancellor sitting on the grass coaxing and nursing a

crazy dog, for they gathered round in a circle to look.

To the same]         Trinity Lodge: Oct. 2, 1856.

     The reason which particularly determined me to go to
Cromer was that Mrs. Austin was there. We went about the

neighbourhood looking at churches, of which there are some
Ivery curious ones.
                     was amused at a specimen of the manners

and literature of a young lady we met. She persisted in calling

Mrs. Austin, Miss Austen ; which Mrs. Austin tried to correct.

She talked of ' my daughter, Lady Duff Gordon,' of ' my grand
children ' very markedly, but all in vain. She was still Miss

Austen.

    At last the young lady, with much awkwardness, said she

had a great favour to ask, ' Miss Austen's autograph.' Mrs.
Austin said she was willing to give it, though it was not worth

having, but added, ' It strikes me that you take me for Miss

Austen, the novelist. She has been dead forty years.' This put

the young lady to the rout. She fled, and had not the sense and

Imanners to say, should be glad of your autograph still. Mrs.

Austin says that Sidney Smith used to scold her for not en

couraging such delusions. He himself readily encouraged those
Iwho took him for Sir Sydney Smith.
                                     dare say you know

the story.

To the same']            Trinity Lodge: Oct. 13.

     We have just finished the election of Fellows, and, as usual,

I am a little vexed that all the best men run away from us to

study law or to teach schools, so that it is difficult to get persons

duly qualified to stay here and do the work of the College, and

especially to stay here till they attain any ripeness of experience

and influence.

     The ' fresh gentlemen,' as the bed-makers call them, are
beginning to appear. ' Thus with the year seasons return, but

Inot to me returns '-- am, however, hoping to see friends for a

day or two. Mr. Trench, who is our Select Preacher for

                     II
482 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                       1836

November, promised to bring his wife and daughter ; and I
hope this arrangement may not be disturbed by his being made
Dean of Westminster.

To the same]               Trinity Lodge : Oct. 26, 1856.

IOf course my thoughts follow you, and therefore they may
as well try to catch you, Poste Restante, at Paris.  hope you

have had an easy passage and a prosperous railroad journey.

On the French railroads they take so much care of you, and

control your movements so imperiously, that you cannot go

wrong--only you may grow very tired. You will find Paris

looking very bright and pleasant in Vite de St. Martin. I
hope you will find a bonnet to your liking. I wonder whether
Ione shall see any vestige of it when one looks you in the face.
Ido not think should. And then, after a few days, away on the

long line to Lyons ! A weary journey it used to be before you

Iwere shot thither by steam. Now, see by the Road Book,

Ithat you may go through in one day. You see am going

to study the Road Book for your sake, and -- in your ear, as

before, possibly for my own. I will not give up my little ray
of hope. It would be pleasant to eat my Christmas dinner

with you there. That is hardly possible ; but perhaps some
thing near it may be, and at any rate hope is something to live

upon. It is hard to live without either hope or enjoyment !

To the same]                                         Nov. 27.

I rejoice in the pleasure that you find in your travels, and
Ithe sights that you see.
                           rejoice still more in your thinking
Iof me while you are among them, and wishing that could see
them with you. I am glad that you do not repel the recollec

tion of that most dear one whom we have lost. Your memory

of her is most sweet and soothing to me, and I am sure it will

sweeten more than sadden all your joys, my love; and help you

to draw out the best influences from what you see. You must

forgive me for referring sometimes to our loss ; for even yet it
often rushes upon me as it were suddenly, like a discovery of

Idesolation. Not that have been all alone. Since the Trenches
Iwent have had the Temples with me.
1866            CHEVALIER BUNSEN.  483

To Chevalier Bunseri]
                      Trinity College, Cambridge: Dec. 15, 1856.

      I am glad of any occasion to recall myself to your friendly
I Irecollection.
                hope may one day do so by finding myself at
Heidelberg, where I am glad to hear from several friends who

have seen you that you are well in health, and, of course, well

and happily employed. But my present cause of writing to

you is different. Many years ago, when our dear Hare used to

speak to me of his intercourse with you at Rome, I formed a

strong wish to see you there, and often made plans which were

Ito give me that pleasure. These all failed, and happily had
Ithe good fortune to enjoy your society, and hope I may say
Iyour friendship, since. But now, at last, as it seems, am
Igoing to Rome ; and though cannot have the advantage of

your guidance there in person, and the gratification of seeing

you there, you may perhaps still be able to make my residence

there more instructive and agreeable by giving me access to

the society of some of your friends there who are willing to

see strangers. If you can do so I shall be very grateful.
    II leave England, as expect, o'n the 1 7th, so that any reply

which you are good enough to give me must be addressed to
IRome, (Hotel de l'Europe). I shall stay only till the latter part
of January.     am to find there my nieces Kate and Janet

Marshall, whom you know. They are staying there for the

winter, to save Janet from the inclemency of that season in

England, which at present she is not well able to bear.

    I see from time to time indications that your literary

activity is not abated, and while that continues we are sure to
Iprofit by it.
                hope Madame Bunsen is well and your chil
Idren. Everybody hopes, and as much as any one, that you
will one day return to England ; and if so I hope that you will

again come to Cambridge. For though this house cannot be

Iwhat it was before my grievous loss, there are still, hope,

persons and things here which would interest you ; and you

would always find me yours, with very great regard and

esteem,                            W. Whevvell.

                  r"i

                       2
484 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                  1856

     The next letter was one to Miss Kate Malcolm,

written, as well as that to his sister which follows it, on
board the Neapolitan steamer ' Maria Antonietta.'

                                          Dec. 21.

    I could not have imagined a transition more complete from
Iwinter to summer than brought about in thirty-six hours.

On Wednesday 1 was in the cold fogs of London, which accom

panied me through all the north of France. So far as I have

ever seen they are quite as bad there as in England. Early on

Friday morning I was rambling on the shores of the Mediter

ranean at Marseilles, and had to return to my inn to put off

my overcoat. I have not seen a cloud since then till this

evening, when a few gathered at sunset, but they are melting
fast away, and leaving the stars shining brighter than we see
them at home ; Jupiter and Venus absolutely blazing.

     My introductions are principally to men of science and of

art. The Duca di Rignano, the Duca di Gaetano, and others,
Ipresidents of Academies, and# the like.
                                          was so busy in Cam

Ibridge during my last days -- filing away my chains and con

cealing the implements, like a prisoner escaping -- that had

not time to read through Mr. Kaye's life of your father. The

Ichapter about Hyde Hall did read, and was a little indignant

to find Hare represented as my senior in your acquaintance.

As if I had not introduced both Hare and Sedgwick to your

family. You were quite a little thing then, and may not

recollect, but I appeal to your mother against this shocking

injustice !

    ISo far as read, the tone of the book seemed to be

good ; and though not speaking of your father as we should
speak, still speaking with a cordial admiration of most of his

qualities.

                                                                                  Dec. 21, 1856.

    I write this at sea in the Gulf of Genoa on board a Neapo
litan steam-ship which is to take me to Civita Vecchia. I
Ihope to eat my Christmas dinner with my nieces in Rome. I

have been delighted with all that have seen ; more delighted
 18.r)6 JOURNEY TO ROME. 485

 I Ithan thought could be travelling alone. The country about

 Marseilles is beautiful, and the shores of the Mediterranean as
 charming as any one can imagine them. We have been all
 day near enough to see them in all their beauty -- white
 towns and churches and castles all along the shores, and
 running up the hills from point to point; fine mountains
 rising behind, and beyond them the snowy Alps looking
 over from the far inland.

      Dr. Whewell's journal of his tour tells us that he
 left Cambridge on December 17, crossed to Calais on
 the 18th, and went straight through to Marseilles without
 stopping, arriving there early on the morning of the
 19th. The journal is in general the briefest, driest
 record of names and dates, but he spares space to
 observe on arriving at Marseilles ' beautiful sunshine,
 beautiful sky, beautiful city, beautiful country, beau
tiful Mediterranean.'

     Dec. 20. --Embarked in the evening on board ' Maria Anto-

nietta,' Neapolitan steamer for Genoa.

     Dec. 21. -- Glorious view in the morning. Snowy Alps
shining over an Italian shore ; on the other side the sun rising
close to the peaked summits of Carrara, just seen above the
horizon ; cloudless day till sunset.

     Dec. 22. --Genoa, after being detained till after 8 a.m.
Wreck on shore. The palaces make a very fine effect in the

narrow streets in which they stand, the Strada Nuova and the
Strada Balbi.

      Then follow enumerations of the palaces and
churches he visited, and a few concise and much
abbreviated remarks upon their architecture, which
interested and delighted him much.

     Dec. 24. -- Arrived in Rome at 9 p.m. ; went to the service

in the Sistine Chapel.
486 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1857

     He remained in Home until January 20, engaged
not only in industrious sight-seeing, assisted by the
advice of Mr. Pentland and others familiar with Eome,
but in diligent study of Italian under the guidance of
Signor Lucentini, the excellent master from whom his
nieces were taking lessons. He enjoyed this much, but
his dislike to the versification of Dante contributed to

confine his studies to Tasso. He also entered freely

and cheerfully into society.

To Kate Marshall]

                     Hotel dell' Arno, Florence: Jan. 21, 1857.

    I arrived here about half-past seven this evening, after a
rather tiresome journey, for the coupe in which I was contained

a very dull, and, what was worse, a very broad-shouldered
Italian, who hardly left me room to breathe, and when he
slept, which he did with little interruption, bestowed a large

portion of his weight on me. The coupe was so small that it

was like a Chinese puzzle when we got in and out. The third

Iperson was an American, who had been at the Dead Sea, and

do not know where besides ; and he, in consequence of the

shifting of all articles which took place whenever we moved,
lost altogether an old hat which had accompanied him in his

ISyrian rambles. He showed a feeling on the occasion which

think would have tended to remove your an ti- American preju

dices.

    I am very glad I did not go by Terni and Perugia to enjoy

scenery; for we had rain, generally heavy rain, all the way,

Iand I was very glad that came by Sienna. It was a great

delight to see a real cathedral again ; a cathedral where the
difficulties of raising a dome are overcome in a workman
like manner, by slender pillars and complex relations of
arches, which interest the eye, notwithstanding its horizontal

ribs of various coloured marbles, which I like no more than

you do.

    I was not aware before that the Terra di Sienna, which we

know as a painter's colour, is the colour of the ground all about

Sienna--only varying from ' raw ' to ' burnt.' The hill-sides,
1857                         SIENNA.          487

with their withered oaks, are a little brighter than the trees ;
and even the waters are only a lighter shade of the same

colour.

       There is a very fine Perugino in a church here (not the
cathedral), and a very fine Piccolomini chapel in the Cathedral,

where are an excellent series of Raphael's frescoes, representing
the life of a Piccolomini Pope. Altogether Sienna is very
interesting, and to be seen if ever the occasion offers itself to
I Iyou. Dear child ! go on writing about what have seen, as
if Iwe were to go on seeing things together.
                                              hope we are to

do so, though not just now.

To the same]                 Marseilles: Jan. 28, 1857.

I go on writing to you, though my life seems so stupid, now
that I have to see sights alone, that it is hardly worth writing to

you about.

     However, I was very glad to see the pictures at Florence

Iwhich delighted you so much. Indeed, that place is richer,

think, than Rome in good pictures ; and especially in those
which interest one, as belonging to the early history of the

art. Cimabue and Giotto, and above all Fra Angelico. I was

much delighted to see his pictures in his own monastery, and
to hear him spoken of by the person who showed it as a ' member
of the College,' as we should say.

    I now comprehend what I never comprehended before, the

interest with which many of my friends regard the early
painters. Cimabue, Giotto, Perugino, and the like. After

seeing many good and some exquisite pictures by these artists,

one cares even for the worse. It is interesting to see their

success in that at which they seem mainly to have aimed --

expression of angelic and saint-like and God-like feelings in

Ithe attitudes, and especially in the countenances. In this

think Fra Angelico is to this day unrivalled, and it is curious

to see his exquisite achievements in this way, combined with
bad drawing and many obvious technical defects in other

things.

    I suppose I saw in the convent of St. Mark at Florence,

some paintings of Fra Angelico which you did not see, as

being in the convent. On the other hand I did not see those
488 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                1857

of Andrea del Sarto at Santa Maria Novella, which I think yon
admired very much, nor the frescoes at the Carmelites. Time

Ifailed me and my head was as full as it could hold. was only

there two days and the weather was bad.                          I

   IOn the way to Leghorn saw not only Pisa but Lucca.

find my old love of middle age churches come back upon me.

I Ibelieve like them better than Roman remains. On account
Iof both kinds of antiquities, stayed two hours at Aries yes

terday.

To the same]               Trinity Lodge : Feb. 5, 1 857.

Here I am again, my journeyings over for the present, and

I Iat least one very dear and sweet memory remaining of my
travels, the time that spent with you and Janet.  think of
Iyour company with all the more longing now that am in my
solitary home. It seems to me now more solitary than ever,
Iand hardly know how to look forward to such days and such
evenings as I shall have to spend. But work of one kind or

other crowds upon me, and that at least will occupy some of

my thoughts, and then I shall think of you, and wonder whether

your usual round of employment goes on. Signor Lucentini,

and Signor Capalti (I hope his work prospers ! ) and the

Signora Parlatrice, and the plays, and the excursions in the
Campagna. You will tell me about such things when you

Iwrite. hope you and Janet do not give yourselves up too much

to seeing galleries of pictures and statues, for I am sure that the

cold atmosphere which pervades such places, and their stone-

floors, will not conduce to carrying into effect the purpose for

which you went to Italy --the escape from the rigour of winter.

Our winter here at present, makes me shudder to think of

such atrocious practices.

To Miss Kate Malcolm]
                     Trinity Lodge, Cambridge : March 8, 1 857.

I have been in London where one of my employments was to
I Ilook at the ' Turners ' that we have now got together, old and
new.     have seen so little of you, that do not know what
Iyour opinions are about Turner --what side you take in the
great Ruskin and pre-Raffaelite controversy.  know that you
1857                     TURNER.        489

have a deep interest in Art, and that you have a practical skill

in it-- but I do not know with what eyes you look upon the
novel styles. It is quite provoking when one has such an

intimacy with a person, as you are good enough to allow me to
claim with you, from interruption of intercourse of many years,
£o know so little about their --her-- sentiments, that one does

not know in what direction to look for sympathy. I do not

know how it may be with others, but to me at least it is im

possible to discuss matters of taste and feeling, without know

Iing what are the tastes and feelings of those with whom talk.
IAnd yet it often appears as if one wanted such a knowledge

only for the sake of wrangling ; for find myself arguing

against Turner with the Turnerites, and in his favour when I

have to do with his opponents.

     Yesterday I found Lady Hardwicke in the College court an d

brought her into the Lodge, glad to have it illumined by her
radiant presence for a little while, for it is usually very empty

and desolate.
IMy nieces are by this time at Naples.
                                        am much obliged

Ito Princess Doria for thinking about them. They enjoyed
their Rome exceedingly.  set Capalti to paint your namesake,

and am hoping to welcome the arrival of his ' counterfeit Kate '

very soon.

     The first return to Trinity Lodge brought back the
sense of loneliness in full force. But the visit to Rome

had restored Dr. Whewell to a far greater degree of

cheerfulness than he had been able previously to attain,
and he always afterwards enjoyed recurring to all the

memories connected with that time. It had revived

his interest in many subjects which had engaged his
attention in past years, and it showed him, by the enjoy
ment with which he turned to fresh ones, that elasticity
of mind was not gone, though under the pressure of his
desolating grief it had seemed wholly to desert him.

      The first exertion he made after his return was a

journey to Leeds, to deliver a lecture there in compli
490 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                1857

ance with the request of the Philosophical Society. To

the niece, whose future was beginning to assume a

shape which would in a sense make her less his child in

the time to come, he still writes of this, and the lectures

he gave shortly after at Queen's College, Harley Street,
and of all other subjects which occupied him, whilst
pouring out also abundant sympathy to her in her
' romance.'

To Mrs. MackretK]  Trinity Lodge : March 18, 1857.

By all means let your husband avoid the exertion and
                                   If he takes any share in
anxiety of election proceedings.

them, it is certain that a large portion of the thought and

labour of trying to give a right turn to such matters will fall

upon him ; for there is scarcely any one -- if indeed there be

any one -- in your parts, who is so much in earnest about what

is right, and sees his way so clearly to it as he does. So that

if he meddle at all, a large share of the burden of promoting

the good cause will certainly fall upon him. And I really

hardly see what point is likely to come into consideration in

contested cases, which is of any great value, except it be that

to which he attaches great importance, his subject of Church

Rates ; and this I agree with him in thinking of the highest

importance ; and really of more importance than the choice

between one Minister and another.

To Kate Marshall]  Trinity Lodge: March 7, 1857.

My lecture delivered at Leeds on the 3rd seemed to please
Ithe people very well, and was told that the audience was the
Imost ' distinguished ' that was ever assembled there.
                                                        had

been a good deal out of heart about the matter before it came

on, and so had cut out of it all that was likely to be most

stupid ; and the end was that everybody was astonished that
Plato was so clever, and so lively, and many complained of

the shortness of the lecture. And yet it was an hour, which

is as long as any lecture should be, to my thinking. Mrs.

Barry, who deserves all the good that people had said of her,
1857                       LECTURE ON PLATO.  491

dined and slept at Cookridge the day before the lecture, and
drove herself away in a little carriage like Cinderella's putnp-
kin, drawn by a pony the colour of a mouse, and about the

size !

    IThe next day, Thursday, returned to my house, my lonely

house as you most truly call it ; yet not quite lonely when you

send kind thoughts to it, and think about its loneliness. Your

having let me see that you do so shed a sort of brightness into
it Iwhen returned. Only these gleams die away soon.

    I am glad that Mr. Pentland allows you to go to Naples,
Iand hope you will find that place no less pleasant than you
Ihave found Rome.
                           am glad to hear that Capalti is taking

so much pains with your picture, though sorry he occupies so

much of your time. You must recollect what a comfort it will

be to me to have your dear face to look at in my solitary den.

It will be a great delight to me, if the picture prove as like you

as it promised to be.

To the same]               Trinity Lodge : March 20, 1857.

I am going to London and to Cheltenham next week, to
edify the good people there with my Plato -- the same lecture,

Iwith some modifications, which gave at Leeds--and there is

aI
                  I

                          I it,
some talk of my giving         or a like lecture, to the Ladies'

College in Harley Street.

To the same]               Trinity Lodge: April 19, 1857.

         have been, as have already said, in London, where we
had very pleasant party in Park Street one evening. Stephen
Spring Rice was there, whom had not seen for some time, and
James Spedding, and other good people. The next evening we
went to the theatre with Aubrey Taylor, very fine boy, to see
                                   a

Richard the Second in all the splendour of scenery and costume

which Mr.    C. Kean can give it.    The scenes, with the groups
of persons,  were series of very
           I                       beautiful pictures --quite pre-

Raphaelesque in the brightness of their colouring, but thea

colours better balanced, the attitudes not so awkward, nor the

people so ugly. You may judge how picture-like the effect
was when tell you that the plain boarded floor, under all those
492 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.         185"

scenes and figures, appeared to me quite mean and unworthy

of them. It ought to have been of Florentine mosaic to suit

the brightness and finish of the rest.

    II have also been to Wimpole, where had a pleasant ride

of nine miles across the country with Lady Elizabeth Yorke to

Ivisit the sources of the Cam, which bad seen long ago and
wished to see again. I found that Lady Elizabeth had a strong
Iadmiration for Lady Marian Alford, which was not surprised

at, for she somewhat resembles her in character; a clear

intellect, lively mind, a good deal of culture, and a vigorous

character.

   I IAnd now am come back to my solitude, where am at

present occupied in what is rather a wearisome employment,
examining seventy candidates for our Scholarships. After so
many years' repetition, this coming in of such loads of papers is
a burden. But it will be over in a few days. . . .

     And so God bless you, my dear and precious child, and till
your life with all happiness here, and with all that may anti
cipate and lead to the happiness of the hereafter.

To Mrs. Austin]  Athenceum Club: May 13, 1857.

     Thank you much, dear friend, for your pencil note, though

I am very sorry to find that you are reduced to that -- even for

a time. Nothing can be more abominable than the habit which

colds appear of late to have acquired, of turning to bronchitis.

I am glad that the heart meets all disturbances of neighbouring

provinces with a noble disdain.

Thank you too, sincerely and heartily, for the kind eye with

which you look upon my project of lecturing the ladies about

Plato. ISince promised Lady Monteagle that I would do it, I

have had dire misgivings that our keen-witted London friends

I Imay fasten their attention on some ridiculous side which it
may have.  mean it, as think you will understand and know,
Iin all simplicity, believing that can give to my hearers a truer

and higher notion of what Plato did really say than they will get

from other sources ; simple enough to be understood without any

difference depending on the audience being men or women ; if

there be any difference of power of understanding in men and
1867                   MISS BRONTE.                  493

Iwomen, which do not believe ; though of kind and mode of

anderstanding there may be and is.

     I was not so pleasantly taken with Mrs. Gaskell's account
of 'Jane Eyre' as most persons appear to be. The poor lady

appears as a sort of tempestuous spirit in a dismal atmosphere,

of which the gloom and storm are partly her own making.

Certainly it is very curious how much of intellectual culture,

generally self-acquired, may coexist with exceeding rough
ness in the surrounding circumstances. This we north-country

Ipeople do know, and suppose it is a characteristic of the

north.
      I should like you to hear some of my Platonics. I suppose
I Ineed not offer you tickets.
                                shall not be so much at liberty
Ithis month as hoped to be, for the Cambridge Act drives us
to perpetual meetings. A dire waste of time, even if no worse

harm come of it.

To Miss Kate Malcolm]  Trinity Lodge : May 22, 1857.

I I hope you have not given me up as a correspondent, though

  am afraid you find me a very stupid one. My thoughts are

necessarily much occupied by the things and businesses

Iamong which I live ; but yet constantly turn back to the

early and pleasant days of Hyde Hall, and to you as the

brightest and happiest figure of that scene. Since then I have

seen so little of you that the most copious and lively recollections

which we have in common still refer to that period.
      If Iyou are really going to be foreigners all the year, must
begin to shape my plans if possible so as to find my way to your
Icamp.
        have more than one reason for travelling into the
south of France -- I have never been there except on my way to

Italy, and there are in that region not only fine mountain scenes,

but many remarkable cathedrals and churches ; and to this day

there is nothing which I study with more pleasure than the

Iarchitecture of the middle ages, and especially the architecture

of France. For all the study that have given to the subject

convinces me that France is the leading figure in this history

of art. So I could easily plan out a tour which would bring me

into your Lower Pyrenean provinces.
494 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                         1857

To Kate Marshall]                   Westminster: May 17, 1857.
IwEnhgelInanaydmo,umfaoorrreethhtehorauen,ghiet, vwaelrailslim!bepastfoieemanrettIhtishnhagatlltyonoouktnsosheweoutmhldautcrheytouourfnyaortueo

within a day's journey of me. So come home, my darling, and
let us learn what the course of your romance is likely to be,
I I Iand learn also to look with steady and hopeful eyes upon it.

       hope shall see you when you are in London ; shall be
in town, though not every day, yet every week till the middle of
June. My lectures begin (at Queen's College) on Wednesday
next, and go on every Wednesday for four weeks. They tell me
Ithat there are many demands for tickets, and that the room will
be very full.       will not say, as my friend Kemble said, when a

          audience  assembled to    hear him lecture on
        thin them   ; ' for really
large                               believe that what I   Anglo-Saxon,
                                                         have to tell is
I· IH
Ivery interesting and amusing in its way, and expect my ladies
to be entertained with it.
I Iam glad you saw and were pleased with Verona.
Iseen it and was                                                 have
Iloop of one of
                    much delighted with it.     brought it into the
                    my Swiss tours -- and also  Milan. But envv

you your Sunday on the Lago di Garda.

    I am plagued at present by incessant meetings of our Fellows,
arising out of the act for University Reform. They eat up all
Imy days, and
IVacation comes,
                      am afraid they will   not end till    the  Long
                                                           with  these
                    if they end even then.       am vexed

vexations, small though they be, for my comforts are small too.

To the same]                    Trinity Lodge : June 14, 1857.

Iof
 Your   letter followed  me to London, where        was on  occasion
one of  my lectures.                            they are    over, for
I could not              I am right glad that

give them.   get    rid of the  notion that it was rather  obtrusive to
                    had been     excited by the pleasure   which they
               I

seemed  to give to your aunt Susan   and to others,  and   am young
enough  yet to want other persons                    like
                                    to like what I         ; and so I

ventured. The one which you heard was a fair specimen, the
one which followed was to my own thinking much worse. But
they are over, and there is an end of them -- at least in that

shape.
1857              'JUDAS MACCAB.EUS.'      495

      I do not wonder at your country 1 being now in great beauty.
IThe whole land seems to be in its richest dress. Our ' Backs,'
as you may suppose, are magnificent.  think I never saw the

foliage so fine.
IOn Wednesday I am going with A. B. to the Handel per
formance -- Judas Maccabaeus. How     wish you were going
with us ! It would make a great difference ; for A. B., though

an excellent person, has only a London portion of enthusiasm

of any kind, which is hardly enough for sympathy !
     I must tell you a jest of Douglas Jerrold's on Thackeray,

which amused me the more from being told me by Thackeray

himself. You know his broken nose. Some one was relating

the great desire certain ladies had to convert Thackeray to be
a Catholic. They wanted, it was said, to make a Roman of him.
' Why do they not begin with his nose ? ' enquired Jerrold.

To the same]      High Legh, Warrington : June 29, 1857.

I Iam here at a pleasant country house, to which have

been invited by an old friend, Mr. Entwistle, in order to see

the Manchester show. I was very glad to spend yesterday in
Ithe quiet of the country --but for coolness, suppose it was

sought in vain in country or in town.

    I do not know whether the show would please you much.
In one department to which you would naturally turn -- early

Italian painting, though it is richer than any previous collection

made in England, Ias suppose, it is not to be compared with

the Gallery of the Uffizi at Florence, still less with the Florentine

galleries together.
     Perhaps the works of modern British artists are, on the

whole, the best part of the Exhibition. There are many pictures

Iwhich one has seen and noted in recent years, and is glad to see
again in more select company than before.  wish you were
with me to go and look at them again to-day. I look forward

I Iwith distaste to the prospect of seeing them alone, and though
  shall probably join some party in the survey, shall not find
anybody with whom it will be so pleasant to compare notes as
it would be with you.

                       1 Yorkshire.
496 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                               18.57

To the same]       Trinity Lodge : July 27, 1857.

I Iwas glad to hear of your doings and enjoyments, as always
Iam. was particularly pleased to learn that you were making

Iacqnaintance with my dear old friend, Sir John Malcolm.

am afraid that when you get into the middle of the Indian

politics you will find the account less amusing, except indeed

by reason of the interest which you feel in the affairs of that

Icountry for your uncle's sake. But hope you will be some

what entertained with the account of Sir John Malcolm's English

life. The chapter on Hyde Hall was, they tell me, written in

consequence of my communications to the author, Mr. Kaye.

IHe visited me here to learn what could tell him, and so get

a notion of the effect which Sir John Malcolm and his family

produced upon the social circle about him.

To his Sister]                     Dublin : Sept. 1, 1857.

I arrived here on Friday for the British Association, after

a smooth passage, but have had a degree of indisposition,
Iamounting to severe illness, since.
                                            went first to Lord
Talbot de Malahide --but Malahide Castle is nine miles from
IDublin, and found the distance so inconvenient, that I

came into Dublin to my friend Dr. Lloyd. Lord and Lady
IMonteagle are also here, and when I leave this place
                                                       go to
them at Mount Trenchard for a little while ; but I am im

patient to get back to Cambridge, and to be entirely at rest

after so much hurried movement.

   I am glad you are going to the exhibition at Manchester.
I think the part you will most admire will be the modern

British pictures.

    I hope in a day or two to go to see Lord Rosse's celebrated

large telescope, but of course to command the skies so that we
shall see the stars through it is more than Lord Rosse, or the

British Association, can achieve.

To Kate Marshall]  Trinity Lodge : Sept. 16, 1857.

Your welcome letter reached me at Mount Trenchard,

where, as you supposed, a quiet life, and the kind nursing of
your aunt did a great deal to dispel any remains of illness
1857 BRITISH ASSOCIATION, DUBLIN.                          497

I Iwhich brought from Dublin ; though in truth,            never
Ibecame well enough in body or mind to enjoy my visit, as
Ihad hoped to do.
                   had never been there before, and there is

really much to admire. The Shannon is a noble river, wider

than the Rhine at Bingen, with the advantage of being salt
water. Indeed, to English eyes it looks rather like a lake.

On the southern side the bank is Lord Monteagle's for many

miles--a series of hills which he has clothed with forests, on

which he looks with parental fondness, so that every step

suggests something to be planted, or something to be cut

down.

To the same]          Trinity Lodge : Oct. 30, 1857.

IIt seems very long since wrote to you, and some time
I Isince
       received your last dear letter.  have been a good

deal occupied, first with company, and then with College

business. My visitors were Mrs. Austin, and then when she

was gone, Lady Holland and her two girls. This was a very
pleasant visit.

     Then came a week of solitude, very dreary after the sun

shine --and now are come the storms of our College business.

II do not want to disturb your sunshine with my troubles.

hope your season of unbroken sunshine is come ; but it is a

very sad evening of my College life, to have the College pulled

in pieces and ruined by a set of school-boys. It is very nearly

that kind of work. The act of Parliament gives all our

Fellows equal weight for certain purposes, and the younger

part of them all vote the same way and against the seniors.

Several of these juveniles are really boys, several others only
IBachelors of Arts -- so we have crazy work, as think it.
IBut ought not to trouble you with these troubles of
Imine. Only you know
                      have always been in the habit
of talking to you of what was uppermost in my mind. I

hope you are now too happy to be muck clouded by my

lamentations !

   I am to have another gleam of brightness to-morrow. My

dear Mrs. Airy is coming for a day. A second son of hers is

come as a freshman, and she has a natural mother's wish to

see him in his rooms, and so she comes to me. But moreover

                      KK
498 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                  ies:

she brings with- her two American ladies. One a great astro
nomer, who has discovered a comet --the other a great horse
I Iwoman, who dresses very gaily -- so
                           am told.             am much
Iafraid of this invasion ; but in this as in other cases, put a

bold face on the matter, and have asked a party to meet them.

If I survive it, I will tell you something about them after

wards.

To the same]               Trinity Lodge: Nov. 6, 1857.

I have a dinner party to-day to entertain some Oxford
friends -- Mr. and Mrs. B  I. was entertained with their

scruples and their way of getting over them. They were
staying at the inn, and said that they made it a rule not to

dine out on Friday : they were very sorry, but conscience was
Iconscience, and so on.
                           then had the bright idea of suggest

ing that they should change their lodging, and come to me

I I Iimmediately, and so dine at home to-day. This they readily
agreed to, so have extemporised a party.  suppose ought

to have salt-fish for them.

   I am engaged all morning with this disagreeable and
tiresome work of College meetings about the Statutes. It is
however somewhat less disagreeable than it was, for some of the

wildest of the proposed changes have been negatived by large
majorities, and there appears to be some prospect of sane delib

eration-- sane, it may be, but very tiresome, and in my opinion

very unnecessary.

To'the same]               Trinity Lodge: Nov. 10, 1857.

I am very sorry that your Philosophical Society, at Leeds,
Ihas any difficulty in arranging its lectures.
                                                have no ob

Ijection whatever to Lord Monteagle lecturing on the day ap

pointed for me ; but then cannot lecture till January. Our
Parliamentary Governing Body continues in operation till then ;

Iand it has such extraordinary powers, and has shown such a

strange spirit, that must give all my thoughts to its work so

long as its working lasts. It is never for a moment out of my

Ithoughts, and this you would see by the way in which wrote
Ito you a little while ago. So till December 31, I must hold

myself bound here to that work. But as said, let Lord
1857          CHRISTMAS HOLIDAYS.                      499

IMonteagle lecture on my day, and let them find me another

when they can ; or find me none ; for shall be very well
I Isatisfied not to lecture.
              promised very reluctantly, because

did not wish to avoid any request made to me, of gracing your

uncle James's presidency. But I have shewn my willingness,

and they will be none the worse for missing my Plato.

To the same]  Trinity Lodge: Dec. 11, 1857.

      And so you have been busy painting Roman scenes for a
lecture at Rusthall ! Some sage people would tell you that

you may already see how marriage makes women slaves, even
when you are only in the penumbra of it, and before its full

shadow has come over you ; but I know better things, and how

pleasant it is to work for those we love and to share their

labours.

To the same]                              Dec. 30, 1857.

      IYour letter reached me in London, where was staying
Iwith the Monteagles --the happiest week
                                          have had for a

long time. On Christmas Day we had all Stephen Spring
Rice's children, and Susan's, so that you will understand we

were a very juvenile party, and conducted ourselves accord

Iingly. One day went with the boys and Tom to see Herr
IFrickel, who performs the most wonderful conjuring tricks

ever saw, and makes them more amusing by the mixture of
German and English in which he talks about them. He puts

a watch to the ear of one of the spectators, and says, · Go the

watch ? ' and it goes or stops as he pleases, though taken from

Ione of the company.
        came here to hold the last meeting of the ' Governing

Body,' and have now done with that trouble for a time, but

the Commissioners, or rather their secretary, look ugly at us,

Iand seem to threaten another year of warfare with them.

However, will not anticipate evil, and will fight it when it

I Icomes as well as can.
         shall see you so soon, there is no need to talk more.

IYou will remember, as you always do, dear love, for which
Ilove you more, whose place in your heart and confidence

would inherit, I cannot put all the old year's memories, and

              ¥K2
500 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                         1857

the new year's blessings into this little corner of my paper,

but I trust and pray that the coming time may be full of

blessings for you.

To his Sister]                   Trinity Lodge: Dec. 13, 1857.

You would see by the Cambridge paper that we have had

Dr. Livingstone here. He was my guest, and was a most

agreeable companion in private, as well as an entertaining and

instructive lecturer in public.
I have promised to eat my Christmas dinner with Lady
IMonteagle.     cannot be absent for more than a day till the
Iyear is over, and then go to Leeds for a few days --afterwards

elsewhere. Reginald Marshall is to marry Louisa Herschel on

IJanuary 23, and am to perform the ceremony. This union
Iof two families both of which love and admire so much, is a

matter of great delight to me. And so the rising generation
is forming itself into new circles according to the usual course

of events.

To Mrs. MackretK]

                    Trinity Lodge, Cambridge: Jan. 17, 1858.

   IYour letter followed me into Yorkshire, where was staying
Iamong my relatives there, and especially with my dear niece

Kate Marshall, whom think you saw at the Lodge. She has
been a very good child to me ; but you are aware that nieces,
however affectionate, will not be content with the love of

Ian uncle, and so she has actually asked me to marry her to

another man. It is very shocking, but dare say you have

known the like in your experience of the rising generation.
Her future husband is the grandson of your friend the Arch

bishop.

    But this wedding is not to be till May.

To his Sister]                   Feb. 24, 1858.

The Saturday after Reginald's wedding a party of Herschels,

Marshalls, and myself, went to Canterbury, where Arthur

Stanley, who is a canon there, received and entertained us,

and told us all the story of Becket on the very spot of the

murder, of which he has especially studied the history. Yes
1858             MR. BUCKLE'S LECTURE.              501

Iterday Mr. O'Callaghan, Mr. Stanley, and  went     to see
                                                    thence
Richborough, a Roman castle near Sandwich, and

returned to London.

To Mrs. Austin]      Trinity Lodge: April 1, 1858.

II have just returned from London, where have been a good

deal occupied, as to my thoughts at least, with the marriage of

other persons ; for my two favourite nieces are both bent upon

marrying in May; and the other young couple, Reginald

Marshall and Herschel's daughter, are just returned from

Rome.

    I found everybody in London talking about Mr. Buckle's

Lecture on ' the Influence of Women upon the Progress of Know
ledge ; ' but could get no intelligible account of the substance

of the lecture ; in language and manner all agreed that it was

very fluent and taking. But to-day I have read it in Fraser's

Magazine, and am amused at the fallacy which it involves. He

opposes to Induction, which he says is the male habit of mind,

what he calls Deduction, which he says is a better thing, which

women have. But by Deduction he means Invention, and such

Invention as is a necessary part of all Inductive discoveries.

And so he practises the common trick of changing the meaning

of words and then startling you by a paradoxical assertion. So

Iyou see am not going to admire women for his reasons,

thinking that I have better of my own for so doing.
    I forget whether I answered you about Kingsley's' Andromeda.'

I believe that Milton has got the classical story as commonly
Itold ; but Kingsley, suppose, thought it was dramatically better
Ito make the mother vain of her daughter than of herself.

think the poem wanting in detail and circumstance.

     The rising generation was forming itself rapidly into
new circles, and though cordially rejoicing in the pros
pects of happiness of those who were so dear to him, it
was impossible that Dr. Whewell should not feel, and
feel painfully, the aggravation of his own loneliness,
which naturally resulted from the formation of these

new ties, and from the partings they involved. Espe
502 LITE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1858

cially he felt the parting with her who was like a
daughter of his own, and whose sympathy had beguiled

his solitude during the last three years, as nothing else
could have done. The bitterness of his grief, however,
was now past, and new plans and new hopes rose in his
own mind, which he was able to entertain and dwell on

with satisfaction.

     Living at Trumpington, near Cambridge, was Mr.
Leslie Ellis, once a Fellow of Trinity, in 1858, and for
some previous years a hopeless invalid. What manner
of man he was, may well be judged from the follow
ing description of him, given by his friend and literary
associate, Mr. James Spedding. He speaks of him as
possessing ' an intellect of the very highest order--
subtle, exact, capacious, swift, discursive, sublime ; well
trained and perfectly tested by the severe discipline of
the highest course of Cambridge scientific study, stimu
lated by an insatiable appetite for knowledge of all

kinds, aided by an extraordinary sagacity in seeking,
facility in apprehending, judgment in assimilating and
digesting, tenacity in retaining, and rapidity in recol

lecting . . . industry the most unwearied, fidelity the

most scrupulous, a fine taste, a lively, playful, and
graceful fancy, and a standard of moral judgment the
loftiest, the most delicate, the most uncompromising.'
Such was Mr. Ellis, and such the powers which over
powering illness had smitten as with sudden frost, and

compelled to remain inoperative.
     Lady Affleck, his widowed sister, was nursing and

ministering to him with tender and sedulous care. A

long course of attendance upon her husband had come
to an end some four years previous. Dr. Whewell

discerned in her the woman who could share and
cheer his home ; the ' somebody to love him ' so neces
1858         LADY AFFLECK.                        503

sary to his affectionate nature, and upon whom he could
lavish the abundant communicativeness, the trusting
confidence, the ardent tenderness of a heart hungering
for the sober, solid satisfaction of happy home life, and
unable to rest without it. The anticipation was not

disappointed. For seven years their home was as

happy as mutual love and sympathy could make it.

    They were married in London on July 1, 1858.

Before he left Cambridge both his nieces had visited

him, with their husbands.

To Mrs. Frederic Myers] Trinity Lodge: June 17, 1858.

Your guess about the translations is so ingenious that it

deserves to be true; but nevertheless it is not. My dear

IFanny, though she reads German very well, is not, think, a

poet ; at least she has never yet confided such a weakness to

Ime. doubt whether she has your fine ear for rhythm ; but

then, who has ? She is very fond of poetry, especially, as she
Isays, when
             read it to her, but is passive not active in such

matters. As to the two translations, the occasion of their being

printed is this. A month or two ago there was in Fraser's
Magazine an article about several translations of the ' Lenore '

(Burger's) of which one mentioned was mine, and the other an

unpublished one in the possession of the critic.

He seemed to prefer this, and used with regard to mine one or

two disparaging expressions, such as the young gentlemen of that

school seem to think it necessary to use when they speak of me.
ISo proposed that the two translations should be published
side by side ; and now behold --what a mortification for me !--
I Ieven you do not see the superiority of mine.
                                                  wish might

be with you for an hour or two, to explain some of the feeble

nesses, as they seem to me, of the new translation ; but perhaps

you were led to judge too favourably of it by your ingenious

hypothesis as to its origin. But though Lady Affleck cannot,

I Iso far as know, translate German ballads so well as can, she

is prepared to love you very much, and bids me thank you for

             is,
your offer of a cordial welcome, which she says, most accept
504 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                 li

able, and for which, perhaps, she will send you a line herself.

You may be sure, dearest, that no missive can come from me

to you which has not for one of its contents a very tender love.

Lady A  has mentioned July 1 as our day : we must be

married in London, for her brother's health makes him shrink

from such an event happening in his house.

    Dearest, I hope I shall introduce her to you in the course of

the summer, and that you will love her.

To Kate Marshall, now Mrs. Sumner Gibson]
                                                    Trinity Lodge : May.

   I had almost forgotten that I had told you that I was a little
melancholy when I was with you, but I am now happy and full

of hope and happiness. All great changes are full of serious

Ithought to us older people, and I could not but feel that was

losing you in a certain way ; that you could not be to me
exactly the Kate that you have been -- though not less dear,
and dear through new interests. But as we cannot be happy

in exactly the old way, I trust we shall find a new way not less

heartfelt -- when you have learnt to love my wife as she deserves,

and I to love your husband as I am ready to do. So, come

here, darling child ! and let us begin our new life ; you in your

Ibright youth, in an age not too far advanced to prevent my

affections both old and new from being very warm and strong --

as I need not tell you.

To Mrs. Sumner Gibson]  Bournemouth: July 3, 1858.

      We paid our visit to St. George's, Hanover Square, on
Thursday ; Lord and Lady Monteagle, Worsley and Katharine,
and Bessie Spring Rice were there on my side. Dundases,

Fitz Geralds, Gores and Dallases, &c, on Fanny's ; and at three

o'clock we set off for this place, which we reached at eight, after

a pleasant and easy journey. It is an exceedingly pretty and

pleasant place, with no end of charming walks and prospects,
and the great bay in front of us; with an air and soil reminding
me of Tunbridge Wells.

     Before we go northwards we have some thoughts of visiting

your part of the world. It would be a great pleasure to me to
1838 BOURNEMOUTH. 505

Isee you and my Fanny together,- and should much enjoy seeing
Iyou in your new home.
                        am glad you like Tunbridge Wells.
IIt is, as said, very like this place in soil and climate, but we

have long forest glades and golden cliffs and silver strands,

Iwhich you have not ; and altogether do not think there can

be a more charming place than this, in what is now your south
Icountry.
           hope to get Lady Affleck to confess that the north,

which she has never seen, has beauties of a higher kind.

To-morrow we talk of going to Corfe Castle and Swanage

Bay, reading poetry at all convenient intervals of rest ; which

you know is a very rational way of living !

To Mr. Robert Leslie Ellis] Bournemouth: July 5, 1858.

   I think you will not be surprised to receive a few lines

from me ; now that, in addition to the ties of admiration and

I Istrong regard which have always felt for you, can add the

affection of a brother, and the strong sentiment of gratitude

for the gift of your dear and inestimable sister, which I consider

myself as having received at your hands.          ordinary mea

    IShe is, hope, as well as I, enjoying beyond  It is just such

sure the quiet happiness of this pleasant place.

a spot as we wished to reach in order to enjoy the full assur

ance of our married happiness. The town is composed of
pretty villas, ' bosomed deep' in trees on the sides of a broken

valley. We ramble all day long in forest glades and over open

heaths, and along the bright orange cliffs of the large bay ;

Ior on the many coloured sands of, suppose, the Paris basin,

which make such a beautiful show in their vertical position at

Alum Bay in the Isle of Wight, which is within the reach of our

vision from our cliffs. The tall earth cliff is at various points

cut into ravines by little streams, which are quite absorbed by

the dry sandy soil. These ravines are here called chines: they

correspond to what we on the coast of Norfolk call scores ; a

word which of course implies a set of parallel gashes, transverse
to the main ridge ; and carries us etymologically to score-- the
verb, and score -- the substantive, for an accumulated number,
Iand then for one particular number.
                                      do not so well see the

etymological relations of chine.

We have a beautiful semi-circle of a bay ; and a walk along
506 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.              less

the low water margin of hard sand, which we are going to trace
to-day. There is not much tide here, but Poole, which is

Ionly four and a half miles off, is one of the few places where

there are four tides a day ; suppose, besides the direct tide
there is one which comes round the Isle of Wight, later by

some hours.

     Retired as we are, my usual visitors, proof-sheets, have

Ifound me ; and as have something in hand which perhaps
may amuse you for a quarter of an hour, I will direct the

printer to send you copies of my last proof-sheets. They are a
little sketch of Barrow's academical doings, gathered from his

ILatin works. At present they are in type that may have the

benefit of the remarks of friends on them.

   I Ihope your health is no worse than when saw you, that

you have ever what Milton speaks of, ' Secret refreshings to

repair your strength and fainting spirits uphold.'

To Dr. Mackreth]         Trinity Lodge: July 30, 1858.

   ISince had the great pleasure of seeing you in St. George's

Church we have been in various places, till we have exhausted

the moon, but by no means the honey. We went to Bourne

mouth, which is a very charming place, and stayed there a

fortnight, and then (after being at Cambridge for a few days),
to Tun bridge Wells, where is my niece Kate, with her husband,

and since then we have been to Sir John Herschel's in Kent,

from which we returned yesterday.

To Mrs. Sumner Gibsori]  Trinity Lodge : A ug. 5, 1858.

    IHaving seen you so lately, naturally want to hear from
Iyou, to carry on the impression which received. It was a great
Idelight to see you in your new home -- to bring you and my

dear Fanny together -- the first, hope, of many foregather-

Iings ; and was especially glad to see dear Janet, of whom we

are to lose sight for so long. . . .

We set off this morning for Hallsteads, and Fanny is com

Iforted by having in her pocket the scheme of travel for the

day, which you drew out for her ; but still she has, think,

some vague misgivings that four hours railroad in the north
1858          CUMBERLAND.     507

Imust be much longer than the same time in the south.

suppose as we have longer days there we ought to have longer

hours !
I shall be glad to hear of any good new novels that come in
I Iyour way.
              have not made many trials lately, but have
Ibeen visited by a strong suspicion that can no longer read
I Ibad novels as used to do.
                              went through one or two which
have some name, and found it rather dreary work. It is so

difficult to bear with heroines who have no common sense ; to

be sure they would spoil the story if they had.

    I am glad you are interested in Froude. It is wholesome

to have the commonly received judgments respecting historical

Ipersons questioned, especially when they are unfavourable.

think very highly both of hard-hearted Elizabeth and of

bloody Mary.

To the same]                  Bowness: Aug. 29, 1858.

      We are here after a most pleasant circuit among your
uncles, aunts, brother, and cousins, who have all been most

kind, and have received my wife as one of us, to my great con

tentment and gratification. We came last from the Island,

where we stayed with Reginald and Louisa from Monday till
Friday. We fell in with the Dean and Minna in divers places,
or, more properly speaking, in climbers' places, for our last

view of them was on the side of Skiddaw, where they were

Igoing up as we were coming down. Your uncle James gave

Minna a sail upon the lake at Coniston, which think occa
sioned her a little alarm as well as a wetting ; but of course

she will tell you of her adventures better than I can. She was

travelling, she said, under written orders from you, and was
very punctual in conforming to them. Yesterday we went
along a new drive, through the woods of Elleray, which gives
a truly magnificent series of views of Windermere, especially of

Ithe head of the lake. There is no saying how much have

enjoyed seeing the old scenes and the dear people whom

we were with --dearer than ever for their kindness to my dear

companion.
508 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

To the same]                      Trinity Lodge: Oct. 17, 1858.

     Since writing to you we have been to many places. After

finishing our Lakes we went into Scotland and had a glimpse --
it was no more --of the Highlands. And then we went to

Grantham to see a statue of Newton inaugurated : that is, the

Itarpaulin taken off it ! And then fell and broke a rib ; but

was not much the worse for it ; for I went to Leeds forthwith,
and there Mr. Teale mended me. And at Leeds we had a

Iweek of scientific meetings, which enjoyed because Fanny

enjoyed them ; and then we came here -- rather later for my

Iwork than I ought to have been ; however, by working hard for

a week or two I shall get things into order, and hope keep

thera so.

To the same]                      Trinity Lodge : Dec. 9, 1858.

Thank you very much for sending me immediately the

Indian photographs. They are curious specimens of Jain archi

tecture. You are to know that there are three kinds of archi

tecture in India: Hindoo, Mohammedan, and Jain; quite

different in style. Pray thank your uncle very warmly for
remembering me in the middle of his work and his ill health.
I have read no novel lately except a new one of Auerbach,
' Barfussele  '
                   and  a dreamy  little thing called 'Deutsche  Liebe,"
                ;

which is, however, full of English poetry, Wordsworth, Arnold,

Iand Tennyson -- also read Ellis's ' Madagascar ' for love of

Janet, for there is in it a good deal about Mauritius.

To his Sister]          Trinity Lodge: Christmas Day, 1858.

I Ihad not noticed that it was so long since wrote to you
Ias you seem to think it has been, but certainly have been
Ivery busy this term.
                                  began with a hurry of examinations
Ifor which arrived too late, and with three books going on at

the printer's, which had overtaken me and wanted matter.

And as the term has gone on, we have had a series of visitors

occupying almost the whole of the time ; some of them old

friends of Lady A.'s, and some my own. Among the last have

been Professor and Mrs. Airy.

                        1 By Professor Mai Miiller.
1858                BEDGEBUKY.             509

    IMy books have pretty well worked off ; though only one

of them is yet published -- the Novum Organum, which you
have seen. The others are a notice of the life of Dr. Barrow,

and a notice of the life of Professor Jones of Haileybury, of
whom you must have heard me speak as an intimate friend.

IThe works of both are going to be published, and have

written a prefatory article to each. So that now my task for

Ithe term, both social and literary, is, hope, pretty well exe

cuted. On Tuesday we go to Bedgebury.

To the same]            Bedgebury: Dec. 29, 1858.

I write a single line to prevent any awkwardness which
Imay arise from my stupidity in telling you that did not
Irecollect Miss C.
                    have known her for a great many years,

and have always found her a most agreeable and friendly
I Iperson.
      hope you did not tell her that did not recollect
I Iher.
      cannot tell how came to be puzzle-headed about

Iher name. My stupidity in such matters is a source of great

annoyance to me, and try to conceal it as much as possible.

We are here a large party in a very fine house built like a

French chateau, with a great expanse of wooded hills about us,

all belonging to the estate, and a series of lakes almost as big

as Grasmere and Rydal, in the valley before the house, where

we have been driving and walking all day.

To Mrs. Sumner Gibson]  Trinity Lodge: Feb. 4, 1859.

     You will have heard that we have had Herschel and Lady
Herschel, Bella and Maria staying with us for a week -- a great
delight was every one of the four. Alick's place in taking his

degree was as high as was expected. There was a project that
he and Maria should go to Adel. But Herschel conceived a

strong dislike of being without his children, so they gave up

their plan and went back to Collingwood yesterday.

     You would see that Fred. Myers's poem about Burns was

judged to be the second best of all that were sent in. It ap

peared to me to have a great deal of merit of the same kind as
Miss Isa Craig's, and in truth to be more poetical than hers is.

I shall not be surprised if it be more admired than hers. It is
Ivery Tennysonian, so suppose you give your admiration to it.
510 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

     Montagu Butler told me the other day that your husband

Iis a great friend of his. We have just appointed Butler to be

one of our assistant tutors, which was glad to do, for he is

much admired by the men, and is a person whom it does them

good to admire and to see a good deal of.

To James Oarth Marshall]               Good Friday : 1859.

I hope you and Mary have been enjoying your travels ? It

may seem perverse to say so, but to me every part of Italy

appeared more interesting than Rome. You see the city from a
Igood point of view --Trajan's Forum.
Ibeen of some use to you ?             hope that Pentland has

                            found him a very valuable friend.
I have seen John Stuart Mill's pamphlet on Reform, and
Ido not much disagree with him.
                                 am glad he has taken up
Iyour plan of voting for minorities. But am much vexed at
the course which this Reform Bill has taken. The nation and

Parliament were in a calm and candid mood on the subject,

and if such a Bill as would have satisfied Walpole had been

brought in, it might have passed and tranquillised the country
Ifor years.
             cannot understand why Lord Derby should reject
IWalpole's advice for Disraeli's, who, should think, has no con

victions on the subject.

Take care that you do not get yourself entangled with the

movements of armies before you come home.

    The rumours and telegrams to-day are very warlike. I

would fain hope that it is impossible for the nations of Europe

to commit the folly and wickedness of going to war at present ;

but the wisdom and virtue of nations have not advanced so far

as to give one any great confidence in them.

   I suppose this will find you in the midst of your Easter
festivities. I am writing on Good Friday.

To Mrs. Frederic Myers] Trinity Lodge: May 17, 1859.

   IIt has been in my mind to write to you for several days,

for always feel confident that you take an interest in my

Ijoys and sorrows. My dear brother-in-law, Robert Ellis, ended

his sufferings some days ago, and to-day have been at his
funeral. You know how remarkable his existence has been for
1859 ROBERT LESLIE ELLIS.                            511

a long time, deprived of almost every outward faculty, and yet

retaining undimmed almost all the light within. It remained

so almost to the end, and, indeed, his mind was clear to the

last, though he became so sensitive that he could not see me
nor even his sister. He had always lived in fear of some great

Isuffering at the last, but hope it was not so. He died at last
Ivery peaceably, and his last words were, ' see a light ! ' We

have buried him at Trumpington to-day. Among the old
friends who attended there were Thurtell, Harvey Goodwin,

Matheson, and others whom you know. . . .

    II shall send you soon, hope, a specimen of my Plato, of

your Plato, for it was your liking it which made me go on.
You must tell me whether it is worth my while to publish this

Iand to publish more. If the worshipful public does not like it
   shall not take the trouble of preparing any further portion

for the press. And perhaps you will not like it so much in
type as you did in viva voce reading.

To Professor Sedgwick']          Dawlish: Sep. 13, 1859.

     We are so far on our journey homewards, having been in
Cornwall, as far as the Land's End. In that region we found

many friends who enquired after you, and were glad to have

tidings of you, especially Sir Charles Lemon, with whom we

stayed a week at Carclew, several of the Foxes, at Falmouth,

                         at Penzance, one of whom, who was a
Iand the Miss C

                     it

                                's,
                                                      is

                                              I is

                                                                    it

                                                                                                is
young girl when you were there in 1828,        understood to

regard you as, in a certain degree, affianced to her, so when

you go there again you will receive an affectionate welcome.

Our old mine at Dolcoath has the Truro and Penzance

Railway running through it, and  altered in other ways.

Lady Affleck was much delighted to make acquaintance with

these ancient haunts and old friends of mine.  hope                                                 still

pleasant to you, as was to me, to recall these old memories,

and should probably have written to you without any other

object.

To his Sister]           Trinity Lodge: Sep. 30, 1859.

     We arrived here yesterday evening after our summer tour.

It has been very pleasant to see several old friends of my own,
512 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

and several of Lady A
I

                                       's,

                                                                                      ;

                                         I
                                               I
                                       and to make them for the future

our common friends; pleasant, too, to revisit together places

that one or other, or both, of us had known before.                                      was

especially glad to show her my ancient haunts in Cornwall,

which have not visited since 1828, and to see again several

Cornish friends of that ancient time though found in my

old mine of Dolcoath nobody who recollected me. We went to

the very Land's End, and looked out over the Atlantic. They

say that there no land between that and the Antarctic Circle.
I
                     is                London: July 1860.       4,

                     if
                                   ?A
To his Sister']

do not know Lady                       has told you of our immediate

projects for the summer                We intend to cross over from

Folkestone to Boulogne on Friday (the 6th), and to cross

France to Bayonne. Our purpose         then, her courage do
                                       is

                                                  if

                                                            is
not fail, to pass the Pyrenees and to go into Spain, so as to get

into the path of the eclipse of the sun, which                  total in that

region. We have friends at Bilbao, with whom we go and stay
till the eclipse over. It takes place on the 18th.
                 is                                                 is It  will

be large eclipse in England but not total and the difference
a                                              it ;
     is

          a
between total eclipse and another, which though large not

total, striking enough to make us think worth while going

where we can see the phenomenon in its perfection.                  I                    am

afraid will be very hot, and we hear           good deal of the dis
it                                     I
                                            a
comforts of travelling in Spain, but dare say that all these
difficulties will turn out in reality, when we come to grapple
with them, much smaller than they seem in the prospect.

     We were at Oxford great part of last week, for the meeting
of the British Association.

To the same]                           Bayonne: July 25, 1860.

      We are returned to this place after our journey to Spain.a

Our travelling was certainly somewhat rough that is, the inns;

were dirty and uncomfortable, and the feeding not to our mind,
but still we got on very well when we got little used to their

ways. The eclipse was quite as striking as we expected to find
it, and well seen where we were, except that the sky was cloudy
under the sun's place, so that we did not see the four planets
which were visible where the sky was clear.
1800              VISIT TO SPAIN.     513

    I often wished James had been with us, to see a very extra

ordinary railway which they are making, from Santander and
Bilbao to Tudela. The engineer is an Englishman, Mr. Vig-
nolles, with whom we were staying at Bilbao.

To Dr. MaekretK]  Trinity Lodge: Aug. 22, 1860.

      ISince saw you we have executed with great success the
Spanish expedition, which we were then talking of-- have seen

our eclipse in the most striking aspect we could have conceived
--- have spent our five days at Biarritz, and our ten days at

IParis, and are glad to find ourselves in the intense quiet of
the College in the Long Vacation.     am not quite sure that

we shall not stay here, for we enjoy the repose and tranquillity

very much, and the persevering bad weather is such as to

forbid all unnecessary expeditions. But still we have a hankering

after the north, and do not like to let a second summer pass

without at least a glimpse of it.

To Mrs. Stair Douglas]
          Coniston Hall, not Monk Coniston : Sept. 22, 1860.

   I have long wished to write to you, and to tell you how
much I have sympathised with you in all your troubles and
I Isorrows, and how much love you as have always done, and
Ihow glad am to know that you are again in England, and
Ihow earnestly hope that your evil time is past, and that your

dear husband is recovering his health, and that your time of
Icomfort and peace is come. All this
                                      should have told you
I Ilong ago, but hope that you know it as well as if had told
Iit you twenty times over.
                                   have, that is we have, been

travelling about almost the whole of the summer, in a way

very unfavourable to letter writing. Lately we have been in

Ithe north, but too late to see Kate at the Island, and so did

not go to the Island, nor any further than Monk Coniston, the
Ilast place at which we were. For you are to understand that

the Coniston Hall from which now write, is not the Lancashire,

but the Yorkshire Coniston, not far from Skipton. It belongs to

Mr. Tottie of Leeds, but is at present inhabited by a brother-in-

law of Lady Affleck's, a Mr. Unwin, who has two charming

                  LL
514 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.      1800

little girls, of whom Lady A  is very fond, and who have

adopted me as their uncle, with great good will. You see my
possessions in the way of nieces go on increasing, and it is

truly remarkable what charming creatures most of them are !

     This Coniston, which is called Coniston Cold, that is
Coniston Cold Spring -- not Cold Coniston, as some ignorantly

used to say, is in the midst of some of the most noticeable

Yorkshire sights. Yesterday we were at Bolton Abbey, and
saw an adventurous tourist ' bound across the Strid,' without

coming to any grief ; and the day before we were at Malham

Cove, and Gordale, two very wonderful exhibitions of the way

in which the limestone rock of this region exhibits itself in

cliffs, which you perhaps know, as becomes a Yorkshire

woman. And on Monday we are to enjoy a better result of

Iour coming into this region, by going to your dear mother at

Cookridge, where shall hear more of you, my darling. But as

I I Ihave an hour at liberty this morning, do not see how
Ican use it better than by writing to you, to tell you that need

Ino such visit to keep you in my thoughts and my heart, that

  shall be very glad to hear of all that befalls you, and hope it

may be nothing but good.
515

CHAPTER X.

1860-1866.

Completion of Master's Court --Sketch of History of Courts and of the
                                      Dr. Whewell's Bequest --Family
Foundations endowed eventually hy    Poem --Death of the Prince Con

Sorrows --Professor Henslow --Prize
sort -- Duke of Devonshire Chancellor -- Photographs -- ' Lady of La
Garaye '--British Association at Cambridge --Death of Mrs. Statter --Her
Verses -- Death of Mr. Rowley--Visit to Cambridge of the Prince and
Princess of Wales -- Illness of Lady Affleck--Her
--Cheltenham --Grange --Scotland -- Nuneham --     Death--Visits Putney
                                                   Yorkshire -- Switzer
land -- French Cathedrals -- Return  to Cambridge --Visitors--Lowestoft
--Visits to various friends --Last   Letter to his Sister Mrs. Newton --
Death of Lord Monteagle -- Accident -- Death.

Is 1860 was completed the first Master's Court, a

building opposite the Great Gate of Trinity, which Dr.

Whewell had erected at his own expense, in order to

afford additional accommodation for students of Trinity
College. His ultimate purpose, which was effected by
his will, was to endow out of the rents and profits of

this hostel or auxiliary building a Chair of International
Law, and Scholarships for proficiency in that subject.
This idea had been present to his mind for a long time,
though it is not easy to ascertain exactly when he first

entertained it. It is probable that it was suggested by

the course of study which he pursued himself, and
sketched out for others in connection with his duties as

Professor of Moral Philosophy. The last chapter of his

' Elements of Morality,' published in 1845, is entitled 'In

ternational Jus., Rights and Obligations between States,'
and the scope and arrangement of his work seem to

                            Ll2
516 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  1800

indicate that he regarded the recognition of International

obligations as marking the highest development and
final outcome of the Science of Morality.

     The first step which he seems to have taken was in
1849, when he propounded to Mr. Mart'n, then Bursar,

a hypothetical scheme for the endowment of a Professor
ship, without specifying the nature of it. This scheme,

which contemplated a considerable expenditure on the

part of the College to meet the proposed gift, did not
approve itself to Mr. Martin's judgment. Before
addressing Mr. Martin, the Master had already acquired
the freehold of the Sun Inn, opposite the Great Gate of
Trinity, which was estimated at about 7,000/. After
receiving Mr. Martin's answer he commenced a negotia
tion with Jesus College for the purchase of some adjoin

ing property, which he conceived to be necessary for
the attainment of his object. He proposed to endow

his Professorship and Scholarships out of the rents to
be derived from a hostel, in which additional accommo

dation would be provided for students of Trinity Col
lege. Thus the College would be benefited, while at
the same time the means of endowment would be pro
vided. He hoped that the property belonging to Jesus
College, when thrown in with his own, would furnish a

sufficient site for the proposed hostel, but the expense
of this additional ground and that of the building to be

erected was to fall on the College, and to be repaid by
a sinking fund out of the rents.

     In August 1850, before he had come to any arrange
ment with Jesus College, he proposed to the Seniors to

give the Sun Inn site to the College on the conditions
he had already mentioned to Mr. Martin, but he now

specified that the Professorship to be endowed by his
gift would be one of International Law. The Seniority
1800  MASTER OFFERS A SITE.  517

appear to have declined the offer, probably deterred

by financial considerations. In making the offer Dr.
Whewell referred to the appointment of the Royal
Commission, which was then imminent, and stated

that his offer assumed that the present mode of conduct

ing the College system and managing the College pro
perty would not be interfered with by external authority.
Still, it was in November 1857, at the time when the

controversy about College reform was raging most
violently within the walls of Trinity, that he next

approached the College with a renewal of his offer. He

had now acquired the property belonging to Jesus
College, which he had formerly wished the College to

purchase, so that the only expenditure the College
would incur would be that of erecting a hostel. His

proposal now comprised the establishment of Scholar
ships as well as of a Professorship of International Law,
and also additional Foundation Scholarships attached to
the College. A design for a hostel had been prepared
by Mr. Salvin. It would give twenty-five sets of rooms,
and would cost 10,000/. Nothing, however, came of
this offer, and in 1859 Dr. Whewell determined to
erect the hostel himself. It was completed in the
summer of 1860, and immediately occupied by students
of the College. Although the private property of Dr.
Whewell it was regarded as an integral portion of the
College, and students residing in it were subject to the

same rules, and had the same privileges as those residing
within the College walls. But Dr. Whewell's intentions
 did not stop here. He was persevering and vigilant in

 his endeavour to obtain another contiguous site, which

 would enable him to enlarge his building and augment
 his endowment. His first desire was to carry the ex-

 tention of his hostel along Trinity Street, for he had
518 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  180D

always been anxious whenever new buildings connected
with the College were erected, that their architectural
character should improve the appearance of the town,
but the difficulty of acquiring property with so valuable

a frontage compelled the Master to turn his eyes in
another direction, and eventually he determined that
the site of his additional hostel, or second Court, should

be at the back of the first Court, and between it and

Sidney Street. By the end of 1865 he had purchased
all the land necessary for the purpose, the plans for a
Court with seventy sets of rooms were prepared,
tenders for a contract were invited, and it was scarcely

a fortnight before the accident which caused his death

that the contract was settled and signed. The building

was completed in 1868, and the rooms occupied in the

next October Term.

    It was found that the project he had so long enter

tained of establishing International Law as an important
branch of University study had been most carefully and

munificently provided for under his will. If he had

lived a few years longer he would probably have inau
gurated the establishment of the chair himself. As it

was, he left directions so clear and definite that no diffi

culty was found in carrying out his intentions to the
full, immediately the building of the second Court was
completed. The value of the endowment which he

gave to support the study he had thus selected for

special encouragement cannot have been much less than
100,000/. Dr. Whewell's gift maintains a Professor and

eight Scholars, whose combined stipends amount to

1,100/. a year.
     The first Professor elected under the Trust in 1869

was Sir "William Harcourt, M.P., who still holds the
appointment. The practical object which Dr. Whewell
1800  BEQUEST.  519

 had in view is recognised by a regulation requiring the

 Professor, according to his express injunctions in all

 parts of his treatment of the subject, to lay down such

 rules and to suggest such measures as may tend to

 diminish the evils of war, and finally to extinguish war
 between nations. In the same spirit the regulations for

 the Scholarships confer certain exemptions from resid

 ence in favour of Scholars holding diplomatic or con

 sular appointments under the Crown.1

      Two Foundation Scholarships were also given by
 Dr. Whewell's will to the College. Mrs. Whewell several

 years before her death endowed a Foundation Scholar

 ship at Trinity with 500Z. In addition to this, she
 bequeathed by her will a sum of nearly 10,000J. to the

 College, to be applied at her husband's death as he

 should direct, or failing such direction it was bequeathed

 to a fund belonging to the College, known as the Pigott
 Fund, and employed in the augmentation of the stipends
of poor incumbents. By his will, Dr. Whewell directed

 that the Master and Seniors should apply the sum at

their discretion to any one of three specified objects :

       1 The electors to the professorship are the Vice-Chancellor, the Master
of Trinity College, the Regius Professor of Civil Law, the Professor of
Moral Philosophy, the Downing Professor of the Laws of England, and the
Professor of Political Economy, with casting vote to the Master of Trinity.

     The Professor is required annually to give a course of twelve lectures on
the subject of International Law, and he is bound by the express injunction
of Dr. Whewell ' to make it his aim in all parts of his treatment of the sub

ject to lay down such rules and to suggest such measures as may tend to
diminish the evils of war, and finally to extinguish war between nations.'
He is further required to furnish to the Master and senior Fellows of Trinity
a certificate signed by ten resident members of the University that they have
each of them attended ten at least of the lectures of the Professor during the
preceding year. The Scholarships are eight in number, and each of them
is tenable for four years. Of the two Scholars annually to be elected one is
to receive lOQi. and the other 601. The electors are the same as for the
Professorship. The condition of residence is relaxed in favour of any persons

holding a diplomatic or consular appointment under the Crown. All persons

under the age of twenty-five years are eligible to the Scholarships.
520 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

the foundation of additional Scholarships, or of a Pro
fessorship, or to the augmentation of the Pigott Fund.
In July 1879 Mrs. Whewell's Trust Fund had reached

by accumulation the sum of 11,952£. 12s. 10d., and the
income of it was being devoted by the College to the
augmentation of small livings.

     The death of Mr. Ellis was the only break in the
happiness of the two years immediately following Dr.
Whewell's second marriage. We have seen from his
letters how great was his admiration for the character
of his wife's brother, and his respect for the courageous
patience with which his sufferings and disabilities were

 borne.

     The year 1861 was one of much sorrow, not only
to his old friend Sir John Herschel, but also to those
 young relations whom Dr. Whewell loved with especial,
 and almost parental fondness. Whilst blow after blow
 fell upon them, he poured out his ardent sympathy in

 frequent letters.
      From these it is not easy to select any to lay before

 strangers. Still any picture of Dr. Whewell which
 displayed the depth and strength of feeling inspired by
 his own domestic joys and sorrows, and did not show
 with what tenderness he sympathised with others under
 similar trials, would be most imperfect. The attempt
  must therefore be made.

       The first sorrow was occasioned by the death of the
  niece whose marriage, connecting together as it did two
  families most dear to him, had been rejoiced over as
  ' one of the happiest events of his later life.' Writing

  of this to Sir John Herschel he says :--

       So great is this calamity, it may seem at first to deprive of
  their value your remaining possessions. And yet, my dear
  Herschel, it is not so. You are still richer in objects of love
1801  BEREAVEMENTS.  521

Iand sources of earthly happiness than any one whom know,
Iand so trust you will soon come to feel. And with regard to

her we may feel, persons at your age and mine, that the
separation cannot be for long. There is nothing but what
may well be borne, in the thought that we shall have to follow
in a few short years. As we go onward in life, the next world

comes to be peopled with our loved ones more than this. The

thought of her angel life may elevate and sweeten our earthly
life.

      To Mrs. Sumner Gibson he wrote a few days later :--

                                              Lowestoft: Jan. 11, 1861.

   I know well how idle and vain all words of comfort must

be for a long time. She, whom we have lost, was indeed so

sweet, and dear, and good, that we cannot think how we can

Ilive without her. Even to see her as seldom as saw her,

gave a sunshine to my life. What are we to say of her re
moval but that she was ripe for heaven and so was taken
thither. You will have heard how well prepared she was for
her departure, and how resignedly she past away ; in full
reliance on Him Who became as one of us, that we might be
like Him, and see Him as He is. She is taken to the house of

many mansions, and you will have hereafter to think of her as

...of a sister in heaven.
            I am soothed and comforted in some degree by your

turning to me with a daughter's love -- but even the thought of
her where she is, and as she is, must fail to calm our grief as
yet. My heart bleeds to think of the terrible sorrow to so

Imany persons -- so sweet and so dear to me, all ; besides the

 husband, whom hardly know how to write to, the two dear

Imothers, both of whom have long loved as sisters, and who

 have allowed me to look on them as such. Our motto, my

Ilove, must be sursum corda, but as say, it is hard as yet to

 find any virtue in these words. May a merciful God --He is
 merciful -- enable you soon to feel the consolation that there is

 in them.
522 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                          1861

To Mrt. Stair Douglas']
                        Trinity Lodge, Cambridge : Feb. 6, 1861.

    It was a great disappointment to me, as well as to Lady

IAffleck, to find you saving that you could not come to us.

hope still you will find that you can. It is so very hard that you

should go for three weeks to Oxford, and not come for a few

days to Cambridge. I reckon that you are a Cambridge woman
as much as Stair is an Oxford man, and I think it is great

tyranny on his part, to give all to his University and none to

yours. Pray think better of this.

Stair w;is very good in writing to me, on the occasion of

... Ithat other beloved niece's removal to her place among the
angels.       have letters from Sir John and Lady Herschel,

which show that they bear the blow as well as one could expect.

IThey have many blessings left, beyond the common lot of man ;
but this was the first great affliction.  have often thought of

the Herschels as a family signally happy in almost every way ;

but one's thoughts of their happiness must always now have

this dark shadow of sorrow in its sky.

     All the letters Dr. Whewell wrote at this time show

how keenly he shared this sorrow, but throughout he

is always pointing out what comfort lies in dwelling
upon the happy past and the happier future. ' Who

would wish to forget, and gain by oblivion a dead con
solation ? ' * She must always be one of the brightest

spots in the range of memory to all who knew her.

May you be supported and soothed by sweet memories
                                '
and  sweeter
              hopes !

     About this time his old friend Professor Henslow,

who was at the point of death, sent him a message of

farewell. The answer this drew forth was written

                                          April 14, 1861.

     IfMy dear Henslow, -- I am much touched by your kind re
collection of me in your situation.       you are really on the
point of making the great voyage which we must all make in
1801 FAREWELL LETTER TO PROFESSOR HENSLOW. 523

our turn, may God be with you, and comfort and support you
through the passage, and receive you in (to ?) His paternal and
redeeming arms when it is over.

    If this reaches you while you are still among us, I should
IIlike you to know the deep gratitude have to you for all that
Ihave received and learnt from you. never was with you, even
for a short time, without thinking that I was the better and

wiser for you ; and it has been one of the sorrows of my later

I Ilife that saw less of you than wished to do.

     But all these regrets will soon be over ; for you are going,

in a few days, as it seems, and I in a few years, where we shall

know, even as we are known.
      God bless and support you, my dear Henslow, and believe

me
                                                        Yours most affectionately,

                                                           W. Whewell.

     Another sorrow had fallen, another separation taken

place, before he writes to his niece --Mrs. Sumner
Gibson -- a letter in which the following words occur : --

                                                 Lowestoft: July 16.

     The recollection of a happy married life, however short, is,
when time has softened the first deep bitterness of the sorrow,
something which gives a solemn tranquillity to life, and estab
lishes a really felt connection between this life and a future
one.

    A letter to Miss Whewell tells of the outward

events and movements of the summer.

To his Sister]  Trinity Lodge: Aug. 12, 1861.

      We are here on our way from Lowestoft to the Continent.
We left Cliff Cottage a week ago, having been there about a

month. It was very pretty and pleasant, and we were sorry to

leave it. The Lodge, too, is a very pleasant abode at present ;

Iindeed do not know where we can hope to find a pleasanter.

Wilh its large rooms and thick walls, and lawns and shades out
524 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                              18Q

of doors, no abode can be better suited to enable us to bear the

hot weather.

To a Niece]  Trinity Lodge: Aug. 11, 1861.

I IThough have not written to you, am sure you have not

needed to be told that my heart was with you in your gTeat

affliction. Indeed, your aunt Marianne gave me a message
from you which made me understand that you confided in my

love and sympathy ; and to be so recollected by you at such a
I Itime made me love you and feel for you all the more. And in
truth, my love, now that am writing to you, what can  say
that you do not know already. I will not attempt to persuade

Iyou that your cause for grief is not most bitter and over

whelming, and you know as well as can tell you that it is to

be accepted as a chastening token of God's love, and as a means
of turning your thoughts to another world, where there will be

no more tears and no more separations. And, even on this side

Ithe grave, trust, my love, that when the first bitter surprise

of grief is past you may find something to soothe and raise

Iyour thoughts in turning them back upon your short period of
happiness.   am sure you will agree with me that your life
will be a nobler and holier kind of being than if you had no

such bright season to look back upon, and will feel that such

a widowhood connects you with the world to come. From

what your aunt Susan writes to me, I know that you do not

take the chastening in a rebellious spirit ; and you have yet

many left who love you, and to whom you can give your love,

even though the largest share of it is buried, or rather trans

Iferred to the regions of immortality.
        shall be glad to hear from you when you can write to me.

My wife desires me to give you her kindest regards and warmest

sympathy. We intend to set off in a few days for Switzerland,

I Ito stay there a few weeks.                         had to
     My dear child, have not said one tenth of what
Isay, but indeed it cannot be said at once, and hope that we

shall see each other often ; and learn to know each other's

Ifeelings, as hope on many subjects we have known them in
Ipast times. One thing cannot but say --you will excuse any
18GI               SWISS TOUR.  525

transient pain which it gives you, for the abiding sentiment
must be one of thankfulness and solace.

    I think you were happy in having so peaceful and conscious

a leave-taking. Such a parting seems to me a true euthanasia,
as great a blessing as God can give in this life, for it conveys
an assurance of a life and a happy one beyond. And you know
in whom you confide for the reconciliation with God, on both

your parts, which is to lead you to that life.

To the same]

     Your dear letter reached me at Vevay and was very welcome.

I was very glad to find that you took kindly the few words of
IIsympathy and soothing which tried to say to you then.

hope the succeeding time has brought you peace and touches
of comfort. There can be no better foundation for peace and
consolation than that which you have ; the resolve to live on in
a way worthy of the thoughts which have been called up in us
by those who have gone before us. May all comfort be with
you from this and every other source !

      We returned hither a few days ago, after a six weeks' tour,

mainly in Switzerland. Being now once more at home, I want

Ito hear the summer story of all friends ; and shall be glad if

you, my love, will let me know something of yourself as soon as

you can with satisfaction to yourself.

To the same]                Trinity Lodge: Dec. 8, 1861.

      Your letter gave me great pleasure. You accept your lot

with a patience and sweetness which are delightful to those
Ithat love you as do, and will, by the blessing of God, lead
Iyou to peace and comfort.
                            should like much to see you and
have you with me for a while. Is it not possible that you could

come to us at Lowestoft ? You know how quiet you would be

Ithere. We are going to the Cottage, think, before Christmas,
and shall stay there till near the end of January, and we will

have nobody to disturb you, except we could persuade Kate to

come at the same time, which would be very pleasant. Should

you not like to see the Cottage and the shore again, and walk with

me on the Denes ?

      We are going out of College as soon as the term is over,
526 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                                          1

                                                                                  1861

after some weeks of rather unusual company keeping. The

afepsptrivoiaticehsin--g bdaellpsa, rtpularyes,ofatnhde  Prince of Wales has led  to various
                                                         shooting matches, and    the like,

besides dinners and concerts of various dimensions. The Prince

is to travel for the next half-year. Lucky for him that he has

done his United States already, for they seem likely now to be

undone for all future travellers.

     The death of the Prince Consort on December 10,
1861, rendered it necessary to have a new election for

the Chancellorship of the University. The names of

the Duke of Buccleugh and of the Duke of Northum
berland were put forward, mainly on political grounds.
Dr. Whewell had made up his mind from the first that
the Duke of Devonshire would be the fittest successor
to that high office, both on account of his exalted rank,
and still more by virtue of his scientific and intellectual
eminence. We have already seen the estimation in
which he was held by Dr. Whewell at the time when

he had just completed his brilliant academical career,
and in the parliamentary elections of 1829 and 1831
the Duke, who was then Mr. Cavendish, had received
Dr. Whewell's warm support. Since that time Dr.

Whewell's political opinions, though he was never an

extreme partisan, had become very different from those
which the Duke of Devonshire was well known to enter

tain, but on this occasion he discarded all considerations

of politics in comparison with what he felt to be due to
the dignity and interest of the University, and the
example he set was followed in a very remarkable
manner by other Conservatives, especially in his own
College. His influence thus had the effect of saving the

University from a contested election, an incident in
University life which, as we have already seen, he par
ticularly disliked. Even he could hardly have foreseen
1802     DUKE OF DEVONSHIRE CHANCELLOR.                            527

the great advantages which have accrued to the Univer
sity from the choice of so munificent and enlightened a

Chancellor.
     The installation of the Duke of Devonshire took

place in the summer of the following year. In con
formity with usage Honorary Degrees were conferred
on several eminent persons, according to a list partly
furnished by the Chancellor. Dr. Whewell was con

sulted on this matter. Among the names suggested by
him was that of M. Michel Chevallier, one of his intimate

foreign friends.

To Mrs. Sumner Gibson]             Trinity Lodge: Feb. 25, 1862.

      I suppose that Lady Affleck has breathed forth to you some

of the indignation which she feels against photographs in

Igeneral, and photographs of me in particular. For my part,

though think in general they are odious things, 'Justice

without Mercy,' as Landseer calls them for men, and Injustice

Iwithout Mercy, as I call them, for women, on the present

occasion am for once obliged to them for bringing me your

pleasant letter after too long a silence --very likely my fault.

      Fanny, as she probably told you, was quite taken by surprise

and in a most disagreeable way, when after a great struggle

she had consented to have me operated upon, supposing that

the results were to remain in her own hands altogether, and

were to be a special piece of patronage and munificence of her

own ; and then found my physiognomy staring at us from shop

windows in half a dozen different versions ! It is a very hard
case for us English, for it appears they manage these matters

better in France. But, as the Chief Baron said the other day,

a man has no property in his own face ; still less has his wife

any property in it.
      I have no doubt that you have been very meritorious in
                                           '
reading  honestly  on  in  · Mrs.  Delany       but  there  is  a  sort  of
                                             ;

pleasure of a peculiar kind in making acquaintance with paper

companions and living with them day after day.

    Ed io anche. I, too, have been a marvel of such patience,
528 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                 1«K

Ifor have read fairly through ' The Young Stepmother,' a

novel by Miss (Heartsease) Yonge, in which a lady, who marries
a widower with a family because she likes educating children,

is very naturally rewarded by finding the education a very

Itroublesome business. Still, there is great reality about it, so

that hear the ladies discussing whether she did right in this

or that.

To Mrs. Stair Douglas] Trinity Lodge : March 15, 1862.

I Ihave not seen the ' Lady of la Garaye,' but suppose one
can judge of it from the extracts in reviews and newspapers.

From those it seemed clever and poetical, but rather too much
Iof a hospital poem to be very cheerful reading.
Iintend to get it and read it.                           do, however,

                                suppose Henry Taylor's drama

is nearly ready, for his wife brought the dedication to Park
Street the other day. It is dedicated to the Due d'Aumale,
I Ithe story being, believe, about a prince of Orleans.
                                                         told
Iher thought such a dedication a very humane attention to

ex-royalty.

To James Garth MarshaM]  Trinity Lodge: Oct. 10, 1862.

We were very sorry not to see you here during the meeting,1

and went on hoping to the last that you would come. Our

friends seemed well satisfied with the business and the amuse

ments of the occasion. You would have found in the Lodge

with us Mr. and Mrs. Vernon Harcourt, Sir Walter and Lady

Trevelyan, and Vignolles, the engineer. There was an attempt

to get up a discussion about this unhappy break of bank in the

IFens ; but such a discussion was thought premature, and it was
staved off.  was not much in the Geological Section, and do
not know if they had there any discussion of metamorphic

Idoctrines ; but find that Sorby [?] has a grant of money to
make experiments on that subject, so the matter is not asleep.

O'Callaghan was with us often, though he was lodged at

Peterhouse, and gave us some account of the well-being of you

Iand yours in the neighbourhood of Leeds.

     The Association is going to Newcastle next year, which do

             * Of the British Association at Cambridge.
1803              DEATH OF MRS. STATTER.                                 529

Inot much like, for two reasons.        think it is better to go to
Inew places ; Bath and Dundee urged their claims, and do not

like to have the thoughts of men of science turned mainly to

war, as is done by making Sir W. Armstrong the President.

But the Association wants money, and ought to get
           a                                                             for
                                                                                        it,

                                                                                   it
spends great deal.

   We are now enjoying our rest after our bustle.

     The early days of this year were overcast with
anxiety about Dr. Whewell's sister Martha, Mrs. Statter.
She died at Wormenhall in January.

To Mrs. Sumner Gibson]                       Jan. 14, 1863.

      When your kind New Year's letter came to gladden me

here let my wife answer it, because she wanted to try to
      I

persuade you and Sumner to come to us here.

      You told me you had been reading the Life of Irving,' and
                                        I
did not much like it.        do not wonder. The lady authoress·
                  if
                                                  I
has put in far too much of her own fine writing. SheII                   also
                                                                         is
                                 a                                                is
rather too much of a partisan, but do not quarrel with that

in a biographer, kept within moderate bounds. There

another biography which think interesting, though the subject
                                                            mean Wilson --
of was in some respects rough character.
   it

        '
'  Christopher North.' The story of the early days of Black
                                                                      '

wood       is  not very creditable, but there are interesting pictures

of life and character, well given.

      have been reading, too, story about namesake of yours.a
   I                                    '
                                                 a

                                                        is

                                                   aI

                                                                  is
You know have general love for Kates,' and think you
               I  a
                          '
might be amused with Countess Kate.' It                       child's book,

at least, so intended my wife says that the moral not good,;

as it tends to make rude, impetuous, ungainly girls, satisfied

with themselves and confident that they will be admired in the

end. This seems to me rather hard upon this Kate but at
                                                                      ;

any rate you are in no danger of being spoilt by the moral.
Besides which, you will read the story and disregard the moral,

like a sensible reader.

      have lately been called away into Oxfordshire, to see my
   I
              I

                                          is

                                                     I
sister (Mrs. Statter), who          very ill, but whom        found not

quite so ill as had feared.

                                    MM
530 LIFE OF DR. WHEWEIX.                              K

To his Sister]                    Lowestoft: Jan. 24, 1863.

Your news, though not unexpected, was very afflicting. I

thought our dear sister might have endured a little longer;

but God has taken her, and she has gone to Him in a faith and

hope which will not fail her. It is consolatory to hear that

her departure was so tranquil, still more so to recollect how
I Iprepared and resigned she seemed when saw her.
                                                          am
Ithankful that owing to your thoughtfulness saw her then

rather than at the last.

To Mrs. Frederic Myers]   Trinity Lodge: Feb. 5, 1863.

It was a great comfort to me to receive your kind and

Isisterly letter, prompted by the departure of my dear sister
Martha.      was with her about a fortnight before the end, and

Iadministered the Communion to her. She was then looking

quite steadily and trustfully to the end ; thought it might not

be so near.

She had all her children with her at the end, except James,

who is an architect, and is building railway stations in Den

mark. . . . Have you seen a book which Alfred Elliott has

written and sent over ? It is a history of the legends, migra

tions, connections, and habits of some of the people that he has

to do with : · The Chronicle of Oonao : a District of Oudh.' I
Itam very glad

sort of study
                to see from him a book of this kind.  is the
                that our great Indians --Malcolm, Elphinstone,
and the like --have pursued, and will tend to make and prove

him fit for high office.

To his Sister Ann]        Trinity Lodge : Feb. 27, 1863.

I was very glad to hear from you. It had not occurred to

me that it was so long since we met on that solemn occasion at

Wormenhall. The recollection of that meeting is full of sadness,

yet softened by the thought of the previous meeting which we

had when we were assured that we were, through Christ, heirs

Iof eternal life ; and by the thought, how calmly and firmly she
looked forward to her departure.  was glad that you were

Iable to stay a little while with the dear children.

       think it will be very interesting for all of us, and for a
18C3 MRS. STATTER'S VERSES.                        531

few other friends, to have copies of the verses which our dear

sister now and then solaced herself with writing.
I am invited to Windsor, to be present at the Prince of
IWales's marriage.
                    believe there will be a great crowd. We

are already busy here with preparations for illuminating the

College. We want to show such goodwill as we can.

To Dr. MackretK]    Trinity Lodge: Oct. 8, 1863.

I think you will be glad to hear of us, now that our sum

mer wanderings are over, and we are once more settled in our

regular abode. We had a very pleasant tour of about three

months, reaching as far as Venice and Trieste in one direction,
and Zurich and Lausanne in another. We visited also many

I Iof the old German towns which had visited before when
was following German architecture with great zeal from pro
vince to province. We had very fine weather and were carried

by the railroads with wonderful rapidity over vast spaces.
Indeed, the railroads themselves are among the most noticeable

things when they are carried through mountainous country.
The railway from Vienna to Trieste and Venice is quite one of

the wonders of the world, and very beautiful as well as very

wonderful.

    I am now busy with the election of our Fellows. We have

only three vacancies, a smaller number than usual, and there

fore shall have to reject some meritorious men, much to my

sorrow.

     My sister has been much interested of late in printing a
number of verses which my dear sister Martha wrote at various

periods. They are not remarkable for literary merit, but there

is a constancy and liveliness of religious feeling in them which

Imakes them affecting-- to those who knew her, especially.

        take for granted Ann has given you a copy of this col

lection.

     The last year of sunshine opened with a visit to
Lowestoft, There Dr. Whewell received the news of
the death of his old schoolmaster Joseph Rowley, and a

                                                   MK2
532 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

letter to Dr. Mackreth records again the obligation to
him which he was never weary of acknowledging.

    In the summer they began their holiday, as usual, by
spending a short time at Cliff Cottage. Afterwards

they went together to revisit the ' ancient haunt* '
among the ' dear lakes,' Hallsteads, Patterdale, Monk
Coniston, Derwent Island, returning to Cambridge rather
earlier than usual.

To Dr. Mackreth] Cliff Cottage, Lowestoft: Jan. 13, 1864.

   II think you will be glad to hear from me, though have

nothing to send but good wishes, and only want to send

them before they have lost the fragrance of the New Year. I

wish most heartily all good to you and Mrs. Mackreth and all

belonging to you. You are now among the oldest friends that
I have, and as we grow older every year we more and more
Ivalue these long-established ties of mutual regard.
                                                      have

lately received notification of the death of one very old
Ifriend --my old schoolmaster Joseph Rowley.
                                                   have great
Iobligations to him, for it was mainly through him that wa?
I Isent to Cambridge, and so became what am. see that he was
Ininety years old.
                    suppose his daughter remained with him

to the last ; all his other children had been settled away from

Ihim some time ago. A few years ago discovered in the wife

of a clergyman in Norfolk a granddaughter of his. Are his

children in general pretty well provided for ?

We arrived here the first day of the New Year, and had

ten days of very sharp frost, but that now seems to have passed

away, and we have our usual mild January weather.

     In the Easter Term of this year the Prince of Wales

brought the Princess to Cambridge. The Eoyal visitors
stayed at the Lodge. The great feature of the visit
was a ball in Neville's Court, one of the three quad
rangles of the College, in which a spacious marquee
was erected for the occasion.
18G4          ROYAL VISIT.  533

To Mrs. Sumner Gibson]

                                   Burlington Hotel: June 20, 1864.

    It is long Isince have heard from you or written to you.

We have of late been so busy, first with the preparations for
our royal visit, and then with the visit itself, that it seemed

Iimpossible, for the time, to employ ourselves about anything
else. You would laugh if Icould tell you how have been

kept sleepless by unwonted cares about how carriages were to
set down and take up at our ball ! And yet the difficulties
were really not small ; for the ball-room was Neville's Court --
cloisters and all -- and the entrance was at the cloister in King's

Court. You may recollect that the only access to this is by
Trinity Lane, which is too narrow for two carriages to pass.

 So they had to set down, and then go forward into the wide,
wide world by the lime-tree avenue and the iron gate, and to

 return by the Antipodes after circumnavigating Cambridge.

 However, in the end all went off excellently well, without con

 fusion or manifest difficulty. Our royal guests seemed well
 entertained and enjoyed themselves. And what was an

 especial delight to me, our young men behaved extremely well,
 with great orderliness and self-restraint.

To the same]

              Grange, near Cartmell : Aug. 26, 1864.

     We have been revisiting the ancient haunts about the dear

lakes, Hallsteads, Patterdale, Coniston, and Derwent Island.
As you will easily understand, our travels were full of enjoyment.
Lady Affleck went over Grisedale Pass on a pony which your

Uncle William lent her--a great achievement for her --greater

than the Righi, I should think. It was most pleasant to see

the faces of the ancient lakes and hills as well as of old friends.

We are now at my sister's, which closes our northern travels,

for I go south to marry, on the 31st, Hilda Airy, my god

daughter. Of course she is going to marry a senior wrangler,
Mr. Routh of Peterhouse.

     I am glad to hear that you are making progress with our
church improvements. You may if you please alter my cheque
 by doubling it !
534 LIFE OF DR. WHEAVELL.

     The winter of 1864-65 was severe ; the spring
which followed was chill and tardy. ' We are in
great trouble with the consequences of neglected colds,'

was one of many phrases from which two of Dr.

Whewell's nieces gathered that he was entertaining
considerable and increasing anxiety on the score of

Lady Affleck's health. Both offered to go to him and
share with him this anxiety, and help in the work of

nursing. At first he could not bear to realise the

gravity of the case, and wished to postpone receiving
any visitors until she should be well again, and such
meetings could be enjoyed in comfort. The illness,
however, increased in despite of all that skill and care
could do. Still he asked for no help yet. Until the
blow should actually fall which was to lay waste his
home, he wished to be alone with his wife, but in his

letters he was already claiming the sympathy, and

eagerly entreating the assistance of those, whether

sisters, nieces, or friends, on whom he most relied to

help him in the evil day rapidly drawing near. Lady
Monteagle went to the Lodge as soon as the inevitable
end was imminent, Mrs. Sumner Gibson directly after
wards, and she remained with him till the funeral. He

then came to me.

To Mrs. Sumner Gibson] Trinity Lodge: March 5, 1865.

It was a great delight to me to hear from you, as it always

is, and very good of you to tell me about our people, of whom
I Ihad not heard much of late.
                                am sorry that you have had
Ia cold, and hope you have now quite thrown it off.
                                                     grieve to

say we are in great trouble with the consequences of neglected

colds. They have left upon my dear wife very serious traces,

Iwith which Dr. Paget is struggling -- successfully hope, though

the progress is slow. We were at Cliff Cottage during the
month of January, but she was scarcely out of the house there,

and since our return she is entirely confined to our two rooms.
1865              LADY AFFLECK'S ILLNESS.     535

She does not venture to cross the hall. This, as you will
easily understand, is very sad for her and me.

To Mrs. Stair Douglas] Trinity Lodge : March 14, 1865.

   I was very glad to hear from you, and more especially glad

... Ito hear of any plan of your coming to us, which we have
so long been wishing for.             wish we had a prospect

of receiving you in comfort, untroubled by the state of my

Idear wife's health, and our apprehensions about it, and shall

hope that before the time comes which you mention as most

likely for your moving, we shall be all well again ; but under
Iany circumstances shall be glad to see you.
   I was very glad to see so many members of the family the
I Iother day, when was in Park Street. It is the only visit
Ihave made to London since last summer.
                                              am growing quite

strange to the place.

      We are going on very much as usual, except that all our

Iemployments and enjoyments are sadly disturbed by my dear
wife's illness.   hope that she improves, but it is very slowly.

To Mrs. Sumner Gibson] Trinity Lodge: March 27, 1865.

      I have nothing to tell you, but all to fear as to the blow
Iabout to fall upon me immediately. My beloved wife is,
Ifear, in the last stage of illness.
                                      am very desolate and shall
Ibe more so, and only wish to say a word to exhort and beg of

you to keep alive your love for me who need it so much, and

shall soon need it more.

To the same]              Trinity Lodge: March 30, 1865.
      IMy beloved Kate, --The end is not yet ; and till it comes,
think I would rather you did not come to me, though it is

Ia soothing thought, even at this moment, to know that you
are willing to come.      am very grateful to Sumner for letting

I Iyou do so. You do not lose any intercourse with her by not

coming, for even can scarcely hear her speak. speak to her,

Iand she answers with looks ; and has even still her own bright
and loving face.       trust she is in no pain, and she is quite

sensible.
536 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                                    l«6o

When she is taken away to the bosom of her God and

I ISaviour, it would be a great comfort if you could come to me.
have asked your aunt Marianne to do so then.                do not
Iknow if she will.
                       already feel my desolation. Life has no

longer any value or meaning, but you will help me to bear it.

To Professor Sedgwick] Trinity Lodge: March 31, 1865.
I am much touched by your words of sympathy, and so is she;

but she is too feeble and exhausted to speak except in faint
                   She is, I hope, free from pain, calm, resigned,
monosyllables.

and in her waking intervals responding with looks and pressure

of the hand to my words. She has not forgotten you, nor the

Itrust in God and Christ of which you speak. A few days ago

she said that she would have liked that she and should have

received the Sacrament at your hands ; but it is now too late.
I IGive me your prayers, for am in great affliction.
                                                            hope

Almighty God will guard your health. You may have many

years before you.

To Professor    J. D.  Forbes]                   March 30,

                                 Trinity Lodge:             1865.

   IYou are so old and valued a friend, that cannot help

turning to you for sympathy--though, alas ! what can

Isympathy do, when see inevitably about to fall upon me the

heaviest domestic calamity which can happen to a man ? My

beloved wife has been for three months, probably longer, pur

sued by a malady which has now reached its last stage. She

lies in the extremest stage of human weakness, not able to

articulate, but still collected, calm, and patient, and I trust

without pain. She answers with kind looks to my kind words,

and is, I trust and believe, prepared for the change. It is very
Ihard to part, and look forward with terror to the desola

tion which seems to await me when she is gone. We have

I I Ilived so entirely in one another, that life will not be life without
her, nor can understand how am to live.          come to you and

your kind wife for sympathy, because my most soothing thoughts

must come from the affection which those who loved her and

Iwhom she loved may bear to me, though indeed know well

how little even that can soothe under such an affliction.
1805          DEATH OF LADY AFFLECK.                     537

      Do not trouble yourself to reply to this, at least at present.

It is mere inarticulate wailing. May you never experience the

like affliction.

To the same]  Trinity Lodge: April 3, 1865.

      The blow has fallen. She expired on Saturday evening, a
little before midnight. She was calm to the last, but for some

days too feeble to speak.

    I am sure you and Mrs. Forbes will give me your sympathy.

God bless you and your children !

To Mrs, Frederic Myers] Trinity Lodge : April 7, 1 865.

    ITo-day has been a very painful day. They have taken my

beloved away, and shall no more see that sweet serious face,
Iwhich
          have been gazing upon at intervals for the last few
I Idays, till see it when shall have full sight of her in heaven
without restraint, if that be ever my lot through Him who

came that He might make us children of God and heirs of

eternal life. But the mode in which the occasion was observed

showed how she was beloved, as indeed she was by everybody,

and in the college especially. All the shop windows were closed,

from the college to the cemetery. Every post draws tears from

my eyes, by the warm praises that her friends bestow upoD her,
Iand all deserved ; but alas ! what does it all avail ?
                                                         am

almost disposed to ask rebelliously, why was she taken from

Ime ? We were so happy, and she was, think, doing so much

I Igood.

        might say as in irony that am as unhappy as a Queen.
IBut these are only the tumults of sorrow.
                                            shall be calmer
Iwhen am with you, dear Susan, who have had the same bitter
ness to bear and have borne it so well.

  I IMy beloved one had a strong love for and admiration of you,

as hope you know ; and in that we agreed. shall feel calm in
your society, and should like to come to you on Saturday. In

the meantime I go to Janet. Kate has been with me through

this dark time, and has soothed and solaced me as much as
Ianything could. Dear child ! how have always clung to her,
Iand she, think, to me. When I see you I will try to get you
Ito help me to shape the future months.
                                            dare not look

further.
538 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.                           1865

     Dr. Whewell spent ten days with me at Putney, andit,
thence he went on to Mrs. Myers at Cheltenham. Hisit
grief was of the most poignant description, and though

he was touchingly gentle in receiving and welcoming
the consolations suggested to him by those who loved
him, and though he clung to their companionship in
the most affecting manner, he was fevered with suffering
and restless exceedingly. He could think and talk with
spontaneous pleasure and interest of nothing but his
past happiness. He dwelt perpetually upon the love
with which he had been encompassed, but he could find

no calm in dwelling on the past, and the future which

intervened between him and the grave dismayed him
by its dark desolation.

     On May 1 he went to his sister at Grange, and
there Miss Statter joined him. She describes him as
looking ' like some one crushed down under an unbear

able weight, all his elasticity gone,' 1 feeling about as for
something to lay hold of that could comfort him.' But
his pleasure in the beauties of scenery had happily not
wholly deserted him, and he ' loved to stand near the

shore and watch the train skirting along the edge of the
bay and sweeping along the curves,' ' drawing attention
to the whiteness of the steam as it curled up into the

blue sky. One day, after watching he began to repeat
"Jerusalem the Golden," saying that was the most

spirited translation he knew.'

To Mrs. Sumner Gibson]        Orange May 1865.
                              :

                                     I 2,
IIwas to write to you when felt very solitary.     am not
    I

                          .

               I.

                    II
alone now, for have my sister and my niece Lizzy with me,

but am very, very heartsore.  have been reading my darling's
letters to my sister. .

      Do not wonder that dwell upon such records for such;
grief sweeter than any ease which forgetfulness could bring.
is
1805    VISIT TO GRANGE.                           539

And if my clinging to these memorials makes me slow to realise
the truth that she has gone away from me, that is a truth which

day by day will realise itself only too sadly.

    I am still looking forward to seeing you at Cambridge as
Imy great comfort. have been among very kind friends lately.

Mrs. Harcourt was, indeed everybody is, very kind to me. They

are very sorry for me, and well they may be. Darling Kate, love

me a great deal, for a great and tender love is taken from me,

at least so far as earthly knowledge can see. We cannot tell
... Iwhat they feel and think up there.
                                            think she will not
Iforget me. But in what remains of my earthly pilgrimage

need love and sympathy, especially yours, my child of many

years.

To Mrs. Frederic Myers]  Orange: May 4, 1865.

   IIt was soothing to receive your kind and good letter, and to

know that you care for me still, though indeed do not doubt

Iit : but feel so deserted and alone. My sister and my niece

are very kind, and indeed Lizzie is a very good and intelligent

Igirl, but the memory and the craving follows me without a

moment's cessation. And have found here fresh material for

thinking, very bitter though very sweet. There is a collection

of letters from her to Ann (his sister), more full of goodness

Iand lovingness than anything had seen before. She was more
Iingenious and vigilant in giving pleasure than any one have

ever known. . . . And she had given my sister so much love

and so much care, that the effect is quite angelic. And then so

much love for me runs through all, that my loss seems heavier
Iand heavier. How is life to go on without that ?
                                                   seem to

have lost everything. My guide and adviser, always wise and
conscientious, as well as my sweet companion, in whose com

pany walking, talking, travelling, resting was always sweet ;

Iand gave her so much pleasure, as now find more than ever.

I seem even to have lost all my friendships, for they were

nourished by sharing them with her ; and it seems as if my

friends would now hardly know me, and at any rate not care
Ifor me -- nor indeed, hardly, I for them.
                                            go to Cambridge on
I IMonday, as proposed, and do not know how I shall bear the

Lodge when her presence is no longer there to shed sunshine
540 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

through it. It is true I shall have Kate's sweet dear face

there, and that will be something, but even Kate is not her.

   I am well disposed, dearest, to believe that there is a purpose

of love in my misery. Out of my former bereavement God
Iagain raised me up to happiness. But it seems as if even His
goodness must be exhausted by my present destitution.  do
try to believe it is all for the best, but I cannot yet feel any ray
Iof comfort. But am soothed, as I have said, by the tokens of
Iyour love and sympathy, and hope you will not be weary of

repeating them, though my wailing may seem but a poor

response to them.

   I want to go among persons who knew her, though, indeed,

every one who knew her but a little was drawn to love her.

The charm of her loving nature opened all hearts to her. She

loved you very much. I wish I were with you, that you might

Irepeat to me some of those snatches of sweet and pious thoughts
in verse, of which you seem always to be full.  am much
obliged to you for making a copy of the journal which I left
Iwith you.
            too have been copying some of the other years.
IThe last days which have copied are those which brought us

to you in September 1859, after our Western tour. A season

so full of enjoyment for us, as indeed all seasons were

    Dearest Susan, I am full of gratitude and affection to you,

but full of sorrow.

     On May 10 he returned to Cambridge and Mrs.

Sumner Gibson met him there, and stayed so long
as he was obliged to remain at the Lodge. Leaving
Cambridge towards the end of the month, he moved

about from place to place in the south of England,

sometimes visiting friends of Lady Affleck's as if by so

doing he recovered some influence from the recent past,
sometimes seeking out friends like Lady Malcolm and

Mrs. Alexander of the distant, long ago, Hyde Hall days,
' looking at them,' as he told me, ' that we may know
each other when we meet in Heaven.' At the end of

June he went northwards again, taking Miss Statterwith

him, visiting my sister at Corley in Warwickshire, the
1805              EETUKX TO CAMBRIDGE.                 541

Bishop of Worcester and Mrs. Philpott at Hartlebury,

Carlisle and its Cathedral, and Edinburgh, on his way
to stay with Professor Forbes at Pitlochry.

To Miss Statter]          Trinity Lodge: May 10, 1865.
   I arrived at Cambridge about naif-past four, and Kate about
Ithe same time, so that had only to face the solitude of my
home for a few minutes, but still the solitude pursues me in

Ispite of dear Kate's presence ; but she is a great comfort to me,

as you, my love, have been, and hope will be.

    I spent two soothing days with my dear friends, the Mack-
reths -- I think really the oldest friends I have, except Ann and

poor Betty.

   I Ishall be glad to have you with me from the 25th. have
Ias yet no plans formed for the summer, but hope they will
form themselves. Is there any part of England that you will

Iparticularly like to see ? if so, have no doubt we could easily
Imanage so as to see it.  can hardly think of going anywhere
I Iwith pleasure, but still less can stay here.
Idear love,                                      thank you, my

willing to
      for your prayers ; need them much, and am         very
                                                       small
      believe that they are heard. I find a number of
Imatters to do here, which make me glad that came, but
Inothing that I do has any savour in it.
over with her to give it meaning.         still want to talk it

To Mrs. Stair Douglas]    Trinity Lodge: May 19, 1865.

      Kate has been a great blessing to me --has made me feel

not quite alone, and done all that sympathy and love can do.

ISo did you when was with you, God bless you for it. But
Ito-morrow, when we separate, it seems to me that should again
Ibe quite alone and desolate. cannot yet see how life is livable.
IBut will not weary you with my repetitions ; you know all

that is felt in such a position.

   I shall be very glad if you can learn for me whether my

Iold friend Mrs. Alexander is at Clifton; if so, what is her

address, and whether she would see me if were to go thither.

I should like to see my oldest friends now ; it seems to me like

looking at them that we may recognise each other when we
542 LTFE OF DR. WIIEWELL.         18K

meet in heaven. I hope this is not too presumptuous a
thought. You, I trust, will not think it so.

    ISince I was with you have been with several friends, all

very kind to me, but the craving for the companionship of my

darling never abates or intermits.

To the same]                      Brighton: June 2, 1865.
IThank you very much for taking so much pains that may
... Isee my dear old friend in the most satisfactory way.
find that immediately before the 12th I can be of use at Cam
Ibridge, and as have so little reason to determine my motions
Iat present, intend to go there.

Your letters, my dear love, are very soothing to me. You

I Ispeak from the fulness of a bitter experience and with the
wisdom of a sure hope.  trust shall in time learn from you,
Ibut at present feel nothing but my desolation, and visits to

friends, even very dear ones, do not much relieve that desola

tion, but present it to me under various forms. For instance,

I now come from seeing dear friends of my own standing, or

thereabouts : William Harcourt, Monteagle, and HerscheL

They are all the object of the constant and anxious care of

their wives from moment to moment. Mine, who had intended

Ito care for me to the last (she told me so) is taken away from

me, and it seems to me as if must live alone and die alone.

Indeed, that we all must do, but the passage to that dark gate
Imay be smoothed by kind hands.
                                  am not ungrateful to you

and to other kind friends who have promised to be much with

me ; but dear as you are, it is different (you know this well),

Ifrom having a companion who is always with you. But

I Ilong very much for the time when you will be daily and
hourly with me.  know that then shall feel much less
desolate. It will be a great comfort to me to have Caroline

Stephen with me when you are, and also one or two of the

Herschels. Lady Herschel encouraged me to hope that I

might.

   I go to the Airys at Greenwich to-morrow for a few days,
I hardly know how many.
1805  VISIT TO PITLOCHRY.                           543

To Professor Forbes]  Trinity Lodge: June 9, 1865.

      I am much touched by the friendship shown in your letter of

the 4th. All the interests and enjoyments of life seem now to

I Ibe closed for me, and try in vain to understand how am to

spend the rest of my days. But there may be found some

alleviation of this weary life in the company of old and valued

Ifriends ; and have few older and none more valued than your

self. And you and Mrs. Forbes and your children are further

endeared to me by our visit to you in 1858, when we were

reviving old friendships, because we were thenceforth to have

them in common -- a course which filled our days and years

with happiness till the cruel end came upon us.
      I should like much to see you and Mrs. Forbes, and had
I Ialready thought of it. But cannot travel alone.
                                                    have

tried it within the last few weeks, and find it too desolate a

Ilife to bear. In a short time hope to have a niece with me
as a companion, and I should be glad to go to you and take

her with me if it suits you.

      My niece is Lizzie Statter, the daughter of a clergyman

near Oxford, and of my dear departed sister Martha.

   I hear with pleasure of the prosperity of your household,

and am heartily glad of your boy's success.

To Mrs. Stair Douglas]

  ... Nuneham, Abingdon: June 15, 1865.

         I am with very kind and very old friends here, Mr.

and Mrs. Harcourt ; and this place is as beautiful in its sum
mer splendour as any place can be; but still the thought

Iarises that cannot speak of its beauties to her. You will
forgive me these spasms of sorrowful recollection. It is a

part of the pleasure of being with you and writing to you,
that you know they are inevitable, and will not think them

unreasonable.

     From Pitlochry Dr. Whewell and Miss Statter
returned direct to Cambridge for a couple of weeks.
After that interval they came north again, and joined a

small family party at Hallsteads.
 544 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

     We hoped much from the peaceful influences of the
exquisite mountain scenery, steeped as it was then in

glorious summer sunshine ; from the calm and tender
memories of the past, associated with every nook and

corner of the place ; and from the presence of some of
those to whose words of comfort he always hearkened
with most pleasure. And something no doubt he gained
from all these, but his suffering was very severe still.
The elasticity of youth was gone, and age had brought
no kindly torpor with it. He fell in readily with every
scheme for turning the fine weather to account, and for
showing Miss Statter a part of the Lake District which

was new to her ; but after every such plan was executed
the sense of loss seemed to return with overwhelming
force, and there was nothing for it but to give it way,
and in company with some one of those who were at
hand to sympathise with him, to let the storm pass.

      After a week or two at Hallsteads they went on to
Derwent Water and thence again to Grange, on their
way to Yorkshire, returning by York, Beverley, Hull,
and Lincoln to Cambridge, about the middle of August.
The end of the month they went to Switzerland.

To Mrs. Sumner Qibson] Trinity Lodge: Aug. 13, 1865.

    I was very sorry to miss seeing you at the Island. Since

then we have been to Headingley, and then to see some cathe

Idrals and churches, which my niece very much enjoys. She is

a very pleasant companion. She is with me still, and think

Iof taking her for a fortnight to Switzerland, by way of retouch

ing old memories, though hardly know whether there is more
pain or pleasure in doing so. My darling never thought one
summer complete without a look at Switzerland.

   IWhen the Vacation is over, dear Janet is coming, as you

know ; and you, my love, will, hope, come and see me while

she is with me. It will be the best sunshine the Iiodge can

know.
1805  LAST VISIT TO SWITZERLAND.  545

     After a hasty tour in Switzerland he writes to his

sister :--

                     The Chase, Ashburton, Devon : Sept. 15, 1865.

    You will recollect Lady Malcolm, I think, as an old friend
Iof mine. She and her children are living here on the edge of

Dartmoor, and as have a desire now to see the faces of old

Ifriends, have come here for a few days. The country is very

beautiful. The Dart follows its course though the grounds of
the Chase, making a beautiful winding glen for several miles.

    I hope Lizzie gave you a full account of our travels, for I

left that task to her hands. We were in Switzerland only a

Ishort time. The hotels in that country were all so full, that we

could not be where I wished to be, so that was not disposed
to stay at Lausanne as I intended.

     Miss Statter's journal of this Swiss tour tells of
intense heat, and of a constant haze veiling the Alps on
which he desired to look again, as well as of crowded
hotels and a difficulty in finding rooms. The Cathedral

at Amiens was visited both going and returning, and
afforded to him the intense enjoyment with which he
always visited and revisited his ' beloved French Cathe
drals.' The brightest features of this expedition, taken
apparently with a wish to look his last at some of the
objects which all his life had impressed him most, seem
to have been this Cathedral and the Khine at Schaff-

hausen and at Basle.

      Previous to the visit to The Chase referred to above

he had written the following letter to Lady Malcolm :--

     Do you recollect my writing to you some time ago, and

Iasking you if might come and see you some time this summer ;
and your giving me permission ? I have been roaming about

all the summer among the scenes of lost and irreparable

Ipleasures, and have found little comfort there ; as was indeed
to be expected.  now feel that it would be a pleasure to me to

see you once again, my dear friend of old days; whose friendship
546 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

goes back beyond the days of my sorrows and of the days which
preceded them. Shall I find you at ' the Chase ' next week ?

I think I could come into your region about Thursday or Friday,
Ithe 14th or 15th.
                    suppose my best way would be to go to

Torquay or Totnes, and to take a carriage from thence to you.

Are Amelia and Kate now with you ? It would be a pleasure

to me to see them if only for half an hour. Perhaps you will

kindly let me have a line to say when I shall come to you, and
how. I have just been for a week or two in Switzerland with a
niece of mine. I am to live upon nieces in future, as solitary

men do.

    Dear friend, whether I see you or not, believe that I always

think of you and of yours with deep affection.

To Mrs. Stair Douglas]  Trinity Lodge: Sept. 23, I860.

   IIt is a great comfort to think that shall see you soon, and
Istill more to think that shall have you here and for a long

time. . . .                                     I had to receive
     You should have been with me yesterday.

Queen Emma of the Sandwich Isles. She is very pleasing ; with
a very dark olive complexion. Her Lady in Waiting, Mrs.

Hopili, is a very fine woman, with wonderful eyes, but much

darker. The Queen is very religious, and an excellent Church
of England woman. What do you think interested her most of

the things she saw in Cambridge ? An original MS. copy of the

thirty-nine articles in Archbishop Parker's Library. She wants

to stay in England over the winter, though the physicians are

against it. But she wants to see snow and frost, thaw and fog.

You see everything English has charms for her.

To Mrs. Sumner Gibson]  Trinity Lodge : Oct. 31, 1865.

   IIt seems to me a very long time since heard from you or
Iwrote to you, though hear about you now and then from Janet.
I cannot describe to you, but you can conceive what a delight
I I Ito me it is to have her with me. She is so great a comfort

to me that feel almost happy, or at least should feel so if

Icould forget how happier have been in a different way, and

worst of all how insecure is my hold upon her, and that some
1805            OCTOBER TERM.  547

Iday or other she will leave me, and then shall be desolate and
I Ilonely as was till she came. And am as little fitted to live
Ialone now as ever was.

     In these kind words, and others like them, he

perpetually expressed the comfort and the gratitude
with which he recognised that all love was not taken
from him though that of his wife was removed out of
sight. The softening influences of suffering were visible
in nothing more than in the singular gentleness and
alacrity with which he accepted and appreciated every

effort to give him pleasure, especially welcoming every

opportunity of doing a kindness, or expressing sympathy
with those who were in sickness, sorrow, or anxiety.
His interest in external things was returning. Plans
connected with the College were dwelt upon and
matured. His mind began to flow again in the long
accustomed channels, with much of its old vigour and

activity, but in all these things a difference was discern
ible. His affections and sympathies were quickened

and enlarged. He had been very much touched and
affected by the sympathy with him in his sorrow which
had been felt and universally expressed, and it almost

seemed as if this had produced a sort of revolution in

his relations with his friends in general, and left him

united to them all by warmer, kindlier ties than before.

These he seemed to desire to draw closer and closer,

almost as if he knew how short was the time that

Iremained to him in which to show them his good will.
   think that this was apparent to all who saw him in
those last months, though most Obvious of course to
those who had the happiness of living with him.

To his Sister]       Trinity Lodge: Nov. 10.

I have been getting through this term by the aid of Mrs.

Douglas, who is a great comfort to me. We have had several

                nw3
548 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

visitors. Mrs. Myers was with us for a week, and a daughter
of Sir John Herschel, who is just married and become Mrs.
Henry Hardcastle, and General and Mrs. Malcolm, two of my
oldest friends, and Miss Stephen, the daughter of Sir James
Stephen, who is still with us, and Mr. Cams. To-morrow the
Dean of Ely and Mrs. Goodwin come to us. He comes to preach
at St. Mary's. We get through our company keeping pretty

Iwell, but the feeling of what have lost, and of the solitariness

which hangs over me, is not at all removed.

     To Mrs. F. Myers Dr. Whewell wrote about this

time :--

I think with great pleasure that we have Fred for a fellow-
I Iworker with us in College.
                               hope he will like his work, and

have no doubt that he will do it well.

We have had Carus with us, loving and sunshiny as alwavs :

Iand at present we have the Dean of Ely and Mrs. Goodwin
staying with us.  like much the youthful fervour and clear

sense of the Dean's character and his sermons. We have just

heard one of them.

   I IAs have told you, my great grief at present is what am
Ito do when dear Janet leaves me. But think she will stay

and keep Christmas with me, and that is a great point ; alone

the season would be dreadful.

     As Christmas approached Dr. Whewell wished to

make his habitual visit to Lowestoft. He had a yearn
ing to revisit the accustomed places, as keen as was
the pain with which when once there he realised afresh
the sense of loss and change. But he was growing better

able to face such pangs now, and the short dark days
were passed very cheerfully and pleasantly by the help
of friends who gladly consented to spend them with us.

To Mrs. Sumner Gibson] Trinity Lodge : Dec. 13, I860.

   I IWe are going to Lowestoft to-morrow, and though very sad

memories often rise up, am nearer to being happy than ever
1805        CHRISTMAS AT LOWESTOFT.         549

Ihoped to be, and shall be nearer still when see you. Janet

has promised to be with me all next term, so I have comfort in

store for some time.

To Miss Kate Malcolm]   Trinity Lodge: Dec. 10.
I Ido not wish to lose my privilege of writing to you and
Ihope occasionally of hearing from you, and so am going to
Isend you a few lines.
                        go on thinking of you and admiring
Iyou as have done any time these twenty years and more, and
it is a great pleasure to me to know something from time to
time of your dear mother. It was a happiness to have your
Ibrother and Georgiana 1 here a little while ago, and am very
Isorry that cannot go to Nuneham to meet them at Christmas,
Ias Airs. Harcourt has kindly invited me to do. But am going

to my own house at Lowestoft, finding my niece, Mrs. Stair

Douglas, is willing to go with me there. I think you care enough

about me to be glad to hear that my dear niece has been with

me all this term, and that her companionship has been an in
estimable blessing to me, soothing and tranquillising me into

a semblance of happiness. She and her sister, my other

IKate, have always been to me dear as daughters, and are now

a vast comfort to me, only seem to be living on charity,

and have no security for the future. There is only one tie

Iwhich can give that. Also have had other pleasant com

panions. Three girls in succession of my dear friend Herschel
have been with me, and a daughter of Sir J. Stephen ; so that
I have not been quite solitary ; but still
But I am writing to you mainly that I may have some news
If Iof you and of your dear mother.
                                            should be able to come
Iwhere might have the pleasure of seeing you, should you be

I Iwilling to see me and let me have a little of your society ?

      do not know whether I shall move far, for cling very
much to my dear nieces, who are very good to me. But the

sunshine of the dear old Hyde Hall times still gilds my thoughts

Ifrom time to time, and like to look at its radiance in your

dear face.

     After spending some weeks at Lowestoft we returned
to Cambridge for a few days, and then parted to pay

                                      1 General and Mrs. Malcolm.
550 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

Iseparate visits, and to set ray house in order and make

such arrangements as would enable me to spend the
following term at Trinity Lodge. Dr. Whewell visited
Lady Malcolm and other old friends. His letters to me
showed how much he enjoyed doing so, and also how
much he liked to talk about such pleasures. He was
full of plans for the future and of interest in the present,
again writing articles on his favourite philosophical
subjects, and once more reading fiction with pleasure
and ' deliberately,' because it was ' like being in good

and interesting society.'
     We returned to Cambridge the end of January.

To Mrs. Stair Douglas]
                            York House, Bath: January 22, 1866.

It is not for want of thinking of you that I have not written
Ito you all these days, for have thought every day and often a
I IIday of your sweet love and your pleasant ways.
                                              have often

wished for you, but have not been very much alone, for

Ifound my dear Malcolms (Lady Malcolm, Amelia, and Kate)
almost as charming as our Kate. And besides,  have been

writing, and have found ' great fun ' in the ' Positive Philosophy,'

which I hope you will see in Macmillan in March.
   IMoreover you have been with me, for had your copy of
Miss Youge's ' Clever Woman,' and cannot rejoice sufficiently

that you gave it me to read. The being engaged upon such a

book gives one the feeling of being in good and interesting

Isociety day by day; so do not gobble up the story, but protract

the pleasure, and even yet have not finished. The story is
charmingly told, and the characters revealed in the most

natural and lively manner. The only fault, or rather un

pleasantness, is that there is too much about disease and death.

Surely she must be a doctor by family, is she not ?

    ITo-day go to Clifton. It appears that Sedgwick is there

at present, and comes here to-day to see the Malcolms -- old loves

of his as well as mine. See how we old fellows go back to our
early loves !
1806            VISIT TO FINEDON.                        551

    IDear Janet, travelling alone is not unpleasant as it was,

because can look forward to coming home to you.

To the same]                 Finedon Hall: Jan, 26, 1866.

IJust one little word with you, that I may feel that am not
Ifar separated from you.
                             was tolerably cheery at Clifton
Iamong your friends and my friends.
                                     am glad they were

amused.

   I IWhen had to travel alone to people whom do not so well
I Iknow wanted you. wanted you too to look with me at the

sunset, and to see a curious sight, which is to be seen only
when you are travelling rapidly northwards at sunset in a
Ilevel country. All these conditions are requisite, but will
Itell you of it when see you. . . .
                                                         passed
   I Ileft my ' Positive Philosophy ' with Macmillan as  do not
I Ithrough London, so hope we shall see it in time.

If I Iknow what we are going to do to-day ; perhaps to see churches.
    so shall acquiesce, though could be well content to make

I Imy examination-papers.          met Mrs. Harcourt in the
         shall not go to Nuneham.

I Itrain, and had a long talk with her. Being thus free, what can
   do better than go and see Kate ? To-morrow shall spend at

IRugby, and in looking at Monk's Kirby,1 of which you have
heard so much.  hope you will persuade the Sabines and the

Archibald Smiths to come to us.

To the same]                       Rugby : Jan. 29, 1 866.

IMy visit at Finedon was pleasant.   am sorry you cannot

have the Archibald Smiths at present, but the day of lectures

will pass, and then we may hope. We are to receive Mrs.

IGuthrie on the 10th, to stay till the 15th ; and then Sedgwick
is to have her for one day.  have had two pleasant rides with

her. She put me upon Lord Lansdowne's horse, which she had

Ibought after his death.
         hope you contrive to enjoy yourself, and that you are

nevertheless glad to come home again to me.

                1 The church was being restored.
552 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.

     The month of February passed rapidly away. The
last letter he ever wrote to his sister, Mrs. Newton, gives
an account of his proceedings during the Christmas

vacation and immediately after his return to Cambridge.

To his Sister, Mrs. Newton]
                                       Trinity Lodge: Feb. 20, 1866.

I do not know whether it is longer than usual since I wrote,
and you have now no correspondent in the house but me. If
Iyou were to write to Mrs. Douglas am sure she would gladly
Iwrite to you, and you might hear something more than tell you
Iof our goings on. I do not know what I have told you.
                                                                            was

at Bath in January to see my dear friends the Malcolms, and at

Clifton afterwards to see some other friends, and especially the

Douglases, my Janet's sisters-in-law. Then I went into North

amptonshire to some relations of the Afflecks, and to Kate

Gibson for one night. Since we have been here we have had

several visitors ; Mrs. Guthrie, a very old friend of mine, and

now we have Dr. and Mrs. Wordsworth and two of their girls ;

and we have some other friends coming when they go.

Janet makes the house very agreeable to them, and to me,

I
         I

                                a
                                      is,
and to everybody, and                      indeed, very precious and dear. She
will stay with me till the end of the term --the end of March
--and then do not yet know what shall do but hope she
                                           I
will not desert me for any long time.
                                              I
                                                                         ;
                                                            I
do indeed grieve for my dear old friend, Lord Monteagle.

He was more nearly brother to me in heart than any one that

remains. Lady M. has indeed had much to suffer. She                         is

soon to be with her sister Susan at Cheltenham, where she will

be as much consoled as                     possible.  am very sorry your
       a

               I

                             is
husband has cold.      am well, thank God.

     This letter was written on Tuesday. The followingif
Saturday was warm and spring-like, and he readily fell
in with plan for driving to Gog Magog and looking ata
the view from the rising ground over the Babraham
woods. He was to meet the carriage there on horse
back he could, but some engagement in Cambridge
1SG6  ACCIDENT.  553

interfered and we did not meet him until we had made
a circuit and were about three miles from Cambridge
on our way home. We paused and talked, but his horse
was fidgety. Notwithstanding this, and a weakness in
his left arm, the result of old injuries from falls with
his horse in slippery weather, which made the controlling

of a pulling horse particularly irksome to him, he turned

to follow us. His horse was eager, and in a few minutes
his hat was knocked off in the struggle ; he was thrown
forward and out of the saddle, and we heard the gallop

ing feet of the horse pursuing us. A swerve from the

road as he passed us and he was thrown heavily upon
 the soft ground by the road-side. ' Not much harm

 done, my darling,' were the first words he uttered, and

Iwere spoken the moment knelt beside him on the

 grass. He was soon lifted into the carriage ; on our
 way home we stopped at the house of Dr. Paget, who

 accompanied us to the Lodge, and Professor Humphry,

Iwarned by a message despatched at the moment of the

 accident, was there to meet us. The kindness of both

 was very great throughout the whole illness, and they

 afforded the greatest possible help and comfort. There
 were indications of severe shock to the brain and body,

 but we were told that there was also much that was

 encouraging, and if paralysis did not ensue we might

 hope the best. He never entirely lost consciousness,
 was able to explain the loss of his hat in the struggle

 with his eager horse, and to ascribe to previous accidents
 the weakness of his bridle hand. This weakness, how

 ever, increased in degree and altered in character, and

 was, as time went on, accompanied by other symptoms

 which showed that partial paralysis had been produced
 by the injuries to the head. He gradually revived from
 the partial stupor of the first four-and-twenty hours.
554 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.             1SGC

His interest in the persons and things with which his

attention had been engaged before his accident, returned,
and it was very difficult to keep him as quiet as was

thought necessary. He liked to listen to reading aloud.
His old favourites, Miss Austen's novels, answered

particularly well for the purpose, and sometimes, when

he had seemed to be sleeping, a sudden remark upon
some omission or blunder of the reader would show

that his attention had not wandered. An article for

Macmillan's Magazine on Grote's Plato which he had
been writing, and to which the last touches were still

wanting, kept recurring to his mind ; he was restless at
the recollection of that and of various other matters

left incomplete. As days passed, and he became

both weaker and more restless, the faces about him

could not but indicate extreme anxiety, gradually

changing into a more mournful certainty ; he drew his

own conclusions and faced the end with simple, reverent

faith and courage. My sister had come at once, and

was immediately and joyfully recognised. He never,

throughout the ten days between the accident and his
death, expressed impatience ; but to have both of us
with him, especially my sister, 'dearer than daughter,'

as he had described her years before, smoothing the

passage to the dark gate with dutiful and kindly hands,
afforded him comfort and satisfaction, of which he

showed his sense by the most grateful, affectionate, and

tender words. His utterance, somewhat affected from

the first, became more and more imperfect, but we

could almost always understand  it,  and the passages of

Holy Scripture he asked for, the hymns he endeavoured

to repeat, were read to him as the wish for them

occurred. He received the Holy Communion from the

hands of Dr. Lightfoot on Monday, the 5th March, and
180(5  DEATH.  555

on the 6th he died. Whilst life was ebbing fast away
on that last morning, blinds and curtains were drawn
wide apart in compliance with his wish, that he might
see the sun shine on the Great Court of Trinity, and he
smiled as he was reminded that he used to say the sky
never looked so blue as when seen fringed with its turrets
and battlements. Almost to the last he was conscious, and
the last words intelligibly uttered, when the striking of
the clock roused him as day dawned, were ' The eternal
God is thy refuge, and underneath are the everlasting
arms.' And so through the grave and gate of death he

passed to the life and light beyond, and after seventy-
one years of busy learning and doing at last he sees and
knows. Only eleven months before, the burden of

loneliness had fallen upon him, and he had looked
forward with dismay to the desolation which lay before
him, but the shadow of his sorrow was passing off. To

quote the words of Professor Lightfoot --1 :

      Time seemed only to have mellowed and ripened his cha
racter without decaying his faculties. The screen which long
had hidden his large capacity of affection and strong yearning
for sympathy, known to a few and suspected by many more,
was falling away. And he whom all respected was becoming
every day better known and more endeared to all. . . . Th
world of matter without, the world of thought within, alike
spoke to him of the Eternal Creator, the Beneficent Father.

   I cannot more fitly close this poor attempt to show

William Whewell as he really was, than by a few more

words from the same pen.

     In intellectual eminence we cannot follow him. But the
moral qualities which clustered about his mental power may be
imitated even by the least gifted. The unflagging energy

   1 Funeral sermon preached in Trinity College Chapel by the Rev. J. B.

Lightfoot, D.D., now Bishop of Durham.
056 LIFE OF DR. WHEWELL.  I860

which overcame all disadvantages, the manly courage which
ever disdained unworthy applause, the simple faith in God
through Christ, which in him was thrown into stronger relief
by his large acquaintance with all branches of human know
ledge ; such qualities as these are not beyond the reach of any.

His example supplies a fresh incentive as it imposes a fresh

responsibility.

     In compliance with the strongly expressed wish of
the College authorities, Dr. Whewell was buried in the

Ante-Chapel, and rests but a few feet from the spot
where so many generations of Trinity men had been

wont to see him take his place. At the time of his first

wife's death, he had anticipated being laid beside her in
the Cemetery, under the shadow of the spire which he
had built as a monument to her memory ; but when
once the wish of the College was expressed, it was felt
that no place could so fitly receive his body as the
Chapel of that College with which his whole life was
connected, which he loved so well, and amongst whose
benefactors his name, and that of his first wife, are

remembered.
APPENDIX.

The folloiving poems were written by Dr. Whewell at the time of the death
                   of hit first wife, and printed for private circulation.

                                    L

TEE FIRST SABBATH AFTER TEE BURIAL.

Solemn and sad folds round me the darkening eve of the Sabbath ;
   Solemn, as often of old ; sad, with a fresh-fallen grief :

Solemn, for on it the shades of eternity ope to our vision,
   Gleams, O sadness too deep ! gazed on in loneliness now :

Loneliness, where each thought, the greatest alike and the sweetest,

   Fills me not as it has fill'd, soothes me not as it has sooth'd.

Chilled and palsied seem the powers of thought and of feeling,
   Shared no longer with her, utter'd no longer to her.

For each thought, from day to day and from moment to moment,
   Utter'd uncheckt to her, found sympathetic response ;

Found a response which breathed the accents of wisdom and goodness ;
   Goodness with insight clear ; wisdom with tenderness join'd.

Every trifle that rose and every fancy that floated,
   Shar'd on the instant with her, straight had a sense and a charm.

I IThis was life, when my life was in her clear mirror reflected ;
   This was the life that lived : lonely, no longer live.

IThen was rich, in the wealth of her love, in the wealth of her good

  I Iness ;

0 how rich was
then ! and O how poor am  now I
IThen dwelt in a castle of strength, in a mansion of pleasance
  INow amid ruins sit, low on the desolate hearth.              ;

Builded in by-gone years and yearly adom'd and enriched
   Rose the mansion of bliss bounteously granted to me ;

Now it is cast to the ground, no 9tone is left on another ;
 . Who shall rebuild it and how 1 where is my shelter and shade t
558 APPENDIX.

IHow shall frame me a fence for the coming blasts of the winter 1

  I IWhere shall my hoary hairs hide from the darkness and cold 1

' How shall live without thee 1 ' cried, when life was departing,

 While the  clear  strong soul   battled with             weakness and pain ;
How shall    live  without thee  i ' cried in             my desolate sorrow,
I I'
Weak in the presence of strength. ' God will direct thee,' she said.

Amen ! so may it be, beloved and precious ! and may He
Fill me with thoughts of thee ; thoughts that may make me like

        thee !

Fill me with memory sweet of all thy love and thy goodness,

   And make memory still raise me and guide me as thou,

Raise me and guide me as thou, beloved companion, hast guided,

Ever, through long sweet years, ever and ever aright.

Blessed beyond all blessings that life can embrace in its circle,

Blessed the gift was when Providence gave thee to me :

Gave thee, gentle and kindly and wise, calm, clearseeing,      thoughtful,

  IThee to me as was, vehement, passionate, blind :--
IGave me to see in thee, and wonder never had seen
                                                          is
                                                               it,

                                                                                     :
                                                                                             :
Wisdom that shines in the heart clearer than Intellect's light

Wisdom that sees its way to the Good so simply and clearly

   That might seem to be Skill, only that Skill too blind --
0,
   it

                    I
Gave me to find in thee, when oppressed by loneliness' burden,

   Solace for each dull pain, calm from the strife of the storm.
For vainly till then had sought for peace and contentment,

   Ever pursued by desires, --yearnings that could not be still'd
                                                          I
Ever pursued by desires of a heart's companionship, ever
                                                                                     ;
                                                                                             ;

                                                                         I
                                                                                                       ;
   Yearning for guidance and love such as found them in thee.
Vainly till then had mov'd in the cities of men with their millions,

  All was solitude still, all was a waste to the soul
I
       II

            I

                                                       ;
Vainly till then had roved the land from mansion to mansion,

Pleasure and kindness found found not the love that sought.

Vainly had explored the long-flowing river of Science,

Back to its fountain-heads, down to its glittering sea

Vainly had striv'n with the Sphinx of Philosophy, reading her riddles,

Bidding her mark me the path up to the cavern of Truth.

Vainly had wandered oft in the flowery fields of the Muses
                                                          a

                                                                       it
                                                                             is

                                                                                                       !
                                                                                                          ;

                                                                                                                ;;
   They stirred up in the breast thoughts that they could not appease.
Vain, to bring the heart's peace, even prayer and loftiest musing

Prayer and musing had oft need of sympathy's charm.

E'en on the Sabbath the trouble return'd with a drearier anguish

Lonely the Sabbath was then. Lonely again                 now
APPENDIX.  559

IDevious while thus was driv'n by the blasts of an objectless craving,

    Blind, while vain of my sight ; shallow, though proud of my depth ;

IFound in thy clear eyes the lode-star, the mark of my wand'ring,
  IFound in thy serene bosom my haven of rest.

Golden then was the calm that soothed the storm of my being,
    Golden then was the light shed on the gloom of my soul.

When thou crossedst my threshold and when thou enter'dst my

         portals,

    (Loftier portals they than we had ventur'd to hope,)
Blessings came with thee in crowds: came heartfelt trust at the

         hearthstone,

     Came bright faces of friends shining on every side :
 Came the love of thy race, race firm and kindly and truthful,

    Wise in the arts of life, warm in the love of their kind :
 Came the love of thy mother, her bright affectionate sunshine ;

     Came thy father's love, mild with the wisdom of age :
 Came the love of thy sisters, and sisters' children, and brothers',

    Dear as if in their veins flow'd my own family's blood.

 These all brighten'd our days as they moVd in their circles around us,
     Round thy own dear self, dearer by far than them all.

Seven bright years roll'd on ; seven years were granted of sunshine,
   And life glow'd with a joy even undreamt of before.

Truly a helpmate thou in all that was kindly and gracious :
   Helpful in all that was good; watchful 'gainst aught that was

        worse.

Thine not the blind good-will that scatters its bounty in weakness ;
   Still deep thoughtfulness gave value to all that was kind.

Blessings flow'd from thy presence and blessings were shower'd upon

        thee ;

   Blessings flow'd upon all ; richest and sweetest on me.
Blessings so sweet, could they last, we might deem we needed not

        Heaven ;

    Blessings too sweet to endure. So has our Father ordain'd.
He has ordain'd that no earthly good shall abide and be stable :

    Teaching us, lest we forget, Death is the pathway to Heav'n.
Seven bright years flowed on, and still we joy'd in the sunshine ;

    But on th' horizon's verge then the dark shadow appear'd :
 Then the dark shadow appear'd, and spreading ever its darkness,

   Yearly and yearly it grew like to the Shadow of Death.
 Seven years more it gather'd its blackness, and, broader and broader,

    Shut out the light of our day, cover'd our sky with its pall.
560 APPENDIX.

Yet even those seven years were sweeter than ages of sunshine,
   While with disease and pain struggled thy patience and faith.

Still unquencht was thy thoughtful love of all that were round thee :
   More than unquencht, it grew stronger and though tfuller still.

Calm and tranquil thou sawest the shadows gather about thee,

   While, heav'n-purged, thy eye lookt to the brightness beyond.

Pain, thy pitiless foe, that met thee at every turning,

   Still to her harsh look thou gav'st a smile in return ;

Careful still that her visage severe, with its terrible features,

   Might not pierce with its woe those who hung round thee in love.

And even so to the last, when Nature, opprest and tormented,

   Scarce could the burden endure, few were thy words of complaint :

Few, and often rebuk'd by the noble spirit within thee,

  I ISpirit that felt that its pow'r could not be conquer'd by pain.

Can forget, when stood by thy bed and view'd thee in sadness, --
   Sadness that only could feel, could not presume to console, --
ICan forget that e'en then, when my heart was wrung by thy anguish,
   ISweetly thou answer'dst my gaze, ' Still                                                      '
                                              can  manage   to                             smile    1

Yea ! and thou smil'dst e'en then a smile of angelical sweetness ;
   Still will that angel smile dwell in my memory's core.

Yea, 0 belov'd, even so ! with that smile thou hast gone to thy Father ;

   Gone to thy Saviour's breast, looking as then thou didst look.

I ICan forget, when pray'd by thy bed, and, bitter the lesson !
  ILeai-nt from thee how should pray -- learnt resignation from thee --

I' Lord, if this cup may not pass from me except that drink it '--
  IVainly tried to proceed, vainly to finish the act ;--

I' Lord, if this cup may not pass from me except that drink it '--

   Softly thy voice went on, --' Father--thy will -- be it done.'

IEven so, O beloved ! the cup so bitter in tasting

   Thou hast taught me to drink ; 0 may drink it like thee !

Ever by me be remember'd the words that cheer'd thy departure,

   Cheev'd thee uttered then, uttered often before :
' Grant, 0 Lord, that as we are buried with thee in our baptism,' --
   When Death over her hung this was the pray'r that she pray'd, --
'                                                                                          rising, --
   So through   the Grave,   ltifhee--GattehyofreDseuartrhe,ctwioenmmayaypasshsartoe.'our
    ' Ris'n to  a joyfuller

And so passed away the blessed Soul to her Maker;

   Passed away to her God ; follow'd her Saviour's path.

IThus we parted ; --diverse, how far ! our paths and our portions,
    She to the Saviour's embrace ; to the wearisome world.
APPENDIX.                                                         561

I to the wearisome world, to toil all lonely and helpless,

   IYet not lonely quite, her since bear in my heart :

Yet not helpless quite, for thy companionship, dear one !

    Still shall lend me its help, guiding and raising me still.
And if spirits of the just made perfect, and hov'ring as angels,

    Still may watch o'er our ways, bending benignant their eyes,

/Haunt me and soothe me daily, O gentle Spirit, till may,

    Rising from this dead world, live in The Presence with thee.

0O
  562 APPENDIX.

                                                                ri.

         THE SECOND SABBATH. THE EPIPHANY.

 Sev'n days, and lo ! once mare the wintry morn of the Sabbath

   IFinds me parted from thee, dawns on my widowed heart ;

 Here do move and mourn in a family circle that lov'd thee,

   IMourn amid kind hearts, full of the mem'ry of thee.

 Yea, and seek the worship of God in the Beautiful Temple
    Which amid dimness and smoke thou and thy brethren have built.

 Beautiful it with the grace that the builder's science can lavish,
    Where the clustered stems ramified bear up the roof;

 Where, rich-glowing, the light streams through the lanceted window ;
    Where the foliage of stone curls its luxuriant leaves.

 Yet more beantiful far the thought that Temple embodies,
    Thought of the beauty of pray'r, care for the good of men's souls.

 They, kind masters and wise, desir'd that the soul and the spirit,
    While the body was fed, might not their sustenance lack.

 They desir'd that, where were the hands they urged unto labour,
     There they might too urge voices to pray'r and to praise.

 And so above the ordered ranges of workmen and children
    Rises the priest's deep tone, rises the chorister's chant.

List to the Preacher's voice, as he takes his stand on the Scripture,
    And to the listening crowd tells the glad message of peace ;

Tells how, even as now, the guiding Star of the Gentiles
   Brought their kings to Him, prophesied Ring of the Jews :

How they came to his light, to the glorious shine of his rising,
    Bringing their threefold gifts, gold and frankincense and myrrh :

How this happy day is the Christmas-day of the Heathen ;
    How we too should bring worthiest gifts to the Christ ;

Gold in our charity, pray'r our frankincense, and myrrh in our
         patience,

    Claiming our Gentile lot, seeking our Christian place.

ISweet to worship and listen where reigns the Good and the Lovely ;

   Yet as worship here, bitter is mixt with the sweet.
Yea ! for how should it be that aught that is good or is lovely

   Should not be full of thee, should not remind me of thee 1
APPENDIX.                                                        563

I IYea, and can forget that here with thee have worshipt

  IWhen first these blest walls witneet a worshipping train 1

When, unworthy and weak, first from that pulpit exhorted

  IThose who assembled first, glad, in the mansion of prayer.

Can forget that in years succeeding, thou, O beloved,

   Ever hast, year by year, offer'd thy gifts to the Christ ;
Ever hast offer'd thy precious gifts with a purified spirit,

  IGold and frankincense and myrrh ; charity, patience and pray'r.

Ah ! and can forget that this for thee too is Christmas,
   Christmas not as of wont -- Christmas not of the earth ;

Christmas when for thee the Christ is born in His power,

He now born for thee, thou too regen'rate in Him.

And as new born on earth the Saviour lay in a manger,

   So thy newborn soul lies in the Kingdom of Heav'n ;
Angels hanging around it with eyes of love and of sweetness ;

   While above it broods light from the presence of God.
Yet the diff'rence how vast ! He, brought to pain and to sorrow

From the glory He had in the beginning with God ;

Thou from sorrow and pain for ever deliver'd and rescu'd,

Brought through the bodily death into the heavenly life.

IYea, beloved, and when for me that hour is arrived,
And through the gate of Death  too must pass to my doom,

IMay my newborn Soul awake in that heavenly brightness,
   And may see thy smile ready to welcome me there.

oo2
564 APPENDIX.

                                                HI.

                              THE PICTURE.1

How when the Lov'd One is torn from our grasp, is snatch t from our
        vision,

   How the Soul stretches her arms, struggling in vain with the
        thought !

How the yearning Heart invokes the aid of the Fancy !

   Strives, if it may, to clothe Terror in beautiful forms !

Even so here the heart-stricken Painter, bereaved and afflicted,
   Calls, from the depths of his Art, form for the Angel of Death.

1a) the solemn Shape, black-veil'd over every member,
    Draws the Chosen away forth from the couch of her pain !

Black the thick veil hangs o'er the head mysteriously stooping,
    And its black folds involve fingers that tenderly clasp,

Tenderly clasp, but with firm irresistible hold, the Beloved,
    Drawing her white-robed form upwards away from the earth.

 Round on each side bend Her broad and shadowy pinions,
    Bend like loving arms, ready to close in embrace.

Shed from above, Her dark shade falls on the beautiful visage ;
    Beautiful still, though deep sicklied and worn with disease.

 Yet though sicklied and worn, with gentle tenderness beaming,

     Beaming sweetly on him, desolate left on the earth.
 And he lies on the earth all desolate, prostrate and helpless,

     Buries his widowed head deep in the folds of her couch.
 Yet not all is despair, and e'en through the gloom of the Vision

     Gleams are revealed that tell Hope still is mixt with the grief.
 See through the dark veil's folds the radiant hair of the Angel

     Shines on the convex brow, lustrous though scarcely discern'd.
 Surely could but the veil be removed, that beauteous head would,

     Radiance shedding around, lighten the chamber of death.
 Yea, and though we see not that face's close-veiled features,

     Were they reveal'd, they must smile bright with angelical grace.
 And behind, in the depths of the ether that bends o'er the Vision,

     Cloudless glory awaits her who is taken away :
                             1 The 'Angel of Deatli,' by Horace Vernet..
APPENDIX.  565

And, placed near to her couch, and close, in life, to her vigils,
   Hangs the sacred Cross, symbol of Faith and of Hope :

And her finger, upward pointing, would mark to the Mourner,
   Where is the goal of her flight, where is the solace for him.

Sad, yet not all sadness the thought that breathes from the canvas ;
   Not all sadness, for there Death breathes the promise of Life.

Hope there points to that heav'n where she already is soaring,

    There where no mourners weep : there where the Lost One is found.

Wisely, 0 Painter, and well hast thou used thy Art as thy Teacher,

   Teacher of Solace and Hope ; teacher of Goodness and Pray'r.
For how e'er shalt thou enter where her pure Spirit is enter'd,

  If thy Soul be not purified, hallow'd and rais'd 1
ISo too would seek, in these too dissonant measures,

   Lessons of hope and faith ever to stamp on my heart :
And when for thee and for me, 0 Painter, the lesson is ended,

   When we have finisht our task, labour and patience and pray'r,

I IPainter ! O mayest thou find in that bright region thy Lost One I
    There may too find her whom ceaselessly mourn.
566 APPENDIX.                                                         -

                                                     IV.

                         THE RETURN HOME.

Once has the pallid Moon replenisht her shadowy circle
   Since the Belov'd in my arms breath 'd her pure spirit away :

Moon of desolate thoughts and tears unceasingly springing

  IE'en at the welcome of friends, e'en at the smiling of love.

For how could forget for whose sake that love was first giv'n me ;
   Hers, the magnet of love, pole of affection to all.

INow perforce driv'n forth from companionship dear and consoling
   Back return to the world, back to the turmoil of life.

IYea once more seek the haunts of men and their bus'ness,

   And before me the face stands of my desolate home.
Lo ! placed high on the wall, vain pomp ! the Badge of the Herald

   Tells of a funeral train recently sent from that door.
Ah ! and back to my thoughts that dreary morn is recalled,

   Morn of the open grave, morn of the funeral voice.
Sadly we follow'd the form which once contained the Lov'd One ;

   Brothers and sisters in heart, brothers and sisters in woe.
Woe ! for to give that much-lov'd form to the grave and its darkness

   Seem'd the abyss of grief, seem'd as a parting for aye.
Nay, but recall, 0 soul ! the voices that broke on thy hearing,

   Voices of faith and of hope, soothing the depth of thy woe :

Voices as if some Comforting Angel had sounded his trumpet,

    Piercing the ether above, raising our thoughts from the earth.
APPENDIX.  567

                                                              V.

       RECOLLECTIONS OF THE BURIAL SERVICE.

I' I, saith Christ, am the Life, and am the true Resurrection :

   He that believeth in me, though he were dead, he shall live.
He that believeth in me dieth never : his life is immortal.'

  I--And yet a pause, and again solemnly sounded the voice.

' He, my Redeemer liveth, know it ; and He, in his glory,
   Shall, in the latter day, visibly stand on the earth :

IAnd though worms may destroy this body, yet still in a body
      shall my Saviour behold -- gaze on him with my own eyes.'
Deep in the triumph of Faith sound out the breathings of Patience ;

   Words that we strive to feel : and 0 ! how bitter the strife !
' Into this world we nothing have brought, and nothing we take thence.

   God gave : God takes back. Blest be the name of the Lord.'

So we enter the gates where we so often have worshipt.
   She, pure worshipper here, worships in Paradise now.

Yet the Sable Bier, in the midst of the sorrowing circle,
   Makes us to feel, even yet, sense of Communion with her.

Then ascends the voice of the Psalm of Trust and of Meekness ;
   Voice of the Temple of old ; voice of the Churches of Christ :

Voice whose solemn sound has, in many a grief-stricken bosom,
   Soothed the wildness of woe : 0 ! may it sooth it in odrs.
568 APPENDIX.

                                                      VI.

                                 THE PSALM.

                                                      PSALM XC.

Thou our refuge hast been, 0 Lord through all generations,
   Ere yet the world was form'd, ere that the earth was yet made;

Ere that the mountains were yet brought forth from the bosom of

        chaos,
    Thou from the first art God ; Thou, to eternity, God.

Man to destruction Thou turnest, and put'st him away from thy

        presence,

   And yet again, ' Gome back,' say'st to the children of men.
Yea, for a thousand years in thy sight but as a day are ;

   Whilst thou look'st it is past e'en as a watch of the night.
Swept into nothing by thee, they pass away as a slumber,

    Pass as a dream of the night, wither away as the grass ;
Grass that is green in the morning and groweth up in its freshness,

    But in the evening hour perishes faded and dead.
Even so we consume in the blast of thy wrathful displeasure,

   Even so we fall if thy indignation arise.

For before Thee our misdeeds are revealed in terrible clearness,

   All our secret sins lie in the manifest light.

When thou art angry our days are straightway vanisht and ended ;
    Then are our years at an end e'en as a tale that is told.

For three score and ten are the years allotted to mortals,

   Or if they reach fourscore, what is the price of their strength 1

Then is their strength but labour and sorrow, but trouble and weak
          ness ;

     So soon pass we away, pass and are utterly gone.
Who then shall rightly weigh in his heart the risk of thy anger 1

    He that feareth Thee knoweth the pow'r of thy fear.
 Turn thee again at the last, and be gracious unto thy servants ;

     Teach us to number our days so that our hearts may be wise.
Give us thy mercy, and satisfy soon our souls in their craving ;

    So shall our hearts rejoice all the glad days of our life.
APPENDIX.  569

Comfort us now ; may the time be past wherein thou hast plagued us ;
    Yea may the years be gone markt by adversity's stroke.

Show to thy servants thy work, reveal to their children thy glory,

    Thine, our Ruler and Guide, Thine, our Comfort and Stay.

So shall thy glorious majesty, Lord our God, be upon us ;

    Prosper our handiwork, Thou, prosper the work of our hands !

Thus with the heaven-taught strain we seek to chasten our anguish ;
    Strive to give, as we must, unto the Saviour his own.

And now sounds in our ears the Apostle's loftier Lesson ;

    Shedding the Christian light on the mysterious change.
 570 APPENDIX.

                                                 VII.

                                 THE LESSON.

                                            1 CORINTHIANS XV. 20.

Now is Christ ris'n from the dead, and is of the dead the first-fruits
For as by man came Death, by man too came Resurrection.
For as in Adam all die, so all are made living in Jesus.
And thus each shall rise in his order. Jesus the first-fruits,
First, and afterward they that are Christ's shall rise at his coming.
And then cometh the end ; when Christ, the Son, to the Father
Gives up the Kingdom, and all other rule and power is put down.
For the Christ must reign till He hath all enemies put down
Under his feet ; and, last of all enemies, Death is destroyed ;

All things under his feet ; and even Death, among all things.

And when all are subdu'd, the Son shall return to the Father's

Bosom, and God shall be All in All, in full consummation.
All the dead shall rise, for to that end, all are baptized.
Why baptiz'd, if the dead rise not ? and why do we wrestle,
Hour by hour, with peril and death, if the dead be not raised t

Yea, were it so indeed, we might almost say, with the worldling,
' Eat we and drink we to-day, for to-morrow comes death everlasting.'
Nay ; not so, my brethren ; be not so blindly deceived ;

IEvil companionships poison the soul. Awake from such dreaming.

Sin not, even in thought : as some -- speak it in sorrow --
Speak it to put you to shame --have sinn'd ; who know not their

        Saviour.

But some man will say : The dead, then, how are they raised t
With what body 1-- O fool ! The faith of the Sower shall teach thee.
That which thou sowest is quicken'd, but dieth before it is quicken'd.
That which thou sowest, thou sowest not the body that shall be,
Sowest a grain of wheat, and God doth give it a body :
Gives it the body He wills, and gives to each seed its own body,
All flesh is not the same. Of men, and of beasts, and of fishes

Differs the flesh ; and differs more celestial and earthly.
One is the glory of earth : celestial glory another.
APPENDIX.                                                          571

One is the glory of Sun ; of Moon the glory is other ;
Other the glory of stars ; and stars, too, differ in glory.
And even so man's body is changed to find resurrection.
Sown is it in corruption, and raised in incorruption.
Sown is it in dishonour, thereafter raised in glory.
Sown it is in weakness, and raised in strength and in power.
Sown a natural body, and raised a spiritual body.

TPor there is a natural, is a spiritual body.

 So it is written that Adam the first was a living soul made ;
 But we teach of an Adam made a quickening Spirit.
 That which was natural first, and that which is spiritual after,
 Adam the first, of earth ; the second, the Lord from heaven.

 As is the earthy, such likewise are they that are earthy :
 As is the heavenly, such likewise are they that are heav'nly.
 As we have borne the earthy image, we shall bear the heav'nly.

 Flesh and blood cannot inherit the heavenly kingdom :

 Nor can it be that corruption inheriteth incorruption.

ILo ! shew you a mystery --mystery solemn and mighty :       the last

We shall not all sleep ; but all, yea all shall be changed,
Chang'd in a moment, as twinkles the eye, when sounds

        trumpet.

For the trumpet shall sound, and then the dead shall be raised

Incorruptible thenceforth ; so shall we be changed.
For the corruptible in us must put on incorruption,
And the mortal in us must immortality put on.

So when this corruptible putteth on incorruption,

When this mortal frame shall immortality put on,

Then, as the prophet hath said, is Death in Victory swallow'd.
Where is thy sting, 0 Death ! and where thy Victory, Grave, now 1

Sin is the sting of Death, and the strength of Sin in the Law lies.
But we have conquer'd the Law, for Christ that Victory gives us.

Thanks be to God, through Christ our Lord that Victory giving !
Be then, brethren beloved, henceforth immoveable, stedfast,

Always abounding in God's good works, for this do ye well know,
While your works are done in the Lord, not vain is your labour.
572 APPENDIX.

                                           VIII.

                                 THE GRAVE.

Then they bear her forth, and the funeral train rolls onward,
   On to the new-made grave, on to the place of the Tomb.

And the Coffined Form unpalled rests for a moment
   There on the brink of the depth, there on the verge of its bed.

And the voice still soars, that our hearts sink not with the coffin
   Into the yawning abyss, into the cavern of Death.

' Man, that is lx>rn of a woman, hath --so is it allotted --
   But a short time to live : short, and of misery full :

Groweth up like a flower, and soon like a flower is cut down :

    Fle'th like a shadow away : may not endure and abide.'

' Where is our help but thou, O Lord, so justly displeased )
   E'en in the midst of life, are we not also in death 1 '

' Yet O Lord most holy, O Lord most mighty anl awful,
   Holy and merciful Lord ! .Saviour, Succour, and Hope ·

From the bitter pains of death everlasting preserve us.'

   ' Known unto thee, O Lord ! all the sad thoughts of our hearts.
Shut not thou, O God ! thy merciful ears to our prayer !

   Spare us, O Lord most high ! Holy and merciful Lord !

' Spare us, 0 Lord most holy ! Spare us, O God most mighty !

Holy and merciful Lord! Saviour eternal and Judge !

Suffer us not, when the last hour comes, and Death overtakes us

Suffer us not, for his pangs,  ever  to fall  from  Thee    '
                                                          !

Strikes on our hearts the sound, as falls the clod on the coffin.

Earth has resumed her own. Vain are the yearnings of Love.

Hark ! yet again the Voice. ' Forasmuch as now it hath pleasM
God Almighty, of His gi-ent mercy to take to Himself the
APPENDIX.                                                       573

Soul of our dear Sister departed, here we commit her

Body unto the ground : the earthy give to the earthy,
Ashes to ashes, and dust to dust : in the sure and the certain

Hope of the rising to life eternal, through Jesus our Saviour;
Who shall change the body like to His glorious body,
After His mighty working whereby He conquereth all things
Unto Himself.' And so is the body consign'd to its rest-place.

' Blessed the dead that die in the Lord : they rest from their labours.'
    So the Spirit hath said. This be our solace and joy.
574 APPENDIX.

                                                 IX.

                          THE THANKSGIVING.

Then we meekly bend on the verge of the shadowy chamber,
   Bend in prayer to Him, Ruler of Earth and of Heav'n ;

Him from whom the disburthened soul felicity drinks in ;
   Him with whom do live Spirits departed in faith ;

And, 0 hardest of prayers I with hearts all bleeding, we thank Him,
   That He hath taken her hence -- taken her unto Himself.

Willingly then may we pray : Do Thou, Lord, hasten thy coming
   That we too may soon be in thy presence with her.

Yet one look we may downward cast, deep into the cavern,
   Into the depths of the grave, down on the coffined form :

One last look at the vesture of that we so cherish t and treasur'd ;
    Grazing at where she is ; gazing at where she is not.

And we turn us away, --and the heart-strings crack with the motion, --
   Back to the desolate world, blank of the light of our eyes.

And with leaden feet, to our home, to our life, we return us ;
   Home that no longer is Home, Life that no longer is Life.
         APPENDIX.                                                    575

                          X.

         THE GRAVESTONE.

Now that the Earth and the Sky have conceal'd the Belov'd from our

vision,

    Now we have render'd to earth all that is earthly of Her ;
Give we the spot (how dear !) its due memorial honours ;
    Lay we a stone on the grave : mark we the place of our grief.
Lay we a stone, that may speak of her to our friends and our children ;

    Lay we a stone that may speak, even as she would have will'd.
Clearly she spoke her will : * Mark thou,' she said, ' on my tombstone
    Not mere wailings of grief, sorrow that knows not of hope ;

Let Hope shine through the Grief; let Faith illumine the Sorrow ;

  IFor go to my God parting in Faith and in Hope.'
I' Yea, 0 Beloved,' cried ; ' thine own sweet wisdom shall teach me :

    Words thou hast uttered oft, these shall be fittingly traced ;
Words that thy Fancy devised to cheer a widowed Sister

  JWoven in emblem apt, full of the Faith of the ust.

There was the Cross-- blest sign --and around it a lettered circle,

&it lie,Circle that ever begins, ever continues its sense.
For CO   ' tO ILiOt ' 5T0 ILittt * tO                       was the legend :

Bound and round as we read, still does the lesson come round :

Teaching, (wise men in olden time rejoic'd in such teaching,)
   Death is the Limit of Life, Life is the Issue of Death.

And in the midst of the circle, and fixt on the Cross at its centre,

Lo ! the Sower is traced flinging his grain to the earth :
Grain, it may be, of wheat, cast forth to die and be buried,

Given to earth and to death, quicken'd to life and to light :

Given its body to earth, and clothed by God with a body,

Emblem of Life from Death ; emblem of Christian Hope :

Emblem of thy true thoughts ; of thy assur'd resurrection :

This, O my Love ! be thy sign : this be the voice of thy grave.'

This was our communing, sad but sweet, when the Soul with the Body
Struggling, already lookt on, calm, to the end of the strife.
576 APPENDIX.

And now call we the Sculptor's art to mould on thy tombstone
   That which thy Piety felt, that which thy Fancy devised.

There be the Cross displayed on the sloping ridge of the copestone.
   As in the tombs of old ; as o'er the cloistered dead.

There be the ring with its circling words, so warning and cheering;
   There be the Sower with arms spread, as he walks in the field.

And -- brief legend sufficeth for those who will visit thy rest-place --
   There will we write on the marge : this is Cordelia's tohb.
APPENDIX.  577

                                                XI.

                               THE SERMON.

INow again revolve in the wonted circle of action ;

   Circle of gold, of yore ; leaden the circle is now.

IDay by day come round the meetings of men and their bus'ness ;
    Day by day do toil ; zealously, joylessly toil.
So the week rolls on : each day delivers its burden :

    So the Sabbath returns, bringing its thoughts and its task,
Bringing its sound, once welcome, of social pray'r and of anthem ;

  IBringing its rarer task ; giving its office to me :

Giving to me the Preacher's office, that there should pour forth

   All that is best in my heart, all that is worthy of God :

Pour forth all to those who there are gather 'd together,

  IThese, my kmg-lov'd friends, those, too, my juvenile flock.

Well have lov'd to try to stir the spirit within them ;
    Spirit of God-fearing youth ; spirit of God-fearing men.

This was sweet when thou, my Beloved, could'st list to my accents ;
    Telling, in after discourse, aught that was fittingly said :

Aught that might wing our hearts to journey to heaven together ;
     Aught that we therefore deem'd, others might feel in their hearts.

 ISweet the labour was then, and hopefully did address it ;
   ISweet was the labour then ; how shall deal with it now 1

 Surely with thee in my heart, with my heart still yearning around

         thee,

   ISurely of thee must speak ; thee, and the place thou hast found.

IHow can fail to speak of the life and the death of the Blessed ;

    Speak of the Hope of the Just ; speak of the lesson of Hope ?

 Hope, and ho w that Hope should work on the spirit, my theme be ;
     How the Disciple belov'd tells of the working of Hope.

                                      1 JOHN III. 1.

 ' Mark, my beloved,' he saitb, ' what love the Father hath giv'n us ;
     Love that reacheth to this ; we are the children of God.
                                                  PP
57S APPENDIX.

This are we now ; and it appeareth not yet what hereafter we shall be;
   But we shall be like Him ; seeing Him e'en as He is.

This is the hope that we have ; and who hath this hope in his bosom
   He maketh pure himself, even as He, too, is pure.'

Truly, O Christian friends, such hope is no profitless feeling ;
   Feeling, it blossoms in buds ; Hope, it is fertile in Act.

He shall be pure in heart that shall see his Father in heaven :

    He maketh pure his heart, ev'n while he lingers on earth.
He roots forth from his heart all lust, self-seeking, and anger,

   Works of the World and the Flesh, fires that the Devil incites.

Such is the Soul that strives, and striving, praying, and hoping,

   Grows, by the grace of God, daily to be as of God :
Grows into purity, love, and the wisdom of love, and its meekness :

   Grows to a care for all, grows to denial of self.

Surely the Soul that thus is fill'd with celestial tempers,
   Surely that Soul, even here, moves on the pathway to heav'n.

Yea, and when Death comes, and the mortal change, and no longer
   That dull bodily frame darkens the sight of the Soul ;

'Tis as one that had liv'd in a region of light and of sunshine ;

   Liv'd in a region of light, closed in a dungeon obscure.
And as if some blast from above, though terrible, gracious,

   Rent the prison away, scatt'ring its roof to the winds.
Then the happy Soul is left rejoicing in brightness ;

   Brightness ambient before, dimly discerned till now.

Thus is the soul in its place ; in its mortal mansion immortal.

   Is there one who denies, --doubts immortality's hope 1
Nay, let them look at the Soul in herself; at her growth and her

       nature :

Nature herself shall confirm promises made by the Word.

What 1 when the Soul has risen so      high, has grown to such  fulness ; --
   Ris'n by the teaching of years ;--  grown with the growth    of a life;--

Grown through the docile childhood, the earnest youth, and the

       thoughtful

   Years of a riper age, -- years, and experience, and acts ;

Grown through good well done, and grown through patience in failure;

    Grown through sorrow and pain, grown too by musing and pray'r;

Grown till Faith, and till Hope, and till Charity make up its being ;
   Grown to oblivion of self; grown to the wisdom of love;

Grown to a trust in the fatherly goodness of Him who afflicteth ;--
   Soul thus rais'd, thus grown, say, shall it sink into nought 1
                           AITENDIX.                          579

He, great Father of all, for ever and ever unfolding,
   Brings forth the flow'r from the bud, brings forth the fruit from

        the flow'r ;

Shall He unfold the soul so far, and then dash it to nothing 1
   He the same Lord of life : doubtless He is the same Lord.

Say, in that lower sphere shall He guide perpetual progress,
   And in this higher sphere end with an absolute blank ]

After a short (how short !) career, shall a spirit so gifted
   End, so well begun ; lost, when so much has been gain'd 1

Rais'd so near to heav'n, to earth be wholly consigned ;
   Rais'd to an angel life, sink into dust with the brute 1

This to believe, were to deem that the world is void of an object ;
   World without Meaning or Thought, Purpose, or Wisdom, or Love ;

No ! O Christian friends ; in the world of Grace, as of Nature,
   As the bud leads to the flow'r, so the flow'r dies not in vain.

Such growth needs more growth ; such folds shall be further unfolded ;

    Such high spiritual powers higher and higher shall rise.

Such a temporal being speaks plainly a being eternal ;

    Such a celestial life shows that life shall be in heav'n.

That which the Gospel speaks reechoes the whisper within us :
    Such shall inherit a realm doom'd from eternity theirs.

Such shall have mansions above, where He is gone to prepare them ;

    Where are no hunger and thirst, where are no sorrow and pain.

Where they shall stand around His throne, and hymning His praises,
    While the eternal spheres measure eternity's flow.

This is the hope that we foster ; and who thus hopes, shall be aided
   Still to make pure himself even as He too is pure.

Who that hath seen this working of Hope, this working of pureness,

   Shown in a Christian life, shown in a Christian's death ;

Who feels not a longing to work as the Christian has shown him,
   E'en as the yearning heart longs to be with them again ?

Them have we seen all patient in pun, all calm amid turmoil,

   Skilful in doing of good, subtly unselfish and kind.
Be we patient and calm ; cherish we their tempers within us,

   Seeking a skill like theirs ; seeking oblivion of self.
So may we come at last where they have passed before us ;

   So may the lone-left heart joy in companionship found.

« Learn of me,' saith the Lord. Is this too lofty a lesson ?
Yet may we learn it of them ; those who have learnt it before.
                           Christ, have shown how scholars should labour.
They,    apt scholars  of
    We,     would we       with them,--we must be scholars as they
                       be

                           rr2
580 APPENDIX.

Blest, thrice blest, shall we be, then when schooling ended,
          is                                               is Ls
                                                               is ;
               !
                            :                                               ;
                                                                                      !
                             ; if,
We may, by their loved side, sit in the Master's abode.

Friends dear friends may we all and ever aspire to this blessing
!
Seeking still while we may knowing how short the time.
 is

   it
Brethren, the time short for the oldest alike and the youngest.

Short the time for us, inmates so long of these courts

Oft have we breathed such hopes to successive races of hearers

Oft too have heard such hopes breath'd by a race that past.

Short the time for us. So Youth may carelessly reckon.
if is is
But for Youth, no less, scanty and short the time.
                                                   is
Short Time to prepare for Eternity hasten to use           it
                                               :        :
                                                               ;
Or already begun, press unremitting the task.                                      :

Not as a task apart from the tasks that make up your day work

No, but an all in all, mixing in every work

Guiding and shaping the temper and spirit, and bidding you work still

Zealously, humbly and well, caring for God and for all.

So e'en the humblest work a lore that prepares for the Kingdom
O                                                                                     ;
    ! is

      I

                 it

                                            !

                                      : ; is
So shall the Mind and the Heart ever be fitter for Heav'n.

Still to illumine the Mind and still to sweeten the Temper
                                                           ;
Still to aim at the Right still the Eternal to prize              ;

                                                                     ;
This the happiest lot that man can take for his portion

Happiest, even on earth Heav'n already begun.  is

This, dear friends, may be yours. Choose this and hold to  !            firmly.
   And may the grace of God prosper you in for aye
                                                   it           it

Amen so may be

                Then rises thy Memory, Dear One             !
                                                                !
might give to such thought utterance worthy of thee
APPENDIX.  581

                                           XII.

                             THE MONUMENT.

There the body is laid, away from the din of the city,
   There in the Place of the Tombs. Such is our burial use.

Stand on every side memorials of neighbours departed :
   Modestly there on the ground lies the memorial of her.

But shall not the Graveyard speedily grow to a Churchyard 1
   Shall not the place of the Tombs soon be the place of the Church ?

There as we bend o'er the grave, and muse on the past and the present,
    Rise from our memory's depths those she has gone to rejoin.

Rises the thought of that First of the noble band of her Brethren,
   Him the Belov'd of the Five, him the first taken away :

Taken away as he plann'd -- how vain are the plannings of mortals !--

    Where he had chosen his lot, there to erect him a home :
There, in the beautiful land, the land of the Lake and the Mountain ;

   There where the loveliest lake lies in the loveliest vale :
Yet though taken away, and forbidden to build him a mansion

   Here on the face of the earth -- call'd to a mansion in heav'n--

He, to the last hour zealous to leave a blessing to neighbours,
   Bade the fair House of God rise in the beautiful vale.

And there, duly perform 'd by the love of his Parents and Brethren,
    Stands the embodied wish ; monument fitting for him.

Fair rise there the beautiful spire and the gracious portal ;
   Pointing aloft to the sky, looking adown to the lake.

There too, close by those sacred walls, is buried Another,
   Brother by tenderest ties ; more than a brother in love.

Memories Bweet of delight, of happiness clear and untroubled,
   Cling to that sacred hill, point to that beautiful spire.

And, more dear than delight, dwell still, in happy remembrance
   Thoughts of the Minister's task lovingly, nobly perform'd.

Learn we our lesson there ; and a Church, as memory's token,
   Raise by the side of her grave ; Monument fairest and best.

Raise we a spire whose silent finger may point to the mansions
   Whither our hopes, too, tend ; whither her spirit is fled.
582 APPENDIX.

Fix we a Mark that may oft bring back our spirits from wand'ring                               ;
   Fix we a Mark whence thoughts, longing, may wander afar.

Thine, 0 Architect tried ! be the task; at her kindred's bidding,

Who hast the sacred fane raised, in the vortex of toil ;

Placed by the giant fabrics of work, by the whirring of engines,

   Forms that the builder lovM ere yet the engine was heard ;
Forms that are great in their antique grace, that soothe by their

calmness,

   Hallowing the piles by their side, as does the Sabbath the week.
Even so here, 0 Builder ! devise, with thy masterly knowledge,

   What may be fit for the site ; what may respond to our hearts.

Firm and secure be the pillars below that bear up the structure ;
   Firm as the Faith that she held. Firm is the Pillar of Faith.

Plain and strong be the style, as the early temples of England ;                               the

   Simple and strong was her heart ; simple her ways, as of old.
Flamelike and lofty spring forth the spire from the roof of

structure,

   Piercing its way to the skies ; leaving the earthy below.

So that with it our hearts may rise aloft from the earthy:

   Rise from the body's grave up to the spirit's repose.
And as that aery point, by the secret skill of the builder,

   Draws down the fire of the sky into the bosom of earth,

So may it into our souls draw down a heavenly hghtning,
    Subtle, unseen, like that ; piercing the depths of the heart :

Piercing the heart, and making it feel celestial touches,

Even while still it is here, clothed in its vesture of clay.

And, as rising on high, that spire, o'er the country around it,
Here in our level domain, -- land of the plain and the fen --
                                --somme osuisnttearilnyosutseespulemmorittuorrreritdg; --e --
Seems as looking abroad   for
   Looking for some far  hill,

Oft shall my heart, too, look to the land of mountains that lov'd

her;

  ILook to that sisterly spire rising by Derwent's feir lake.

Oft shall think of thy beautiful home, in the lap of Helvellyn,

   Home of thy youthful days ; cradle of blessing for me :
Where, 'mid steep dark slopes, the winding water of Ulle

Bends round its midway banks, moulded almost to an isle.

There, fair ever and bright, that happy mansion of Hallsteads

   Lies on the rocky shore ; scatters its shrubberies round.
There around it swell the heathy summits of mountains,

   Yew-crag, Hallen, and Place, Swarth-fell and Catchedicain,
There opes Kirkstone's Pass, and Patterdale shines in its valley

   There leaps Aira's stream into the beautiful dell.
APPENDIX.                                                         583

O, how oft, in those happiest days of growing affection,

   Roam'd we the bank of the lake, clomb we the breast of the hill !
Every turn of the shore, and every crag of the hill-side

    Lives in my memory yet ; gleams to the eye of the mind ;
Gleams with a magical grace, a deep interior sunshine ;

    Glows with the thought of thee, soothing and stilling the Soul.
Yea--and when, O Belov'd ! thou hadst vanisht away from my vision,

   Left me in darkness alone, here, on the desolate plain, --

Yearned my heart to fly to those well-known vallies and mountains;

    Yearn'd to retrace those paths where we together had roved :
Yearn'd to visit each dell and each glen, each bay and each streamlet,

  IWhere we had rambled of yore ; where we had mingled our souls.

Yea, and e'en yet yearn once more again to behold them ;

  IYearn once more to retrace haunts so belov'd and endear'd.

Yea, and strain and shake, impatient, the fetters that bind me,
   Bind me in this dull plain, far from the hill and the dell.

IYea and it seems as if there, where all were, ever, so happy,
       some solace might find, e'en in the depth of my woe.

Vain, vain dream, alas ! Then rises the sadden'd reflection

   How that the sunshine is gone, gave to that landscape its light.
How that the source is dried that filled those vallies with gladness,

   How that the joy and the grace, all are evanisht away.
Hope was our sunshine then ; the hope of happiness promist ;

   Hope of the union of lives, sprung from the union of hearts.

Such Hope gilded each scene, filled every gale with refreshing ;
   Spread through the beautiful land, made it more beauteous still.

Yea, and right well was Hope's vision fulfill'd ; and all that she

       promist                                                    the
   Flow'd in abundance large over the following years.

Bow how vain were it now to seek to refashion the rapture --
   Seek to recall what is past -- Hope fulfill'd and extinct !

Seek to recall the glance of the Sun on the peak of Helvellyn,
   When the night's shade is come, black'ning and sadd'ning

        scene !

INay --let Fancy no more delude me with promise of solace ;

   Vainly there should seek joys that are vanisht for aye.

Yet, O Soul ! faint not, nor mistrust the Love that is o'er us ;

  If thou faint with thy grief, how art thou worthy of her 1

Still seek thou the vale which memory fills with her presence ;
   Still seek ancient haunts, dear to your visits of old.

For though Hope no more can walk by thy side and delight thee,
   Still thou shalt have a Guide, still a Companion, Love,
5S4 APPENDIX.

Love, undying, shall walk by thy side, and give to each object

   Gleams of its former grace ; touches that still and that soothe.
Yea, and so, still more thou shall learn : for Love will assure thee

Hope is not dead but alive : ever undying is Hope.

Hope, when driven from earth, finds refuge in heaven, and beckons,

Beckons us onward still : promises union there :

Promises union there, in mansions of bliss and of gladness,
   There in the presence of Him whom she so faithfully serVd .

So when the summer sunset gleam, on the top of Helvellyn,             of

   Fades and passes away into the grey of the night, --

Watch but a few short hours, and soon, through the melting

darkness,

Bright shines forth on his crest radiance of heavenly morn.
                           APPENDIX.                           585

                                  xm
                           EASTER DAY.

So o'er the sadden'd soul roll on the varying billows ;
   Billows of sorrow and gloom, chequer'd with flashes of cheer.

So to the vales and the hills the heart with its natural yearnings
   Flies with its aching void, flies with its memory's pang :

Flies opprest and distrest with the sense of sin and of weakness :
   Feels the need of relief ; feels that relief is afar.

Feels the weight of its stained humanity hanging upon it,
   Dragging it down from the sky, blotting its glimpses of heav'n.

Roll on, too, the sacred weeks ; and, Sabbath by Sabbath,

    Every week has a voice ; each has a message from heav'n.
Each has a message from heaven ; but messages heavy with warning,

    Bidding man grieve for his guilt, humbled in ashes and dust.

Bidding man look to what sin has done, where, pierc'd and tormented,
    Hangs the Saviour from sin there on the arms of the Cross.

Heavily lies on our hearts the sense of sin and of foulness ;
    We whose guilt has done this, how shall we hope to escape t

He descends to the grave who bore our sins and our sorrows ;
    Sink not our hearts with Him into the depths of the Tomb 1

 How shall we join the pure in heart who are gone to their Father 1
    How shall we find again her who is gone to her God ?

 How shall we rise again from the den of darkness and foulness ?
    Who shall remove the stone ?--open the sepulchre's lid ?

Thus while we ask, there sound in our ears those duteous pleadings

   Which, in that solemn night, stay'd her yet lingering soul :

' Grant, O Lord, that as we are buried with Thee in our baptism 1--

Buried, our sins, with Thee ; dead, our corruptions and shames ;

So through the Grave, the Gate of Death, we may pass to our rising,
                                                            '
Ris'n to a joyfuller life  thy  resurrection  may  share  !

And yet one short night; and then, 'mid the freshness of morning,

Sounds the jxibilant cry : ' Christ our Redeemer is ris'n.'

1 Collect for Easter Eve.
58G APPENDIX.

Rise not too, with the cry, our hearts from their desolate sorrow 1
   Rolls not the weight of the stone backward away from our breast?

Feel we not now at last that she is risen with Jesus 1
   How that the loss is ours, hers is the infinite gain ?

How that Death is o'ercome, and the gates of life everlasting 1
    Open'd to all that believe ; open'd already to her %

Glows not the sunshine brighter, while thus our hearts are exalted ?
    Breathe not the vernal airs solace and peace to our pains 1

Spreads not the hallowing wish to the deepest recess of our bosoms, --

    O may we be like her ! O may we follow her there !

Thou O beloved ! the child of her heart ; her dearer than daughter !
    Inmate oft of our home ; Inmate most radiant and sweet !

Thou wast by her when last the Easter morning upon her
   Rose with its holy ray, scatter 'd its comforting balm.

Thou wast by her, though rejoicing with thee in that festival's

        blessings,

  IBound in the chain of disease, held from the worshipping throng.

And thou remember'st, when thou and set forth from our hearth

        stone

   Seeking that Altar Rite, seeking Communion with Christ,

Thou remember'st that, when we had parted, yet once she recall'd
        thee,

   And, with that Rite in her heart, bade thee ' Remember her,' there.
Yea, O beloved, and sweet is the thought that now, her Communion

   No disease can disturb ; no separation alloy.
Sweet is the thought that now she enjoys a Communion in heaven ;

   That, the Substance, how true ! This, but the Image, how faint !
And thou would'st ask, in that her Communion, does she remember,

   Does she remember thee ! Thee, 0 beloved ! and me t
Doubt it not, O beloved ! And as we bear in our bosoms

    Memories constant of her, never by time to be dimm'd ;
So be this our trust ;-- as Love descended from heaven,

    Came to conquer Death, crushing the barriers of Time,
So, while the powers of thought endure in life everlasting,

   Love shall survive the grave, victory sweetest of all !
This, 0 belov'd, be the trust that we carry ever within us;

   Though, in our pilgrimage here, ceaseless we grieve at our loss.

Love shall endure. And if Love still guide us, as He has appointed,

   Guide us in purity here. Love shall unite us at last.

                                            1 Collect for Easter Day.
   INDEX.

                             APF                    EDO

Affleck, Lady, widow of Sir Gil          Cavendish, Mr., afterwards Duke of

   bert, Dr. Whewell's second wife,      Devonshire, 127, 148, 526
    502, 613, 627, 534, 537              Chafy, Rev. Dr., Master Sidney
Airy, Sir G. B., Senior Wrangler,            Sussex, 76
    1823, 83, 101, 102, 107, 165, 157,
    169                                  Chalmers, Rev. Dr., 74, 161, 199
Albert, Prince, 270, 302-6, 338,
   341-3, 364, 377, 380, 425, 626        Clarke, Professor Mineralogy, 76
Alsop, Mr., 165                          ;
Austen, Emma, 197, 654
Austin, Mrs. Sarah, wife of John                     by
    Austin, Jurist, 347, 472, 481;
    letters to her, 348, 413, 417, 443,                                                                   ;
    473, 492,501 ; from her, 413,416,    succeeded       Whewell, 121
    418
                                         Coleridge, the Rev. Edward, of Eton,
Benntsojt, Lancaster family of, Mrs.     296 letter to him, 297
    Whewell, "William Whewell's          Coleridge, S. T., discusses him, 28,
   mother, a member of                   31, 32, 75, 94

Bennison, Thomas, 52, 53I.               Dawes, 4th Wrangler, 1817, pupil of
Blakeslev, Rev. W.,21st Wrangler,           Mr. Whewell, afterwards Dean of
            4,                              Hereford, 25
    1831, Fellow and Tutor of Trinity,it,
    Dean of Lincoln, 50                  Denman, Hon. George, contests the
Boadicea, prize poem, 12, 151               University, 454, 457, 460
Brewster, Sir David, 189
Bridlington Quay, 23                     ;De Vere, Aubrey, third son of Sir
Brodie, Sir Benjamin, 190, 428                                  ;Aubrey, and nephew of Lord
Bronte, Miss, 369, 443                      Monteagle, letters to him, 346,
Bunsen, Chevalier, Prussian Minister                                          ;423; his parallel between Dr.
    in England, 269 letter to him,          Whewell and Mr. Kenelm Digby,
    483;                                     39

Cape, 5th Wrangler, 1816, Head           Digby, Kenelm, early pupil of Wil
    Master Addiscombe, 21
                                            liam Whewell, 36 his recollec
Carlyle, Thomas, 196                        tions, 37; Hare's mention of him,
Carnarvon, reading party there, 43,          38 parallel between him and
                                            Whewell, 39 tour in Normandy
    44 45 47                                with Whewell, 85
 Cam's, the Rev. W., 184, 238, 241,      Dolcoath Mine, near Cambourne, 101,
                                             103, 105, 123
     548                                 Douglas, Mrs. Stair; letters to her,
                                             61*, 522, 528, 536, 541, 642, 643,

                                             546, 550, 651

                                         Edqeworth, Maria, 08, 70, 71, 72,
                                            73, 178

                                         Edgeworths, the, 82
588 INDEX.

                            ELL                                                       LTO
Ellis, Robert Leslie, Fellow of
                                                             Hope, Mr. Beresford, gift to the col
   Trinity, brother of Lady Affleck,
   364, 602 ; letter to him, 605 ; his                          lege, 251, 272, 305
   death, 520
                                                             Hudson, Fellow and Tutor of Trinity,
Forbes, Professor James D., 158,
    108 ; letters to him, 536, 637, 543                          5, 8, 22, 26, 84
                                                             Hullah, Mr., 307, 308
Goran, blind mathematician, 6                                Hyde Hall, house near Hatfield
Goulburn, Rt. Hon. S, 148, 302, 454
Graham, 4th Wrangler, 1816: late                                Broad Oak, hired by Sir John
                                                                Malcolm ; Archdeacon Hare's ac
   Bishop of Chester ; late Master of                           count of it, 86 ; Malcolm's depar
    ChristVs, 21,244, 380
Guizot, M. Francois, 348, 354                                    ture, 108, 109, 112, 113, 114, 115.
Gurney, Daniel, 421                                              120, 496
Gurney, Joseph, 157, 179
Gwatkin, of St. John's, Senior                               Ibtisg, Rev. Edward, 74
   Wrangler, 1814, 10; accompanies
    him to London, 10, 17 ; mention,                         Jacob, Senior Wrangler, 1816, 20
    40, 141                                                  Jones, Rev. Richard, of Caius Col

                                                                lege, afterwards Professor of Poli

                                                                tical Economy at Haileybury and
                                                                Tithe Commissioner, 24. 35, 55,
                                                                 106, 122, 153, 170, 181, 194

Hall, the Rev. Robert, Baptist                               ICelty, Miss, author of the ' Favourite
                                                                of Nature,' 84 ; her recollections,
   minister, Leicsster, 19, 93                                  85; 'Story of Isabel,' 101; <Reli
                                                                gious Thoughts,' 110, 126
Hallsteads, 190, 225, 273, 311, 312,
    320, 465, 479, 5.32, 533, 543                            King, Senior Wrangler, 1819, Presd-
                                                                dent of Queen's, Lucasian Professor.
Hamilton, 9th Wrangler, 1816, Dean
   of Salisbury, 21                                             51, 63

Hare, Rev. Julius, Classical Lecturer                        Lancaster, VIII., 1, 3, 5, 8, 9, 11,
   adet acoTnrinoitfy,Susssuebxs,eqfiursetntmlyentAiornchof
                                                                 17, 35, 39, 77, 84, 96, 101, 108,
    him, 33; letter to him, 51; Hare's
   occountofHydeHall,86; reference                           195, 196, 237, 207, 273, 274, 415,
    to him, 95; his charge, 218; letter
   to Lady Malcolm, 113; visit to                            416, 422, 480
    him, 331 ; letters to him, 206,                          Lancaster Blue School, 2, 3, 10
    213, 215, 216, 217, 218, 231, 235,                       Lancaster, Brock Street, 1, 3
    239, 245, 240, 247, 249, 262, 263,
    287, 290, 310, 331 ; letters from                        Lancaster Grammar School, 2, 3

    him, 209, 218, 285, 288, 291;                            Lancaster Gazette, 42
   letter from Dr. Worsley to Hare,
                                                             Lansdowne, Marquess of, 294," 342,
    226
Henslow, Rev. Professor, 76 ; letter                            392
                                                             Lasaubc, M. de, architect, Bonn, 185,
   to him, 138; Whewell spends a
   week with him, 200 ; letter to                                186            picture of Dr.
                                                             Laurence, Samuel,  and Orientalist,
    Miss Henslow, 202, 215 ; letter to
    him, 522                                                    Whewell, 321
' Hermann and Dorothea,' Goethe's,                           Levdon, Dr., poet
    108, 429
Herschel, Sir John, 24, 40, 126, 136,                            104
    189, 190, 226, 272, 380, 441, 620
Heveraham, 5, 6 ; grammar school                             Lingard, Dr., historian, 139
    at Heversham, 5, 0, 39, 436                              Lodge, M., 1,39
Hip-man, 3rd Wrangler, 181 6; Fellow                         Lubbock, Sir John, 147
   mid Tutor Trinity, 21, 50                                 Lyell, Mr., afterwards Sir Charles,

                                                                "144                                  1

                                                             Lyon, Mrs., Aunt of William
                                                                Whewell ; letters to her, 9, 19, 27,

                                                             42, 43, 52, 66, 58, 59, 61, 63, 64
INDEX.                                      589

LIT PBB

   65, 68, 80, 88, 89, 92, 96, 98, 100,     Milman, the Rev. Henry H., Dean
    102, 105, 106, 107, 108, 100, 121,
    122, 125, 146, 154; her death,            of St Paul's, 190, 232, 277, 435
    179, 182                                Milton, Lord, afterwards Earl Fitz-
Lyttelton, Lord, pupil of Dr.
    Whewell ; stands for High Ste              William, 130, 158
    ward, 200; letter to him, 201,          Moderator, William Whewell acted
     234, 403
                                               as, 1820, 1828, 55, 114
Macat/lay, Lord, 296, 357                   Moller, Herr Ober-Baurath, at
 Mackreth, the Rev. Dr., Vicar of
                                                Darmstadt, 128
     Lancaster, 101, 472 ; letters to       Monk, 12th Wrangler, 1812, Fellow
     him, 353, 376, 416, 416, 421, 422,
      425, 436, 447, 506, 513, 531, 632        and Tutor of Trinity ; Professor of
 Mackreth, Mrs., letters to, 490, 500          Greek, subsequently Bishop of
 Malcolm, Sir John, first acquaint              Gloucester, appoints to mathema
     ance, 86 ; Lady Malcolm, 38, 86,          tical lectureship, 1818, 39
     87 ; Miss Kate Malcolm, verses to      Monteagle, Lord, Thomas Spring
     her, 87 ; Sir John, 91 ; let ters to      Rice raised to the peerage as Lord
     Lady Malcolm, 103, 110, 111, 112,          Monteagle, 1839, married the
                                                eldest sister of Mrs. Whewell ;
     1 13 ; letterto her from Julius Hare,      letters to him, 427, 431 ; letters
      note, 113; letter from "Whewell           from him, 184; mentions of him,
      to her, 114; verses for Miss Kate         338,462,471,472
      Malcolm, 115; letter to Lady          Mont St. Michel, 38, 89
                                            Morland, Under-Master at Lancaster,
      Malcolm, 120, 135, 147, 149, 152;         letters to him, 10, 13, 24, 26;
       Hare writes to her, 195; letter          reference to one, 41 ; letter, 44
      from Dr. Whewell to her, 239, 545     Munro, Sir Thomas, life of him, 135
  Malcolm, to Miss Kate, 468, 469,          Musgrave, Fellow of Trinity, after
       472, 474, 484, 489, 403, 549             wards Archbishop of York, 107
  Mansel, Rev. Dr., Master of Trinity,       Myers, Rev. Frederic, married to a
      and Bishop of Bristol, died 1820,         sister of Mrs. Whewell ; marries
       59                                       Dr. and Mrs. Whewell, 225 ; let
  Marshall, James Garth, brother of              ters to him, 260, 308, 317, 325,
      Mrs. Whewell, married to the               336, 349, 350 ; letters from him,
      eldest daughter of Lord Monteagle,         316, 322, 336 ; his death, 419
      268; letters to her, 434, 460;         Myers, Mrs. F., letters to, 448, 450,
       letters to him, 279, 307, 333, 371,       452, 466, 409, 503, 510, 530, 637,
       428, 435, 443, 610, 528                   539, 548
   Marshall, Kate, afterwards Mrs.
      Sumner Gibson, daughter of John        Neville, Dr. Thomas, Master of
      Marshall (junior), and niece of           Trinity College, 1593 to 1616, 205
      Mrs. Whewell, 419; letters to
       her, 426, 432, 437, 438, 447, 465,    Noble, sculptor, statue of Barrow,
       456, 467, 458, 459, 460, 461, 462,        295
        403, 464, 465, 467, 470, 471, 475,
        476, 477, 478, 479, 480, 481, 482,   One, Mrs., 69, 161, 163, 179
        486, 487, 488, 490, 491, 494, 495,   Owen, Professor, his recollections,
        496, 497, 498, 499, 504, 506, 507,
        508, 509, 521, 523, 627, 529, 533,       3, 4, 5 ; prize medal Geological
        534, 635, 638, 544, 546, 548             Society, 191 ; dinner at Lancaster,
   Martin, Rev. Francis, Fellow and              267 ; difficulties with the College
       Tutor of Trinity, associated in the       of Surgeons, 269 200 ; his pension,
        tutorship, 60, 228, 516
    Martineau, Harriet, 153                   Peacock, Rev. George, Fellow and
    Mill, John Stuart, 371, 510                  Tutor of Trinity ; Lowndean Pro
                                                fessor ; Dean of Ely ; first mention,
                                                  60, 149, 167 ; becomes Professor,
                                                  184, 229, 240, 380, 441

                                              Perry,Seuior Wranglerl828; Fellow
590  INDEX.

                        row                                        WHE

    and Tutor of Trinity ; afterwards        first reference to her, 158; lett«
    Bishop of Melbourne ; associated
    with Mr. Whewell in the tutorship         to her, 180; his death, 366
    1833, 48, 60, 166, 157
Powis, Lord, 278, 338, 339, £40           Thtrlwaix, Rev. Oonnop, Assistant
Professor, William Whewell ap-               Tutor of Trinitv, subsequently
                                              Bishop of St. David's, 41, 50, 158,
                 Professor of Mineralogy
   ?»8in2t8e,d 121 ; succeeds Dr. Barnes      163, 169, 211, 234, 289
    as Professor of Casuistry 1838,
    192 ; resigns and is succeeded by     Thorpe, 8th Wrangler 1819, Fellow
     Professor Qrote, 371                    and Tutor of Trinity, late Arch
                                             deacon Bristol, 60, 228, 237
 TilCHMOSD, the Rev. Legh, 19, 74
Rk-kman, writer on architecture,          Thorwaldsen, sculptor, statue of

     136, 141, 146, 146, 147, 153, 178        Byron, 292
                                          Trinity House, preaches for the
Rio, M., 149, 150, 152
Romillv, Mr. Registrarv, 167, 380             Brethren, 174
Rome, "483, 486
Ro.-»e. Rev. Hugh James, Vicar of         Visits of the Queen, 302, 343

    Horsham ; letters to him, 28, 29,     Walk, Prince of, 266, 532
    77, 93, 94, 122, 131, 181 ; visits
    him at Horsham, 80                    Walpole, Right Hon. Spencer, pupil
Rowley, the Rev. Joseph, William             of Dr. W hewell, stands for the
    Whewell's master at the Grammar          representation of the University,
    School, 2, 3, 4 ; reference to his       454,462
    discernment, 39, 173 ; obligations
    to him referred to again, 415;        Webb, Rev. Dr., Master of Clare, 76
    death, 537                            Weekes, sculptor, copied the statue
Ruslrin, John, 464, 465, 4CC, 476
                                             of Lord Bacon, 264
St. Michael's Mount, 125                  Wellington, Duke of, 269, 331, 423
Salvin, architect, 251, 517               Whewell, Ann, sister of William
Sedgwick, Rev. Adam, Fellow of
                                             Whewell, eventually Mrs. Newtcn,
    Trinitv, Woodwardean Professor,           2, 15, 16, 19, 22, 23, 25, 27, 34,
    64,96, 107, 123, 141, 149, 154,           35, 42, 43, 45, 50, 51, 53, 54,
    162, 167, 229, 230, 250, 313, 314,        56, 58, 59, 60, 62, 65, 70, 73. 81,
    315, 334, 365, 371, 373, 374, 380,       82, 83, 84, 89, 90, 92, 96, 97, 98,
    424, 425, 434, 441, 446, 511, 636         101, 102, 103, 105, 107, 108, 109,
Sheepshanks, 10th Wrangler 1816,              121, 122, 123, 126, 134, 138, 139,
   Fellow of Trinitv, 21, 55, 58,59,          140, 143, 144, 145, 153, 155, 156,
    123                                       167, 168, 159, 161, 162, 170, 171,
Shipwreck, Dr. Whewell's, 1819,54             172, 174, 176, 177, 178, 179, 181,
Sidgwick, Henry, 411                          182, 183, 185, 188, 189, 190, 191,
Somerville, Mrs., mention of her visit        192, 193, 195, 196, 197, 198, 199,
    to Cambridge, 142 ; sonnet to her        219, 220, 221, 222, 223, 224, 225,
   on the Mechanism of the Heavens,          232, 238, 240, 241, 268, 269, 272,
    142, 143 ; letter to her, 194, 437       273, 284, 305, 308, 310, 311, 312,
Southev, Robert, 96                          820, 321, 331, 336, 343, 344, 345,
Spain, 512                                   347, 365, 372, 373, 375, 376, 418,
Sped ding, James, 354 ; his Evenings         419, 420, 421, 422, 423, 424, 433,
    with a Reviewer lent to Dr. Whe          435, 442, 485, 496, 500, 508, 609,
   well by Mr. Robert Leslie Ellis ;          611, 612, 523, 530, 645, 547, 552
    letters* to him, 354,358 ; from him,  Whewell, Cordelia, wife of William
   356, 360                                  Whewell, 221, 222, 223, 225,
Spineto, Marchese and Marcheea,              237, 243, 250, 302, 309, 310, 321,
                                             337, 345, 363, 367, 368, 369, 370,
                                             420, 429, 430, 431, 432, 439, 440,
                                             441, 442
                                          Whewell, Elizabeth, sister of
                                     INDEX.                               591

              WIIE                                                      won

William, 2 ; illness 50, 52, 55, 56,                country, 1821, 65; in Scotland,
                                                    68 ; second visit to France 1822,
57, 61, 63 ; her death 64 ; letters                 81 ; tour with Mr. Kenelm Digby
to her, 57, 68                                      in Normandy 1823, 89 ; tour in
Whewell, John, father of William                    Cumberland 1824, 96 ; tour in
Whewell, master carpenter in                        Germany 1825, 98 ; takes priest's
                                                    orders 1826, 105 ; Christmas in
Lancaster, 1, 3 ; letters to him, 6,               Paris 1826, 107; becomes Professor
                                                    of Mineralogy 1828, 121 ; Swiss
8, 9, 11, 12, 15, 16, 18, 20, 21,                   tour 1829, 128; tour with Mr.
                                                    Kickman in Normandy 1832, 145 ;
23 ; his death, 23 ; hesitations as                 Scotch tour 1834, 159 ; eat to Mr.
                                                   Eddisforhis portrait 1835, 170;
    to his son's plans, 32                          went to Ireland 1835, 177 ;
Whewell, John, brother of William,                  Continental tour 1837, 185 ; ap
birth, 1 ; letter to him, 7                         pointed Professor of Casuistry
                                                    1838, 192 ; first visit to Hallsteads
Whewell, Martha, afterwards Mrs.                    1838, 194 ; tour in Germany and
Statter, sister of William Whe                      Holland 1838, 195 ; engagement
well, 2 ; letters to her, 53, 64, 68,               1841, 222 ; marriage, 225 ; ap
                                                    pointed Master of Trinity College,
69, 73, 99, 124, 141, 186, 187 ;                    227 ; Lancaster dinner 1842, 267 ;
                                                    visit of the Duke of Wellington,
letters to her daughter, Miss                       269; visit to Tunbridge Wells,
                                                    272 ; admonitions from Hare, 284 ;
    Statter,  541      --  Academic  Hi&-           Royal visit 1843, 302 ; he breaks
Whewell,                                            a rib, 306 ; Mr. Laurence's picture
              William                               1845, 321 ; second Royal visit
                                                    1847, 343; Christmas in Paris
tory-- 1808-18, 39-41 ; Assistant                   1847, 347 ; serious anxiety about
Tutor, Tutor, Professor, 47-50 ; cor                Mrs. Whewell's health, 425 ; her
respondence with Mr. Thirlwall,                     death 1855, 445; elegiacs (given
163-70 ; candidate for Lowndean                     in Appendix) written, 452 ; he
                                                    goes to Italy 1856, 483 ; returns
Professorship, 1836, 184 ; becomes                  to Trinity, 489 ; his second mar
Professor of Casuistry 1838, 190 ;                  riage 1858, 503; death of Lady
supports candidature of Lord                        Affleck 1865, 537 ; last Christmas
Lyttelton for High Stewardship,                     at Lowestoft, 549 ; accident, 552 ;
1840, 200; stall at Ely, 203-4;
Mastership, 1841, 227 ; divinity                    death, 555
course, 244-9 ; improvement of                   Wilkinson, the Rev. Henry, after
the Lodge, 251-60 ; statue of
Bacon, 264 ; visits of Judges of                    wards Head Master of Seuburgh
                                                    School, is Moderator along with
Assize and Roval Persons, 264-6 ;                   William Whewell, 55 ; letters to
Vice-Chancellorship of 1842, 274-
9 ; statues and busts, 292-6 ;                      him, 60, 76, 126, 127, 130, 137,
                                                     141 ; his death, 191
missionary clergy, 296-9 ; College               Woolner, Thomas, sculptor, 295,
expenditure, 296-301 ; picture                   Worsley, Rev. T., Master of Dow
                                                    ning College, 217, 226, 237, 331
-and statue, 312-316 ; Prince                    Wordsworth, William, 28, 31, 32,
                                                    33, 66, 67, 75, 94, 96, 159, 237,
Consort Chancellor, 338 43 ;                        267, 273
Professor of Civil Law, 344 ;                    Wordsworth, Rev. Dr. Christopher,
                                                    Master of Trinity, 59, 225, 334
University reforms, 377^13 ;
second Vice-Chancellorship, 453-
5 ; courts and foundations, 616-
20; Duke of
cellor, 526-7.  DDoemvoenstsihcirHeistoCrhyan--
Birth, May 24, 1794, 1 ; goes to

Heversham School, 1810, 5 ;

entered at Trinity, 1811, 5 ;
goes to Cambridge 1812, 8 ; takes

B.A. degree 1816, 20 ; elected
Fellow 1817, 35; made Mathe

matical Lecturer 1818,47; ship
wreck 1819, 54 ; first foreign tour
1820, 55; tour in the Lake

                Spottuwoode (£ Co., Printers, New-slrett Squart, London.
                          A LIST OF

C. KEG AN PAUL & CO.'S
       PUB LICA TIONS.

                                                                                                                                                3.81.
                                                                 I rattrnoster Square,
                                                                                                    London.

                      A LIST OF

C. KEGAN PAUL & CO.'S

          PUBLICATIONS.

ADAMS (F.               O.) F.R.G.S.-- The History of Japan.           From     the Earliest
                Period                                                             With Maps
                        to the Present Time. New Edition, revised. 2  volumes.

and Plans. Demy 8vo. price 2is. each.

ADAMSON (H. T.) B.D.--The Truth as it is in Jesus. Crown 8vo.

              cloth, price Ss. td.

The Three Sevens. Crown 8vo. cloth, price $s. 6d.
A. K. H. B. -- From a Quiet Place. A New Volume of Sermons.
Crown 8vo. cloth, price $s.
ALBERT (Mary). -- Holland and her Heroes to the                                 year
                                                                                        1585.
            An Adaptation from ' Motley's Rise of the Dutch Republic'            Small  crown

                8vo. price 41. 6d.

ALLEN (Rev. R.) M.A. --Abraham ; his Life, Times, and Travels,
              3,800 years ago. With Map. Second Edition. Post 8vo. price fir.

ALLEN (Grant) B.A. --Physiological Esthetics. Large post 8vo. 9*.
ALLIES (T. IV.) M.A.--Pek Crucem ad Lucem.
              Life. 2 vols. Demy 8vo. cloth, price 25*.               The Result of a

A Life's Decision. Crown 8vo. cloth, price 7*. 6d.
                                                  Tables for     Facilitating
ANDERSON                E(Rve. rCy.)DCe.tEa.i--l                  with Earthen  the Calcula
                                                  in connection
           tion of                                                                and Masonry

              Dams. Royal 8vo. price £2. 2s.

ARCHER (Thomas)-- About my Father's Business. Work amidst the

              Sick, the Sad, and the Sorrowing. Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. price 2s. 6d.

ARNOLD (Arthur) --Social Politics. Demy 8vo. cloth, price 14X.

Free Land. Crown 8vo. cloth, price 6s.

BADGER (George Percy) D.C.L. --An English-Arabic Lexicon. In
              which the equivalent for English Words and Idiomatic Sentences are rendered
              into literary and colloquial Arabic. Royal 4to. cloth, price £% oj.

BAGEHOT (Walter)-- -The English Constitution. A New Edition,
              Revised and Corrected, with an Introductory Dissertation on Recent Changes
              and Events. Crown 8vo. price "js. 6d.
Lombard Street. A Description of the Money Market. Seventh
              Edition. Crown 8vo. price Is. 6d.

      Some Articles on the Depreciation of Silver, and Topics
           connected with it. Demy 8vo. price $s.

BAGOT (Alan)-- Accidents in Mines : Their Causes and Prevention.

             Crown 8vo. price 6t.
             C. Kegan Paul & Co.'s Publications.                                                                                                                                                3

BAKER (Sir Sherston, Bart.) -- Halleck's International Law ; or,

            Rules Regulating the Intercourse of States in Peace and War. A New Edition,
                    writehlaNtoitnesgantdo
J.BALDWINrevised,                           Cases. 2 vols. Demy 8vo.        price 3&r.       price         1 2s.                                                                                6d.
                                                                            8vo. cloth,
      The Laws                              Quarantine. Crown
                                      ofH.B)eFn.gZa.lS.           SNtaofrfthC-oWrpess.--terTnhePrLovairngcees  and
                       (Cqpt.                             Bengal                                                 of
             Small Game                                  and the
BARNEInSdia( .Wi4lltioa. m)W--ithAnnumOeurotulsinIellustoraftioEnns.glisSheconSd peEedictihocn.raftP.rice
                                                                                                           2 is.

                                                                                                           Crown

          8vo. price  o4fs.  Redecraft      (Logic).              With English Wording.                    Crown

    Outlines

             8vo. cloth, price 3*.
BARTLEY(G. C. T.)--Domestic Economy : Thrift in Every-Day Life.
             Taught in Dialogues            suitable for children of all ages. Small         cPr. h8ivloo. lporicgeic2sa. l
BA  UR                                                                      Maulbronn. -- A
             In(Fterorddinuacntido)n  Dr.   PGhr.e, ePkrofaensdsoLr aitnin    for Students.     Translated and
                                        to
             adapted from the German. By C. Kegan Paul, M.A. Oxon., and the
             Rev. E. D. Stone, M.A., late Fellow of King's College, Cambridge, and
             Assistant Master at Eton. Crown 8vo. price 6s.
BA  YNES (Rev. Canon R.                     H.) --At the Communion Time. A
                                                                                             Manual
         for Holy Communion.                 With a preface by the Right Rev. the Lord
             Derry and Raphoe. Cloth, price is. (xi.                                         Bishop of

BELL1NGHAM (Henry) M.P., Barrister-at-Law --Social Aspects of

           Catholicism and Protestantism in their Civil Bearing upon Nations,
             Translated and adapted from the French of M. lc Baron de Haulleville. With
             a preface by His Eminence Cardinal Manning. Second and Cheaper Edition,
             Crown 8vo. price y. 6d,
BENT (J. Theodore)-- -Genoa : How the Republic Rose and Fell. With
             18 Illustrations. Demy 8vo. cloth, price \%s.

BONW1CK (J.) F.R.G.S.--VYRAmD Facts and Fancies. Crown 8vo.
         price 5s.
                      Belief          and   Modern       Thought.                 Large Post 8vo. cloth,
    Egyptian
             price ioj. 6d.
BO WEN (H. C.) M.A., Head Master of the Grocers' Company's Middle
             Class School at Hackney.

    Studies in English, for the use of Modern Schools. Small crown
             8vo. price is. 6d.
    English Grammar for Beginners. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, price is.
BBORIWDRGJGoINErhenGTaTtBoB(wSr(RiritireanvginJ..o.hTnW.)2.itvE--ho.ls)MA,--eudmetmooHiyrbibsi8oyvtogoL.rercawylopinthho,iBcfp.arBictloehweRir&einf.cHgo.ollleyDcemtiEoyun8cvsoh. aporriicfset  Sir

                                                                                                                                                                                                14J.

                                                                                                                                                                                                 in

BRODRICK (the Hon. G. C) --Political Studies. Demy 8vo. cloth,

                price 14s.

BROOKE (Rev. S. A.) M.A., Chaplain in Ordinary to Her Majesty the

            Queen, and Minister of Bedford Chapel, Bloomsbury.

     Life and Letters of the Late Rev. F. W. Robertson, M.A.,
             Edited by.
    I. Uniform with the Sermons. 2 vols. With Steel Portrait.
    IIIII..  Library Edition. 8vo.          With Portrait. Price                             Price Js. 6d.
                                            I vol. 8vo. price 6s.
             A Popular Edition. In                                          12s.

                                                         A2
4 A List of

BROOKE (Rev. S. A.) M.A.--coni.
The Fight of Faith. Sermons preached on various occasions.
     Third Edition. Crown 8vo.
                                          price Js.    (kf.       Coleridge,                 Wordsworth,
Theology in the English
                                          Poets.      -- Cowper,

and Bums. Fourth and Cheaper Edition. Post 8vo. price 5*.
Christ in Modern Life. Fourteenth and Cheaper Edition. Crown

      8vo. price 5/.                   Eleventh Edition.          Crown 8va price 6s.

Sermons. First Series.

Sermons. Second Series. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. price ^s.
Frederick Denison Maurice : The Life and Work of. A
              Memorial Sermon. Crown 8vo. sewed, price is.

BROOKE (W. G.) M.A. --The Public Worship Regulation Act.

             With a Classified Statement of its Provisions, Notes, and Index. Third
           Edition, revised and corrected. Crown 8vo. price y. (>d.

      Six Privy Council Judgments -- 1850-72. Annotated by. Third

              Edition. Crown 8vo. price ox.

BROUNAug(uJs.tiaA.M)--allMeya.gneVtoilc.  L     Observations      at Trevandrum                       and
                                                 4to. price 6y.

                The Report from above, separately, sewed, price 21s.

BROWN (Rev. J. Baldwin) B.A.--The Higher Life. Its Reality,
     Experience, and Destiny. Fifth              Edition.    CrLoiwgnh8tvo.opfricteh5e*.
                                                                                             Gospel   of
Doctrine of Annihilation                          in the
     Love. Five Discourses. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. price 2s. bd.
                                                                                                      of
The Christian Policy of Life. A Book for Young Men
    Business. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. cloth, price, y. 6d.

BROWN (J. Croumbie) LL.D. --Reboisement in France; or, Records
              of the Replanting of the Alps, the Cevennes, and the Pyrenees with Trees,
              Herbage, and Bush. Demy 8vo. price 12s. 6d.
     The Hydrology of Southern Africa. Demy 8vo. price 10s. 6d

BROWaNPErefa(ceW.byRt.h)e--RTevh. eJ.  Inspiration of        the New                  Testament.      With

                                       P. Norris, D.D.         Fcp. 8vo.              cloth, 2j. 6d.

BURCKHARDT                 (iJnacIotba)l--y.-ThAeuthCoriisveidliztaratnisolantion,of   the   Period of the

             Renaissance                                                              by S.  G. C. Middlemore.

2 vols. Demy 8vo. price 24/.

BURTON          H(Morlys.  Richard)-- -The Inner Life            of Syria, Palestine,                 and

           the             Land. With Maps, Photographs,          and Coloured Plates. 2              vols.
Second Edition. Demy 8vo. price 24s.
%* Also a Cheaper Edition in one volume. Large post 8vo. cloth, price lor. W.

BURTORuNine(CdapMt.idRiaicnhitaerdCitFie.s)--.  The Gold        Mines                 of Midian and the
With numerous illustrations.                     A Fortnight's
                                                                 Tour in                North Western Arabia.

                                                Second Edition. Demy 8vo. price i&r.

The Land of Midian Revisited. With numerous Illustrations on
Wood and by Chromolithography. 2 vols. Demy 8vo. cloth, price 32/.
                                                      Life
BUSBETChQornt(oOngicrForGshtiesre,linMd.Ae.),--  His         and Letters.                      By Charles
2 vols. Wilh Frontispieces.                           F. H.   Blackburne                     Daniell, M.A,
                                                 and

                                                Demy 8vo. cloth, price 24J.
                        &C. Kegan Paul                        Co.'s Publications.                                                         5

CANDLER (II.) --The Groundwork of Belief. Crown 8vo. cloth,
price ys.
CARPENTER (Dr. Philip P.)-- His Life and Work. Edited by his
brother, Russell Lant Carpenter. With Portrait and Vignettes.                                                                             Second

Edition. Crown 8vo. cloth, price ys. 6d.                                                  Principles
CARPEoNf TMEeRnta(l WP.hyBs.i)oloLgLy..D.,WMith.Dt.h,eirF.ARp.pSli.c,ati&oncs --toThthee
                                                                                          Training and
Discipline of the Mind, and the Study of its Morbid Conditions. Illustrated.
Fifth Edition. 8vo. price 12s.
CHEYNECERVAAWNiNtThewENoSTtrea--sn. sTlah3teiovnolIsnf.rgomeDnetihomeuyOs8rvigKoi.nnapilrgsichoeft412D6s0.o5 nandQu16i0x8o. teBydeA.lJa.
                                                                                                                                          Mancha.
                                                                                                                                          Duffield.

                        (Rev. T. A*.)--The Prophecies of Isaiah. Translated with
Critical Notes and Dissertations.                        2 vols. Demy 8vo. cloth, price 25s.
CLAYDEN (P. W.)-- England under Lord Beaconsfield. The
Political History of the Last Six Years, from the end of 1873 to the beginning
of 1880. Second Edition, with Index and continuation to March 1880. Demy

8vo. cloth, price lbs.

CLODD (Edward) F.R.A.S.-- The Childhood of the World: a
Simple Account of Man in Early Times. Sixth Edition.                               Crown 8vo. price 3* .

     A Special Edition for Schools. Price is.
The Childhood of Religions. Including a Simple Account of the
Birth and Growth of Myths and Legends. Third Thousand. Crown 8vo.

price A5-rS. pecial Edition for Schools. Price is. 6V.

Jesus of Nazareth. With a brief sketch of Jewish History to the

     Time of His Birth. Small crown 8vo. cloth, price 6s.

COGHLAN (J.                    Cole)           D.D. -- The Modern Pharisee          and                                                    other
              Sermons.       Edited                                                D.D.,
                                               by the Very Rev. H. H. Dickinson,                                                          Dean of

Chapel Royal, Dublin. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. cloth, ys. 6d.
COLERIDGE (Sara)--Phantasmion.
              ductory Preface by the Right Hon.                  A   Fairy Tale.      With an Intro
                                                                                   Ottery St. Mary. A
                                                              Lord  Coleridge, of

New Edition. Illustrated. Crown 8vo. price ys. 6d.
Memoir and Letters of Sara Coleridge. Edited by her Daughter.
With Index. Cheap Edition. With one Portrait. Price ys. 6d.
                                               --The
COLLINS                 (pMriocertiym.e6rd) .         Secret  of  Long  Life.      Small crown 8vo.

                cloth,

CONNELL (A.                  pKri.c)e--yD. 6isJ.content  and  Danger    in India.         Small crown
                8vo. cloth,
COOKE (Prof. J. P.) of the Harvard University. --Scientific Culture.
Crown 8vo. price 1/.
                             J.P)ri--ncTiphlees.  Art of Furnishing on
COOPER (H.                                            New and Cheaper Edition.     Rational                                               and

            iEsTHETic                                                              Fcap. 8vo.                                             cloth,

             price is. td.                     M.D. --  Health.       Crown 8vo. cloth,                                                   price 6s.

CORFIELD {Professor)                                    Modern      English History.                                                        Part I. --
CORY M( DWCilCliCamXV)--.-MAD. CGCuCidXeXXt.o
                                                         Demy 8vo.   cloth, price 9s.

COURTNEY (W. L.) --The Metaphysics of John Stuart Mill.
Crown 8vo. cloth, price 5s. 6d.
6 A List of

COX  (REeva.rlSieirstGePoergreiodIV.t)oMth.Ae.,enBdarot.f  --A   History  of Greece                                                   from the
                                                            the
                                                                 Persian  War. New                                                    Edition. 2

     vols. Demy 8vo.  price 36*.          Aryan            Nations.  New Edition.                                                     2 vols.

The Mythology         of the

A     Demy 8vo.      Hpriicseto2&r*y. of  Greece           from  the Earliest  Period to the

     General
     Death of Alexander the Great, with a sketch of the subsequent History
     to the present time. New Edition. Crown 8vo. price Js. 6d.
Tales of Ancient Greece. New Edition. Small crown 8vo. price 6s.
School History of Greece. New Edition. With Maps. Fcp. 8vo.

      price 3s. 6d.                       from             the   History   of                                                         Herodotus.

The Great Persian War
     New Edition. Fcp. 8vo. price y. 6d.
A Manual of Mythology in the form of Question and Answer.
     New Edition. Fcp. 8vo. price 3*.

COX (RPeovp. uSlairr JONESRGo.maIVn.c)esM.oAf .,thBe aMrti,ddalned Ages. Secon(dEusEtdaictieon,HiinntoIn)v--ol.
              Crown 8vo. cloth, price 6s.

COX (Rev. Samuel)-- Salvator Mundi ; or, Is Christ the Saviour of all
     Men ? Sixth     Edition. Crown 8vo. price
                                                                 $s.       mainly expository.
The Genesis          of Evil, and other
                                                                 Sermons,

     Second Edition. Crown 8vo. cloth, price 6s.
A Commentary on the Book of Job. With a Translation. Demy
              8vo. cloth, price 15*.
                                          for              Light:    Sermons.                                                         Crown 8vo.
CRAUFURD (A. II.)-- Seeking
CRA VENcloth, (Mprricse.)$--s. A Year's Meditations. Crown 8vo. cloth, price 6s.
CRA WFURD (Oswalay-- Portugal, Old and New. With Illustrations
     and Maps. Demy 8vo. cloth, price \6s.
CROMPTON (Henry) -- Industrial Conciliation. Fcap. 8vo.
     price 2s. 6d.
CR0Z1ER (John Beattie) MB.--The Religion of the Future.
     Crown 8vo. cloth, price 6s.
DALTON (John Neale) M.A., R.N.-- Sermons to Naval Cadets.
     Preached on board H.M.S. 'Britannia.' Second Edition. Small crown 8vo.

     cloth, price J*. 6d.
DAVIDtSraOnsNlat(eRdev.froSmamthueel)       D.D.,   LL.D. --The
                                          Latest                              New Testament,
                                                   Greek Text of           Tischendorf. A New
     and thoroughly revised Edition. Post 8vo. price icv. 6d.
     Canon of the Bible : Its Formation, History, and Fluctuations.
          Third and  revised Edition.        Small crown
                                                                 8vao.ndpricMe 5o*.rality.
     VIES (Rev.          L.) M.A.         --Theology
J.DA                                                                                                                                  Essays on
DAWSONQEudeitsetidon(bsGyeohofi.sB) eWliiMefef..aAn.dF--iPfrtaPhcrtEaicdyeit.eiorns.C,rowCwnroitw8hvno.8avpor.icDe6issJ.sc.o6uar'.se
                                                                                                                                      on Prayer.

     Sermons on Disputed Points and Special Occasions. Edited by
          his Wife. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. price 6s.

     Sermons on Daily Life and Duty. Edited by his Wife. Third
     Edition. Crown 8vo. price 6s.
    C. Kegan Paul & Co.'s Publications.                                                             7

BE REDCLIFFE               (VFiisfcthouEndtitioSnt.ratfCorrodw) n  P.C., K.G.,     G.C.B.--Why  am  I
                                                                    8vo. price y.
            A Christian ?

DESPREZ {Philip S.) B.D.-- Daniel and John ; or, the Apocalypse of
               the Old and that of the New Testament. Demy 8vo. cloth, price l2s.

DE  TOofC, QwUithEVNIaLsLsaEu  (WA.i)ll--iamCorrSeesnpioorn, defronmce     and     Conversations

       M. C. M. Simpson.       2 vols, post 8vo. price 2i*.             1834 to    1859. Edited by

DO WDEN (Edward) LL.D.-- Shakspere : a Critical Study of his Mind

             and Art. Fifth Edition. Post 8vo. price 12s.

      Studies in Literature, 1789-1877. Large Post 8vo. price \2S.
DREWRY (G. 0.) MB--The Common-Sense Management of the
             Stomach. Fifth Edition. Fcp. 8vo. price 2s. 6d.

DRECWupRaYnd(G.Pl0a.)ttMe.rD:.,   and BARTLETT (H.                      C.) Ph.D., ECS.         and

                                 or, Notes on Food and                  its Effects. New

    Cheaper Edition. Small 8vo. price is. 6d.

DU MOPhNoCnoEgLrap(hC. ounWt)it--h 7T4hIellusTtreatleiopnsh.onSem, altlhcerowMn i8cvroo. pchloothn, ep, ricae n5d*. the
EDEN (Frederick) --The Nile without a Dragoman. Second Edition.
               Crown 8vo. price "js. (xi.

EDGEWORTH (F. Y.).-- Mathematical Psychics. An Essay on
               the Application of Mathematics to Social Science. Demy 8vo cloth 7*. 6d.

EDJS (Robert W.) F.S.A. &>c.-- Decoration and Furniture of Town
             Houses : a Series of Cantor Lectures, delivered before the Society of Arts,
             1880. Second Edition, Amplified and Enlarged. With 29 Full-page Illus
               trations and numerous Sketches. Square 8vo. cloth, price I2*. (xi.

Educational Code of the Prussian Nation, in its Present Form.

             In accordance with the Decisions of the Common Provincial Law, and with
               those of Recent Legislation. Crown 8vo. cloth, price 2s. 6d.

ELSDALE (Henry)--Studies in Tennyson's Idylls. Crown 8vo.

    price 5*.
EL YOT (Sir Thomas)--The Boke
    from the First Edition of     1531 by   HneanmryedHetrhbeertGSotueephrnenouCrr.oft,EdMi.tAe.d,
    Barrister-at-Law. With       Portraits
                                            of Sir Thomas and Lady Elyot, copied by
    permission of her Majesty from Holbein's Original Drawings at Windsor Castle.
    2 vols. fcp. 4to. cloth, price 50*.
EVANS (Mark) --The Story
               Fifth and Cheaper Edition.  of our Father's Love, told to Children.
                                           With Four Illustrations. Fcp. 8vo. price u. 6d.
    A Book of Common Prayer and Worship for Household TJse^
    compiled exclusively from the Holy Scriptures. Fcp. 8vo. price is.
    The Gospel of Home Life. Crown 8vo . cloth, price 4*. 6d.
    The King's Story- Book. In Three Parts. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, price

          1*. 6d. each.

%* Parts I. and II. with Eight Illustrations and Two Picture Maps, now ready.

EX- CIVILIAN. --Life in the Mofussil: or Civilian Life in Lower
    Bengal. 2 vols. Large post 8vo. price 14*.
s A List of

FIELD (Heraer) B.A.             Lend. --The                         Ultimate  Triumph       of Christianity.
              Small crown Sro.  cloth, price y.
                                                                    6d

FINN (The kit James) M.R.A.S.-- Stirring Times; or, Records from
        Jerusalem   Consular    Chronicles of                       V1i8sc5o3unttoess185S6.traEndgitfeodrda.nd     Compiled by
        nis Widow   ; with a    Preface by the                                                                  2   vols. Demy

        Svo. price 30J.

Folkestone Ritval Case : the Arguments, Proceedings, Judgment, and

              Report. Demy Sro. price 15*.

FORMB Y            C(Rhewvs.tiaHnenRreyl)ig--ioAnnc: iAenntOuRtlionme eof     and    its Connection                   with

              THE                                                              the  History of the City              from its
        First Foundation down to the Erection of the Chair of St. Peter, A. D. 42-47.
        With numerous Illustrations of Ancient Monuments, Sculpture, and Coinage,
        and of the Antiquities of the Christian Catacombs. Royal                                                   cloth extra,
        £3. ico ; roxburgh half-morocco, £2. 12s. (xi.
FOU'LE (Rtr. T. If.) M.A. --The Reconciliation of Religion and
        Science.    Being        Essays on  iIomj.mortality,                  Inspiration,  Miracles,           and  the Being
        of Christ.  Demy        Sro. price
The Divine Legation of Christ. Crown 8vo. cloth, price 7J.

FRASERRlTK(KDtCmVMaULE)X--CYE, xucphoannagneew                      Tables of Sterling and Indian

                                                                    and extended system, embracing Values from
        One Farthing to One Hundred Thousand Pounds, and at rates progressing, in
        Sixteenths of a Penny, from 1/. $J. to 2s. yd. per Rupee. Royal 8vo. price
        tot. 64
(/FR/Slt'ELL
                         Hain)--The Better Self.                                    Essays for Home Life.
        Crown Sro. price 6f.

GARDXLikEeRaf(teJ.r)   Jf.D.    -- Longevity                        : The     Means of Prolonging

                      Middle     Age. Fourth                        Edition,  revised and enlarged. Small

        crown Svo. price 4J.

GEBLER [Karl Ven) --Galileo Galilei and the Roman Curia, from
fc^^jU  Authentic Sources. Translated with the sanction                                     of the Author,           by Mrs.

        Geoege Sttege. Demy 8m cloth, price 12s.

GEDDEWDeSimtty,{SJvGaomr.anecdlso)th--P,enHpsriiicosentaoiryyr.yof  of the    Administration        of John de
                                                                              Vol. L 1623 -- 1654.
                                                                    Holland.                         With Portrait.

GEORGE (Henry)-- Progress and Poverty : an Inquiry into the
        Causes of Industrial Depressions, and of Increase of Want with Increase of
        Wealth. The Remedy. Post Svo. cloth, price Js. &/.
GILBERT (Mrs.) --Autobiography and other Memorials. Edited

            by Josiah Gilbert. Third and Cheaper Edition. With Steel Portrait and
              several Wood Engravings. Crown Svo. price 7/. 6d.

GILL (Rev.         W. W.)B.A.-- Myths and Songs from the South                                                       Pacific.
            With
                   a Preface by F. Max Muller, M.A., Professor of Comparative                                        Philology

        at Oxford. Post Svo. price 9/.

GLOVER (F.) M.A.-- Exempla Latina. A First Construing Book with.

            Short Notes, Lexicon, and an Introduction to the Analysis of Sentences. Fcp.
              Svo. cloth, price 2J.
C. Kegan Paul & Co.'s Publications.                                                   9

GODWINporari(eWs. illiaWmith)  --William           Godwin:      His                   Friends and Contem

                               Portraits and       Facsimiles  of the                 Handwriting of Godwin and
his Wife. By C. Kegan Paul. 2 vols.                                                   post 8vo. price 28j-.
                                                                Large

The Genius of Christianity Unveiled. Being Essays never

      before published. Edited, with a Preface, by C. Kegan Paul. Crown 8vo.
      price "js. 6d.

GOLDSMID (Sir Francis Henry) Bart., Q. C, M.P.--Wlzhiom of. With
               Portrait. Crown 8vo. cloth, price 5.1.

J.GOODENO UGH (Commodore G.) R.N., C.B., C.M.G.-- Memoir of,
             with Extracts from his Letters and Journals. Edited by his Widow. With
              Steel Engraved Portrait. Square 8vo. cloth, Jr.

              Also a Library Edition with Maps, Woodcuts, and Steel Engraved Portrait.
                                                       Square post 8vo. price 14J.

GOSSEEu(rEodpem. unWdithWa.)F--ronStitsupdieicees    in the      Literature           of Northern
post 8vo. cloth, price \2s.
                                                   designed and   etched by Alma       Tadema. Large

GOULD (Hev. S. Baring) M.A. --The Vicar of Morwenstow: a Memoir

             of the Rev. R. S. Hawker. With Portrait. Third Edition, revised. Square

                post 8vo. 1or. 6d.

Germany, Present and Past. 2 vols. Large crown 8vo. cloth, price
      31/.

GRIFFITH ( Thomas) A.M.-- The Gospel of the Divine Life : a
              Study of the Fourth Evangelist. Demy 8vo. cloth, price 14J.

GRIMLSEpiYritu(Rael v.BHod.yN, .)thMe.AU.n--seTernemWaodroldc,   Sermons,             chiefly on the
                                                                 and the
                                                                                      Divine Humanity.

Second Edition. Crown 8vo. price 6s.

GR UNER (M. L.) --Studies of Blast Furnace Phenomena. Trans

            lated by L. D. B. Gordon, F. R. S. E., F. G. S. Demy 8vo. price "js. 6d.

GURNEY (Rev. Archer) -- Words of Faith and Cheer. A Mission
              of Instruction and Suggestion. Crown 8vo. price 6s.

HAECKEL                  b(PyrPorfo.fesEsronr sEt.)R--ayThLaenkHesitsetro, rMy.Ao.,f  Creation. Translation
                                                                                      F.R.S. With Coloured Plates
                revised
and Genealogical Trees of the various groups of both plants and animals.
2 vols. Second Edition. Post 8vo. cloth, price 32*.

The History of the Evolution of Man. With numerous Illustra
tions. 2 vols. Post 8vo. price 321.

Freedom in Science and Teaching. With a Prefatory Note by
    T. H. Huxley, F.R.S. Crown 8vo. cloth, price £r.

HAKE (A. Egmont) -- Paris Originals, with Twenty Etchings, by

           Leon Richeton. Large post 8vo. price 141.

HALLECJCS International                       Law  ;A  or, Rules Regulating the Inter
              course of States in Peace and
                                             War.      New Edition, revised, with Notes and
1· Cases, by Sir Sherston Baker, Bart. 2 vols. Demy 8vo. price 38*.
IO A List of

HARTIXGTOX (The Righi Hon. the Marquis of) J/I.P.-- Election
Speeches      :n 1879         and    iSSo. With Address               to the  Hectors  of North East
I jnntshire.     Crown
                              Svo.  doth, price y. (xl.

ISHA        (--ReCvr.imeH.--  RDr.u)nkMen~neAs.s----CPuaurpreernismt  Coin. Materialism -- The
WE
                                                                      -- Emotion -- Recreation -- The
      Dev3
Sabbath. Third Edition. Croim Svo. price 6x.

Speech in Season. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo. price gs.
Thoughts for
Unsectarian    the Times. Eleventh Edition.                            Crown 8vo. price    7*. 6d.
               Family Prayers. New and                                Cheaper Edition.       Fcp.

Svo- price Ix. 6d^
Arrows in the Air. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. cloth, price 6*.

HA WKISS (EJzxirds Ctmerford) -- Spirit and Form. Sermons
preached in the Parish Church of Leatherhead.                         Crown Svo. cloth, price 6s.

H\HAYES {A.    >w.-New Colorado and the Santa Fe Trail.
With Map and 60 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. cloth, price or.

HEIDEXHAIX^Rudolf) MJ).                  --Animal Magnetism : Physiological
VObosoeirovuadtiocni,s.      Translated  from the Fourth German Edition by L. C.
price 2s. 6J.            with a Preface
                                           by G. R. Romanes, F.R.S. Crown Svo.

HELLWALDA     (Barvn E.             Von) --The Russians                       in   Central Asia.
Critical                                                                      of
              Examination,          down to the Present Time,                     the Geography and
              of Central Asia. Translated by Lieut -CoL                       Theodore     Wirgman,
HIXis.toBr.y  With Map. Large post Svo. price lis.

HINTOpEOrNsriscgaeay(nsyJi..co)6n--itaThnhrdeLaIPwnloaorcgreaHnuoimcf atnWhLeoifreldP, sha.ynsdicSioaencno.ntdheTEdoRiteiowlnah.tiicohnCsroiswbentawdedSevenod-.
Physiology for Practical Use. By Various Writers. With
     50 Illustrations. Third and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. price $1.

An Atlas of Diseases of the Mem bran a Tympani. With Descrip
tive Teat. Post Svo. price £6. 6s.
The Questions                of Aural    Surgery.                     With Illustrations.
      Tost Svo. price                                                                      2 vols.
                            if. 6J.
                         I

Chapters on the Art of Thinking, and other Essays. With an

     Introduction by Shadworth Hodgson. Edited by C. H. Hinton. Crown
     8vo. cloth, price Sr. 6J.
The Mystery of Pain. New Edition. Fcap. 8vo. cloth limp, is.
Life and Letters,
                              GiEldl,iteBdart.h, yanEd llPiocrteraitHeonpgrkaivnesd,    with an Intro
     duction by Sir W. W.                                                             on Steel by C. H.
Jeens. Third Edition. Crown Svo. price 8r. 6J.
HOOPER (M<"y) --Little Dinners : How to Serve them with

             Elegance and Economy. Thirteenth Edition. Crown Svo. price 5*.

Cookery for Invalids, Persons of Delicate Digestion, and

    Children. Crown Svo. price y. 6d.

Every-Day Meals. Being Economical and Wholesome Recipes for
    Breakfast, Luncheon, and Supper. Second Edition. Crown Svo. cloth, price y.
r
      C. Kegan Paul & Co.'s Piiblications.

HOPKINS {Ellice) --Life               and Letters of       James     Hinton,      with     an
                                                                                           by
             Introduction by Sir W.   W. GuiX, Bart., and  Portrait  engraved on    Steel
      C. H. Jeens. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. price is. 6d.

HORNER (The Misses) -- Walks in Florence. A New and thoroughly

             Revised Edition. 2 vols. Crown 8vo. Cloth limp. With Illustrations.

      Vol.       I.      --  Churches, Streets, and Palaces.  Price xos. 6d.
      Vol.      II.      --  Public Galleries and Museums.    Price $s.

HULL (Edmund C. P.)--The                European in India.            With a Medical
              Guide for Anglo-Indians.  By R. S. Mair, M.D.,         F.R.C.S.E. Third
      Edition, Revised and Corrected. Post 8vo. price 6s.

HUTTON (Arthur) M.A. --The Anglican Ministry : its Nature and

             Value in relation to the Catholic Priesthood. With a Preface by His Eminence
              Cardinal Newman. Demy 8vo. cloth, price 14/.

JENKINS (E.) and RAYMOND (/.)-- The Architect's Legal
             Handbook. Third Edition, Revised. Crown 8vo. price 6s.

JENKINS (Rev. R. C.) M.A.-- The Privilege of Peter and the Claims
             of the Roman Church confronted with the Scriptures, the Councils, and the
            Testimony of the Popes themselves. Fcap. 8vo. price y. 6d.

JENNINGS (Mrs. Vaughan) -- Rahel : Her Life and Letters. With
               a Portrait from the Painting by Daffinger. Square post 8vo. price "]s. 6d.

JOEL  (PLr.a) c--tiAcalCoGnusuidle's   Manual and Shipowner's and Shipmaster's
                                      in their Transactions Abroad. With Definitions of
      Nautical, Mercantile, and Legal Terms ; a Glossary of Mercantile Terms in
      English, French, German, Italian, and Spanish; Tables of the Money, Weights,
      and Measures of the Principal Commercial Nations and their Equivalents in
      British Standards ; and Forms of Consular and Notarial Acts. Demy 8vo.

      cloth, price 12s.

JOHNSTONE (C. F.) M.A.-- Historical Abstracts : being Outlines

             of the History of some of the less known States of Europe. Crown 8vo. cloth,
               price 7s. 6d.

JONES (Lucy) -- Puddings and Sweets ; being Three Hundred and
               Sixty-five Receipts approved by experience. Crown 8vo. price is. 6d.

JOYCE (P. W.) LL.D. &*c.-- Old Celtic Romances.                      Translated from

             the Gaelic. Crown 8vo. cloth, price Js. 6d.

KAUFMANN (Rev. M.) B.A.--Socialism : Its Nature, its Dangers, and
      its Remedies considered. Crown 8vo. price 7j. 6d.

Utopias ; or, Schemes of Social Improvement, from Sir Thomas More
      to Karl Marx. Crown 8vo. cloth, price 5*.

KAY   (Joseph)   M.A., Q.C.--           Free Trade in Land. Edited                by his
      Widow.                             the Right Hon. John Bright, M.P.             Sixth
      Edition.  With Preface by
                Crown 8vo. cloth, price £r.

KEMPIS (Thomas A)-- Of the Imitation of Christ. A revised
              Translation, choicely printed on hand-made paper, with a Miniature Frontis
            piece on India paper from a design by W. B. RICHMOND. Limp parchment,
              antique, price 6s. ; vellum, ys. 6d.
12 A List of

KENT Ob(Ci-a.)ta--. CoDreoSnuammiCPaotnhtoifliiccias     ad       Petri successors Pedes
                                                      Leon is     XIII. Assumptions Epigramma.
In Qninquaginta Linguis. Fcp. 4*0. cloth, price 15T.

KERNEFRlowe(Drsr.anAd.)thPreoifresUsnobr idodf eBnotaGnuyesitns.  the University of              Innsbruck.--
                                                                                                  by W. Ogle,
                                                                     Translation edited
M.A., M.D. With Illustrations. Square Svo. cloth, price oj.

KIDD {Joseph) M.D. --The Laws of Therapeutics ; or, the Science
             and Art of Medicine. Second Edition. Crown Svo. price 6s.

KINAHANGeolog(yG.ofHIerenlrayn)dM, .wRit.hI.Anu.m, erooufs  If.M.'s Geological       Survey.-- The

                                                              Illustrations and a  Geological Map of

Ireland. Square 8vo. cloth.

KINGSLEY              b(yChhias rWlesif)e.M.WAi.t--h  Letters    and Memories of                     his Life.
              Edited
                                                      Two Steel  Engraved Portraits, and             Illustrations

on Wood, and a Facsimile of his Handwriting. Thirteenth Edition. 2 vols.

      Demy 8vo. price 361.                                        Crown 8vo. cloth, price izr.
                                                                  Edited by the Rev. W.
All*»* Also the Ninth Cabinet Edition, in 2 vols.

        Saints' Day, and other Sermons.
Harrison. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. price Js. 6d.
True Words for Brave Men. A Book for Soldiers' and Sailors'
Libraries. Eighth Edition. Crown 8vo. price 21. 6d.

KNIGHT (Professor IV.)-- Studies in Philosophy and Literature.
            Large post 8vo. cloth, price Js. 6d.

KNOX (Alexander A.) --The New Playground ; or, Wanderings in
              Algeria. Large crown 8vo. cloth, price 10s. (xt.

LACORDAIRE            C(Rheeavp. ePr eErdeit)io--n.LiFZCro:wCno8nvfoe.repnricceesy.deddli.vered  at  Toulouse.

           A New and
LEE (Rev. F. G.)
                Supernatural.  D.C.L.-- The           Other       World; or, Glimpses                of the

                               ·2 vols. A New         Edition.    Crown 8vo. price 15/.
LE WIS (Edward Dillon) --A ' Draft Code of Criminal Law and
Procedure. Demy 8vo. cloth, price 21s.

Life in the Mofussil ; or, Civilian Life in Lower Bengal. By an Ex-
Civilian. Large post Svo. price 14/.
LINDSAY (W. Lauder) M.D, F.R.S.E., frc-- Mind in the Lower
      Animals         in Health   and Disease.                     2 vols. Demy 8vo.  cloth,         price
Vol. I. -- Mind                                                  in Disease.                                31s.
                      in Health.  Vol. II. -- Mind

LLOYD (Francis),               and TEBBITT            ( Charles)-- Extension of Empire,

             Weakness?         Deficits, Ruin?        With a Practical Scheme for the Recon
struction of Asiatic Turkey. Small crown 8vc. cloth, price y. 6d.

LONSDALE (Margaret)-- Sister Dora: a Biography. With Portrait,

            engraved on Steel by C. H. Jeens, and one Illustration. Nineteenth Edition.
              Crown 8vo. cloth, price 2s. bd.

LORIMER (Peter) D.D. --John Knox and the Church of England.

          HPaisrtieWso. rkDienmhyerSvPou. lppirti,ceanidir.his Influence upon her Liturgy, Articles, and
     John Wichf and his English Precursors. By Gerhard Victor

           Lechler. Translated from the German, with additional Notes. 2 vols.

              Demy 8vo. price 21/.
      C. Kegan Paul & Co.'s Publications.                                                                          13

MACLACHLAN               a(nMdrsE.)t--erNnoatlesLifea, nadccorEdxintgractots                       on Everlasting
                                                                                                Literal Interpreta
             Punishment
      tion. Small crown 8vo. cloth, price y. bd.

MACNAUGHT '(Rev. John)-- Ccena Domini: An Essay on the Lord's
               Supper, its Primitive Institution, Apostolic Uses, and Subsequent History.
      Demy 8vo. price 14J.
MAGNUS (Mrs.}-- About the Jews since Bible Times. From the
      Babylonian Exile till the English Exodus.        Small crown 8vo. cloth, price 5*»
MAIR
      (R. S.) M.D., F.R.C.S.E.-- The                 Medical Guide for Anglo-
      Indians. Being a Compendium of Advice to Europeans in India, relating
      to the Preservation and Regulation of Health. With a Supplement on the
      Management of Children in India. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. limp cloth,
      price 3*. td.
MANNICNoGunc(iHl. isCErmowinne8nvcoe.  Cardinal) --The          Story
                                                         True                                   of       the  Vatican
                                       price $s.
MARKHAM (Cap/. Albert Hastings) R.N.--Tvn. Great Frozen Sea :
      A Personal Narrative of the Voyage of the Alert during the Arctic Expedition
      of 1875-6. With Six Full-page Illustrations, Two Maps, and Twenty-seven
      Woodcuts. Fourth and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. cloth, price 6s.

A Polar Reconnaissance : being the Voyage of the ' Isbjorn ' to
      Novaya Zemlya in 1879. With 10 Illustrations. Demy 8vo. cloth, price 16s.
                              --Pictures from
McGRATH (Terence)                                    Ireland.                                   New and Cheaper
                              8vo. cloth, price 2j.
              Edition. Crown
MERRITT (Henry)--Art-Criticism and Romance. With Recollections
      and Twenty-three Illustrations in cau-forte, by Anna Lea Merritt. Two vols.
              Large post 8vo. cloth, price 25*.

MILLER (Edward)-- The History and Doctrines of Irvingism ;
      or, the so-called Catholic and Apostolic Church. 2 vols. Large post 8vo.

      price 2$s.

The Church in Relation to the State. Large crown 8vo.

      cloth, price Js. 6d.
MILNE (/antes) --Tables of Exchange for the Conversion of Sterling
      Money into Indian and Ceylon Currency, at Rates from is. fid. to 2s. yf. per
      Rupee. Second Edition. Demy 8vo. Cloth, price £2. 2s.
                         G.)--Bulgaria since
MINCHIN(J.                                       the     War    : Notes                         of a     Tour  in  the
              Autumn of  1879. Small crown 8vo.
                                                 cloth,  price  y. 6d.

MOCKLER (E.)--A Grammar of the Baloochee Language, as it is
      spoken in Makran (Ancient Gedrosia), in the Persia-Arabic and Roman
      characters. Fcap. 8vo. price St.

MOFFAT (R.               S.)-- Economy     of    Consumption    :                               a Study  in   Political

             Economy.     Demy 8vo. price  i8j.

The Principles of a Time Policy : being an Exposition of a
      Method of Settling Disputes between Employers and Employed in regard to
                                                     of Mercantile Barter, without recourse
      Time and         Wages, by a simple Process  from ' The Economy of Consumption,'
      to Strikes       or Locks-out. Reprinted                                                             Reviews of that
                                                                                                         S. Mill on Rent,
      with a  aPnrdefaaceRea-cnrditiAcpispmenodfixthceonTtahienoinrigesObosef rvRaictiaonrds o  on some
               and Cost of Production. Demy 8vo. price y.
      book,                                                                                     and J.
      Value,
                                                                                                 6d.
14 A List of                                                                                                                                                             i

MOLTKREobin(FaieNldap-Miear.rshCarlowVnon8v)o--.  Letters    from  Russia.      Translated by

                                                  price 6j.

     Notes of Travel. Being Extracts from the Journals of. Crown
                8vo. cloth, price 6s.

MORELL (J. R.) -- Euclid Simplified in Method and Language.
              Being a Manual of Geometry. Compiled from the most important French
      Works, approved by the University of Paris and the Minister of Public

      Instruction. Fcap. Svo. price 2s. 6d.
MORSE (£. S.) Ph.D. --First Book of Zoology. With numerous
              Illustrations. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo.         price  2s. 6d.
                                                                                                                 of.
NEWMAN (J. H.) D.D. --Characteristics from                              the     Writings

      Being Selections from his various Works. Arranged with the Author's
      personal Approval. Third             Edition. With     Portrait.   Crown 8vo. price 6s.
»#»   A Portrait of the Rev. Dr.                             mounted    for framing, can be had
                                           J. II. Newman,
      price 2s. 6d.
New Werther. By Loki. Small crown 8vo. cloth, 2s. 6d.
NICHOLAS (T.) -- The Pedigree of the English People. Fifth
               Edition. Demy 8vo. price i6s.

NICHOLSON (Edward Byron) --The Gospel according to the

             Hebrews. Its Fragments Translated and Annotated with a Critical Analyst
            of the External and Internal Evidence relating to it. Demy 8vo. cloth, price

NICOThLe9HS*.iRs6t(idogA.rhrytthsuorof)fthaFen.GAE.Sna.i,rmthaFl.:.Ra.nGC.InSrot.rw--odnuCc8thivoaonp. tcteolrostGhe,oflproogrimycean3tdXh. eP6adlaP.ehonytosloicgya. l

NormanWitPheonupmleerou(sThIlelu)s,traatinodns.theCirrowEnxis8tvion.gclotDh,espcreicneda5sn. ts in the British
              Dominions and the United States of America. Demy 8vo. price 21s.

Nuces : Exercises on the Syntax of the Public School Latin Primer.
      New Edition in Three Parts. Crown 8vo. each is.

OMEARA*t*The Three Parts can also be              had bound together in cloth,  price 3s.                                                                                :
                                                                                the Sorbonne
           (Kathleen) --Frederic                   Ozanam, Professor of
        His Life and Work. Second           Edition.  Crown 8vo. cloth,
Our                                                                         price Js. 6d.
     Public Schools --Eton,                Harrow,      Winchester,
                                                                             Rugby, West
      minster, Marlborough, The Charterhouse. C rown 8vo. cloth, price 6r.
OWEN(F. M.)--John Keats : a Study. Crown 8vo. cloth, price 6s.
OWEN (Rev.               WRitohbeNrot)tes,B.CDri.ti--cal,SaEnxccgteotircaall,eandCaHtishtoorlicicalu. mD;emoyr,
                Saints.                                                                                           Book of

      price 18*.                                                                                                 8vo. cloth,

     An Essay on the Communion of Saints. Including an Examina
      tion of the Cultus Sanctorum. Price 2s.
PARKER (Joseph) D.D. --The Paraclete : An Essay on the Personality

            and Ministry of the Holy Ghost, with some reference to current discussions.
              Second Edition. Demy 8vo. price 12s.
PARR                                                                       the Kafir
      (Capt. H. Hallam,               C.   M. G.)-- A        Sketch of       Small Crown                         and
      Zulu Wars: Guadana               to
                                            Isandhlwana.       With Maps.                                         8vo.

              cloth,  price $s.   --  Our  Railways.         Sketches, Historical and

PARSLOE                 (Joseph)
      Descriptive. With Practical Information as to Fares and Rates, &c, and a
      Chapter on Railway Reform. Crown 8vo. price 6s.
                      C. Kegan Paul & Co.'s Publications.                                                      15

PA TTISON (Mrs. Mark) --The Renaissance of Art in France. With
Nineteen Steel Engravings. 2 vols- demy 8vo. cloth, price y2s.
PAUL p(oCra. rieKse.ganW) --ithWPilolritaramits
                                                 Godwin: His Friends and                                Contem
                                                                                                        of Godwin
                                                 and Facsimiles of the Handwriting
     and his Wife. 2 vols. Square post 8vo. price 28*.

The Genius of Christianity Unveiled. Being Essays by William
Godwin never before published. Edited, with a Preface, by C. Kegan Paul.
MaCrryowWn o8vlols. tporinceecJsr.abfdt..
                                                 Letters to Imlay. New Edition with
Prefatory Memoir by. Two Portraits in eau-forti by Anna Lea Merritt.
Crown 8vo. cloth, 6s.

J.PA                    F.)-- Lectures on Education.
YNE     (Prof.                                                                            Price    6d.  each.
   II.                and the Kindergarten System. Second                               Edition.
         Frobel
A Visit to German Schools : Elementary Schools in Germany.
Notes of a Professional Tour to inspect some of the Kindergartens, Primary
Schools, Public Girls' Schools, and Schools for Technical Instruction in
Hamburgh, Berlin, Dresden, Weimar, Gotha, Eisenach, in the autumn of
1874. With Critical Discussions of the General Principles and Practice of
Kindergartens and other Schemes of Elementary Education. Crown 8vo.

               price  4*. 6d.  J.)  B.A. --A     Dictionary                             and  Glossary   of     the

PENRICE                (Maj.
Ko-ran. With Copious Grammatical References and Explanations of the
PESCHELTDeixstt.ri(bD4utrot..iopOnri.sccear2L)1a--*r. geThcreowRna8cveo.s
                                                                           of     Man   and their  Geographical

                                                                           price   oj.

PINCHES (Thomas) M.A. --Samuel Wilberforce : Faith -- Service --
              Recompense. Three Sermons. With a Portrait of Bishop Wilberforce
               (after a Portrait by Charles Watkins). Crown 8vo. cloth, price 4s. 6d.

PLAYFAIR (Lieut-Col.) Her Britannic Majesty 's Consul- General in
     Algiers.

Travels in the Footsteps of Bruce in Algeria and Tunis.
Illustrated           by facsimiles of Brace's   goirlitgilneaavl esD, rapwriicnegs£,3P. hpot.ographs,
Royal 4to.            cloth, bevelled boards,                                                           Maps,  &c.

POLLOCK8vo. clo(Fthre, dperirciecki)ts--. Spinoza, his Life and Philosophy.                                    Demy

POLLOCK (W. H.)-- Lectures on French Poets. Delivered at the
Royal Institution. Small crown 8vo. cloth, price 5*.
POOR (Laura E.) --Sanskrit and its Kindred Literatures. Studies
                in Comparative Mythology. Small crown 8vo. cloth, 5*.

POUSHKIN (A. 5.)-- Russian Romance. Translated from the Tales

             of Belkin, &c. By Mrs. J. Buchan Telfer [t$Se Mouravieff). New and

                Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. price 3*. 6d.

PRESBYTER -- Unfoldings of Christian Hope An Essay shewing
              that the Doctrine contained in the Damnatory Clauses of the Creed com

PjRICEmonly called Athanasian is Unscriptural. Small crown 8vo. price 4_*. 6d.

              (Prof. Bonamy) --Currency and Banking. Crown 8vo. Price 6s,
Chapters on Practical Political Economy. Being the Substance
of Lectures delivered               before the University of Oxford.
price 12s.                                                                                         Large post 8vo.
:6 A List of

Proteus and Amadeus. A Correspondence. Edited by Aubrey De Vexl
              Crown 8vo. price 5-f.

Pulpit RCeov.mCmaneonntaHr.yD.(TMh.eS).pencEed. ited by the Rev. J. S. Exell and the

Ezra, Nehemiah, and Esther. By Rev. Canon G. Rawlinson,
MRRBREee.ed.vAAvidt....if;o,oWAnrR..wd.e,ivMtD.hOaiLnPncHLrwekoo.eBimfvd.n.oid,nllPi.ieae.Mspl,C,.rAibcLey.BB,L.RaIA.R2Ber.ejvk,..v.,e.R6rPedRW,rv.oe.L.fv.L.WSJ..P.B. rL.RoC,ef.l.waMTRir.shkoA,oswmM,olsana.onnA,ndd,,BsR.,ReAMve.B.v.,A.J...RAJ,.eS,vR.A.ReE.veFx.vM..eaPHlGrclo.ad.fs.oWtniRTnaoh.globisArr,d,,.
Ri Samuel. By the Very Rev.
                                                P. Smith, D.D. ; with Homilies
by Rev. Donald Fraser, D.D., Rev. Prof. Chapman, and Rev. B. Dale.
Third Edition. Price I Jr.
Genesis. By Rev. T. Whitelaw, M.A. ; with Homilies by the Very
      JF..  F.Montgomery,               D.D., Rev. Prof. R. A. Redford, M.A., LL.B.,
Rev.        Hastincs, Rev.            thWeb.yRRtehove.bReCirgatnhsot, nRMFe.vaA.r.rHa.rA,CnoDtIn.tDter.o,rdiluFlc,.Rti.oDSn..Dt;.o, atanhndedISnRttuerdovy.
Rev.

of the Old Testament by

ductions to the Pentateuch
T. Whitelaw, M.A. Third Edition. One vol. price 15*.

Judges and Ruth. By the Right Rev. Lord A. C. Hervey, D.D.,
and Rev. J.            Morrison, D.D. ; with Homilies by Rev. A. F. Muir, M.A.,
Rev. W. F.             Adeney, M.A., Rev.       W. M. Statham,
J. Thomson,            M.A. Super-royal 8vo.    cloth, price iqj. 6d.       and  Rev.  Professor

JoshAuldar.idgeB,y     RLLe.vB. .,J.  J. Lias,  GMlo.vAe. r,;  with  Homilies by Rev. S. R
            Waite, B.A.,                                       Rev.
             A. Plummer,              Rev. R.                        E. De Pressense, D.D.,
Rev. J.                                        W. Adeney,      M.A.
                                      Rev. F.  Price lis. 6d.        ; and  an   Introduction             by
the Rev.                              M.A.

Punjaub (The) and North-Western Frontier of India.                                                        By an

            Old Punjaubee. Crown 8vo. price $1.
R\bbi Jeshua. An Eastern Story. Crown 8vo. cloth, price 3s. 6d.
RA VENSHA W {John Henry) B. C.S.-- Gaur : Its Ruins and Inscrip
tions. Edited by his Widow.                     With 44        Pphroicteog£ra3p. hlicy.Ill6uds.trations,  and 25
facsimiles of Inscriptions. Royal               4to. cloth,
READ {Carveth)-- On the Theory of Logic : An Essay. Crown 8vo.
                price 6s.

Realities of the Future Life Small crown 8vo. cloth, price ix. 6d.

RENDELL (J. M. )-- Concise Handbook of the Island of Madeira.
              With Plan of Funchal and Map of the Island. Fcp. 8vo. cloth, is. 6d.

REYNOLDS {Rev. J. IV.)-- The Supernatural in Nature. A
              Verification by Free Use of Science. Second Edition, revised and enlarged.
     TheDemMyy8svtoe. rcylotho, fprMiceira14c*.les. By the Author of ' The Supernatural
              in Nature.' Crown 8vo. cloth, price 6s.

RIBOT {Prof. Th.)-- English Psychology. Second Edition. A
Revised and Corrected Translation from the latest French Edition. Large pest
     8vo. price
                 <js.  Psychological            Study on its Phenomena,          its Laws,
Heredity :
                  A
its Causes, and its Consequences. Large crown Svo. price gs.
           C. Kegan Paul & Co.'s Publications.                                                 17

'INK ( Chevalier Dr.      CHheenvarylie)r--DGr.reHeennlrayndRin: kI,tsPrPeseidoepnlte   and    its Pro
           ducts. By the                                                               of the
                                                                                               Greenland
Board of Trade. With sixteen Illustrations, drawn by the Eskimo, and a Map.
Edited by Dr. Robert Brown. Crown 8vo. price lor. 6d.

'OBERTSON          (The late          Rev.    F.    W.) M.A., of Brighton.--                   Life and
                  of. Edited         by the
         Letters                             Rev.  Stopford Brooke, M. A., Chaplain            in Ordinary

to the Queen.
I. Two vols., uniform with the Sermons. With Steel Portrait. Crown
               8vo. price Js. td.

III.II. Library Edition, in Demy 8vo. with Portrait Price I2J.

       A Popular Edition, in I vol. Crown 8vo. price 6>.

Sermons. Four Series. Small crown 8vo. price $s. 6d. each.

The Human Race, and other Sermons. Preached at Cheltenham,
Oxford, and Brighton. Large post 8vo. cloth, price Js. 6d.
Notes on Genesis. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. price
    y.6d.

Expository Lectures on St. Paul's Epistles to the Corinthians.
    A New Edition. Small crown 8vo. price $j.
Lectures and Addresses, with other Literary Remains. A New
      Edition. Crown
                          8vo. price 5*.           ' In  Memoriam.'                    (Dedicated by
An Analysis of
                          Mr. Tennyson's

Permission to the Poet-Laureate.) Fcp. 8vo. price 2s.
The Education of the Human Race. Translated from the German
of Gotthold Ephraim Lessing. Fcp. 8vo. price 2s. 6d.

The above Works can also be had, bound in half-morocco.

*#* A Portrait of the late Rev. F. W. Robertson, mounted for framing, can
be had, price 2s. 6d.
                                                                    A History of
IODWMEoLuLnta(iGn.anFd.)itsF.ERru.Ap.tSio.n,s.  F.C.S.-- Etna :                                the
                                                                   Illustrations. Square
                                                    With Maps and                              8vo.

              cloth, price a*.

IOSS (Alexander) D.D. --Memoir of Alexander Ewing, Bishop of

            Argyll and the Isles. Second and Cheaper Edition. Demy 8vo. cloth, price
I or. 6d.

)ALTS (Rev. Alfred) LL.D. --Godparents at Confirmation. With a

          Preface by the Bishop of Manchester. Small crown 8vo. cloth limp, price 2s.

SAMUEL (Sydney           M.)-- Jewish Life         in the East.         Small crown 8vo.
         doth, price y.
                         6d.                                            the Science of

iAYCELan(Rgeuva.geA. rc2hivboals.ld  Henry)--Introduction to

                                     Large post 8vo. cloth, price 2$s.

Icientific Layman. The New Truth and the Old Faith : are they
Incompatible ? Demy 8vo. cloth, price 10*. 6d.
                      Baptiste) --Four Centuries of English Letters :
iCOONAESSelec(tiWon.
                      of 350 Letters by 150 Writers, from the Period of the Paston
Letters to the Present Time. Second Edition. Large crown 8vo. cloth,

             price or.                                                                         Second

\COTT (Robert H.)--Weather Charts and Storm Warnings.

           Edition. Illustrated. Crown 8vo. price 3J. 6d.
iS A List of

SCOTT (Leader)               --A         Nook in the Apennines :                        A Summer        beneath tit
                 Chestnuts.                                                                              in the Ttt,
                              With        Frontispiece, and Twenty-seven                 Illustrations

        chiefly from Original Sketches. Crown 8vo. cloth, price 71. 6cf.

SENIOR (N. W.)--Alexis De Tocqueville. Correspondence anc
        Conversations         with       Nassau  W.    S8evnoi.orp,rifcreom2U18.33  to         Edited by M. C :
        Simpson. 2           vols.        Large  post                                   1859.

SHAKSPEARE                   in(Crehlaatirolnes)t--o sSomaeinatspecPtsaouf lModaemt      Athens. Spiritna
              Christianity
                                                                                        Thought. Five Sennor
        preached at St. Stephen's Church, Westboume Park. With a Preface by ti
        Rev. Canon Farrar.
SHELL E Y (Lady)--Shelley Memorials from Authentic Source
        With (now first printed) an Essay on Christianity by Percy Bysshe Shellei
        With Portrait. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. price Jr.
SHLLLPIrTivOileg(eRse. vA.   Joseph) --Womanhood : its Duties, Temptations,
                                                                                                              an'
                             Book for Youcg Women. Third Edition. Crown 8vo. price
                                                                                                           y. 6c

SHLPPrLinPEcroYipbll(eeRmsa>s..oOf Brtbyhyev)arMiFou.aAsit.Wh--ritiCenrhsR.uerlc2ahvtoiTlosr.nacCttorsow:Snionr8.,voS. Ttpuordpiciieec5ss.1.fioenracMThh.ooduegrh;
        in Times of Retreat.             Eleven Addresses delivered during a Retreat of Thre
        Days to Persons living in the World. Demy 8vo. cloth, price \2s.

Sister  Augustine,             Superior of the             Sisters of   Charity at              the St.    Johanni
                                                                        by Hans                Tharau,
         Hospital at         Bonn. Authorised              Translation                                      from tl
        German 'Memorials of Amalie von Lasaulx.' Second Edition. Larg
        crown 8vo. cloth, price Js. 6J.
SMLTH (Edward) M.D., LL.B., E.R.S.-- Health and Disease, a
        Influenced by the Daily, Seasonal, and other Cyclical                            Changes in          the HunaJ
                 A New Edition.                   Post 8vo. price Js. 6d.
      System.                                                                           and the            Labours
                 Dietary for                     Families, Schools,
Practical                    A New Edition.                       Eparicrelyy.a6ndd.
     Classes.                  Consumption       Post
                                                            8vo.                        Remediable         Stage
Tubercular                                        in
                                                           its

        Second Edition. Crown 8vo. price 6s.

SPEDDanJNd GHis(tJaomriecsa)l--noRterveielawtisngantdo     Discussions, Literary,                          Politicai

                                                            Bacon. Demy 8vo. cloth,                        price J2j. 6.

STARRER (Paul) --                        Shakspeare        and Classical Antiquity                      :   Greek an
                                                                                                           by Emily ]
             CLaatrineyA. ntiqLuairtgye  as presented in   Shakspeare's Plays. Translated
                                         post 8vo. cloth,   price 12s.
St. Bernard.                 A Little
                                         aBndooCkovoenntrtyhePaLtmovoere.of              God. Translated b
             Marianne        Caroline                                                   Cloth extra, gilt tops, 4s.k
                             (Archibald John) LL.D.-- The
STEPHENS                                                                                 Folkestone Ritua
        Case. The Substance of the Argument delivered before the Judicial Con
        mittee of the Privy Council on behalf of the Respondents.                                          Demy 8vc

                cloth, price 6>.

STEVENSON (Rev. W. E)-- Hymns for the Church and Homi

             Selected and Edited by the Rev. W. Fleming Stevenson.

        The most complete                Hymn Book          published.                  I. For Public      Worship. -
        The      Hymn          Book       consists of
                   For       Family      and Private       WTohrrseheip.P--artIsII:.--  For Children.
            II.
        *#* Published in various forms and prices, the latter ranging from Sd. to 6j
        Lists and full particulars will be furnished on application to th
        Publishers.
      C. Kegan Paul <Sf Co.'s Publications.                                        19

STE VENSON (Robert Louis)-- An Inland Voyage. With Frontis
                  piece by Walter Crane. Crown 8vo. price "]s. 6d.
        Travels with a Donkey in the Ceyennes. With Frontispiece by
                  Walter Crane. Crown 8vo. cloth, price Js. 6d.
         Virginibus Puerisque, and other Papers. Crown 8vo. cloth 6s.
SULL Y (James) M.A. -- Sensation and Intuition. Demy 8vo.
                  price 10/. 6d.

Pessimism : a History and a Criticism. Second Edition. Demy 8vo.
      price i+j.
SYME                  --    Outlines  of  an             Industrial  Science.  Second
        (David)
      Edikion. Crown 8vo. price 6s.
TAYLOR (Algernon) -- Guienne. Notes of an Autumn Tour. Crown
      8vo cloth, price 41-. 6d.

THOMSON (J.           ofTuIrnnflbuuelnl)c--e.SoWciiathl   Problems ; or, An Inquiry into

            the Laws                                     Diagrams. Demy 8vo. cloth, price iar. 6d.

TODHUNTER ( Dr. J.)--A Study of Shelley. Crown 8vo. cloth,

VILLARITVWAUINGIHpNSTrhwiAcGaeeNkne("P]ts(syLr.poo-(effHuaievirs.seesa'o)sHrY--)aeT--alrfWarosgNro.edirdc)kicehS--osmo.luNaolslee2wcMrovoawVlsncRi,she8iditvaeaiomdn.viygcnelgoi8.tvslahoi,n. dapcarnliocMndtehda,3hnspi.asrRig6cdeTee.inmm25dee*e.sn.rtindgTusrrainnosgf
               lated by Linda Villari. 2 vols. Large post 8vo. price 24J.

VYNER (Lady Mary) --Every Day a Portion. Adapted from the
                Bible and the Prayer Book, for the Private Devotions of those living in Widow
      hood. Collected and Edited by Lady Mary Vyner. Square crown 8vo.

      extra, price $s.
WALDSTEIN                   (Charles) Ph.D. --The Balance of Emotion and

          Intellect         ; an Introductory Essay to the Study of Philosophy. Crown 8vo.
      cloth, price 6s.
WALLER (Rev.                    B.) --The Apocalypse,
              the Doctrine  C.                               reviewed under the Light of
                            of  the Unfolding Ages, and the  Relation of All Things. Demy

      8vo. price I2.r.
WATSON (Sir Thomas) Bart., M.D. --The Abolition of Zymotic
      Diseases, and of other similar Enemies of Mankind.             Small crown 8vo. cloth,

      price y. 6d.
WEDMORE (Frederick)-- -The Masters of Genre Painting.
              Sixteen Illustrations. Crown 8vo. cloth, price ys. 6d.               With

WELLSPol(yCnaipat.;   John      C.) R.N. --Spitzbergen --The Gateway to the

                       or, a    Voyage to Spitzbergen. With numerous Illustrations by

      Whymper and others, and Map. New and Cheaper Edition. Demy 8vo. price 6s.
WETMORE ( W. S.)-- Commercial Telegraphic Code. Second
      Edition. Post 4to. boards, price 42s.
WHITE (A. D.) LL.D.-- Warfare of
             by Professor Tyndall. Second Edition.       Science. With Prefatory   Note
                                                          Crown 8vo. price y. 6d.
WHITNE Y(Prof. William Dwight) --Essentials of English Grammar,
      for the Use of Schools. Crown 8vo. price 3 c 6J.

                                          B2
20 A List of

WICKSTEED (P. H.)-- Dante: Six Sermons. Crown 8vo. cloth,
      price $s.
WILLIAMS (Rowland)                 D.D. -- Life and Letters of ;
             from his Note-Books.                                          with Extracts
                                      Edited by Mrs. Rowland Williams.      With a Photo

      graphic Portrait.  2 vols- large   post 8vo. price 24*.      for     Devout           Persons.
                                                                                                        &/.
Psalms, Litanies,        Counsels,       and Collects

     Edited by his Widow. New and

lateStray Thoughts Collected
      Rowland    Williams,                         Popular Edition. Crown  8vo.             price 3.-.
      y.te.
                                                   from the Writings        of              the
                                   D.D.                                    Crown 8vo. doth, price
                                         Edited by his Widow.

WILLIS (R.) M.D. --Servetus and Calvin : a Study of an Important
      Epoch in the Early History of the Reformation. 8vo. price l6>.
William Harvey. A History of the Discovery of the Circulation

     of the Blood : with a Portrait of Harvey after Faithorne. Demy 8vo. cloth,
      price \4s. Portrait separate.
WILSON (H. Schiitz)--7nz Tower and Scaffold. A Miniature
      Monograph. Large fcap. 8vo. price is.

WOLLSTONECRAFT (Mary)--Letters to Imlay. New Edition

          with Prefatory Memoir by C. Keg an Paul, author of ' William Godwin : His
           Friends and Contemporaries,' &c Two Portraits in eon-forte by Anna Lea

             Merritt. Crown 8vo. cloth, price 6>.
WOLI  MANN
                 of(DPra. intAinlfgre.d),Editaendd       WSidOneEyRCMolvAinN. NVol.(DIr. .    Karl)--
      History                                       by
                                                                                            Painting in
      Antiquity and the Middle Ages. With numerous Illustrations. Medium 8vo.
      cloth, price 2&*. ; bevelled boards, gilt leaves, price 30*.
J.WOOD (Major- General                 Creighlon) --Doubling the Consonant.
      Small crown 8vo. cloth, price Is. (id.
Word was Made Flesh. Short Family Readings on the Epistles for
      each Sunday of the Christian Year. Demy 8vo. cloth, price lo*. bd.
WRIGHT (Rev. David) M.A. --Waiting for the Light, and other
              Sermons. Crown 8vo. price 6s.

YOUMAPoNwSers(EolpizaChAil.d)r--enA,n  Essay       on    the Culture       of the Observing

                                       especially    in   connection with  the Study of Botany.
      Edited, with Notes and a Supplement, by Joseph Payne, F.C. P., Author of
      * Lectures on the Science and Art of Education,' &c. Crown 8vo. price 2s. 6d.
First Book of Botany. Designed to Cultivate the Observing
      Powers of Children. With                                     New and Cheaper Edition.
      Crown 8vo. price 2s. 6d.           300       Engravings.

YOUMANS (Edward L.) M.D. --A Class Book of Chemistry, on the

            Basis of the New System. With 200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. price $s.

THE INTERNASTEIORINEASL. SCIENTIFIC
I. Forms of Water : a Familiar Expo                 II. Physics and Politics ; or, Thoughts
sition of the Origin and Phenomena of
           By J. Tyndall, LL.D.,                          on the Application of the Principles
Glaciers.                                                  of ' Natural Selection ' and ' Inheri
           With 25 Illustrations.                          tance ' to Political Society. By Walter
F.R.S.                                                             Fifth Edition.

Seventh Edition.         Crown 8vo.                      Bagehot.                           Crown

price Jt.                                                8vo. price 4*.
                 C. Kegan Paul & Co.'s Publications.                                             21

III. Foods. By Edward Smith, M.D.,                           XVI. The Life and Growth of Lan

      LL.B., F.R.S. With numerous Illus                             guage. By William Dwight Whitney,
                                                                   Professor of Sanscrit and Comparative
      trations. Seventh Edition. Crown 8vo.                         Philology in Yale College, Newhaven.
                                                                    Second Edition. Crown 8vo. price Si.
       price 5-r.
                                                             XVII. Money and the Mechanism of
IV. Mind and Body : the Theories of
                                                                   Exchange. By W. Stanley Jevons,
       their Relation. By Alexander Bain,                          M.A., F.R.S. Fourth Edition.
                                                                    Crown 8vo. price 5*.
     LL.D. With Four Illustrations.
        Seventh Edition. Crown 8vo. price +*.                XVIII. The Nature of Light. With

V. The Study of Sociology. By Her

       bert Spencer. Tenth Edition. Crown

VI.   8vo. price 5*.                           of Energy.           a General Account of Physical Optics.
                                                                    By Dr. Eugene Lommel, Professor of
      On the Conservation                                           Physics in the University of Erlangen.
      By Balfour Stewart, M.A., LL.D.,                             With 188 Illustrations and a Table
      F.R.S. With 14 Illustrations. Fifth                           of Spectra in Chromo-lithography.
      Edition.   Crown 8vo. price                                  Third Edition. Crown 8vo. price 5-*.
VII.             Locomotion; or,               $1.
       Animal                                                XIX. Animal Parasites and Mess
                                               Walking,
      Swimming, and Flying. By J. B.                                mates. By Monsieur Van Beneden,
                                                                    Professor of the University of Louvain,
      Pettigrew, M.D., F.R.S., &c. With                            Correspondent of the Institute of
      130 Illustrations. Second Edition.                           France. With 83 Illustrations. Second
VIII.CroRwensp8ovnos. ibpirliictey 5->\ in                          Edition. Crown 8vo. price $s.
                                               Mental
      Disease. By Henry Maudsley, M.D.
      Third Edition. Crown 8vo.
IX.   The New Chemistry. By                    price 5j.     XX. Fermentation.       By Professor
                                                Professor    Schutzenberger, Director of the Che
      J. P. Cooke, of the Harvard Uni
                                                             mical Laboratory at the Sorbonne.
      versity. With 31 Illustrations. Fifth                  With 28 Illustrations. Third Edition.
      Edition. Crown          8vo. price
X.                                             5*.                  Crown 8vo. price 5*.
     The Science of           Law. By          Professor
                                                             XXI. The Five Senses of Man. By
      Sheldon Amos. Fourth Edition.

XI. CArnowimn a8lvoM. epcrihcean5is-*m. : a Treatise on      Professor Bernstein, of the University
                                                             of Halle. With 91 Illustrations.
      Terrestrial and Aerial Locomotion.                            Second Edition.  Crown 8vo.  price $s.

      By Professor E. J. Marey. With 117                     XXII. The Theory        of Sound     in its
                                                             Relation to Music. By Professor
      Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown

XII. 8vToh. epriDceoc$tt.rine of Descent and                 Pietro Blaserna, of the Royal Univer
                                                             sity of Rome. With numerous Illus
       Darwinism. By Professor Oscar                         trations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo.
        Schmidt (Strasburg University). With
       26 Illustrations. Fourth Edit. Crown                          price 5*.

XIII.8bveoTt.whpeeriecenHi$sRst. eolriygioonf  the Conflict  XXIII. Studies in Spectrum Analy
                                                                  sis. By J. Norman Lockyer. F.R.S.
                                               and Science.
      By J. W. Draper, M.D., LL.D.                                 With six photographic Illustrations of

      Fourteenth Edition.                      Crown 8vo.            Spectra, and numerous engravings on
                                                                    Wood. Crown 8vo. Second Edition.
XIV.priFcuen$gs.i: their Nature, Influences,                        Price 6s. bd.
      Uses, &c. By M. C. Cooke, M.D.,
      LL.D.                                    Rev. M. J.    XXIV. A History of the Growth of
                 EdMit.eAd ,  by the                              the Steam Engine, By Professor
      Berkeley,                                  With nu           R. H. Thurston. With numerous
                               F.L.S.
      merous Illustrations. Second Edition.                         Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown

      Crown 8vo. price                                              8vo. cloth, price 6/. 6d.

XV.    The Chbmical           E5*f.fects       of  Light     XXV. Education as a Science. By
      and Photography. By Dr. Her                                 Alexander Bain, LL.D. Third
                                                                    Edition. Crown 8vo. cloth, price 5*.
      mann Vogel (Polytechnic Academy of
                    Translation thoroughly re                XXVI. The Human Species. By Prof.
      Berlin).  With 100 Illustrations. Third                      A. de Quatrefages. Third Edition.
      vised.
                                                                    Crown 8vo. cloth, price 5*.
      Edition. Crown 8vo. price $s.
22 A List of

XXVII. Modern Chromatics. With I XXX. The Atomic Theory. By Prof.
Applications to Art and Industry. By                                 WurU. Translated by G. Cletnin-
Ogden N. Rood. With 130 original                                     shaw, F.C.S. Second Edition. Crown
Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown
              doth,                                                  8vo. cloth, price 5*.
        8vo.
               The   pCricreay5f*.ish  :  an  Introduc               i XXXEIx.isTtehneceNaastuthreayl aCfofnedcittiAonnismaolf
XXVIII.                                                                     Life. By Karl Semper. With 2 Maps
tion to the Study of Zoology. By
Professor T. H. Huxley. With 82                                              and 106 Woodcuts. Second Edition.
Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown                                          Crown 8vo. cloth, price $s.
       8va cloth, price $j.
                                                                      XXXII. General Physiology of
XXIX The Brain as an Organ of                                        Muscles and Nerves. By Prof. J.
Mind. By H. Charlton Bastian,
M.D. With numerous Illustrations.                                    Rosenthal. Second Edition.           Whh

Second Edition. Crown 8vr,. cloth,                                   Illustrations. Crown 8vo. cloth, price

price J*.                                                            5*-

                         MILITARY WORKS.
ANDERSON (Col. R. P.)-- Victories                                    BRIALMOKT (Col. A.)-- Hasty In-
      and Defeats : an Attempt to ex
                                                                           trenxhmf.nts. Translated by Lieut.
       plain the Causes which have led to                                 Charles A. Empson, R.A. With
      them. An Officer's Manual. Demy                                       Nine Plates. Demy 8vo. price 6>.

Army8vo.ofprictehei+*N. orth German Con                              CLERY (C.) Lictit. -Col. --Minor Tac
     federation : a Brief Description
      of its Organisation, of the Different                                tics. With 26 Maps and Plans.
                                                                     Fifth and revised Edition.
                                                                     8vo. cloth, price i6j.               Demy

Branches of the Service and their rSle                               DU StuVdEieRsNOinISLea(Cdoiln. g vTonroopVse.rdy)A--i
in War, of its Mode of Fighting, &c
Translated from the Corrected Edition,
by permission of the Author, by
                                                                     authorised and accurate Translation hj
Colonel Edward Newdigate. Demy                                       Lieutenant H.   J. T.   Hildyard,
                                                                     Foot. Parts I.                       71st
BLUo8AvffoE.thper(AicGfeaej$.rms.Wan.)~ArTmhieesOinpeFrraatniocnes,                   and   II. Demy      8vo.

                                                                     price "js.

from Sedan to the end of the War of                                  GOETZE (Capt. A.    vEonn)g--inOepeerrsatiodnusr
                     With Map. From the                                   ok the German
1870-71.                                                             ing the Warof 1870-1. Published
Journals of the Head-quarters Staff.
Translated by the late E. M. Jones,                                  by Authority, and in accordance with
                                                                     Official Documents. Translated from
Maj. 20th Foot, Prof- of Mil. Hist.,                                 the German by Colonel G. Graham,
Sandhurst. Demy 8vo. price ox
BOGtUicSaLlAWDeSdKuIctio(Cnaspt.  frAom. votnh)e--  Tac              V.C., C.B., R.E. With 6 large
                                                    War
                                                                     Maps. Demy 8vo. price 21s.

of 1870-1. Translated by Colonel                                     HARRISON        (Lieut.-Col. R.) --  The
Sir Lumley Graham, Bart., late 18th                                       Officer's  Memorandum Book      for
(Royal Irish) Regiment. Third Edi
tion, Revised and Corrected. Demy                                    Peace and War. Third Edition.

HRA8vCo.KEprNiceBVis.RY                                              Oblong 32mo. roan, with pencil, price
     R.A., A.A.G.                                                    3*. 6d.
                         (UMeiulUit-aCoryl.)    C.B.,
                                              Hand                   HELoVfIGth(eCapBt.avHa.r)i--anTheArmOpyeraCtoiorpnss.
books for Regimental Officers.
I. Military Sketching and Recon                                             Translated by Captain G. S. Schwabe.
naissance, by Lieut. -Col. F. J. Hut
chison, and Capt. H. G. MacGregor.                                         With Five large Maps. In 2 vols.
Second Edition.           With 15
Small 8vo. cloth,        price 6s.            IIP.latTehse.                 Demy 8vo. price 24*.

Elements of Modern Tactics Practically                               Tactical Examples :       Vol.  I.   The
                                                                        Battalion, price ij*.  Vol.       The
                                                                                                     II.
                                                                     Regiment and Brigade, price \os. (xl.
applied lo English Formations, by                                    Translated from the German by Col.
Major Wilkinson Shaw. Second and                                     Sir Lumley Graham. With nearly
Cheaper Edition. With 25 Plates and                                  300 Diagrams. Demy 8vo. cloth.
Maps. Small cr. 8vo. cloth, price 9.'.
»                C. Kegan Paul & Co's Publications.                                                                             23

HOFAFBrtAilUleErRy  (Capt.)-- The German                                            STUBReBgSime(Lnietuto. f-CBole. ngFa.l AfVr.)til--lerTyh.e
                    in the Battles near
   Metz. Based on the Official Reports of                                                  The History of its Organisation, Equip
   the German Artillery. Translated by                                                     ment, and War Services. Compiled
   Captain E. O. Hollist. With Map                                                         from Published Works, Official Re
   and Plans. Demy 8vo. price 21s.                                                         cords, and various Private Sources.
                                                                                           With numerous Maps and Illustrations.
LAYMANN      o(fCaIpnt.f)a--ntrTyh.e        Frontal
     Attack                                                                                2 vols- demy 8vo. price 32*.
                                            Translated

   by Colonel Edward Newdigate. Crown                                               STUMM (Lieut. Hugo), German Military

   8vo. price 2s. 6d.                                                                      Attach/ to the Khivan Expedition. --.

Notes on Cavalry Tactics, Organi                                                         Russia's Advance Eastward
       sation, &c By a Cavalry Officer.
       With Diagrams. Demy 8vo. cloth,                                                     Based on the Official Reports of.

       price \2s.                                                                        Translated by Capt. C.E.H. Vincent,
                                                                                          With Map. Crown 8vo. price 6s.
PARDIRnrfeas(Csna,tprHtyoHr.saefn/sad,llaamSnt)daEfCfq.MuiO.pGmf.f--iecneTtrhsoe.f
                                                                                    VINtCaEryNTM(iClaitpat.ryC. GEe. oHg.r)a--phEyle,meRne
       Crown 8vo. cloth, price It.                                                       connoitring, and Sketching.

SCHoEfLLthe(MaFj.irsvotn)A--rmThyeuOndpeerratiGoenns.                                     Compiled for Non-commissioned Offi
   von Goeben. Translated by Col.                                                         cers and Soldiers of all Arms. Square
                                                                                          crown 8vo. price 2s. 6d.

   C. H. von Wright. Four Maps-                                                     VotlhuenteReer,gultahre   Militiaman, and
                                                                                                              Soldier, by a
      demy 8vo. price  9*.  the  First           Army                               Public Schoolboy. Crown 8vo. cloth,

   The Operations      of
   under Gen. von Steinmetz.
                    bpyricCeapiotaj.in6dE. . O.  Hollist.                           price $s.
   Translated
   Demy 8vo.                                                                        WARTENSLEBEN              (Cooufnt    H.  vSoonu.)t--h
                                                                                         The Operations                 the
SCHELLENDORF           o(fMajtohr-eGenG. eBn. evroan)l                              Army in January and February,
      The Duties
   Staff. Translated from the German
   by Lieutenant Hare. Vol. I. Demy                                                 1S 7 1. Compiled from the Official
                                                                                    War Documents of the Head-quar
   8vo. clpth, 10s. 6d.                                                             ters of the Southern Army. Trans
                                                                                    lated by Colonel C. H. von Wright.
SCHERFF (Maj.          IIVn. favonnt)r--yStuTdaicetsicsin.                          With Maps. Demy 8vo. price &*.
      the New
   Parts I. and II. Translated from the
   German by Colonel Lumley Graham.                                                 The Operations of the First Army
                                                                                       under Gen. von Manteuffel.
   Demy 8vo. price Js. 6d.                                                             Translated by Colonel C. H. von

SHADWELL (Maj.-Gen.) C.B.-- Moun                                                       Wright. Uniform with the above.
      tain Warfare. Illustrated by the                                                 Demy 8vo. price gs.
   Campaign of 1799 in Switzerland.
   Being a Translation of the Swiss                                                 WICInKfHluAeMnce(Capot.f  E. H., R.A.)--
   Narrative compiled from the Works of                                                                       Firearms upon
   the Archduke Charles, Jomini, and
   others. Also of Notes by General                                                 Tactics : Historical and Critical
   H. Dufour on the Campaign of the                                                                                     Officer of
   Valtelline in 1635. With Appendix,                                               ISnuvpesetrigioartionRs.ankBy  an
                                                                                                                   (in  the German
                                                                                                                                E. H.
   Maps,    and     priIcnetrio6dju. ctory  Remarks.                                WArimckyh)a. m,TraRns.Alated    by Captain   price
   Demy   8vo.                                                                                                     Demy 8vo.

SHEGReMnAeNral(GeWn..  W.   T.)-- Memoirs of                                        Js. 6d.
                       T.   Sherman, Com
   mander of the Federal Forces in the                                              WOICNaOvVaIlrTyS                    -- Austrian
   American Civil War. By Himself.                                                                      (Capt. /.)
                                                                                                      Exercise.         Translated by
   2 vols. With Map. Demy 8vo. price                                                Captain W. S. Cooke. Crown 8vo.
   2\s. Ctpyrighl English Edition.
                                                                                    price Js.
24 A List of

                                          POETRY.

ADAMS (W. D. -- Lyrics of Love,                     BOWEN (ff. C.) ^/.../.--Simple Eng.
                                                    LISH Poems. English Literature for
       from Shakespeare to Tennyson. Se                                     IIIIn.  Four Parts.
       lected and arranged by. Fcp. 8vo.            JIu. nioIIr.  Classes.           price 6d.       Parts
                                                                     and                             each,
      cloth extra, gilt edges, price y. 6d.         and Part IV. price is.

           Also, 1a Cheaper Edition. Fcp.           BRYANT (W. C.) -- Poems. Red-line
       8vo. cloth, 2t. 6d.
                                                          Edition. With 24 Illustrations and
AMATEUR--A Few Lyrics. Small                               Portrait of the Author. Crown 8vo.

       crown 8vo. cloth, price 2s.                  cloth  extra, price "}s. 6d.                     Frontis
                                                           Cheap Edition, with
Antilope : a Tragedy. Large crown                     A
                                                    piece. Small crown 8vo. price j*. (xi.
       8vo. cloth, price d*.

A UBERTINtf. J.\-- Camoens' Lusiads.                BUTALsEpRhod(eAll.fred   J.)--  Amaranth and

       Portuguese Text, with Translation by.                                Songs    from the Greek
       Map and Portraits. 2 vols. Demy
                                                    Anthology. Small crown 8vo. cloth,
8vo. price 30J.
                                                    price 2s.
Seventy Sonnets of Camoens. Por
tuguese Text and Translation, with                  Calderon's Dramas : the Wonder
                                                    --wothrekinPugrgMataogryicioafnS--t.  Life is a
some original Poems. Dedicated to                                                          Patrick.  Dream
Capt. Richard F. Burton. Printed on                                                                  Trans

hand made paper, cloth, bevelled                    lated   by Denis           Florence   MacCarthy.
                                                    Post   8vo. price          ioj.
boards, gilt tops, price Js. 6d.
                                                    COLAOrcMhBbish(Cooplom:!)  -- T'he Cardinal
A VIA --The Odyssey of Homer. Done
into English Verse by. Fcp.                                                    a Spanish Legend.
                                          4to.      In 29 Cancions. Small Crown 8vo.
cloth, price 15*.                                   cloth, price 5*.
BANKS (Mrs. G. I.)-- Ripples              and
Breakers : Poems.                Square             CONWAY (Hugh)-- A Life's Idylls.
                                          8vo.

cloth, price 5^.                                    Small crown 8vo. cloth, price 3s. (xi.

BARNES       (iWnilliathme)--   Poems  of Rural     COPPEE (Francois)-- L'Exilee. Done
      Life,                             Dialect.
                               Dorset                      into English Verse, with the sanction
New Edition, complete in one vol.
Crown 8vo. cloth, price &*. 6d.                          of the Author, by I. O.'L. Crown

BAYNES       (SReovn.gsCafnoonr  R. II.)  M.A.--            8vo. vellum, price $s.
                                 Quiet    Hours.
       Home                                         COWAN(Rev. William)-- Poems : chiefly
                                                           Sacred, including Translations from
Fourth Edition. Fcp. 8vo. price 2s.6d.                     some Ancient Latin Hymns. [Fcp.
This may also be had handsomely                            8vo. cloth, price $s.
bound in morocco with gilt edges.
                                                    CRESSWELL (Mrs. G.)-- The King's
BENNETT        (Dr.  BWa.llaCd.s)--.  Narrative           Banner : Drama in Four Acts. Five
              and
       Poems                             Fcp. 8vo.         Illustrations. 4to. price lo*. 6d.

sewed, in Coloured Wrapper, price Is.               DA VIES ( T. Hart. )-- Catullus. Trans
Songs for Sailors. Dedicated by
   Special Request to H.R.H. the Duke                      lated into English Verse. Crown 8vo.
of Edinburgh. With Steel Portrait                          cloth, price 6s.
and Illustrations. Crown 8vo. price
y.6d.                                               DENNIS (7)-- English Sonnets. Col

      An Edition in Illustrated Paper                      lected and Arranged. Elegantly
   Covers, price is.                                       bound. New and Cheaper Edition.
Songs of a 'Song Writer. Crown                             Fcp. 8vo. price 2r. 6d.

8vu. price 6s.                                      DE VERE (Auhrry)-- Alexander the
                                                         Great : a Dramatic Poem. Small
BEVINGTON (L. S.)--Key Notes.
                                                            crown 8vo. price 5*.
       Small crown 8vo. cloth, price 5-*.
                  C. Kegan Paul & Co.'s Publications.

DE VERE (Aubrey)-- ton.                                     English Odes. Selected, with a Critical
                                                                  Introduction by Edmund W. Gosse,
The Infant Bridal, and other Poems.
   A New and Enlarged Edition. Fcp.                             and a miniature frontispiece         by
                                                                Hamo Thoxnycroft, A.R.A. Elzevir
Le8gveon. dpsriceofJs.  6d.
                                       Saxon  Saints            8vo. limp parchment antique, price
                        the
                                                                6s. ; vellum, Js. 6d.
   Small crown 8vo. cloth, price 6s.                        Epic of Hades
                                                                                  (The). By the Author
The Legends of St. Patrick, and                                    of ' Songs of  Two Worlds.' Twelfth

    other Poems.         Small cr. 8vo.       price 5*.        Edition. Fcp. 8vo. price Js. 6d.
                                              : a Dra       *#* Also an Illustrated Edition, with
St. Thomas of           Canterbury
                                                               seventeen full-page designs in photo-
   matic Poem. Large fcp. 8vo. price $s.                        mezzotint by George R. Chapman.

Antar and Zara: an Eastern Romance.                             4to. cloth, extra gilt leaves, price 2y.\
   Inispail, and other Poems, Medita

   tive and Lyrical. Fcp. 8vo. price 6s.                        and a Large Paper Edition with Por
                                                                trait, price lo*. 6d.
The Fall of Rora, The Search
  after Proserpine, and other Poems,                        EVAWTNhiSathck(eMArnaenmyeo)--rRiaiPltocehPmireesf.acaeLnadrbgyeMcurAsoniwcnn.
Meditative and Lyrical. Fcp. 8vo. 6s.

DOBEEvLeLlin(eM,rsa.ndHootrhaecre)--PoeEmths.elsCtoronwen,        8vo. cloth, price Js.
                                                            G: H. T. -- Verses, mostly written in
8vo. cloth, 6s.
                                                                   India. Crown 8vo, cloth, price 6s.
DOBSON (Austin) -- Vignettes in
      Rhyme, and Vers de Society. Third                     Ginevra and the Duke of Guise : Two

   Edition. Fcp. 8vo. price $s.                                    Tragedies. Crown 8vo. cloth, price 6*.

Proverhs in Porcelain. By the                               GOSSE (Edmund If.)-- New Poems.
                                                                  Crown 8vo. cloth, price Js. 6d.
   Author of 'Vignettes in Rhyme.'
Second Edition. Crown 8vo. price 6s.
                                                            GREENOUGH             (Mrs. Riehard)--MASY
DOLOrES : a Theme with Variations. In                             Magdalene       : a Poem. Large post

Three Parts. Small crown 8vo. cloth,                            8vo. parchment antique, bevelled

       price is.                                                boards, price 6s.

Dorothy : a Country Story in Elegiac                        Gwen : a Drama in Monologue. By the
Verse. With Preface. Demy 8vo.                                    Author of the ' Epic of Hades. ' Third
cloth, price 5.'.                                                Edition. Fcp. ovo. cloth, price y.
                                                            HA WcaKlEWRo(rRkosbt.ofS.tepNheonw)--fiTrsht ecoPlleocetetdi
DOWDEN              (Edward)              LL.D -- Poems.        and arranged. With a Prefatory Notice
                  Edition.             Fcp. 8vo. price y.
         Second

DOWNTON (Rev. H.) M.A.-- Hymns                                  by J. G. Godwin. With Portrait.
                                                                Crown 8vo. cloth, price I2*.
      and Verses. Original and Trans
yla.ted(x.t- SmalLcrown 8vo. cloth, price
                                                            HA  WTRE     Yo(fEdtwheardSicMil.i)a--n  Corydalis :

DUTFTren(TcohmF)--ielAds.SheNaefw      Gleaned in               a Story                               Expedition.
                                       Edition, with            Small crown 8vo. cloth, price J*. 6d.

Portrait. Demy 8vo. cloth, 10s. 6d.                         HOLMES (E. G. A.)--Poems. First and
                                                                Second Series. Fcp. 8vo. price 5*.
EDWARDS (Rev. Basil) -- Minor                                   each.

       Chords ; or, Songs for the Suffering :               INCHBOLD (J. W.)-- Annus Amoris :
      . a Volume of Verse. Fcp. 8vo. cloth,                     Sonnets. Fcp. 8vo. price 4f. 6d.
                                                            JENLKeIgNeSnd(Reovf.                  The Girdle
      price y. 6d. ; paper, price 2s. 6d.                                         CParanotno).--
                                                                                                   Small crown
ELLIOT (Lady Charlotte)-- Medusa and
                                                                8vo. cloth, price 2s.
       other Poems. Crown 8vo. cloth, price                 Jerov8evao.mc'lsothW, ipferic,eanyd.ot6hde.r Poems. Fcp.

6s.

ELLIOTT           --(EiePnoeezmers),.   T'e Corn Law        KINGOrie(Endtw. arWd)i--th  Echoes from the

         Rhymer.                       Edited by his son,                               Miscellaneous Poems.
the Rev. Edwin Elliott, of St. John's,
Antigua. 2 vols- crown 8vo. price i&*.                          Small crown 8vo. cloth, price y. 6d.
26 A List of

KING (Mrs.     Hamilton)-- -The DiscirLES.                                         MOROIClyEmpi(aRnev.     F.  PDy.t)hiaMn.AO. d--esThoif
               Edition, with Portrait and                                                               and
       Fourth                                                                      Pindar, A New Translation in Eng
Notes. Crown 8vo. price Is. 6d.
Aspromonte, and other Poems. Second                                                lish Verse. Crown 8vo. price Js. 6d.
                                                                                   MORlmIanSteteHrmdoEdnAuoincnDttooroyE(fEng. EliiEssDsshac.yH.VAYeL.rU)s--eSC..rTohwWeniTtrhAa8gnvsaaoa.
Edition. Fcp. 8vo. price 4s. 6d.
LAIRD- CL 0 WES         W. )-- Love's Rebel
     lion : a Poem.  (  Fcp. 8vo. cloth, price

y. 6d.
LANG (A.)-- XXII Ballades in Blue                                                  MORAclTolltEahR,nRdpAraiclee(,F5e*a.linxd)--othTehrt.PoLeemgse. nSdmaolf/
China.               Elzevir 8vo. parchment-
price j*. 6d.                                                                             crown 8vo. cloth, price 6s.
LEIGIITON (Robert)-- Records                and
     other Poems. With Portrait.           Small                                   My Old Portfolio. A Volume of
                                                                                   Poems. Crown 8vo. cloth, price
LOCcNKreoEwwRnan8dv(oAR. )e--cvliosLtehdo,ndEprodicinteionjsL,.yw6rdiitc.hs.AddAi
                                                                                   +*. 6d.              I(nEsdtwituartdionB--.)TLhiberaCrihanrisotj
       tions and a Portrait of the Author.
       Crown 8vo. cloth elegant, price 6s.                                         NICHOLSON

                                                                                          the London
                                                                                        Child, and other Poems.           Crown

          Also, an Edition for the People.                                                 8vo. cloth, price 4*. 6d.    -- The
       Fcp. 8vo. price 2s. 6d.
                                                                                   NOAKE (Major R. Compton)
LOKI. --The New Werther. Small                                                          Bivouac ; or, Martial Lyrist. With
crown 8vo. cloth, price 3*. 6d.                                                         an Appendix : Advice to the Soldier.

Love's Gamut and other Poems Small                                                       Fcp. 8vo.    price $s. 6d.     Little
       crown 8vo. cloth, price 3*. 6d.                                                                Hon Roden)--A
                                                                                   NOEL (The        Monument. Small crown
Love Sonnets of Proteus. With                                                           Child's
Frontispiece by the Author. Elzevir
                                                                                           8vo.  cOlo(utRhte,ev.r3s.LAi6fldfer. ePdo)e--msT. imFcpL.vN8vMo.
        8vo. cloth,  price 5*.  --  Poems  and
                     (Henry)                                                       NORRIS
LOWNDES                                                                                  and
Translations. Crown 8vo. cloth,                                                         cloth, price 6s.
                                                                                        of Life (The).            By the Author of
price 6s.                          II. W.)-- Beo                                   Ode                         Hades' «Sx. Third
LUMSDEN                                                                                 'The Epic of
     wulf :          (Lieut.-Col.  English Poem.                                     -Edition. Crown 8vo. cloth, price y.
                     an Old
                                                                                   0' HAGAN (John) The Song of
Translated into Modern Rhymes.

Small crown 8vo. cloth, price 5s.                                                       Roland. Translated into English
MACaLnEd AGNree(kChaVrelersse DTornaanlds)--latLioantsin.
                                                                                        Verse. Large post 8vo. parchmen!
                                                                                         antique, price lo*. 6d.
Small crown 8vo. cloth, 2j.                                                        Palace and Prison and          Fair    Geral-

MAGPLuANdLvUMigSESRROunN(eEb.e(rEHgir.'s)ikLr)Myr.AMic.--.aAl].oS, von.tagMnsd,         dine : two Tragedies. By     the Author
                                                                                        of 'Ginevra' and the         'Duke of

                                                                                        Guise.' Crown 8vo. cloth, price 6s.
Idylls, and Epigrams. Fcp. 8vo.                                                                                   The
                                                                                   PALMER (Charles Walter)--              Weed:
cloth, price $s.                                                                                                    8vo.
                                                                                          a Poem. Small crown                cloth,

Marie Antionette : a Drama. Small                                                  PAUpNLreicwe(C.JT*Kr.aengsalna)t--ionGoinetRhhey'smeF.ausCtrlowAn

   crown 8vo. cloth, price 5-*.                                                         8vo. price 6s.            of Life and

MIDDLETON (The Lady)-- Ballads.                                                    PAYNE (John)-- Songs           cloth, price 5*.

       Square i6mo. cloth, price 3s. 6d.                                                 Death. Crown 8vo.

Monmouth : a Drama, of which the out                                               PENNELL (H.          CABoylmtohnedAeluetyh)--or?iGo.f\s' vPsuck
       line is Historical. (Dedicated, by per                                                                    With Ten  FuD-
       mission, to Mr. Henry Irving.) Small                                              Resaddled.            by George     Du
       crown 8vo. cloth, price 5?.                                                      on Pegasus,' &c. &c.
                                                                                        page Illustrations
MOORE (Mrs.          TBhloeoWma/tredledn)--'sGToatilDe,AlS.ltsotr.i'ess                 Maurier. Second Edition. Fcp.

       Lesson :
for Children, and other Poems. Crown
                                                                                        cloth elegant, 12s. 6d.
8vo. cloth, price $s.
                C. Kegan Paul & Co.'s Publications.                                                 27

^FJEIFFER (Emily)-- Glan Alarch :                               TAYLOR (Sir II.)-- Works Complete in
      His Silence and Song : a Poem.
                                                                       Five Volumes. Crown 8vo. cloth,
        Second Edition. Crown 8vo. price 6s.                            price 30J.

Gerard's Monument and other Poems.                              TENNYSON (Alfred) -- Works Com

     Second Edition. Crown 8vo. cloth,                                 plete:--

   price 6s.                                                      The Imperial Library Edition.

Quarterman's         Grace, and other                                  Complete in 7 vols, demy 8vo. price
                     8vo. cloth, price 51.                             iox. 6d. each; in Roxburgh binding,
     Poems. Crown                                                      izs. 6d.

Poems. Second Edition.           Crown 8vo.                        Author's Edition. In Six Volumes.
    cloth, price 6s.
                                                                       Post 8vo. cloth gilt ; or half-morocco.
Sonnets and Songs. New Edition.                                        Roxburgh style.

    l6mo. handsomely printed and bound                             Cabinet Edition. 12 Volumes. Eack

   in cloth, gilt edges, price 4J.                                     with Frontispiece. Fcp. 8vo. price
                                 Georgics of                            2s. 6d. each.
RHOAVDirgEiSl.  (James).-- The
                                 into English                      Cabinet Edition. 12 vols. Complete
                     Translated
   Verse. Small crown 8vo. cloth,                                      in handsome Ornamental Case.

   price 5-r.                           Handful                    Pocket Volume Edition. 13 vols,

ROBIoNfSHOoNney(As.ucMkalery.  F.)--A   8vo. cloth,                     in neat case, price 36*.
                                  Fcp.                                  Ditto, ditto. Extra cloth gilt, in case,
                                                                         price 42J-.
        price 3*. 6d.

Sappho. A Dream, by the Author of

         ' Palace and Prison ' &c. Crown 8vo.

        cloth, 3/. 6d.         Bysshe)  -- Poems                The Royal Edition. In 1 vol. With

SHELLEY (Percy                                                     25 Illustrations and Portrait. Cloth
   Selected from. Dedicated to Lady                                extra, bevelled boards, gilt leaves,
   Shelley. With Preface by Richard                                 price 2ls.
   Gamett. Printed on hand-made paper,
   with miniature frontispiece, elzevir                         The Guinea Edition. Complete in
   8vo. limp parchment antique, price 6s. ;
                                                                    12 vols, neatly bound and enclosed
   vellum, "}s. 6d.                                                in box. Cloth, price 21*. ; French
SKINNER         o(fJaSmt. eAs)u--guCstcineele. stiTah.e   The      morocco, price 3U. 6d.
                                                         Latin
        Manual                                                  Shilling Edition. In 12 vols, pocket
   Text side by side with an English
   Interpretation in Thirty-six Odes with                          size, is. each, sewed.

   Notes, and a plea for the study of                           The Crown Edition. Complete in
   Mystical Theology.            Large crown
                                                                    I vol. strongly bound in cloth, price
                                                                     6*. ; cloth, extra gilt leaves, price
   8vo. cloth, 6s.                                                   ys. 6d. ; Roxburgh, half-morocco,
Songs of Two Worlds. By the Author
   of 'The      Epic of Hades.' Fifth                                price Ss. 6d.
   Edition.     Complete in one Volume,
                                                                *#*  Can also  be had in a variety  of other
                                                                                   bindings.
   with Portrait. Fcp. 8vo. cloth, 7*. 6.

Songs for Music. By Four Friends.                               In Memoriam. Choicely printed on
                               by Reginald A.
   Containing Songs                                                hand-made paper, with a miniature
   Gatty, Stephen ft.          Gatty, Greville J.                  portrait in eau-forte by Le Rat, after a
   Chester, and Juliana Ewing. Square                              photograph by the late Mrs. Cameron.
       crown 8vo. price $s.                                        Bound in limp parchment, antique,
S                                              --Lyrics            price 6*. ; vellum, Js. 6d.
   TEaDnMd ANId(yEdllms,undwitChlareontchee)r
                                                   Poems.

   Crown 8vo. cloth, price ys. 6d.                              The Princess: A Medley. Choicely
STEVENS (William)-- The                  Truce of                                            paper, with a
                                                                     printed on hand-made      by H. M.
       God, and other Poems.            Small crown                  miniature frontispiece
                                                                     Paget and a tail-piece in outline by
       8vo. cloth, price 3*. 6d,                                     Gordon Browne. Limp parchment,
                                                                     antique, price 6s. ; vellum, price js.
Sweet Silvery Sayings of Shake

       speare. Crown 8yo. cloth gilt, 7*. 6d.
28 A List of

TENNYSON (Alfred)-- cont.                                THOMPSON (Alice C.)-- Preludes : 1
Tennyson's Songs Set to Music by                               Volume of Poems.        Illustrated
various Composers. Edited by W. J.                             Elizabeth Thompson                                        b]
                                                               Roll Call             (Painter of '                    Th<

                                                                              8vo. price Js. 64.
Cusins. Dedicated, by express per                                          ').                         --Hymn
mission, to Her Majesty the Queen.                       TURING    S(Raecvr. edGodfLreyyr)i, cBs..Ai.              :
Royal               cloth extra, gilt     leaves, price       and                                      Fcp. 8vo
2Jj\ ;       4to.    half-morocco,                             price y. 6d.
             or in                        price 2y.

Original Editions :--                                    TODHUNTER (Dr. J.) -- Laurella

Ballads, and        yo.ther   Poems.      Fcp. 8vo.            and other Poems. Crown 8vo. 6s. 6d

   cloth, price                                          Alcestis: a Dramatic Poem. Extra

Poems. Small 8vo. price 6s.                                  fcp. 8vo. cloth, 5*.

Maud,        yan. d6do. ther  Poems.      Small 8vo.     A Study of Shelley. Crown 8vo
   price
The Princess.                                                   cloth, price 7*.
Idylls of the                 Small 8vo.  price  y.6d.
                                King.     Small          TOUNGSBY (Frere) -- Elnora ar,
                                                   8vo.
             y.                                                Indian Mythological Poem. Fcp. 8vo.
Idpyrlicles   of                                               cloth, price 6s.

                    the       King.       Complete.      Translations from Dante, Petrarch,
                                                              Michael Angelo, and Vittoria
   Small 8vo. price 6s.
                                                               Colonna. Fcp. 8vo. cloth, price
The Holy Grail, and other Poems.
    Small
             8vaon. dpriLceyn4es.tt6ed..  Small 8vo.           Js. 6d.
Gareth
price y.                                                 TURLNyEriRcs(,Raevn.dCT. rTaennnsylsaotni)o--nsS. onCnreowtsn,

Enoch Arden, &c.              Small 8vo. price                 8vo. cloth, price 4*. 6d.

  y. 6d.                                                 Collected Sonnets, Old                       and New.
In Memoriam. Small 8vo. price 4s.                          With Preface by Alfred                   Tennyson;
Harold : a Drama. New Edition.
                                                               also some Marginal Notes by S. T.
   Crown     M8vaor.yp:ricae   6s.                             Coleridge, and Critical Essay
Queen                         Drama.      New    Edi           James Spedding. Fcp. 8vo cloth,a

tion. Crown 8vo. price &*.                                     price Js. 6d.               J.

The Lover's Tale. Fcap. 8vo. cloth,                                                                                        by by
   y. 6d.                                                WALTERS(Sophia Lydia)--Tmt Brook:7 J. a
Selections from the above Works.                                   Poem. Small crown 8vo. cloth,
   Super royal i6mo. price y. 6d. ; cloth
                                                              price y. 6d.

   gilt extra, price 4s.                                 A Dreamer's Sketch Book. With

Songs from the above Works.                                 21 Illustrations by Percival Skelton,

16mo. cloth,        price     2s. 6d. ; cloth extra,       R. P. Leitch, W. H. Boot, and
                                                           T. R. Pritchett. Engraved
y.6d.
Idylls of the King, and other Poems.                            D. Cooper. Fcp. 4to. cloth, price
Illustrated by Julia Margaret Cameron.                       12s. 6d.
2 vols- folio, half-bound morocco, cloth
                                                         WA HTEolRyFIDEaLyDs   (IV.) -- Hymns for
       sides, price £6. 6s. each.                                             and Seasons. 32mo.
                                          and for              cloth, price is. 6d.
Tennyson for the Young
     Recitation. Specially                 arranged.     IVA SON (William)-- Till. Prince's
                                                               Quest, and other Poems. Crown
       Fcp. 8vo. is. 6d.                                      8vo. cloth, price y.
The Tennyson Birthday Book. Edited
y.by Emily Shakespear.
                                          321110. cloth  WA  LYi(tAe.r)aAlfly.A.--TrTamnslaOtdeeds  of  Horace
limp, 2j. ; cloth extra,                                                                            in  Metre.
%* A superior Edition, printed in red
and black, on antique paper, specially                       Fcp. 8vo. price 2s.

       prepared. Small crown 8vo. cloth,                 WEBSTER (Augusta) -- Disguises                 :
                                                                                                             a
I extra gilt leaves, price y. ; and in                         Drama. Small crown 8vo. cloth,
various calf and morocco bindings.                             price $s,
             C. Kegan Paul & Co.'s Publications.                                                               29

rVF.T Days. By a Farmer. Small crown                      WOODS      [James  Chapman)-- A Child of
8vo. cloth, price 6>.                                          the  People,
                                                                              and other Poems. Small
WILLOUGHBY                                                crown 8vo. cloth, price $s.               .. ,
      the North    (The   --HoTnh.isMtlersd.)o--wOnn:
                 Wind
a Volume of Poems. Elegantly bound,                       YOUNG (Wm.) -- Gottlob, etcetera.
small crown 8vo. price Js. 6d.
                                                                Small crown 8vo. cloth, price 3j. 6d.

WORKS OF FICTION IN ONE VOLUME.
BANKS (Mrs. G. £..)-- God's Provi                         MEREDITH (George)-- cont.
                                                            The Egoist : A Comedy in Narrative.
      dence House. New Edition. Crown
       8vo. cloth, price 3s. 6d.                                 New and Cheaper Edition, with
                                                                 Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. cloth,
BE TKHitAtyM.-EWDitWh Aa RFDroSnti(sMpiisesceM. .)Crown
                                                          price 6>.
8vo. price 6s.                                            PALGRAVE
                                                                           (W. Gifford) -Hermann
Blue Roses; or, Helen Malinofska's                              Agha : an  Eastern Narrative. Third
      Marriage. By the Author of ' Vera.'
      New and Cheaper Edition. With                       ^Edition. Crown 8vo. cloth, price 6s.
                                                          Pandurang Hari ; or, Memoirs of a
Frontispiece. Crown 8vo. cloth,                           Hindoo. With an Introductory Pre

      price d*.                                           face by Sir H. Bartle E. Frere,
                                                          G.C.S.I., C.B. Crown 8vo. price 6s.
*RISWELL (J. Bain)-- One of Two ;                         PAUSLim(pMlaerg: aAretStoAryg.nesN)e--wGaennd tlCeheaapnerd

      or, The Left-Handed Bride. Crown                           Edition, with Frontispiece. Crown
BAR8vRoE. TclToth(E, .p)r--iceBy3-*S. 6tdi.ll Waters : a
Story for Quiet Hours. With Seven
Illustrations. Crown 8vo. price 6>.                       8vo. price 6s.

HARDY        (Thomas)--   A Pair      of    Blue          SAUNDERS         (John) -- Israel         Mort,
               Author of                                        Overman    : a Story of the
      Eyes.               ' Far from   the  Mad                                                      Mine.
                                                          Crown 8vo. price 6s.
ding Crowd.' New Edition. Crown
                                                          Abel Drake's Wife. Crown 8vo.
Svo. price 6s.

The Return of the Native. New                             Hicrloethll,.priCcreow3*n.  6d.   cloth,  price J*.  6d.
   Edition. With Frontispiece. Crown                                                  8vo.

8vo. cloth, price 6s.                                     SHAW (Flora L.) -Castle Blair; a
             (Mrs. G.)-- The House of
HOOPER       Crown 8vo. cloth,  pSrickee3ll*i.g6sd:.      Story of Youthful Lives. New and
      Raby.                                               Cheaper Edition, with Frontispiece.
             (Jean)-- Off the                             Crown 8vo. price 6s.
'AGELOW
a Novel. With Frontispiece. Second
Edition. Crown 8vo. cloth, price 6s.                      STRETTON         E(Hyeest: aa)    -- Through a

MACDONALD (G.)-- Malcolm. With                                  Needle's                    Story. New and

      Portrait of the Author engraved on                  Cheaper Edition, with Frontispiece.
      Steel. Fourth Edition. Crown 8vo.                   Crown 8vo. cloth, price 6j.

   price 6s.                                              TA YLOR (Col.Meadows)C.S.I.,M.R.I.A.
                                                            Seeta : a Novel. New and Cheaper
The Marquis of Lossie. Second
   Edition. With Frontispiece. Crown                            Edition. With Frontispiece. Crown

   8vo. cloth, price 6s.                                  8vo cloth, price 6s.

St. George and St. Michael. Second                        Tippoo Sultaun : a Tale of the Mysore
Edition. With Frontispiece. Crown
                                                             War. New Edition, with Frontispiece.
8vo. cloth, 6s.                                              Crown 8vo. cloth, price 6s.

WASTERMAN        (J.) -- Half-a-Dozen                     Ralph Darnell. New and Cheaper
     Daughters.
    y. 6d.       Crown 8vo. cloth, price                     Edition. With Frontispiece. Crown
                                                             8vo. cloth, price 6s.

MEREDITH (George) -- Ordeal of                            A Noble Queen. New and Cheaper
     Richard Feverel. New Edition.
                                                             Edition. With Frontispiece. Crown
      Crown 8vo. cloth, price 6s.                            8vo. cloth, price 6s.
3Q A List of

TAYLOR (Col. Meadows)--cont.                                THOMAS (Moy)--\ Fight foe Life.
  The Confessions of a Thug.                                     Crown 8vo. cloth, price y. 6d.

       Crown 8vo. price 6s.                                 Within Sound of the Sea. Kb
                                                                   and Cheaper Edition, with Frontis
   Tara : a Mahratta Tale. Crown 8vo.                              piece. Crown 8vo. cloth, price 6s.

        price 6.t.

               BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG.
Aunt Mary's Bran Pie. By the Author                         DRUMMOND        S(Mtuidssy)--frTormipp'LsifeB, uwilidth
      of 'St. Olave's.' Illustrated. Price                       INGS. A
     y. 6d.
                                                            Frontispiece. Small crown Svo. price
BARLEE        (Ellen)--  Locked            Out: a Tale
              Strike.    With a                             y. 6d.
      of the                               Frontispiece.
                                                            EDMONDS             (Herbert)      -- Well   Spent
    Royal i6mo. price Is. 6d.                                     Lives :   a Series of                  Biogra
                                                                            Crown 8vo.          Modern
BONWICK        L(Ji.l)y.F.RW.Git.Sh.--FroTnhteispiTeaces.-          phies.
                                                                                               price y.
       manian
                                                            EVAFNaSthe(Mr'asrk)L--ovTeh,e.toSldtotroy    of our
   Crown 8vo. price 5-.                                                                                                   ;
                                                                                                        Children
Mike Howe, the Bushranger of Van
                                                            Fourth and Cheaper Edition ol
   Diemen's Land. New and Cheaper                           Theology for Children. With Foui
   Edition. With Frontispiece. Crown                        Illustrations. Fcap. 8vo. price is. 6d.

  8vo. price y. 6d.

Brave Men's Footsteps. By the Editor                        FARQUHARSON (M.)                   Crown 8vo.
     of 'Men who have Risen.' A Book                            I. Elsie Dinsmore.
    of Example and Anecdote for Young                               price y. 6d.
    People. With Four Illustrations by
    C. Doyle. Sixth Edition.               Crown            II. Elsie's Girlhood.                    Crown Sto.
                                                                  price y. 6d.
    8vo. price y. 6d.                                       III.            8Hvoo. lipdriaceysy.at6dR. oselands.
                                                                  Elsie's
Children's Toys, and some Elementary                               Crown
    Lessons in General Knowledge which
    they teach. Illustrated. Crown 8vo.
    cloth, price y.                                         HERRFOelRigDion (BirnookEen)--gl-aTnhde     Story        or
               (Sfaorra)--GoPordettCyhLiledsrseonns,                                                 :               foi
COLERIDGE                                                                                               a Book
     in Verse                                                     Young Folk. Cr. 8vo. cloth, price 5.1.

    with some Lessons in Latin, in Easy                     INGE LOW (yean) -- The LittU

    Rhyme. A New Edition. Illus                                   Wonder-horn. With Fifteen Illus
                                                                   trations. Small 8vo. price 2s. 6d.
    trated.    Fcp. 8vo. cloth, price

    y.6d.             R.)-- Little                          JOHNFFaSreiOrdieNesr.(icVkirsgI.ilnluiasCtrWloatt1he)d,_TphrbiecyeCyAa.tlsfrkeildi

D>ATNrVoEuRbSles(N:.  an Every-day         Minnie's
                                           Chronicle.
    With 4 Illustrations by W. H. Hughes.
    Fcp. cloth, price jr. 6d.
Parted : a Tale of Clouds and Sunshine.                     E'ERBo(kDhaavriad:)--a       The   Boy Slave i>
    With      4prIilcleusytr.at6iodn. s.  Extra fcp. 8vo.
                                                                                         Tale  of Central Asia.
    cloth,                                                        With Illustrations. New and Cheapei
                                                                  Edition. Crown 8vo. price 3*. 6d.
Pixie's Adventures ; or, the Tale of
    a Terrier. With 21 Illustrations.                       The Wild Horseman of the Pampas.
                                                                  Illustrated. New             panridceCyh.eaopde.r  Edi
    l6mo. cloth, price 41. 6d.                                    tion. Crown 8vo.
Nanny's Adventures : or, the Tale of
                                                            LAMGOlaNdTiat(oMrar:thaa       MacDonald)--Tm
     Goat. With 12 Illustrations. i6mo.                                                  Life under the Roman

DA  loth, price 4J. 6d.                    -- RAMBLES
    VIES                                   our School             Empire in the beginning of the Third
    and       Ad(Gv.enCtuhrriestsopheorf)                         Century. With 4 Illustrations b>
    Field Club. With Four Illustra                                pHr.icMe .y.Pa6gde.t.
    tions. Crown 8vo. price y.                                                           Extra fcp. Svo. cloth,

                                                                                                         i
                C. Kegan Paul & Co's Publications.                                                                                                                                                                         31

LEANDER (Ruhard) -- Fantastic                                                                                                                                             REANEY (Mrs. G. S.)~ cont.
                                                                                                                                                                          Just Anyone,       and other Stories. Three
Stories. Translated from   the German                                                                                                                                                         Royal i6mo. cloth, price
by Paulina B. Granville.                                                                                                                                                     Illustrations.
Full-page Illustrations    With Eight
                           by M. E.                                                                                                                                          U. txi.  Willie,                         Stories.
                                                                                                                                                                          Sunbeam
Fraser-Tytler. Crown 8vo. price 5*.                                                                                                                                                               and         other
                                                                                                                                                                          Three Illustrations. Royal i6mo.
LEE Her Title of Honour.
                                                                                                                                                                          price ix. 6d.
      A Book for Girls. New Edition.                                                                                                                                      Sunshine Jenny and other Stories.
                                                                                                                                                                          3pricIlelusutr.at6ido.ns. Royal i6mo. cloth,
       With a Frontispiece. Crown 8vo.

price $s.                                        Three

LEWIS (Mary A.)- A-Rat with                     Edition.                                                                                                                  ROSSDad(Mdyrs's.  E.),  ('NAelsieSkeBtcrhook'f)ro--m
                                                                                                                                                                                            Pet.
       Tales. New and Cheaper
With Four Illustrations by Catherine
F. Frere. Price y. 6d.                                                                                                                                                    Humble Life. With Six Illustrations.
                                                                                                                                                                          Royal l6mo. price is.
MC aSCnquLdaIrNethTceOroCDwnKing8vy(oZ. H.p)er-incSe.iris.Illu6Sdsp.tarantgelde.
                                                                                                                                                                          SADCLrEuRise(Sr.: aWM.\idRsh.iNpm.--anT'sheAdAvfernitcuarens
                                                                                                                                                                          on the West         Coast.          With Three
MACIl8lolvuwoKs.stEr.paNrticiNoeAnAsyB. .o(oSF6k.od.ut7rotrh.)BE-oPdysilt.uiocn.WkjitChrFoeSwilnx                                                                         Illustrations.     New and          Cheaper Edi

                                                                                                                                                                          tion. Crown 8vo. price 2s. 6d.

                                                                                                                                                                          Seeking his Fortune, and other Stories.
                                                                                                                                                                          With Four Illustrations. New and
At School with an Old                           Dragoon.                                                                                                                  Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d.
                                                       Third                                                                                                              Seven Autumn Leaves from Fairy
   With Six Illustrations.
Edition. Crown 8vo. price 5-f.
                                                                                                                                                                          Land. Illustrated with Nine Etchings.
MALDEN          :(HT.wEo.)F--airPyriTnacleess.  and Prin                                                                                                                  Square crown 8vo. price             31. 6d.

        cesses                                   Illustrated                                                                                                              STOCKTON          (Frank R.)--A     Jolly Fel
                                                                                                                                                                                lowship.        With 20
Small crown 8vo. price is. 6d.                                                                                                                                                                                Illustrations.

MNaAsAttT·PerKCaaortlhliEieosrnishssB.,t.ioCnabTna.bdFyFcN.BrpTooo..mr)ht8he-v.mBSo' y.ilRaacunlvsoWthstSohieoia,ntunhrpi,cAcreiSucsiet.xSheoFyrIrvaW.lilaiuMrintsoy,h.f  Crown 8vo. cloth, price $t.

                                                                                                                                                                          STO--RRCa(Fnratencribs)uaryndCThUimReNs E; Ror,  (Hawts).
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Chancer
                                                                                                                                                                                             to Children. With Six
                                                                                                                                                                          Tales retold       from the Ellesmere MS.
                                                                                                                                                                          Illustrations
                                                                                                                                                                          Fcap. 8vo. cloth, price 3*. 6d.
Four Illustrations. Crown 8vo. price 5*.                                                                                                                                                                                   Lloyd's
EELLtILEhe'EdeHaiTtonisoFAtnrJeNea..nr(coEhuFW..cs)as-itpTehB.anyau8i..vFCDoro.otlnosTptnrr^iaisecnplersileaEyct.ee.Pd.a6Psd.tNf.rooeDrmw.e                               STRLEaTsTt OWNil(lH. esbWa)i--thD\vFiovu>r
                                                                                                                                                                                                                            Illustra

                                                                                                                                                                             tions. Royal 16      mo. price 2s. 6d.

                                                                                                                                                                          The Wonderful            Life. Thirteenth

                                                                                                                                                                          Thousand. Fcap. 8vo. cloth, price

                           S.)--Waking and                                                                                                                                2s. 6d.
                           From Girlhood to
REAWNoErkYin(gM;rs.    G.                                                                                                                                                 Sunnyland Stories. By the Author of
                     or,                                                                                                                                                  'Aunt       8Mvaor. y'psricBerayn.  Pie.'  Illustrated.
                                                                                                                                                                          Small                                6d.
WE8vdooimt.ioapnnr.ihcoeoWyd..ith6d.aNeFwrontainsdpiecCeh. eapCerr.
Blessing and Blessed : a Sketch of                                                                                                                                        Tales from         Ariosto Re-told                for
                                                                                                                                                                               Children.      By a Lady. With 3
                                                                                                                                                                                                                           Illus

RoCGseriorlwGLniufe8r.nvoe.yN'cselowtDh,aisnpcdroiCcveheerayyp..er6dE.AditBioono.k                                                                                        trations.          Crown 8vo. cloth, price

                                                                                                                                                                          4j. 6d.
                                                                                                                                                                          WH1heTrAitKaEnRce.(FloArenLcoen)--donChSrtoisrtyy. 'sIllIuns
for Girls. Dedicated to    their Mothers.
Crown 8vo. cloth, price                                                                                                                                                         trated. Royal l6mo. price is. 6d.
                           y. 6d.

English Girls: Their       Place and Power.                                                                                                                               ZIMSTMhtoEirndReNsE.d(itHio.Wn)--. itShCtroowrSiinexs8viIonl.luPsprtrreiaccetiiooynu.ss,
   With Preface by the     Rev. R. W. Dale.
                           Fcap. 8vo. cloth,
Third Edition.

price as. 6d.
CONTENTS OF THE VARIOUS VOLUMES

                                          IN THE COLLECTED EDITIONS OF

   MR. TENNYSON'S WORKS.

THE IMPERIAL LIBRARY EDITION,
                                            IN SEVEN OCTAVO VOLUMES.

                          Cloth, price lor. 6d. per vol ; xaj. 6d. Roxburgh binding.

                                                                       Contents.
Vol. 1.-- MISCELLANEOUS POEMS.                                                         VoL IV.-- IN MEMORIAM and MAUD.
 II.--    PMRISINCCELELSASN,EOAUNSDPOOEMTHS.ER                                               V.-- IDYLLS OF THE KINO.
III.--                                                                                      VI --IDYLLS OF THE KINO.
              POEMS.                                                                         VII.--DRAMAS.
                                                                       a Steel Engraved Portrait of the Author, the
Printed   in  large,   clear,    old-faced  iuty.pe6,d.w;itohr         Roxburgh nalf-morocco, price £\. ^s. 6d.                     set  c
                      cloth,   price jCy
                                            *.* The handsomest Edition published.
              THE AUTHOR'S EDITION,
                               IN SIX VOLUMEa Bound in cloth, 381. 6d.

              LETOIAIDUCRYSKLLS,YLLaSEnPd.YOoEt6hM>erH.SPAoaeLmnLds,.  Contents.             IV. -THE PRINCESS and MAUD.
                                                                       ENGLISH               V.-- ENOCH ARDEN and
Vol.   I.--                                                              LUCRE         Vol.                                                       6s.
      II.--                                                                                          MEMORIAM. Cj.
                                                                          6s.                                                                   IN

      III.-- THE IDYLLS OF THE KINO,                                                         VI.-- QUEEN MARY and HAROLD.
              complete. 75. 6d.

      This Edition can also be had bound in Jialf-morocco, Roxburgh, prize is. 6d. per vol. extra.

         THE CABINET EDITION,
                               IN TWELVE VOLUMES. Price 2*. 64, each.

                                                                       Contents.
Vol. I.-- EARLY POEMS. Illustrated with Vol. VI.-- IDYLLS OF THE KING. Illus
              a Photographic        Portrait of Mr.                                                  t1rEatleadinew,'itfhroman   Engraved Portrait of
              Tennyson.                                                                                                         a Photographic Study
                                                                                                     IDbyYJLuLliSa  M. Cameron.
      II  -- ENGLISH           IDYLLS, and other                                             VII.--                                 KING.       Con
              POEMS.                                                                                                 OF THE
                               Containing an Engraving                                               taining an Engraving of 'Arthur.*
                                                                                                     from a Photographic         Study by Julia
              of Mr. Tennyson's Residence at                                                         M. Cameron.
              Aldworth.                                                                VIII.--THE PRINCESS. With an En

      Ill--LOCKSLEY HALL, and other                                                                      graved   Frontispiece.

              POEMS. With an Engraved                                                        IX.-MAUD            a aPnicdtureENoOfC'HMauAdR,' DtEakNen.

                 Picture of Farringford.                                                               With

      IV.-LUCRETIUS, and other POEMS                                                                 from a Photographic         Study by Julia
                                                                                                     M. Cameron.
                 Containing an Engraving of a Scene                                          X.-- IN MEMORIAM. With a Steel
                   in the Garden at Swainston.                                                       Engraving of Arthur H. Hallam,
                                                                                                     Cengraved from a picture in possession
       V.- IDYLLS OF THE KING. With                                                                  of the Author, by J. Armytage.
                                                                                             XL-- QUEEN MARY: a Drama. With
                 an Autotype of the Bust of Mr.
                  Tennyson by T. Woolner, R.A.                                                         frontispiece by Walter Crane.
                                                                                             XII.-- HAROLD: a Drama. With Frontis
                                                                                                     piece by Walter Crane.

      *** These Volumes may be had separately, or tht Edition compute, in a handsome ornamental
                                                                  case, price 32*.

              THE MINIATURE EDITION,
                                            IN THIRTEEN VOLUMES.

Vol. I -- POEMS.                                                       Contents.             Vol. VII.-- IDYLLS OF THE
     II.-- POEMS.                                                                               VIII.-1N MEMORIAM.
                                                                                                                                         KING.

III. -POEMS.                                                                                 1X.-PRINCESS.
      IV. --IDYLLS OF THE KINO.                                                              X-- MAUD.
 V.-- IDYLLS              OF THE KING.                                                       XI.-ENOCH              ARDEN.
VI.-IDYLLS                OF   THE          KING.                      XIII.-HAROLD.XII.-QUEEN                      MARY.
                                                   Vol.

          Bound       in  imitation vellum,                              ornamented    in gilt and gilt edges,      in case, price  42*.
                          This Edition can                             also be had in  plain binding and case,      price 36*.

                          Spotlinvoode &> Co., Printers, A'eur-street Souare, London.

                                                                       nc\r\                                                        ***
I

I
I
A FINE  TNCT Q !D II !-''S ' « 'S

fpOES HOT

; CIRCULATE

