The life of James Clerk Maxwell. With a selection from his correspondence
and occasional writings and a sketch of his contributions to science,
by lewis Campbell and William Garnett.

Campbell, Lewis, 1830-1908.
London, Macmillan, 1882.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc2.ark:/13960/t00z71w24

                                          Public Domain in the United States
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-us

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain
                                                          in the United States of America. It may not be in the
                                                          public domain in other countries. Copies are provided
                                                          as a preservation service. Particularly outside of the
                                                          United States, persons receiving copies should make
                                                          appropriate efforts to determine the copyright status
                                                          of the work in their country and use the work accordingly.
                                                          It is possible that current copyright holders, heirs or
                                                          the estate of the authors of individual portions of the
                                                          work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert copyrights
                                                          over these portions. Depending on the nature of subsequent
                                                          use that is made, additional rights may need to be obtained
                                                          independently of anything we can address.
LIFE OF JAMES CLEEK MAXWELL
              THE LIFE

                                                                    OF

JAMES CLEKK MAXWELL

     WITH A SELECTION FROM HIS CORRESPONDENCE
                    AND OCCASIONAL WRITINGS

                                                                  AND

      A SKETCH OF HIS CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE

                                                                    BY

             LEWIS CAMPBELL, M.A., LL.D.

                                PROFESSOR OF GREEK IN THE UNIVERSITY OF ST. ANDRF/WS

               WILLIAM GARNETT, M.A.

                                              LATE FELLOW OF ST. JOHN'S COLLEGE, CAMBRIDGE
                   PROFESSOR OF NATURAL PHILOSOPHY IN UNIVERSITY COLLEGE, NOTTINGHAM

                  WITH THREE STEEL PORTRAITS, COLOURED PLATES, ETC.

                                       ILontron

                   MACMILLAN AND CO.

                                              1882
r\
NT,

    And SO thou wast made perfect ! . Not a friend
        Might step between thee and the sore distress
         Which thou with strong and patient godliness

     Enduredst uncomplaining to the end.
    Heroic saint ! Bright sufferer ! Thou dost lend

        To science a new glory. Midst tJie press
       Of boasters, all thy meek -eyed fame confess,
     And worldlings thine unworldliness commend.
    Shine on, pure spirit ! Though we see thee not,
       Even in thy passage thou hast purged away
     The fogs of earth-born doubt and sense-bound thought
        From hearts that followed thine all-piercing ray.

   And while thou soarest far from human view,
    Even thy faint image shall our strength renew.
                  PKEFACE.

IN a work which has more than one author, it is right
to distinguish as far as possible what has been con-
tributed by each.

      The first part of this book, then, has been mainly
composed by the present writer (who has acted as

editor), and the second by Mr. Garnett ; but it is
due to Mr. Garnett to add that, while he had the

chief share of the labour of collecting materials for
the whole biography, and the entire burden of the
account here given of Maxwell's contributions to

science, the substance of Chapters XL XII. XIII.

is also largely drawn from information obtained
through him. The matter of whole pages remains
almost in his very words, although for the sake of
uniformity and simplicity the first person has still
been used in speaking of my own reminiscences.

     The narrative of Maxwell's early life has been
facilitated (1) by a diary kept by Maxwell's father
from 1841 to 1847, and often referred to in these
pages as "the Diary ;" (2) by two albums containing
a series of water-colour drawings by Maxwell's first
cousin, Mrs. Hugh Blackburn (nee Isabella Wedder-
burn), the value of which may be inferred from the
Vlll PBEFACE.

outlined reproductions of a few of them prepared by
Mrs. Blackburn herself as illustrations for this book.

They are literally bits out of the past, each contain-
ing an exact representation, by a most accurate

observer and clever draughtswoman, of some incident

which had just happened when the sketch was made.
The figures, even as outlined, bring back the persons
with singular vividness to the memory of those who
knew them.

     For these and many other advantages the thanks
of the authors are due to Maxwell's relatives, but

above all to his widow, not only for the free access

she has given them to various documents, such as

those mentioned above, but for the generous confid-

ence she has reposed in them throughout, and for

many important suggestions made by her during the

progress of the work.
     Their thanks are also due in an especial manner

to Professor G. G. Stokes of Cambridge for his kind-

ness in reading most of Part II. in MS., and for many

valuable suggestions both with regard to the subject

;

                              it,
matter and the mode of treating    which were re-

ceived from him and to Professor P. G. Tait of the

University of Edinburgh for his zealous and able
assistance in many ways.

The book owes much, of course, to those who

entrusted the letters here published to the authors'
care. Their names are duly mentioned in the course

of the work. Our task has also been lightened by

the help of those friends whose contributions are

inserted with their names. In describing the life of
PREFACE.  IX

one who was so many-sided, it is no small advantage

to be thus enabled to register the impression which
he made on different men. Even should this occasion

slight repetitions and discrepancies, the reader may
thus form a fuller and, on the whole, a truer image
than could be conveyed by a single narrator. Atten-
tion is here particularly directed to the statements in

Chapter XIII. by Dr. Paget, the Kev. Dr. Guillemard

(of Little St. Mary's, Cambridge), and Professor Hort.
     As a general rule, no attempt has been made to

weave the correspondence into the narrative. The

facts relating to each period have been grouped to-
gether, and the letters have been appended to these
in chronological order.

    A word should be said respecting Part III. What-

ever may be the judgment" of critics as to the literary
merits of Maxwell's occasional writings in verse, there
can be no doubt of their value for the purpose of the
present work. Like everything which he did, they
are characteristic of him, and some of them have

a curious biographical interest. Maxwell was singu-
larly reserved in common life, but would sometimes
in solitude express his deepest feelings in a copy of
verses which he would afterwards silently communi-

cate to a friend. Again, he shrank from controversy.
But his active mind was constantly playing on con-
temporary fallacies, or what appeared so to him, and
his turn for parody and burlesque enabled him to give
humorous expression to his criticism of mistaken
methods. Of the later pieces here reproduced, several
appeared in Nature with the signature % (which
X PREFACE.

happens to be the analytical equivalent of the therm o-

dynamical formula JCM) ; and one (the " Notes

on the President's Address ") was published in Black-
wood's Magazine for December 1874. The greater

number are now printed for the first time.

The juvenile verses and translations have been

included for the same reason which has led to the

prominence given to the early life in Part I. If we

are right in our estimate of Maxwell, it must be inter-

esting to watch the unfolding of such a mind and

character from the first, and this not only for the

psychological  student, but for all  those who share
Wordsworth's
               fondness for "days"   that are " linked

each to each with natural piety."
     While the last sheets were being revised for the

press the sad news arrived that Maxwell's first cousin,
Mr. Colin Mackenzie, had died on board the Bosnia,

on his way home from America. There was no one
whose kind encouragement had more stimulated the
preparation of this volume, or whose pleasure in it
would have been a more welcome reward. But he,

too, is gone before his time, and this book will be
sent into the world with fewer good wishes. He
deserves to be remembered with affection wherever

the name of James Clerk Maxwell is honoured or

beloved.

               LEWIS CAMPBELL.

August 1882.
                     CONTENTS.

PAET I. BIOGEAPHICAL OUTLINE.

                     CHAPTEE I.

BIRTH AND PARENTAGE  /. .           ./                  '*  PAGE
                                          .b                      1

Note. The Clerks of Penicuik and Maxwells of Middlebie        16

                     CHAPTEE II.                t
                                          .
GLENLAIR CHILDHOOD 1831-1841        , .,                    24

                     CHAPTEE III    . . .45

BOYHOOD 1841-1844

                     CHAPTEE IV.

ADOLESCENCE 1844-1847 .          ., .     .91/:. . , 66
       Note. Oval and Meloid
                                 ..       .

                     CHAPTEE V.

OPENING MANHOOD 1847-1850        .  ^.    .        '. 105

                     CHAPTEE VI.

UNDERGRADUATE LIFE AT CAMBRIDGE     1850-1854 .             146
Xll CONTENTS.

                        CHAPTEK VII.

                                                                                                                                                                   PAGE

BACHELOR-SCHOLAR AND FELLOW OF TRINITY 1854-1856 . 197

                       CHAPTEK VIII.

ESSAYS AT CAMBRIDGE 1853-1856 . . . ., 223

             CHAPTEK IX.

DEATH OF HIS FATHER PROFESSORSHIP    AT ABERDEEN

1856-1857 .  ...        .                     ; ',     247

                                                  ...

                         CHAPTER X.           . 274

ABERDEEN MARRIAGE 1857-1860

                        CHAPTEK XL            i 314

KING'S COLLEGE, LONDON GLENLAIR '1860-1870 .

             CHAPTER XII.
                   .,%
CAMBRIDGE                          '.         . 348
           1871-1879

                      CHAPTEK XIII.           ,,. 406

ILLNESS AND DEATH 1879 .

                       CHAPTER XIV.                    434

LAST ESSAYS AT CAMBRIDGE .
                           CONTENTS.                         xiii

IIPAET                CONTEIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.

j. \1. EXPERIMENTS ON COLOUR VISION, AND OTHER CONTRIBU-     PAGE
       TIONS TO OPTICS  .]                   ..
                                                             465

2. INVESTIGATIONS RESPECTING ELASTIC SOLIDS    .          . 491
                                                          . 496
3. PURE GEOMETRY            '. , .             .          . . 498
                                             '
4. MECHANICS      .     .
                                               .

5. SATURN'S KINGS .                   . . . . 501

6. FARADAY'S LINES or FORCE, AND MAXWELL'S THEORY OF

       THE ELECTROMAGNETIC  FIELD, INCLUDING      THE

       ELECTROMAGNETIC  THEORY OF LIGHT, AND OTHER

       INVESTIGATIONS IN ELECTRICITY  .      .            .  513

7. MOLECULAR PHYSICS    .   .                     , . 559

                      PAET III. POEMS.

1. JUVENILE VERSES AND TRANSLATIONS   .      V ^ . 577

2. OCCASIONAL PIECES                                               593, '..'

3. SERIO-COMIC VERSE                                         609

INDEX                                                        653
         LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

                      STEEL PLATES.

JAMES CLERK MAXWELL. Engraved by Stodart, after a

Photograph, by Fergus of Greenock       .     . Frontispiece.

JOHN CLERK MAXWELL, Mi. 66. Engraved          by Stodart,
                                                     To face page 1 1
       after Sir John Watson Gordon, E. A. .

Mrs. CLERK MAXWELL AND "BoY."      Engraved by Stodart,
                                                           To face page 29
after William Dyce, E.A.  ..

                      LITHOGRAPHS.

FACSIMILE LETTER .    .                       To face page 58

THE VAMPYRE, COMPYLT  INTO MEETER, BY JAS. CLERK
                                                                       To face page 70
MAXWELL  ..

                    COLOURED PLATES.

DIAGRAM SHOWING THE RELATIONS OF LIGHT        To face page 47 '3

DIAGRAM ILLUSTRATING THE CHROMATIC         RELATIONS OF
                                                       To face page 47'4
COLOURED PAPERS       .
XVI LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.

CHROMATIC EFFECTS OP A PENTAGON OF UNANNEALED GLASS

IN POLARISED LIGHT .                        . To face page 487

ISOCHROMATIC      LlNES IN      A TRIANGLE  OF UNANNEALED
         GLASS .                . '"          . To face page 487
                             .

DIAGRAM SHOWING THE COLOURS EXHIBITED BY A PLATE OF
        GELATINE WHEN EXPOSED TO A TORSIONAL SHEAR To face page 491
                     CHAPTEK I.

                  INTRODUCTORY BIRTH AND PARENTAGE.

ONE who has enriched the inheritance left by Newton
and has consolidated the work of Faraday, one who
impelled the mind of Cambridge to a fresh course of
real investigation, has clearly earned his place in

human memory.

     But there was more in James Clerk Maxwell than
is implied in any praise that can be awarded to the
discoverer, or in the honour justly due to the educa-
tional reformer, much, indeed, which his friends feel
they can but partly estimate, and still less adequately

describe.

     We have, notwithstanding, undertaken this im-
perfect Memoir of him, in which the purpose of this
First Part will be to trace the growth from childhood
to maturity, and to record the untimely death, of a
man of profound original genius, who was also one of
the best men who have lived, and, to those who knew
him, one of the most delightful and interesting of

human beings.

    If I can bring before the reader's mind, even in

shadowy outline, the wise and gentle but curiously

                                                               B
2  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. I.

blended influences which formed the cradle of his

young imagination, the channels through which ideas
reached him from the past, the objects which most
challenged his observation and provoked his inven-
tion, his first acquaintance with what permanently
interested him in contemporary speculation and
discovery, and the chief moments of his own in-
tellectual progress in earlier years, such record

should have a right to live. And it may be that
a congenial spirit here and there may look with

me into the depths of this unique personality,

and feel the value of the impulses, often seem-
ingly wayward, and strange even to himself, with
which the young eagle " imped his wings " for flight,
or taught his eyes to bear the unclouded light. And
many to whom modern Science is a sealed book may
find an interest in observing the combination of
extraordinary gifts with a no less remarkable simpli-
city and strength of character.

     James Clerk Maxwell was born at No. 14 India

Street, Edinburgh, on the 13th of June 1831. His
parents were John Clerk Maxwell, one of the Clerks
of Penicuik, in Midlothian, and Frances, daughter of
R. H. Cay, Esq. of N. Charlton, Northumberland.

Excepting a daughter, Elizabeth, who had died in
infancy, James was their only child.

      Edinburgh was at this time the natural meeting-
place for the best spirits of the North. How much of
intellect and individuality, of genuine though often
 eccentric worth, of high thinking and plain living,
 then forgathered in Auld Reekie, and found ample
CHAP.        BIRTH AND PARENTAGE.
       I.]                                                               ;
                                       is
scope and leisure there, known to the lovers of Sir                               3
W. Scott and to the readers of Lord Cockburn both;
prominent figures in the Edinburgh of 1824-1831.
             a
     And the agora of " Modern Athens " was the
Parliament House. There the heir-presumptive could          1
while away his time of waiting for " dead men's
shoon " there the laird's brother might qualify fora
some berth hereafter to be provided for him and
the son of those whose ancestral estates had been       it

impaired by rashness or misfortune, and who hada -2
perchance sought the asylum of the Abbey, might
hope through honourable industry to restore thei
fallen house, or even to win new lustre for an ancient

name.

     When John Clerk Maxwell, after leaving the
University, first sought those purlieus of the law,

he was already laird, although younger brother.
For he had inherited the estate of Middlebie, which,

by the conditions of the entail under which had
descended from the Maxwells, could not be held to-
gether with Penicuik, and was therefore necessarily
relinquished by Sir George Clerk in favour of his
brother John. This arrangement had been completed
when the two brothers were boys together at the High
School, and were living in George Square with their
mother and their sister Isabella. Their father, James
Clerk, who died before his elder brother, Sir John,
was naval captain in the H.E.I.C.S., but retired

                                          See below, pp. 16-23.
        He said to have played well on the bagpipes, and set of pipes
was until recently preserved at Glenlair, of which the following singular
2                                          a

         is
4  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. I.

early, and married Miss Janet Irving, who thus be-
came the mother of Sir George Clerk and of John

Clerk Maxwell. When Sir George had come of age,

and taken up his abode at Penicuik, John Clerk Max-

well continued living with his mother, Mrs. Clerk, in

Edinburgh. About 1820, in order to be near Isabella,
Mrs. Wedderburn, they " flitted" to a house in the

New Town, No. 14 India Street, which was built by

special contract for them. Mrs. Clerk died there in

the spring of 1824.

   The old estate of Middlebie had been considerably

reduced, and there was nothing in what remained of

it to tempt its possessor, while a single man, to leave

Edinburgh, or to break off from his profession at the

Bar. There was not even a dwelling-house for the

laird. Mr. Clerk Maxwell therefore lived in Edin-

burgh until the age of thirty-six, pacing the floor of

the Parliament House, doing such moderate business

as fell in his way, and dabbling between -whiles in

scientific experiment.  In vacation time he made

various excursions in the Highlands of Scotland and

in the north of England, and kept a minute record of

his observations.

   But when, after his mother's death, he had married

a lady of tastes congenial to his own and of a sanguine

active temperament, his strong natural bent towards

a country life became irresistible. The pair soon con-

story was told : Captain James Clerk was wrecked in the Hooghly
and swam ashore, using the bag of his pipes for a float ; and when he
gained the shore he " played an unco' fit," whereby he not only cheered
the survivors, but frightened the tigers away.
CHAP.  BIRTH AND PARENTAGE.
       a I.]

                                 if ;

                                         it
ceived wish to reside upon their estate, and began

to form plans for doing so and they may be said

to have lived thenceforth as                 and they were made

for one another. They set themselves resolutely to

the work of making that inheritance of stony and

mossy ground to become one of the habitable places

of the earth. John Clerk Maxwell had hitherto

appeared somewhat indolent and there was gooda
deal of inertia in his composition. But the latent*
forces of his character were now to be developed;
                                                              a
     He was one of race in whom strong individuality
had occasionally verged on eccentricity. For two
centuries the Clerks had been associated with all that
was most distinguished in the Northern kingdom,
from Drummond of Hawthornden to Sir Walter
Scott. Each generation had been remarkable for the
talents and accomplishments of some of its members
and was natural that family with such ante-

         The note appended to this chapter contains sketch of the family
history of the Clerks and Maxwells, which those who believe in

heredity, as Maxwell did, will do well to read.
1

  it

                                             a

                                                                                  a
                                                                                                                                         ;
6               JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. I.

cedents should have acquired something of clannish-

ness. But any narrowing effect of such a tendency

was counteracted by a strong intellectual curiosity,
which kept them en rapport with the world, while
they remained independent of the world. And as

each scion of the stock entered into new relations,

the keen mutual interest, instead of merely narrow-
Iing, became an element of width.
                                      speak now of

the generation preceding our own. No house was

ever more affluent in that Coterie-Sprache, for which

the Scottish dialect of that day afforded such full

materials. It would be pleasant, if possible, to recall

that humorous gentle speech, as it rolled the cherished

vocables like a sweet morsel on the tongue, or minced

them with a lip from which nothing could seem coarse

or broad, caressing them as some Lady Bountiful may
caress a peasant's child, or as it coined sesquipedalia

verba, which passed current through the stamp of

kindred fancy. This quaint freemasonry was un-

consciously a token not only of family community,

but also of that feudal fellowship with dependents

which was still possible, and which made the language

and the manners of the most refined to be often racy

of the soil. But Time will not stand still, and neither
the delicate " couthy " tones, nor that which they

signified, can be fully realised to-day. But we can

still in part appreciate the playful irony which

prompted these humorous vagaries of old leisure,

wherein true feeling found a modest veil, and a naive

philosophy lightened many troubles of life by making

light of them.
CHAP.  BIRTH AND PARENTAGE.
       I.]                                                     a
         a                                                                    7

                                    it

                                                 is
                                                            a
Mr. John Clerk Maxwell's own idiosyncrasy, as

has been said, was well suited for country life. But

to give true idea of him              necessary to be more

precise. His main characteristic, beyond warm,

affectionate heart, the soundest of sound sense, and

absolute sincerity, was persistent practical interest

in all useful processes. When spending his holidays
at Penicuik as boy from the Edinburgh High School
       a
                               1
                        a

(as well as long afterwards), he took delight in watching
the machinery of Mr. Cowan's paper-mill, then recently

established in that neighbourhood. And Mr. E. D.

Cay remembers him, when still young man living in
1

       a
                         a

                                                  :

                                       it
                                          if

                                                       a
India Street with his mother (about 1821-24), to have
been engaged, together with John Cay, who was after-

       He never lost an opportunity of inspecting manufactures, or of

visiting great buildings, ecclesiastical or otherwise, and he impressed
the same habit upon his son. The " works " they " viewed " together

were simply innumerable, but will be sufficient to cite one crowning

instance. When *James Clerk Maxwell was in the midst of his last

year's preparation for the Cambridge Tripos, he proposed to spend the

few days of Easter vacation which the pressure of his work allowed to
him, in visit to friend at Birmingham. His father had seen Bir-

mingham in his youth, and gave him the following instructions, which
                         " View,
were mostly carried out               you can, armourers, gunmaking

and gunproving swordmaking and proving Papier-mdchJe and

japanning silver-plating by cementation and rolling ditto, electro-

type Elkington's works Brazier's works, by founding and by strik-

ing out in dies turning spinning teapot bodies in white metal, etc.

making buttons of sorts, steel pens, needles, pins, and any sorts of

small articles which are curiously done by subdivision of labour and

by ingenious tools glass of sorts among the works of the place, aridis
all kinds of foundry works engine-making tools and instruments

   optical and [philosophical], both coarse and fine. If you have

had enough of the town lots of Birmingham, you could vary the

recreation by viewing Kenil worth, Warwick, Leamington, Stratford-on-

Avon, or such like." James began with the glassworks.
8  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. I.

wards his brother-in-law, in a series of attempts to

make a bellows that should have a continuous even

blast. We can readily imagine, therefore, how closely
he must have followed every step in the gradual
application of steam to industry, and the various
mechanical improvements which took place in his

youth and early manhood. 1
      His practical thoroughness was combined with a

striking absence of conventionality and contempt for

ornament. In matters however seemingly trivial-

nothing that had to be done was trivial to him he
considered not what was usual, but what was best for
his purpose. In the humorous language which he loved
to use, he declared in favour of doing things with
judiciosity. One who knew him well describes him
as always balancing one thing with another exercis-

ing his reason about every matter, great or small.
He was fond of remarking, for example, on the folly
of coachmen in urging a horse to speed as soon as
they saw the top of a hill, when, by waiting half a
minute until the summit was really attained, they

might save the animal. " A sad waste of work," he

 would say. Long before the days of " anatomical "
 bootmaking, he insisted on having ample room for his
 feet. His square-toed shoes were made by a country

 shoemaker under his direction on a last of his own

 and out of a piece of leather chosen by himself. This

      1 In 1831 he contributed to the Edinburgh Medical and Philo-
 sophical Journal (vol. x.) a paper entitled, " Outlines of a Plan for
 combining Machinery with the Manual Printing Press." His acme of
 festivity was to go with his friend John Cay (the " partner in his revels

 to meeting of the Edinburgh Royal Society.
   a
                                                                                                                           "),
CHAP.                   BIRTH AND PARENTAGE.
is                                                                                                                                                            9
          I.]
   only one example of the manner in which he did

everything. It was thought out from the beginning

to the end, and so contrived as to be most economical

and serviceable in the long run. In his Diary (1841)

we find him cutting out his own and his son's shirts,

while planning the outbuildings which still exist at

Glenlair. And he not only planned these, but made

the working plans for the masons (1842) with his
own hand. This habitual careful adaptation of
               is
means to ends was the characteristic which (together1

with profound simplicity) he most obviously trans-

mitted to his son. Its effect, heightened by perfect

science,                still apparent in the construction and

arrangement of the Cavendish Laboratory at Cam-

bridge.

     While thus unostentatious and plain in all his
ways, he was essentially liberal and generous. No
one could look in his broad face beaming with kindli-
ness and believe otherwise. But his benevolence was

best known nearest home. And in caring for others,
as in providing for his own house, his actions were
ruled, not by impulse, but persistent thoughtfulness.
By his ever-wakeful consideration, he breathed an

atmosphere of warm comfort and quiet contentment
on all (including the dumb animals) within his sphere.
Whoever had any claim upon his affectionate heart,

whether as an old dependant, or as relation or
1

                      a
                                                                                    a

                                                                        a

                                                                                                                                                           :
       The following entry from the Diary (1842) will be appreciated
by those who are interested in the country life of past generation
" Wrote to Nanny about check of the yarn of the dead Hogs, to make

trowser stuff or plaid."
10  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. I.

friend, might command from him any amount of

patient thought, and of pains given without stint

and without complaint. His "judiciosity " was used
as freely for them as for himself. 1 And where need

was he could be an effectual peacemaker.
     He was assiduous also in county business (road

meetings, prison boards, and the like), and in his own
quiet way took his share in political movements, on

the Conservative side.

     There was a deep unobtrusive tenderness in him,
which in later years gave a touching, almost femi-
nine, grace to his ample countenance, and his portly,
even somewhat unwieldy, frame. 2 He was a keen
sportsman (unlike his son in this), and an excellent shot;
but it was observed that he was above all careful never

to run the risk of wounding without killing his game.
     His temper was all but perfect .; yet, as " the best

laid schemes o' mice and men gang aft agley," the
minute care with which he formed his plans some-
times exposed him to occasions which showed that

his usual calm self-possession was not invulnerable.

At such times he would appear not angry, only some-
what discomposed or " vexed," and, after donning his
considering-cap for a little while, would soon resume

his benign equanimity.

     1 Mr. Colin Mackenzie says : " He was the confidential friend

of his widowed sister Mrs. Wedderburn's children, who were in the
habit of referring to him in all their difficulties in perfect confidence
that he would help them, and regarded him more as an elder brother
than anything else." This is abundantly confirmed by various entries
in the Diary.

     2 Entry in Diary, Nov. 9, 1 844. Weighed 1 5 at. 7 Ibs.
UNIVEESITY
CHAP.          BIRTH AND PARENTAGE.
       if I.]                                                                    11

                                      is
     An interesting trait revealed to us by the Diary.
Minute as the entries are for day after day, things

which, mentioned, might reflect unfavourably upon

others, are invariably omitted. They have come
down through other channels, but in this scrupulous
record they have left no trace.

     His otherwise happy life was crossed with one

deep, silent sorrow, but was crowned with one long
comfort in the life of his son. They were bound to-

gether by no ordinary ties, and were extremely like
in disposition, in simplicity, unworldliness, benevo-

lence, and kindness to every living thing. Those who

knew Maxwell best will be least apt to think irrelevant

this somewhat lengthy description of his father.

The portrait of Mr. John Clerk Maxwell by

Watson Gordon  faithful representation of face
               if
which returns more vividly than most others to the
eye of memory, but no portrait can restore " the busyis
                        a

                                                             a

                                                                              a
wrinkles round his eyes," or give back to them their

mild radiance

                       " Gray eyes lit up
       With summer lightnings of soul

           So full of summer warmth, so glad,

       So healthy, sound and clear and whole,

          His memory scarce can make me sad."

     He lived amidst solid realities, but his vision was
neither shallow nor contracted. And his sense of

things beyond, inarticulate, was, in later life at least,
not the less serious and profound. Yet those who
shall compare this likeness with the study of James
Clerk Maxwell's head by Mrs. Blackburn, may at
12  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. I.

once detect something of the difference between the

father and the son. In the one there is a grave and
placid acquiescence in the nearer environment, the
very opposite of enthusiasm or mysticism; in the

other, the artist has succeeded in catching the un-
earthly look which often returned to the deep -set

eyes under the vaulted brow, when they had just
before been sparkling with fun, the look as of one
who has heard the concert of the morning stars and

the shouting of the Sons of God.
      James himself has said to me that to have had a

wise and good parent is a great stay in life, and that
no man knows how much in him is due to his pro-
genitors. And yet the speculative ideal element
which was so strong in him the struggle towards
the infinite through the finite was not prominent in
either of his parents. Mrs. Clerk Maxwell was, no

doubt, a good and pious (not bigoted) Episcopalian ;
but, from all that appears, her chief bent, like that of
her husband, must have been practical and matter-of-
fact. Her practicality, however, was different from his.
She was of a strong and resolute nature, as prompt

as he was cautious and considerate, more peremptory,
but less easily perturbed. Of gentle birth and breed-
ing, she had no fine-ladyisms, but with blunt deter-
mination entered heart and soul into that rustic life.

It is told of her that when some men had been badly

hurt in blasting at a quarry on the estate, she person-
ally attended to their wounds before a surgeon could
be brought, and generally that wherever help was
needed she was full of courage and resource. She
CHAP.          BIRTH AND PARENTAGE.                                                          13
is
           I.]

                                                   of

                                                                                        (p.
was very intelligent and ingenious, played well on the

organ, and composed some music, but in other respects
was less "accomplished" than most of her family,
except in domestic works, and above all in knitting,
which in those days was an elegant and most elabo-

rate pursuit.

Her father, E. Hodshon Cay, Esq., of N. Charlton,

"Ithus spoken of in Lockhart's Life Scott                                                    86 of

the abridged edition, 1871):  find him "(Scott)
" further nominated in March 1796, together with Mr.

Robert Cay, an accomplished gentleman, afterwards

Judge of the Admiralty Court in Scotland, to put

the Faculty's cabinet of medals in proper arrangement."

Mr. Cay at one time held the post of Judge-Admiral

and Commissary-General, and while thus dignified in

his profession used to reside for part of the year on

his hereditary estate of Charlton, which had been freed

from certain burdens upon his coming of age.

     He married Elizabeth Liddell, daughter of John
1

       is
            a

                               l
                                                     a
                                                                                     (a
Liddell, Esq., of Tynemouth, about the year 1789.

The eldest son, John, has been already mentioned

as an early companion of John Clerk Maxwell's,
and both his name and those of Jane and R. D.

Cay will reappear in the sequel. Between Frances
(Mrs. Clerk Maxwell) and her sister Jane, who was
never married, there existed very close affection.

There  picture of them both as young girls

three-quarter length in water-colours) done by their
mother, who was an accomplished artist. Her gift m

        Incurred by his father in successfully resisting some manorial
claims. These debts had brought the family to Edinburgh.
14  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. I.

this way, which was very remarkable, and highly
cultivated for an amateur, was continued in Jane and

Kobert, and has been transmitted to the succeeding
generation. Miss Jane Cay was one of the warmest
hearted creatures in the world ; somewhat wayward
in her likes and dislikes, perhaps somewhat warm-
tempered also, but boundless in affectionate kindness
to those whom she loved. Mr. K. D. Cay, W.S.,

married a sister of Dyce the artist, and, after acting

for some time as one of the Judges' clerks, proceeded
in 1844 to Hong-Kong, where he had an appointment.
His wife joined him there in 1845, and died in 1852.

In two of their sons, besides the artistic tastes which

they inherited through both parents, there was de-

veloped remarkable mathematical ability. It should

be also noticed that Mr. John Cay, the Sheriff of
Linlithgow, though not specially educated in mathe-
matics, was extremely skilful in arithmetic and fond
of calculation as a voluntary pursuit. He was a great
favourite in society, and full of general information.
We have already seen him assisting at experiments
which might have led to the invention of " blowing

fans," but seem to have produced no such profitable
result. And we shall find that his interest in practical
Science was continued late in after life. 1

     In speaking of the Cay family it has been necessary
to anticipate a little, in order to advert to some par-

ticulars which, although later in time, seemed proper

    1 It should be remembered that in the early years of the century

considerable interest in experimental science had been awakened in

Edinburgh through the teaching of Professors Playfair and Hope.
CHAP.         BIRTH AND PARENTAGE.
       I.]                          15

                I
to an introduction. Having departed so far from the
order of events, may before concluding this chaptera
make explicit mention of the loss which coloured the
greater part of James Clerk Maxwell's existence, by4,
leaving him motherless in his ninth year. Mrs.
Clerk Maxwell died on the 6th of December 1839.
There was extant until after Professor Maxwell's

death memorandum or diary kept at the time by
her husband, describing the heroic fortitude which she
had shown under the pain of her disease, and of the

operation by which they had attempted to save her.
Anaesthetics were then unknown. She had nearly
completed her forty- eighth year, having been born on
the 25th of March 1792, and married at the age of 34
(October 1826). Mr. Maxwell was aged fifty-two
at the time of his wife's death. He did not marry

again.

     We now return from this sad record to the birth

of the son and heir, which was the more welcome to
the parents after the loss of their first-born child. At
this joyful epoch Mr. and Mrs. Clerk Maxwell, though
retaining the house in India Street, had been already
settled for some years in their new home at Glenlair.
16  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. I.

                             NOTE.

     THE CLERKS OF PENICUIK \ND MAXWELLS OF MIDDLEBIE.

Miss ISABELLA CLERK, of 3 Hobart Place, London, has
kindly furnished me with the following statement, to

Iwhich have added some annotations. These are

chiefly derived from a book of autograph letters, which
was long kept at Glenlair, and is now in the possession
of Mrs. Maxwell.

      " The Clerks of Penicuik are descended from John Clerk,
of Kilhuntly, in Badenoch, Aberdeenshire, who attached
himself to the party of Queen Mary, and had to leave that
part of the country in 1568 during the troubles. His son,
William Clerk, was a merchant in Montrose ; he lived in the
reigns of Mary and James the Sixth, and died in 1620.

      " John Clerk, his son, was a man of great ability. He
went to Paris in 1634, and having acquired a large fortune
there in commerce, returned to Scotland in 1646, and
bought the barony of Penicuik, and also the lands of
Wright's Houses. He married Mary, daughter of Sir William
Gray, of Pittendrum. This lady brought the necklace of
Mary Queen of Scots into the family, through her mother,
Mary Gillies, to whom it was given by Queen Mary before
her execution. He died in 1674. His eldest son John
was created a Baronet of Nova Scotia in 1679."

     This Sir John Clerk (the first baronet) records a singular
affray with sixteen robbers who attacked the house of Penicuik
in 1692. He kept them at bay until the neighbouring tenants
came to his relief. His pluck, sagacity, presence of mind, good
feeling, and piety, are conspicuous in the narrative.
CHAP.  CLERKS OF PENICUIK.
       I.]                                                                                           17
                 a
     "He served in the Parliament of Scotland, and ac-
                                       a
quired the lands and barony of Lasswade. He married
Elizabeth, daughter of Henry Henderson, Esq., of Elvington,
and grand-daughter of Sir William Drummond, of Haw-
thornden, the poet. Sir William Drummond had only two
daughters, the younger of whom married W. Henderson.
Their daughter Elizabeth was wonderfully talented and

accomplished, and had speciaT gift for music. Sir John
died in 1722. He was succeeded by his eldest son, Sir
John Clerk, man of great learning, who was appointed in
170*7 one of the Barons of the Exchequer in Scotland, which

judicial employment he retained during the remainder of his
life. He was also one of the Commissioners of the Union."

      The Baron's precepts to his son George when at school in
Cumberland are worthy of Polonius. He advises him to be

kind to his companions, as he could not tell what they might be
able to do for him thereafter, and to be sure to take the opportunity
of " learning the English language," in which the Baron himself
regrets his own deficiency. " You have nothing else to depend
on but your being scholar and behaving well." He described
in the autumn of his days as " humming along and stuffing his
pipe in order to whiff away for half an hour," while " my lady

    engaged reading over some newspaper. Miss Clerk labour-
ing with great industry at very pretty open muffler. Mrs.
Dean winding three fine white clews upon fourth one," etc.
" My lady's " letters to her son George dwell much on family
matters, and are full of old-fashioned piety.

      " He was highly accomplished in music, painting, and

languages. At the age of nineteen he went abroad for three

years to finish his education. He studied one year under
the celebrated Dr. Boerhaave at Leyden, where he was
pupil of William Mieris in drawing. He afterwards went
to Florence and Rome, where he had lessons in music from
Antonio Corelli, and in painting from Imperiale. He wrote
an opera which was performed in Rome. His brother,
William Clerk, married Agnes Maxwell, heiress of Middlebie,
in Dumfriesshire."
is
          is

                                     a

                               it

                                                   a
                                                                                 a

                                                                                              is
                                                                                                 is

                                                                                                     a

                                          G
18  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                                               [CHAP. I.

     William also was at Leyden before going into business as a
lawyer, and kept a journal of his tour in Holland, which, like
other writings of the Clerk family, is furnished with pen and
ink sketches of what he saw. His letters are interesting from
the combination of earnest, Covenanting piety, with a gay and

chivalrous bearing in what was evidently the one serious love-
passage of his life. His letters to his wife in the years after
their marriage are as full of tenderness as that in which he
makes his first proposal is instinct with old-world gallantry.

      " They left an only daughter, Dorothea, who married her
first cousin, afterwards Sir George Clerk Maxwell."

     This George Clerk Maxwell probably suffered a little from
the world being made too easy for him in early life. Such a mis-

fortune was all but inevitable, and the Baron seems to have done
his best to obviate it by good counsel ; but the current of circum-
stances was too strong. George was in the habit of preserving
letters, and from those received by him before succeeding to
Penicuik it is possible to form a tolerably full impression of the

man. In some respects he resembled John Clerk Maxwell, but
certainly not in the quality of phlegmatic caution. His imagi-
nation seems to have been dangerously fired by the " little

knowledge " of contemporary science which he may have picked up
when at Leyden with his elder brother James (see p. 1 9, 11. 1 8, 25).
We find him, while laird of Dumcrieff, near Moffat, practically
interested in the discovery of a new " Spaw," and humoured in this
by his friend Allan Ramsay, the poet : by and by he is deeply
engaged in prospecting about the Lead Hills, and receiving
humorous letters on the subject from his friend Dr. James
Hutton, one of the founders of geological science, and author of
the Theory of the Earth. 1 After a while he has commenced active
operations, and is found making fresh proposals to the Duke of
Queensberry. Then to the mines there is added some talk of

    1 See " Biographical Account of the late Dr. James Hutton, F.R.S.,

Edinburgh," read by Mr. Playfair, in Transactions of the Royal Society
o1f76E4d,in"biunrgcho,mvpoal.nyv.      He made a tour   in the north   of Scotland in
                                   with Commissioner,  afterwards Sir  George, Clerk,

in which Dr. Hutton's chief object was mineralogy, or rather geology,

which he was now studying with close attention."
CHAP.                 CLERKS OF PENICUIK.
a                                                                                19

           I.]

                     a

                                                                             it
   paper manufactory, and the Duchess   playfully " congratulates "
                                        up manufacture by means
his " good self on every new sprouting

of so good planter and planner." But by this time has been

found advisable to add to his studies some more certain source

of income, and he applies for the Postmastership, and (through

the Duke of Q.) obtains an office in the Customs. In this, as in

all relations of life, he seems to have won golden opinions. And

ere he succeeded to Penicuik, the loss of Middlebie proper and

Dumcrieff had doubtless taught the lesson of prudence which his

father the Baron had vainly tried to impress upon his youth.
The friendship of Allan Ramsay and the affectionate confidence
of the " good Duke and Duchess of Queensberry," sufficiently

indicate the charm which there must have been about this man.

     " Sir John Clerk (the Baron of Exchequer) married
Janet Inglis of Cramond, and was succeeded by his eldest
son, Sir James Clerk, in 1755. Sir James died without

children in 1782, and was succeeded by his next brother,
Sir George Clerk, who had married his cousin, Dorothea
Maxwell, heiress of Middlebie."

      The betrothal of George Clerk and Dorothea Clerk Maxwell
   said by the Baron (in special memorandum) to have been in
accordance with her mother's dying wish. (Dorothea was seven
is                     a

     1years old when AgnesMaxwell died!) They were                                married
privately when he was  twenty and she was seventeen,
                   a                                                             but " as-

they were too young to live together," he was sent to join his

brother James at Leyden. After short interval the marriage
                          a
was declared, and they lived very happily at Dumcrieff.a

                         "Sir George Clerk Maxwell was Commissioner of Cus-aa

                    toms, and trustee for the improvement of the fisheries and
                    manufactures of Scotland. His brother, John Clerk of Eldin r
                    was the author of the well-known work on Naval Tactics.
                    He was the father of John Clerk, distinguished lawyer
                    in Edinburgh, afterwards Lord Eldin, Lord of Session."

                         The following account of Mr. Clerk of Eldin from the
                    above-mentioned biographical notice of Dr. James Hutton
                                            is

                                                      p. :
                    Edinburgh Koyal Society's Transactions, vol. v., part iii.,  97.
20                    JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                  [CHAP. I.

     " Mr. Clerk of Eldin was another friend with whom, in

the formation of his theory, Dr. Hutton maintained a con-
stant communication. Mr. Clerk, perhaps from the exten-
sive property which his family had in the coal-mines near
Edinburgh, was early interested in the pursuit of mineralogy.
His inquiries, however, were never confined to the objects
which mere situation might point out, and through his whole

life has been much more directed by the irresistible impulse
of genius, than by the action of external circumstances.
Though not bred to the sea, he is well known to have
studied the principles of naval war with unexampled success ;

and, though not exercising the profession of arms, he has
viewed every country through which he has passed with the
eye of a soldier as well as a geologist. The interest he took
in studying the surface no less than the interior of the earth ;
his extensive information in most branches of natural history ;

a mind of great resource and great readiness of invention ;
made him to Dr. Hutton an invaluable friend and coadjutor.

It cannot be doubted that, in many parts, the system of the

latter has had great obligations to the ingenuity of the
former, though the unreserved intercourse of friendship, and
the adjustments produced by mutual suggestion, might
render those parts undistinguishable, even by the authors
themselves. Mr. Clerk's pencil was ever at the command
of his friend, and has certainly rendered him most essential

    In another place the same writer says :

    " Some excellent drawings were made by Mr. Clerk,

whose     pencil  is  not  less  valuable  in the sciences  than in the

arts." l

     John Clerk, Esq., of Eldin, fifth son of Sir John Clerk of
Penicuik, and brother of Sir George, the grandfather of John
Clerk Maxwell, was the author of certain suggestions on Naval

Tactics, which had the credit of contributing to the victory

      1 See the collection of his etchings printed for the Bannatyne
Club in 1855, with a striking portrait of him.
CHAP.       I.]          CLERKS OP PENICUIK.                                                                                21
                  is
gained      over    the French by Lord Rodney's fleet off Dominique in
1782.                fair to add that Sir C. Douglas claimed to have in-
             It
dependently hit on the new method of " breaking the enemy's
line." But John Clerk never relinquished his pretensions to the
merit of the discovery, and his book on Naval Tactics in the

edition of 1804                      thick octavo volume, with many woodcut
            2

                   l

                           is
                                  a
illustrations and diagrams. He used to sail his mimic navies,
trying various combinations with them, on the fish-ponds at
Penicuik. His eldest son, John Clerk, afterwards Lord Eldin

of the Court of Session, made vivid and lasting impression on
                                                     a
his contemporaries, and many anecdotes of legal shrewdness and
                                                                       4
caustic wit still live about his name. A graphic description              53

of him as the Coryphseus of the Scottish Bar occurs in Peter's

Letters     to  his Kinsfolk, Letter xxxii.                                   Quite recently he has

appeared again in Carlyle's Reminiscences, as the one figure in the

Edinburgh law-courts, which remained clearly imprinted on the

historian's imagination.

Lord Eldin's younger brother, William Clerk, was the trusted

32 1        There were in all five issues, viz., in 1781, 1790, 1797, 1804,

and (with notes by Lord Rodney) in 1827.
            Miss Isabella Clerk my authority for this.

            It has been often told how John Clerk, in an appeal before the
                !
House of Lords, when twitted for his pronunciation by Lord Mans-
              "Mr. Clerk, do7. I
"fieNlda,,                     is    you spell water with                                                    doubled?"     replied,
            my laird, we spell       iswater wi' yae and we                                                 spell manners  wi' twa
                                                 o'  :                        a
?i's." The following                         isless known  t,A young advocate in the Court
                                                                                I
aogf aiSnesst siosonmehaddelivveernatnucreed,ofinthetheCovuerht,em"enMcye      of pleading,                  to exclaim
                                                                              lords, am                     astonished,"

whereupon my lords contracted                      their judicial             hbarvoewss. aid,B"utDiCnlneark,bewhilol
by this time was one of them,
                                                     reported to

at the laddie it's just his inexperience. Gin he had kenned ye, my

lairds, as lang as hae, he wad no been astonished at onything ye

might dae." It was his father who, on the occasion of Johnson's visit
t"oHethree"'sPTtahirellliavymeereyfnotrestsHheeonucsesiego,hftchlaisppyceohduarracBtesehar rillin"gscoirnn                  with
                                                     a                                                      Boswell's hand
54                       " The only figure                                                                  of ornament."
                                                       I
            Vol. ii. p.                                       is !distinctly recollect and got

printed on my brain that night was John Clerk, there veritably hitch-
ing about, whose grim, strong countenance, with its black, far-projecting
...brows and look of great sagacity, fixed him in my memory.                                                                Ex-

cept Clerk, carried no figure away with me."
            I
22  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                           [CHAP. I.

friend and comrade of young Walter Scott. And it may be
observed here, by the way, that the friend of both, John Irving,
was half-brother to Mrs. Clerk, John Clerk Maxwell's mother. 1

     "Sir George Clerk Maxwell died in 1*784, and was suc-
ceeded by his eldest son, Sir John, who married Mary Dacre,
but died without children in 1*798. His brother James
was a lieutenant in the East Indian Navy, and married Janet
Irving of Newton. He died in 1*793, leaving two sons and

a daughter. The elder son, afterwards the Eight Honourable
Sir George Clerk, 2 succeeded to Penicuik on the death of his
uncle, Sir John Clerk, in 1798; and the younger son John
succeeded to the property of Middlebie, which descended to
him from his grandmother, Dorothea, Lady Clerk Maxwell,
and took the name of Maxwell. He married in 1826

Frances, daughter of Robert Cay of Charlton, and had one

son, James Clerk Maxwell, born in July 1831, and died in

Nov. 1879."

      The Maxwells of Middlebie are descendants of the seventh
Lord Maxwell, and, in the female line, of the Maxwells of
Spedoch in Dumfriesshire. Their early history, like that of
many Scottish families, is marked with strong lights and sha-
dows, 3 and John, the third laird, on coming into his inheritance,

    1 Many notices both of William Clerk and of John Irving occur in

Mr. John C. Maxwell's  Diary.    The following are of some interest :
" 1846, Sa., Nov. 5.   Called  on William Clerk, and sat a good while

with him. He was in bed, and not able to raise himself, but spoke

freely and well, though very weak and thin. His appetite quite good,

and eats plenty, but gains no strength. Dec. 12, Sa. Called on W.

Clerk, and sat 45 minutes with him. Weak, but hearty to talk.

1847, Jan. 7. Wm. Clerk died early this morning."

    2 For many years Member for Midlothian, and one of the most

prominent politicians of his day. He held office under Sir Robert

Peel, who had great confidence in the breadth and soberness of his

judgment. He was noted for his command of statistics, and of ques-
tions of weights and measures, etc. He had also considerable skill in

music, and was a good judge of pictures.

      3 The famous feud between the Maxwells and Johnstones is
celebrated in the old ballad, entitled " Lord Maxwell's Good-night."
CHAP.  it I.]     MAXWELLS "OF MIDDLEBIE.                                     23

found          considerably burdened.  He made great effort to
                                       it

                                                   a
                                                                          p.
liberate the estate from encumbrances, and in 1722 was able to

entail his landed property, and make   inseparable from the

name of Maxwell. But he was by no means ultimately freed

from debts, and he transmitted these, together with the estate,
to his daughter Agnes, who married William Clerk. (See 17.)
Their daughter, Dorothea, was left an orphan at the age of seven,
and became the ward of Baron Clerk of Penicuik, who (in accord-
ance, as he declares, with her mother's wish), betrothed her

to his second son George. They were married, privately at

first, in 1735 and, in order to simplify their affairs, the Baron
         a
obtained decree of the Court of Session, followed by an Act of
            it ;
Parliament, by which (notwithstanding the entail of 1722)
Middlebie proper was sold to liquidate the Maxwell debts, and

was bought in for George Clerk, whose title was thus freed from

burdens, and, so far, from the conditions of the entail. At the

same time       was arranged that Middlebie should not be held

together with Penicuik. Whatever crafty views the Baron may

have had in this curious transaction were frustrated by the im-

prudence of George Clerk Maxwell. His mining and manu-

facturing speculations involved him so deeply that Middlebie

proper, which, by his father's act, was now at his individual

disposal, was sold in lots to various purchasers (of whom theis
Duke of Queensberry was chief), and the hereditary estate was

reduced to something like its present limited area. This accounts
for the fact that Glenlair, the present seat of this branch of the
Maxwell family, so far distant from the well-known town of

Middlebie, in Dumfriesshire.
24  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.              [CHAP. II.

    CHAPTER II.

    GLENLAIR CHILDHOOD 1831 TO 1841.

THAT part of the old estate of Middlebie which remained

to the heirs of Maxwell was situate on the right or
westward bank of the Water of Orr, or Urr, in Kirk-

cudbrightshire, about seven miles from Castle-Douglas,

the market-town, ten from Dalbeattie, with its granite

quarries, and sixteen from Dumfries. It consisted

chiefly of the farm of Nether Corsock, and the moor-

land of Little Mochrum. But, before building, Mr.

Clerk Maxwell by exchange and purchases had

added other lands to these, including the farm of

Upper Glenlair. The site chosen for the house was

near to the march of the original estate, where a

little moor-burn from the westward falls into the Urr.

The two streams contain an angle pointing south-east,

opposite the heathery brae which hides the village of

Kirkpatrick Durham. There, on a rising ground above

the last descent towards the river and the burn, a

mansion-house of solid masonry, but of modest dimen-

sions, had been erected. It was built of dark -gray

stone, with a pavement and a "louping-on-stane" of

granite before the front door. On the southward

slope, towards the burn, was a spacious garden-ground

and a plantation beyond  it,  occupying the den or
CHAP. II.]  GLENLAIR CHILDHOOD.                                         25

dingle on either side the burn, and coming round to

westward of the house and garden, where it ended
in a shrubbery, by which the house was approached

from the north. On the eastward slope, towards the

Water of Urr, was a large undivided meadow for the
" kye" and the ponies. To the northward was a yard
with a duck-pond, and some humble " offices" or farm-

buildings, which were displaced by the new erection

of 1843. At the foot of the meadow, near the mouth

of the burn, was a ford with stepping-stones, where

the bridge was afterwards to be built, and the regular

approach to the completed house was to be constructed.

But this was far in the future, for in his building pro-

jects the laird would not trench upon the resources

that were needed for the land. At the foot of the

garden a place was hollowed out in the bed of the

burn, which has often proved convenient for bathing.

The rocky banks of the Urr, higher up, were fringed

with wood, and on the upland, on either side the

moor, there were clumps of plantation, giving cover

to the laird's pheasants, and breaking the force of the

winds coming down from the hill of Mochrum (N.W.).

Glenlair was the name ultimately appropriated to the
" great house " of Nether Corsock.

Every detail of these arrangements had been

planned by the laird himself, and may be said to have
been executed under his immediate supervision. The

house was so placed and contrived as to admit of en-

it                                                                      space was

                                                                  a

                                                                   it,
largement ; but, in the first erection of

economised as in the fitting up of ship. And while

was building, the owners were contented with still
26        JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                          [CHAP. II.

narrower accommodation, spending one if not two

whole summers in what was afterwards the gardener's

cottage. For the journey from Edinburgh was no

light matter, even for so experienced a traveller as
John Clerk Maxwell. Coming by way of Beattock, it

          occupied two whole days, and some friendly entertain-

          ment, as at the Irvings of Newton (his mother's half-
          sisters), 1 had to be secured on the way. Carriages*,
          in the modern sense, were hardly known to the Yale

          of Urr. A sort of double-gig with a hood was the

          best apology for a travelling coach, and the most
          active mode of locomotion was in a kind of rough

          dog-cart, known in the family speech as a "hurly."

          A common farmer's cart has been seen carrying the

          laird to church, or to a friend's hall-door.

          Glenlair was in the parish of Parton, of which the

          kirk is by Loch Ken. Mr. Clerk Maxwell was one

          of the elders there. (The little church of Corsock,
          about three miles up the Urr, was not yet thought

          of; for it was built in 1838, and not completely

          endowed until 1862.) About seven miles of hilly
          road lead from the Urr to Loch Ken and the Dee,

          which is reached at a point near Cross-Michael, about

          half-way between New Galloway in one direction and

          Kirkcudbright and St. Mary's Isle 2 in the other. On
          the high ground between the Urr and the Dee is Loch

          Eoan, a favourite point for expeditions from Glenlair.
          In a letter dated " Corsock, 25th April 1834 " (the
L 2 yrs.

          Boy being then aged two years and ten months),

                        1 See above, p. 4.

          2 The seat of the Earl of Selkirk.
CHAP. II.]  GLENLAIE CHILDHOOD.  27

Mr. Clerk Maxwell writes to Jane Cay, his sister-in-
law, in Edinburgh :

         To Miss CAY, 6 Great Stuart Street, Edinburgh.

                                                        Corsock, 25th April 1834.
       This has been a great day in Parton. Your humble
servant and his better half, Ned, 1 and Davie took their
departure an hour and a half after screigh 2 for Parton, to
appropriate the seats of the new kirk, which was successfully
atchieved in four hours' work to the satisfaction of all con-
cerned, by a grand assemblage of the Magnates of the

IParochin, who adjourned to a feast at the Manse. Master

James is in great go, but on this subject must surrender
the pen to abler hands to do justice to the subject.

      Instead of attempting to paraphrase a mode of

Ispeech which must be studied in and for itself, will

now give the continuation, written on the same sheet

of paper by the " abler pen."

      He is a very happy man, and has improved much since
the weather got moderate ; he has great work with doors,
locks, keys, etc., and " Show me how it doos " is never out of
his mouth. He also investigates the hidden course of streams
and bell-wires, the way the water gets from the pond
through the wall and a pend or small bridge and down a
drain into "Water Orr, then past the smiddy and down to the
sea, where Maggy's ships sail. As to the bells, they will not
rust; he stands sentry in the kitchen, and Mag runs thro'
the house ringing them all by turns, or he rings, and sends
Bessy to see and shout to let him know, and he drags papa
all over to show him the holes where the wires go through.

IWe went to the shop and ordered hats and bonnets, and as

he was freckling with the sun got him a black and white

straw till the other was ready, and as an apology to Meg

                                         1 The laird's horse.
           2 i.e. Daybreak ; hut in the laird's vocabulary, 9 A.M.
28  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                  [CHAP. II.

said it would do to toss about; he heard me, and acts

Iaccordingly. His great delight is to help Sandy Frazer
with the water barrel.  sent the fine hat to Mrs. Crosbie 1

for her babe, which is well bestowed. . . . You would

get letters and violets by a woman that was going back to

her place ; the latter would perhaps be rotten, but they were
gathered by James for Aunt Jane.

    Not much dragging was needed, either then or

afterwards, to get Mr. Clerk to explain any mechanism
to " boy," and " show him how it doos." Hencefor-

ward this was the chief pleasure of his life, until the

order was reversed, and the son took hardly less

delight in explaining Nature's Mechanics to the father.

   IBefore seeing this letter, had been told by his

cousin, Mrs. Blackburn, that throughout his childhood

his constant question was, " What's the go o' that ?

What does it do ?" Nor was he content with a vague
answer, but would reiterate, " But what's the particu-
lar go of it ?" IAnd, supported by such evidence,
Imay hope to win belief for a reminiscence which
Imight else have shrunk from mentioning.
                                          distinctly

remember his telling me, during his early manhood,

that his first recollection was that of lying on the grass

before his father's house, and looking at the sun, and

wondering. To which may be added the following

anecdote, which has been communicated to me by

Mrs. Murdoch, 2 the "Meg" of the preceding letter.
" When James was a little boy of two years and a half

Iold, had given him a new tin plate to play with.

                         1 Wife of the minister at Parton.
    2 She was distantly connected with the Liddells (above, p. 13).
               ^%> ^yUMM/s&fA/ 'w&as c^/c/tn

S7 V^ce/
CHAP. 11.]               GLENLAIR CHILDHOOD.                                   29

It was a bright sunny day ; lie held it to the sun, and

the reflection went round and round the room. He

said ' Do look, Maggy, and go for papa and mamma.'

I told them both to come, and as they went in James

sent the reflection across their faces. It was delightful

to see his papa; he was delighted. He asked him,

' What is this           you are about,  my  boy    '  He said, ' It

                                                  ?

Iis the sun, papa ; got it in with the tin plate/ His

papa told him when he was a little older he would

let him see the moon and stars, and so he did." Me-

Ithinks see the laird in those happiest days, standing

on some moonlit night on the pavement at the door,

pointing skywards with one hand, while the small

astronomer is peering from a plaid upon the other arm,

and the glad wife is standing by. 1

    In Mr. Dyee's picture of the mother and child we

see this open-eyed loving intercourse with the visible

universe already begun. And in the accompanying

a                        30), taken from contemporary sketch of
                    (p.
woodcut                                  a
                                                                                  is
"barn ball" at the Harvest-home of 1837, the boy

of six years old         (instead of     lotohekinbgowatofthteheda"nvcieorl)ino
totally absorbed         in watching
primo" unshakably determined to make out " the go
of that " some day or other. The spirit which after-

There has been preserved amongst the Glenlair papers chart of
1                                            is
                                                       it
            is
                a                                                           a
the celestial globe, cut out into constellations, which fit each other like

the pieces of child's puzzle. A round hole made in the cardboard

for every star, differing in size so as to show the magnitude of each.

The whole        executed with laborious neatness, and seems probable

that we have here the means (whether purchased or made at home)
whereby the configuration of the starry heavens was still further im-
pressed on " Jamsie's " mind.
30  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. ir.

wards welcomed the acoustic discoveries of Helmliolz
was already at work. 1

    In still earlier childhood, when he returned from

walking with his nurse, she had generally a lapful
of curiosities (sticks, pebbles, grasses, etc.) picked
up upon the paths through the wood, which must be
stored upon the kitchen dresser till his parents had
told him all about each one. In particular, she re-

     1 From his earliest manhood his ear for music was remarkably fine
and discriminating, a fact (though in strict accordance with " heredity ")
which surprised some of those who had known him as a boy. He
has told me that he remembered a time when it was exquisitely painful
to him to hear music. This time must clearly have been subsequent
to 1837. The truth seems to be that his naturally keen perception
of sounds was interfered with by a tendency to inflammation in the
ear, which came to a crisis in his sixteenth year, but that having
outgrown this together with other signs of delicacy, his powers in this
respect also were developed with striking rapidity. On the other hand,
his shortsightedness seems hardly to have been noticed till he was
fourteen or fifteen.
CHAP. II.]     GLENLAIR CHILDHOOD.              31

members his    interest in colours "   th"atBu(stanhdo)wstdo'nyee
is red ; this
               (whin) stone is blue."

know it's blue?" he would insist. He would catch

insects and watch their movements, but would never

hurt them. His aunt, Miss Cay, used to confess that

it was humiliating to be asked so many questions one
could not answer " by a child like that."

     But the child was not always observing, or asking
questions. Ever and anon he was engaged in doing,

or in making, which he liked better still. And here

his inventiveness soon showed itself. He was not
long contented with " tossing his hat about," or fishing

with a stick and a string (as in an early picture of Miss
Cay's) ; but whenever he saw anything that demanded

constructive ingenuity in the performance, that forth-

with took his fancy, and he must work at it. And in

               was ten to one but he must give
the doing   it,

              it

                                                      is

                                                           it
                                                                   it
some new and unexpected turn, and enliven with

some quirk of fancy. At one time he seated on the

kitchen table, busily engaged in basket -making, in
32  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. II.

which all the domestics, probably at his command, are

also employed. At another he is "making seals" 1

with quaint devices, or improving upon his mother's
knitting. For he must early have attained the skill,
of which an elaborate example still exists, in " Mrs.
Wedderburn's Abigail," which will be described in the
next chapter, and was worked by him in his twelfth

year.

     Of his education in the narrower sense during
this period little is known, except that his mother had
the entire charge of it until her last illness in 1839,
and that she encouraged him to " look up through
Nature to Nature's God." 2 She seems to have prided
herself upon his wonderful memory, and it is said that
at eight years old he could repeat the whole of the
119th Psalm. His knowledge of Scripture, from his

earliest boyhood, was extraordinarily extensive and

minute ; and he could give chapter and verse for
almost any quotation from the Psalms. His know-
ledge of Milton also dates from very early times.
These things were not known merely by rote. They
occupied his imagination, and sank deeper than any-

body knew.

     But his most obvious interests were naturally out
of doors. To follow his father " sorting " things about
the farm, or " viewing " recent improvements ; by and

     1 As mentioned in his letter to Miss Cay of 18th January 1840.
      2 When James, being eight years old, was told that his mother
was now in heaven, he said, " Oh, I'm so glad ! Now she'll have no
more pain." Already his first thought was for another.
CHAP. II.]         GLENLAIR CHILDHOOD.                  33

by (at ten years old) to  ride his pony after his father's
phaeton ; to learn from   the men " how to pickfork the
sheaves into the cart," l to witness a ploughing-match,

to  slide on the   Urr in time of   frost  (January    7, 1841),
to  leap ditches,                   " of               see them
                    to climb trees         sorts," to
felled and " have grand game at getting upon them

when falling/' 1 to take wasps' nests on hot days in

July; 2 to blow soap bubbles and marvel at their chang-

ing hues ; to scramble up the bed of the eddying stream
that " flowed past the smiddy to the sea," and mark

the intricate tracery of holes and grooves which, in

rolling the shingle, it had worn and carved in the hard
rock; or to watch the same river in a " spate" rushing
and whirling over those " pots " which it had wrought,

and piling up the foam into mimic towers, like the

cumuli of the sky ; or to gaze into the wan water

when in a milder mood, and drink in the rich brown

colour tinged with green reflections from the trees;

Isuch were some of his delights, as may confidently

infer from what he loved to show me afterwards. For

in that constant soul the impression once made was that
which remained and went on deepening " as streams
Itheir channels deeper wear."
                                    well remember with

what feeling he once repeated to me the lines of Burns

            " The Muse, nae poet ever fand her,

              Till by himsel he learn'd to wander ;

              Adown some trottin' burn's meander,
                  An' no think lang." 3

    1 From a letter of J. C. M. to his aunt, Miss Cay, of 18th January
1840 (M,. 8J).

     2 At ten years old this animosus infans took four in one day.
     3 From the Epistle to William Simpson, the schoolmaster of Ochil-

tree, May 1785.

                                                              D
34          JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.          [CHAP. II.

    There were living companions of his solitude,

besides those at home, for no live thing escaped his

loving observation. And chief among these was that
" child of the mossy pool," the frog, nay, humbler

still, the tadpole. The marvel of that transformation

has engrossed many a child ; but in none, unless in
some great naturalist, has it awakened such a keen,
continuous interest. And it may be here observed, as

a trait not to be dissociated from his intimacy with

Nature, as one of her familiars, that Maxwell never

had a " horror " of any creature. " Clean dirt " was a

favourite expression, though no one was ever more

cleanly. He would pick up a young frog, handle him

tenderly, as loving him (not " as if he loved him !
                                       ("
                                                       "),
listen for his scarcely audible voice  hear him

squeak he would say), put him into his mouth, and
    a
let him jump out again The movements of the frog!"
            a!
in swimming were long favourite study, and to jump

like frog was one of the pranks with which he

astonished his companions, when he "put an antic
disposition on " at school but of these there will be

time to speak hereafter. It was also at later time
            ;                          a

                                            ;

                                                           a
that he was told of Galvani's discoveries but the

recital had the more vivid interest for him because

of this childhood fancy.
     With eminent " judiciosity," Mr. Clerk Maxwell

had furnished his son with leaping-pole. This long
                a

staff, which appears in many of the early drawings, had

at least one excellent effect. Few civilised men have

had such perfect use of hands and arms as Maxwell

always had. His hand was the model of hand, ata
CHAP. II.]             GLENLAIR CHILDHOOD.     35

once effective and refined -looking. Thus equipped,
he went across country anywhere and everywhere,
with an eye for all he saw, and pluck enough to meet

any emergency. One who knew him as a child, and

who is fond of animals, says that     he was extraordinarily
                                      physical and mental,
" game/' His endurance, both

was always most remarkable.

He was sometimes taken to share in the simple

daylight festivities of the neighbourhood (perhaps also

to the New Year's gathering at Largnane, where the

gifts were dispensed by a Fairy from her grotto), and

it is still remembered, how at an archery picnic, 1 when

an elaborate pie from Glenlair was being opened by

the member of another house, the sturdy scion of

Middlebie, who had not yet learned the meaning of

Erinos, 2 and had doubtless been at the making and

baking, bounded over the cloth just laid upon the

turf, and laid his hand upon the dish, crying eagerly,
" That's            "  " That's             "
            oor's                oor  pie
                   !                       !

His resources on wet days were first, reading

voraciously every book in the house, except what his

mother kept out of his reach; and secondly, drawing,
which was begun at a very early age. Not that he

ever showed the highest order of artistic talent (though
his young performances are full of spirit) ; but he

had great accuracy of eye, and any singular arrange-

     1 About 1838. This was graced by the presence of three persons
then in the fulness of life, who were not destined to outlive the next
fifteen years Mrs. Clerk Maxwell, Miss Dyce, called the Pentland

Daisy (Mrs. Kobert Cay), and Isabella Wedderburn (Mrs. Mackenzie).
      2 "Epavos, i.e. a feast to which all contribute, and which all share.

See below, chap. xii.
36                   JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. II.

ment either of form or colour had always a fascina-

tion for him. Besides his mother's knitting, already

mentioned, his Aunt Jane's Berlin-wool work, and her

landscape drawings, early set him inventing curious

patterns and harmonising colours. And there were
two other frequent visitants at Glenlair, whom it is

now time formally to introduce. These were Mr.

Clerk Maxwell's sister Isabella, the widow of James

Wedderburn, Esq., at one time Solicitor-General for

Scotland, and her daughter Jemima, who was still a

young girl, though somewhat older than her cousin.

    Mrs. Wedderburn had been an ornament of Edin-

burgh society in the days of her youth, combining

beauty of an elegant and piquant kind with great

sprightliness and originality, and the staunchest

loyalty to her kin. In spite of her early widowhood

and of some long illnesses, she retained much of her

spirit, together with her erect, lightsome figure, to the

last, and danced a reel at James's wedding with the

utmost sprightliness though at the age of seventy.
Her daughter, now Mrs. Hugh Blackburn, was only

eight years older than her cousin James ; but her rare

genius for pictorial delineation, especially of animals,

was already manifest. It is obvious how this com-

panionship of genius must have influenced the child's

indoor pursuits.

    A scientific toy had recently come into vogue, an

improvement on the thaumatrope, called variously
                     " phenakistoscope,"   " stroboscope,"
"bymathgeic  names                                          or
             disc."   Instead of turning  on its diameter,  as

in the thaumatrope, it was made to revolve on a
CHAP. II.]  GLENLAIR CHILDHOOD.  37

 transverse axis, before a mirror, at which the eye
 looked through apertures cut at equal distances near
the rim of the disc. And the figures drawn upon it
were so contrived, by being placed in carefully
 graduated positions, as thus to produce the impression
of a continuous movement. 1 This was a source of
 endless amusement to the two cousins, the younger
generally contriving, and in part executing, the elder
giving life and spirit to the creatures represented.

Through Mrs. Maxwell's kindness, I have in my pos-

session some of these early works, in which the
ingenuity of the contriver is everywhere manifest,
the hand of the artist only here and there. The cow

jumping over the waxing and waning moon, the dog
pursuing the rat in and out of his hole, the circus

horse, on which the man is jumping through the hoop,
have the firmness and truth of touch, the fulness of

life, familiar to the many admirers of J. B. The

tumbler under the horse's feet ; the face in which the

pink and white, drawn separately, are made to blend ;

the tadpole that wriggles from the egg and changes

gradually into a swimming frog ; the cog-wheels moved
by the pendulum, and acting with the precision of
clockwork (showing, in fact, the working of an escape-
ment) ; these display, with less power of execution,

the quaint fancy and observation, and the constructive

     1 This was afterwards developed into the " zoetrope " or " wheel

Iof life," how far through suggestions of Clerk Maxwell's, or otherwise,
    am unable to say. The lenses which perfect the illusion were
certainly added by Maxwell himself. See Problem xx. of Cambridge

Tripos Examination, 1869, Thursday, January 7.
38  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. II.

ingenuity of the young Clerk Maxwell. There are

also intricate coloured patterns, of which the hues
Ishift and open and close as in a kaleidoscope.
                                                 would

not venture to affirm that all these belong to the very

Iearliest period. 1 But believe that the magic disc was

in full operation before 1839, and that it has a real
connection not only with the " wheel of life," but also
with the " colour- top " of after years.

      Another playmate and partaker of his whims must
be remembered here. This was a terrier of the

" Mustard" kind, called Toby, Tobin, Tobs, or Tobit,

according to the moment's humour. Toby was always

     1 As late as Feb. 27, 1847, on a Saturday half-holiday, when kept
in by weather, he was employed with his father in making a magic disc
for a young cousin.
CHAR II.]  GLENLAIR CHILDHOOD.  39

 learning some new trick (performed for his wages of
 home-made biscuit after dinner), and neither he nor
James were ever tired of repeating the old ones. To
 mention this is not mere trifling, for his power over
 animals and perception of their ways 1 was a permanent
characteristic, and he found a scientific use for it at
a later time in inspecting the eyes of dogs with a
view to certain optical investigations. 2

      He does not seem to have been particularly fond of
riding at an early age, though in later life it was his

favourite recreation ; but at ten years old, as has been

said, he used to ride his pony behind his father's

"phaeton."

      Lastly, amongst the constant surroundings of the
boy's early years, the " vassals " must not be for-
gotten. Davie M'Vinnie and his family Sandy Fraser
the gardener, and his the Murdochs, who were the

kindred of Maggie, James's nurse, were the objects of

a continuous kindly interest and friendly companion-

ship, which had a genial effect on the heart of the

Ichild. And by those of them whom have been able

to see, he is still remembered, notwithstanding many
years of inevitable silence, with undoubting affection.

The very names of the places where they lived are
suggestive of quaintness and singularity, as were
most things in the Galloway of that day, where it

    1 " He seemed to get inside them more than other people." J. B.

     2 " Coonie," a favourite terrier in later years, had a trick of howl-
ing unmercifully whenever the piano was played. He was completely
cured of this, and Maxwell told a friend, in his grave way, that he
had taken " Coonie " to the piano and explained to him how it went.
That was all.
40  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. ii.

was supposed that the devil had come after the Crea-
tion, with the riddlings of the universe, and had begun
" couping his creels " at Screels,till creel and all fell at
Criffel. Tor-holm, Tor-knows, Tor-brae, Paddock Hall,

Knock-vinney, the Doon of Urr, High Craigs of
Grlenlair such were some of the immediately sur-
rounding names, sorting well with the homely, yet
unusual scenery, and with the picturesque Gallo-
wegian dialect, which, like everything that struck the
boy's fancy, laid a strong and lasting hold upon his

mind.

     In speaking of his own childish pursuits, it is
impossible not to recall the ready kindliness with
which, in later life, he would .devote himself to the

amusement of children. There is no trait by which
he is more generally remembered by those with whom
he had private intercourse ; and, indeed, in this also
it appears that the boy was father to the man. Behold
him at the age of twelve, with his father's help, good-
CHAP. II.]  GLENLAIR CHILDHOOD.  41

naturedly guiding the constructive efforts of a still
younger boy. 1

     As the months went on after Mrs. Maxwell's death,
the question of education began to press. The experi-
ment of a tutor at home, which had been tried in the

autumn preceding that event, was continued until
November 1841, but by that time had been pro-
nounced unsuccessful. The boy was reported slow at
learning, and Miss Cay after a while discovered that
the tutor was rough. He was probably a raw lad,
who having been drilled by harsh methods had no
conception of any other, and had failed to present the
Latin grammar in such a way as to interest his pupil.
He had, in short, tried to coerce Clerk Maxwell. Not

a promising attempt ! Meanwhile the boy was getting
to be more venturesome, and needed to be not driven,

but led. And it may be conceded for the tutor's be-

hoof that, when once taken the wrong way, his power
of provocation must have been, from a certain point

of view, "prodigious." A childhood without some

naughtiness would be unnatural. One evening at
Grlenlair, just as the maid-servant was coming in with
the tea-tray, Jamsie blew out the light in the narrow

passage, and lay down across the doorway.
     There is one of Mrs. Blackburn's drawings, which

throws a curious light on the situation at this junc-

      1 The scene is at St. Mary's Isle, and the younger boy is Lord
Charles Scott, then four years old (September 1843). Mr. A. Mac-
millan, the publisher, in particular, has a vivid recollection of Max-
well's ingenious ways of entertaining children, exhibiting his colour-

top, showing them how to make paper boomerangs, etc.
42  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. ii.

ture. Master James is in the duck-pond, in a wash-
tub, having ousted the ducks, to the amusement of the
young " vassals," Bobby and Johnny, and is paddling
himself (with some implement from the dairy, belike),
out of reach of the tutor, who has fetched a rake,

and is trying forcibly to bring him in. Mr. Clerk
Maxwell has just arrived upon the scene, and is look-

ing on complacently, though not without concern.
Cousin Jemima has been aiding and abetting, and is
holding the leaping-pole, which has probably served
as a boat-hook in this case.

     The achievement of sailing in the tub was one in

which James gloried scarcely less than Wordsworth's

Blind Highland boy in his tortoise shell. It is

referred to in the following letter, written by the boy

of ten years old to his father, who had gone for a
short visit to St. Mary's Isle :
CHAP. II.]  GLENLALR CHILDHOOD.                                               43

                          Glenlair House,
               [Friday], 29th October 1841.

    DEAR PAPA We are all well. On Tuesday we J sailed
Iin the tub, and the same yesterday, and we are improving,

and can make it go without spinning ; 2 but on Wednesday
they were washing, and we could not sail, and we went to

the potatoes. Yesterday they took up the Prince Eegents,
Iand they were a good crop. Mr.
                                 and went to
IMaggy's, but she was away at Brooklands, and so came
back and sailed myself, for Nanny said Johnny was not to
Igo in, and Bobby was away. Fanny was there, and was

frightened for me, because she thought was drowning, and

the ducks were very tame, and let me go quite close to
Ithem. Maggy is coming to-day to see the tubbing.
                                                                              have

got no more to say, but remain, your affectionate son,

               JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

21  IThe episode of the tutor was not a happy one.                     a if,
Iwould omit the fact, as well as the name, were not
    a       a
convinced that this first experience of harsh treatment
had effects which long remained, not in any bitter-
ness, though to be smitten on the head with a ruler

and have one's ears pulled till they bled might
naturally have operated in that direction, but in a

certain hesitation of manner and obliquity of reply,
which Maxwell was long in getting over, indeed, he

ever quite got over them.

        From the context " we " seems to include " Bobby," one of the
young " vassals."

        To enable him to " trim the vessel," he had put block of wood
in the centre. Sitting on this, and tucking his legs on either side, he
could paddle about steadily and securely. Mrs. Blackburn tells me
that years afterwards at Euthven, in Forfarshire, being desirous of in-
specting water-hen's nest on deep pond, where there was no boat,
she adopted the same method, and made the voyage both ways alone
without the slightest uneasiness.
44          JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                       [CHAP. II.

     The young Spartan himself made no sign that his
relations with his tutor were otherwise than smooth.
But something awakened the suspicions of his aunt,

Miss Cay,1 and the discovery was then made. It was

Ithis, believe, which finally roused Mr. Clerk Maxwell

to carry into effect what had been for some time in
debate, viz. to take his son to Edinburgh and put
him to school.

    1 Two letters from Miss Cay to James, one dated Sept. 1, the other

October 21, 1841, were kept by Mr. Clerk Maxwell, and have been

preserved.     Although not significant enough to be   inserted here, they
show the    confidential intercourse which had sprung  up between " Aunt

Jane " and her sister's son. She writes of theological and other matters

which would not generally be thought interesting to a boy of ten, thanks

him for his though tfulness in getting ferns for her, and says, " I was

glad to hear you were happy, with all your experiments and adventures."

There had been a visit to Edinburgh that summer, and she writes as if

anticipating that it would be soon repeated. There is also a reference

to an elaborate set of Berlin-wool work for the furniture of the drawing-

room at Glenlair, which had been begun in Mrs. Maxwell's lifetime,

and was afterwards completed by Miss Cay.
CHAP. III.]  BOYHOOD.      45

             CHAPTEE III.

BOYHOOD EDINBURGH ACADEMY "OLD 31" HOLIDAYS
        AT GLENLAIR 1841 TO 1844 MT. 10-13.

THE first school-days are not always a time of pro-

gress. For one whose home life has been surrounded

with an atmosphere of genial ideas and liberal pur-
suits, to be thrown, in the intervals of " gerund-

grinding," amongst a throng of boys of average intel-

ligence and more than average boisterousness, is not

directly improving at the outset. Not that Maxwell

ever retrograded for his spirit was inherently active;

but where the outward environment was such as

awakened no response in him, he was like an engine

whose wheels do not bite working incessantly, but
Ifnot advancing much.
                       the Scottish day-school

system had not still been dominated by a tyrannous

economy, and by that spirit of laisser faire which in
education is apt to result in the prevalence of the

worst, much that was in Maxwell would earlier have

found natural vent and growth. As it was, he. was of

course storing up impressions, as under any circum-

stances he would have been ; but his activities were
apt for the time to take odd shapes, as in a healthy

plant under a sneaping wind. Or, to employ another
metaphor, the light in him was still aglow, but in
46  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. III.

passing through an alien medium its rays were often
refracted and disintegrated. The crowd of " aimless
fancies," whose influence upon his life he so touch-
ingly deprecated at a later time,1 were now most
importunate ; and, bright and full of innocence as
they were, they produced an effect of eccentricity
on superficial observers which he afterwards felt to
have been a hindrance to himself. His mother's

influence, had she lived, would have been most valu-

able to him at this time.

     The journey from Glenlair had been broken at

Newton 2 and at Penicuik, where a halt of some days

was made. It was the middle of November, and a

       season of snow and frost. Soon after dusk on the 18th
10, ' of November, the whole family party, including the

                   1 In the poem written after his father's death in 1856.

                                                         2 Above, p. 4.
CHAP. III.] BOYHOOD EDINBURGH ACADEMY.                            47

faithful domestic, Lizzy Mackeand, 1 arrived at the
door of No. 31 Heriot Bow, Mrs. Wedderburn's house
in Edinburgh. This (with occasional intervals, when
he was with Miss Cay) was to be James Clerk Max-

wellT'shedo"mWicihleitefoHr oerisgeht"  or nine years  to come.   above
                                        seen through   a lunette

the doorway, the  quaint figure          of the butler   (nick-
                  from the way                          hair 2 ),
named " Hornie "                        he dressed his

and other noticeable features of this dwelling, appear

and reappear in the boy's letters to his father, which

now become more frequent. For, although not choos-

ing to be much separated from James, Mr. Clerk

Maxwell could not be long absent from Glenlair, and

henceforward he lived a divided life between the two,

spending most of the winter evenings by his sister's

fireside in Edinburgh, and during most of the spring

and summer attending personally to the improvement

of his estate.

   , The Edinburgh Academy, which had been founded
in 1824, was in high favour with the denizens of the
New Town. Lord Cockburn was one of the directors.
The Kector, Archdeacon Williams, was an Oxford first-
classman, a College acquaintance of John Lockhart's, 3
and an admirable teacher. He had at one time been an
assistant master at Winchester, and had subsequently,
at Lockhart's recommendation, been tutor to Charles,
Sir W. Scott's second son. The boys in the junior

     1 Now Mrs. MacGowan, Kirkpatrick-Durham.
     2 His real name was James Craigie.
     3 The inscription beneath his bust in Balliol College, Oxford, is a
48  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. III.

classes, however, knew little of him except by report,
for the assistant masters were jealous of their inde-

pendence.

     Various entries in his Diary testify to the father's
deliberate care in placing his son at the Academy.
Everything which seemed material to the boy's ad-
vantage had no doubt been carefully considered ; but
there was one serious omission, arising from Mr.
Clerk Maxwell's inveterate disregard of appearances.
The boy was taken to school in the same garments in
which we have seen him at Glenlair. No dress could

be more sensible in itself. A tunic of hodden gray

tweed is warmer than a round cloth jacket for winter
wear, and the brazen clasps were a better fastening
for the square-toed shoes than an adjustment of black
tape, which is always coming undone. But round
jackets were de rigueur amongst the young gentle-

men ; while it must be admitted that they were

just tribute to the memory of one who, though he had his foibles, was
a born educator, and no ordinary man :

                                       JOHN WILLIAMS, M.A.,
                                  Archdeacon of Cardigan 1835-1858 ;
                      Rector of the Edinburgh Academy 1824-1847 ;
                            Warden of Llandovery College 1848-1853 ;
                             Who, by the geniality of his Character

                                  And the vigour of his Intellect,
                                    Won the hearts of his Pupils,
               And gave his life to the study of the Classics in Scotland :

                                        A Celtic Scholar,
                    An ardent lover of Wales and of the Welsh People,

                                          After a long absence,
                                  He returned to his Native Land

                                    And devoted his great talents
                                To the instruction of his Countrymen :

                                              Born 1792; Died 1858.
                                      He resided at this College
                                    Between the years 1810 and 1814.

See also Lockhart's Life of Scott, small edition of 1871, pp. 484, 744,
 781.
CHAP, in.] "OLD 31" EDINBURGH ACADEMY.  49

equally intolerant of dandyism. A frill for a round

collar was of course unendurable, and the Gallovidian
clasps not to mention the square toes were an

unheard-of novelty. A new boy, coming in the

second month of the second year, must in any case
have had something to undergo ; but here was evident
provocation to " a parcel of boys in their teens." 1

     What happened in the interval after the first

lesson (in the space behind the second classroom) is
best indicated in the words of the Psalmist: "They
came about me like bees."

     " Who made those shoes 1" was the first question ;
but it was never easy to get a direct answer from

Maxwell, least of all on compulsion. Brought thus to

bay, he had recourse to his natural weapon irony.
His answer was soon ready, and his tormentors might

make of it what they list. In the broadest tones of

his Corsock patois he replied to one of them,
                       "Div ye ken, 'twas a man,
                              And he lived in a house,
                           In whilk was a mouse."

     He returned to Heriot Eow that afternoon with

           I1 " do believe the veriest fien's

                 In the world is a parcel of boys in their teens."

                                                                                                  Fo'c's'le Yarns.
The palinode should also be quoted :

          I I" ' Fiends ' called them, did ? Well,
            I shouldn then. It's hard to tell ;

                  And it's likely God has got a plan
                   To put a spirit in a man
                     That's more than you can stow away
                 In the heart of a child. But he'll see the day
                   When he'll not have a bit too much for the work

                     He's got to do."
50  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. III.

his tunic in rags and "wanting" the skirt; his neat
frill rumpled and torn ; himself excessively amused

by his experiences, and showing not the smallest sign

of irritation. It may well be questioned, however,

whether something had not passed within him, of
which neither those at home nor his schoolfellows

ever knew.

     The nickname of " Dafty " which they then gave
him clung to him while he remained at school, and he
took no pains to get rid of it. His " quips and
cranks " were taken for " cantrips," his quick, short,
elfin laughter (the only sign by which he betrayed his
sensitiveness), was construed into an eldritch noise.

Never was cygnet amongst goslings more misconstrued.
Within the class-rooms things were not much more
prosperous at first. Our master, Mr. A. N. Carmichael,

was a good and experienced teacher, and an excellent
scholar, in a dryish way. He was the author of the
Edinburgh Academy Greek Grammar and of an
Account of the Irregular Greek Verbs, which has now
been superseded, but was justly respected in its day.
He was a good disciplinarian ; but those junior classes

of sixty and upwards were too large and miscellaneous
for real teaching. He had an eye for talent, too. where
it was shown. But his first business was to hear our
tasks, and to let us take places in the class in propor-
tion to the accuracy and readiness with which we said
them. Maxwell did not at once enter into the spirit
of this contest, in which the chief requisites, next to

average talent and intelligence, were push and promp-
titude. His first initiation in Latin had not been
CHAP, in.] "OLD 31" EDINBURGH ACADEMY.  51

pleasant to him, and the repetition ad nauseam of "di,
do, dum" by his new acquaintances, varied with the
sound of the tawse, did not make the subject more
attractive. Like the boy Teufelsdrockh, he seemed
to hear at school innumerable dead vocables, but no
language. His hesitation got worse and worse, and
as his place in the class was not amongst the " best
boys," some of his neighbours willingly did their
utmost to disconcert him. On one occasion we shall

find him humorously retaliating. He was not in the
least inwardly perturbed by all this, nor bore any one

the slightest malice. It was a new scene of life, which

he contemplated with amused curiosity. But it was
natural that his chief interest should not lie there.

He seldom took part in any games, though he was
loyally proud of the success of his school in them, and
characteristically took some interest in the spinning
of " pearies " (pegtops), and the collision of " bools "

(marbles); but, when he could, preferred wandering
alone, sometimes imprisoning the humble-bees on

the green slope at the back and letting them go again,
sometimes doing queer gymnastics on the few trees
that were left, availing himself, in short, of the
scanty inlets by which Nature visited that shingly
ground. 1 For his heart was at Glenlair, even when
he made sport for the young Philistines of the

Academy " yards." It should be added that his

attendance was a good deal interrupted by delicate

health.

     1 Things are altered now. For years past there has been an ample
recreation-ground provided for the boys of the Academy.
          52             JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                           [CHAP. III.

1842-43.      His life during this period was really centred in
          ' " Old 31." He was presently allowed to have a

          room to himself, in which he could read and draw

          and write, besides preparing for school. His cousin

          Jemima was at this time learning the art of wood-

          cutting, and he was allowed sometimes to dig away
          with her tools. The result was a series of rude

          engravings, to which allusions occur in his letters to

          his father ; and a woodcut of his, representing the
          head of an old woman, still remains, with the date

          1843 engraved on it. In the previous year he pro-

          duced more than one elaborate piece of knitting. One

          of these, a sort of sling for holding a work-basket, with

          its proper name, "Mrs. Wedderburn's Abigail," worked

          into has been preserved* by Mrs. Blackburn. Theif

          library at his new home was more extensive than ata it,

          Glenlair. He came to know Swift and Dry den, and

          after while Hobbes, and Butler's Hudibras. Then

             his father was in Edinburgh they walked together,
          especially on the Saturday half-holiday, and " viewed"

          Leith Fort, or the preparations for the Granton rail-

          way, or the stratification of Salisbury Crags always
                                                                        ;

          learning something new, and winning ideas for imagin-

&t. 10. ation to feed upon. One Saturday, February 12,
          1
                         special treat, being taken "to see
                                  a
                                                                     1
          1842, he had

          electro-magnetic machines."

                   Less frequently, he would rove about alone. Professor Fleeming
          Jenkin remembers hearing him say that when he first saw the twisted
          piles of candles with which grocers decorate their windows, he was
          struck by the curious and complex curves resulting from the combina-
          tions of these simple cylinders, and was resolved to understand all
          about that some day.
CHAP. III.] "OLD 31" -EDINBURGH ACADEMY.  53

       Mr. Clerk Maxwell was much more like an elder

brother than a "governor" to James, and there was

nothing the boy could not or did not tell him, none

of his whimsical vagaries in which the father did not                      ^'1842-43.
take delight. And when "his papaship" was alone                                    10 ~12 '

at Glenlair, James would strive to cheer him in his

solitude by concocting the wildest absurdities, invent-

ing a kind of cypher to communicate some airy

nothing, illuminating his letters after the fashion of

his school copy-books, and adding sketches of school-

life (e.g. the class-room in the absence of the teacher),

et cetera. This series of letters is so curious that it has

been thought worth while to reproduce one of the
least elaborate of them in facsimile. Some of those
omitted are still more interesting, as showing his
love of drawing complicated patterns and arranging
colours, and as marking the early and spontaneous
development of " the habit of constructing a mental

representation of every problem," l which was in some
degree an hereditary proclivity. In order, however, to
judge fairly of these enfantittages, the reader mu'st take

into account the boy's affectionate solicitude to amuse
his father, who was accustomed to receive whimsical
familiarities from his young relatives in " Old 3 1." 2

1 Professor Tait. In the letter of January 18, 1840 (above, p. 33),

his ninth         when, in speaking of
says, "            a bird and a beast,"
Iin        year,                         his amusement of seal-engraving
           made                          the words " bird " and " beast "
he

are each accompanied with a sort of hieroglyphic representing the

figure he had made upon the seal.

     2 This is clearly proved by a set of delightful rhyming epistles
addressed to him by his niece, Isabella Wedderburn, afterwards Mrs.
Mackenzie, then a bright young girl, between the years 1825 and

1827.
54  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                           [CHAP. III.

         In Edinburgh, as at Glenlair, he was allowed to

    participate in the amusements of his elders. It is

    just worth mentioning that his first play was As
     You Like It, with Mrs. Charles Kean as Eosalind ; and

     more important to observe that on December 18th,
12. 1843, his father took him to a meeting of the Edin-

     burgh Eoyal Society.
          But at school also he gradually made his way.

    He soon discovered that Latin was worth learning,
     and the Greek Delectus interested him, when we got
    so far. 1 And there were two subjects in which he at
     once took the foremost place, when he had a fair

     chance of doing so ; these were Scripture Biography

    and English. In arithmetic, as well as in Latin, his

     comparative want of readiness kept him down.

           On the whole he attained a measure of success

     which helped to secure for him a certain respect, and,

     however strange he sometimes seemed to his com-

     panions, he had three qualities which they could not
     fail to understand agile strength of limb, imper-

     turbable courage, and profound good nature. Professor

    James Muirhead remembers him as "a friendly boy,

     though never quite amalgamating with the rest."
    And another old class-fellow, the Kev. W. Macfarlane

     of Lenzie, records the following as his impression :

    " Clerk Maxwell, when he entered the Academy, was

     somewhat rustic and somewhat eccentric. Boys
    called him ' Dafty,' and used to try to make fun of

   Ihim. On one occasion remember he turned with

      1 The Academy Greek Rudiments was purchased  before leaving

Edinburgh for the holidays, July 28, 1842.
CHAP, in.] "OLD 31" EDINBURGH ACADEMY.            55

Itremendous vigour, with a kind of demonic force, on
his tormentors.  think he was let alone after that,

and gradually won the respect even of the most                   1843-44.

thoughtless of his schoolfellows/' 1

    It was on some such occasion as that to which

Mr. Macfarlane here refers, somewhere in 1843 or

1844, that my own closer intimacy and lifelong

friendship with James Clerk Maxwell began. I can-

not recall the exact circumstances, only the place in

the Academy yards, the warm rush of chivalrous

emotion, and the look of affectionate recognition in

Maxwell's eyes. However imperturbable he was, one

might see that he was not thick-skinned.

Shortly after this we became near neighbours, my

mother's new domicile being 27 Heriot Eow, and we

were continually together for about three years.

His letters now refer with more of interest to his

progress at school, especially to exercises in verse, and

to outdoor recreation with companions ; above all to
his delight in bathing and in learning to swim. In

this, as in everything he did, he invented curious

novelties, and was particularly fond of mimicking his

old acquaintance, the frog.
     On Sundays he generally went with his father to

St. Andrew's Church (Mr. Crawford's) in the forenoon,
and, by Miss Cay's desire, to St. John's Episcopal
Chapel in the afternoon, where, also by her desire, he

was for a time a member of Dean Kamsay's catecheti-

1 " One hautboy will," etc. From an entry in his father's Diary
of May 19, 1847, it appears that he was even then not free from
            IAnd can bear witness to the fact.
annoyance.
- , 56  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. III.

           cal class. Thus, having of course learned " his ques-
           tions " as a child, he became equally acquainted with
           the catechisms both of the Scotch and of the English
           Church, and with good specimens of the Presbyterian
           and Episcopalian styles of preaching. He also went
           regularly " to the dancing " at Mr. Mac Arthur's, where

            he was distinguished for the neatness of his reel-steps,
            especially of those curious ones which some of us found
           most difficult, such as the " lock-step."

                 But more delightful than bathing, and more

           interesting even than writing English verse, was the
           achievement of which he writes casually to his father
June 1844. very shortly after his thirteenth birthday. After
 *&t 13 describing the Virginian Minstrels, and betwixt in-

          quiries after various pets at Glenlair, he remarks, as if

         it were an ordinary piece of news, " I have made a

            tetrahedron, a dodecahedron, and two other hedrons,

        Iwhose names don't know." We had not yet begun

             geometry, and he had certainly not at this time
            learnt the definitions in Euclid ; yet he had not
             merely realised the nature of the five regular solids
            sufficiently to construct them out of pasteboard with

             approximate accuracy, but had further contrived

             other symmetrical polyhedra derived from them, 1
            specimens of which (as improved in 1848) may be
            still seen at the Cavendish Laboratory.

                 Who first called his attention to the pyramid,

         Icube, etc., do not know. He may have seen an

     1 By producing the facets until their alternate planes intersected.
In the specimens still extant, the facets belonging to each plane of the

original polyhedron are distinguished by specific colouring.
CHAP, in.] "OLD 31" EDINBURGH ACADEMY.                                           57

account of them by chance in a book. But the fact
remains that at this early time his fancy, like that of
the old Greek geometers, was arrested by these types
of complete symmetry; and his imagination so
thoroughly mastered them, that he proceeded to
make them with his own hand. That he himself

attached more importance to this moment than the

letter indicates, is proved by the care with which he

has preserved these perishable things, so that they (or
those which replaced them in 1848) are still in exist-
ence after thirty-seven years.

LETTERS, 1842 to 1844.

MY DEAR PAPA                                          [April 1842.}

              IThe day you went away Lizzy and

went to the Zoological Gardens, and they have got an

elephant, and Lizzy was frightened for its ugly face. One

gentleman had a boy that asked if the Indian cow was he.
     Asky * thinks he is a scholar, and was for going with me

to the school, and came into the dancing to-day.
      On Friday there was great fun with Hunt the Gowk ; 2

we could believe nothing, for the clocks were all "stopped,"
and everybody had a " hole in his jacket." Does Margaret 3

Iplay on the trump 4 still ? and what are the great works ?
Does Bobby sail in the tub ?  am, your obedient servant,

                              JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

[Illuminated letters at beginning, and border after.~]

IMY DEAR MR. MAXWELL          saw your son to-day, when
he told me that you could not make out his riddles. Now,

1 Pet name of a dog. See illustration on p. 18.

2 Scotch name for the license of April Fool's day.

3 A daughter his nurse.                                         The Jew's harp.
              o'f
                                                             4
58       JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                           [CHAP. III.

Iif you mean the Greek jokes, have another for you. A

simpleton wishing to swim was nearly drowned. As soon

as he got out he swore that he would never touch water

till he had learned to swim ; but if you mean the curious

letters on the last page, they are at Glenlair. Your aff.

Nephew,                             JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

   I have cut a puggy l nut, and some of the oil came upon

my fingers, and it smelt like linseed Oil, but it did not hurt.

There was a boy that brought Sea fyke 2 to the school, and
put it down the boys' backs, for which he was condemned

Ito learn 12 lines for 3 days. Talking about places, am
I14 to-day, but hope to get up. Ovid prophesies very

well when the thing is over, but lately he has prophesied a
Ivictory which never came to pass.
Ipiper to astonish the natives with.3            send you a Bag-

                                                 have got a jumping

paddock and a boortree gun.4 When are you coming ?
Your most obedient Sarvent,

                                    JAS. ALEX. M'MERKWELL. 5

Envelope ofZkth June 1843

               MR. JOHN CLERK MAXWELL,

                           Postyknowswere,
                            Kirkpatrick Durham,
                                                      Dumfries.

     1 i.e. Cashew nut. This is characteristic.  Compare the description
of the boy-genius in Fo'c's'le Yarns :
                                                        ;

         " Bless ye ! the pisons was just like mate
           To Tommy, that liked to feel the strong
           They were, and rowlin' them on his tongue."

    2 A substance often found on the sea-shore. It is of a honey-combed

structure, and consists, in fact, of the egg-capsules of the common

whelk (Buccinum undatum). When dried             and pulverised, it has an
irritating effect upon the skin. Hence the
                                                  local name : " Fyke "=

fidget. See Jamieson's Dictionary.

    3 This fantastic and elaborately-coloured illustration is certainly

sufficiently astonishing.           4 i.e. A pop-gun of elder- wood.

    5 Anagram of James Clerk Maxwell.
jSa:e$s  j -tie HU satys

                 -fold! -us Jzow -tlese
like
>
CHAP, in.] "OLD 31" EDINBURGH ACADEMY.                                             59

                                     "Old 31," 28th March 1844.

MY DEAR FATHER On /Saturday last we went to the
IMarine VillA ; 1 it had a very strong Marine scent, but sup-
Ipose it is all the better /or that.
                                               found out where shell-

fish breed; they breed in sea fyke; there were muscles,

codes, and oysters no bt'gger than these O O O O fastned
to the fyke by filaments. Nell and Frolic were immersed

in the serene bosom of NePtune, from which with still

quivering limbs theY came out, but with very different
IfeeliNGs ; but Nell exited the compAssioN of Meddum, 2 and
was carried by her.       have flitted up to the little garret.

WAat Kke is the new taDPole ? and how is Ma^gy getting on

with /mmm ; 3 how much more is to be done conceRniNg

Ifye, says the pie. John's house is not finished yeT, sup-

Ipose. There have been betters from uncle EoberT, dated

Gibber Altar, but have not seen or Aeard what is in

them FarTHEr than that he was to be at Suez on Monday

last. Lizzy says that when you come back it woulo not bE

dispLeasin^ to her iF you -would braig a bawl of gray
Iworsted, wAich lAst word
                                     suppose meaNS woolen threAd.
I have cast three seaLs of Lead from the life, or rather from

the death ; one of a cockle and two of muscles, one of which
                                               If you want to
is, or raTher will be, on this letter J.
know more look along from the beginning of the letter to
Jthe mark for the red and blue letters 4 in order.
How are all the bodies and beasts, Praecipue, Nanny,

Maggy, Fanny, Bobby, Toby, and Marco. Your obt. servt,,

                                     JAS. ALEX. M'MERKWELL.

1 Silverknowe, near Granton, which was being prepared as a resi-

dence for Mr. and Mrs.    Mackenzie  (3IsaTbheellasoWunedddoef rtbhuern").trump."
      2 Mrs. Wedderburn.

4 Here represented by italics and small capitals respectively. The

italics spell Sea fyke is a good thing for polishing with. The small

capitals spell i AM COPYING AN OLD PRINT OUT OP THE DELFIAN (i.e.
Delphin) SALLUST. It need not be observed that the capricious spell-

ing in these letters is merely a piece of " daftness." The spelling of

the letters of 1841 (JBt. 9-10) is faultless.
60  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.          [CHAP. III.

13. [19th June 1844.]             " Old Sir
    IMY DEAR FATHER On Wednesday
                                  went to the

Virginian minstrels, in which some of the songs were sung,

the first line accompanied with clappers, the second on a

tamborine, the third on a banjo, like this, . . . played like a

guitar very quickly, and the fourth on the fiddle, and the

chorus by all together. There were guesses, 1 in abundance ;

and there was an imitation of a steam onion, and other things

Iwhich you will find in the bill. On Saturday, having got

the play for verses on Laocoon, went with Cha. H. John-

stone 2 so far, and then went to the murrain vile till Mrs.

M'Kenzie, Ninny, and Kwrj 3 went to visit Cramond, where

I played with the boies till high water ; and the minister's
Iyoung brother and the too boies and doukit in C (big sea

as Kvvrj calls it), and then dried ourselves after the manner

of Auncient Greeks ; we had also the luxury of a pail of

. water to wash our feet in.

    How is a' aboot the house now our Gudeman's at home ?

How are herbs, shrubs, and trees doing ? cows, sheep, mares,

Idogs, and folk ? and how did Nannie like bonny Carlisle ?
Mrs. Robt. Cay was at the church on Sunday. 4      have

made a tetra hedron, a dodeca hedron, and 2 more hed-

Irons that don't know the wright names for. How do

doos and Geraniums come on. Your most obt. servt.

                              JAS. ALEX. MMERKWELL.

                               125 12 7 4 13 3 6 11 8 9 10 14151617

      1 i.e. riddles or conundrums, of which the boy was fond.

     2 A son of Admiral Hope Johnstone, then living at Cramond, a
scion of the Johnstones, who in 1 5 had a feud with the Maxwells,
but in later times claimed kinship with them.

     3 " i.e. Coonie," viz. Mr. Colin Mackenzie, then a child of three.

     4 This helps to fix the date of this letter. Mrs. E. Cay joined her
husband in China early in the spring of 1845. Her son Alexander was
born May 7, and christened on Wednesday, June 26, 1844. Mr. C. Max-
well had left Edinburgh for Glenlair on June 7, taking with him six

pigeons in a basket, and some cuttings of pelargonium. His first entry
in the Diary after this, at Glenlair, is as follows : " Saturday, June 8.

    Got home to dinner, and find all well. After dinner plant cuttings
of pelargonium from Killearn, and sort the doves in the new dove-cot."
CHAP, in.] "OLD 31" EDINBURGH ACADEMY.                     61

                                          10th July 1844.

DEAR FATHER Excuse me on account of being so loner
of writing, because of my being totally employed about pre-
Iparations of verses, English and Latin.
                                          made four lines of
I ILatin one week, for which got the play from ten ; but am
Inot going to try for the prize, as when lithp in numberth
Iit ith but a lithp, for the numberth do not come even with

the help of Gradus ; but am making English ones on the

Iapparition of Creusa to ^Eneas in the end of the second
book. Besides this,        am preparing the biography, 1 and
Ihave been making a list of the kings of Israel and Judah.

have been going to Cramond and playing with the boys

every Saturday ; they went to Eayhills on the ninth.

Booking 2 is grown fine and warm now.

   father ! can it be that souls sublime
return to visit our terrestrial clime ? 3

    Your obt. servt. and son to you,

   I have been wavering           JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.
                           about 14 for a good while in the
Latin.

HOLIDAYS AT GLENLAIR 1842 to 1844.

     We can readily imagine the sense of enlargement
and release with which the boy went home to Grlenlair
after his first long sojourn in Edinburgh. The

Now, every letter received from James is recorded in the Diary, and

the only such entry between the limits of June 7-26 is on June 21st.
" THE THREE PAIRS OF DOVES ALL SITTING. Kecd. letters from Mrs.

Wed. and James." It was a two-days' post. The letters dated July
10 was received on July 12. The " Verses on Laocoon" point to the

same date. The translation from Virg. Mn. i. 159-169, which cer-

tainly preceded them, was given in on May 10, 1844.
                                2 * Bathing.
1 i.e. Scripture History.

3 From the poem on ",Creiisa."
62  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. III.

shadow which had fallen in 1839 was softened by
time, and society in the Happy Valley l resumed its

    1 This name was given to the Vale of Urr in the Coterie-Sprache,
CHAP. III.]  HOLIDAYS AT GLENLAIR.            63

aspect of harmless gaiety. Cousin Jemima was again                     ^. 12.
there with her pencil. The "tubbing" was, of course,
resumed, this time conjointly, and the scene of it was
advanced from the duck -pond to the river, showing
greatly increased confidence in navigation. 1

     There were nutting excursions, walks diversified
with climbing, etc. etc. And in August and September

1843 there were again archery meetings at different
houses in the valley, of one of which (the last) there
has been preserved the following notice from one of

the local newspapers of the time :

             AKCHERY IN " THE HAPPY VALLEY."

The Toxophilite Club of the Valley of Urr held their

last meeting for the season on Mrs. Lawrie of Ernespie's
lawn, on Tuesday the 12th curt. The club consists of from

forty to fifty members.

Their meetings this summer have been quite charming.

They ranged over the whole valley, on this fair lawn to-day,

and on that the next ; and after their couple of hours of
archery was over, a picnic took place on the spot. " God

save the Queen" was invariably sung with the most

graceful loyalty ; and the hospitable mansion adjoining gave

them music and a hall for the evening quadrille, which

wound up the delights of the day.

     At every meeting some little prize was proposed to give

zest to the sport ; Mr. Herries of Spottes, for instance, gave

a case of ladies' arrows, which was shot for and gained by

one of the lady competitors.  Nor lacks the club its
Laureate and its Painter to glorify the pastime. A scion of

and adopted even by the local newspapers in their notices of various
social gatherings.

      1 Long afterwards, when asked by some one ignorant of Galloway,

if there was boating on the Urr, he would answer by a grave reference

to this incident.
        64       JAMES CLEEK MAXWELL.    [CHAP. III.

        the House of Middlebie has lent gallantry to the archers by

        his spirited songs ; and a fair lady, a friend of the same
        house, has painted a couple of pieces, and presented them,

        the one to Mr. Lawrence of Largnean, the president of the

        club, and the other to Mrs. Bell of Hillowton, the lady
        patroness. The former picture represents William Tell

        aiming at the apple on his son's head ; the latter, the chaste

        huntress Diana piercing a stag.  Both are ic beautiful

        exceedingly."

             Thus well accomplished in every point and accessory of

        their beautiful pastime, loyal and happy are the Bowyers

        of Urr.

m. 12.        One of James's spirited songs, a parody of Scott,

        beginning " Toxophilite, the conflict's o'er/' still exists
        in Cousin Jemima's handwriting, with a sketch for
        the picture of William Tell, in which the features of

        the House of Middlebie are idealised. The artist

        also proved the best shot on this occasion. The poem
        is not worth printing, though it has characteristic
        touches of grotesque ingenuity and humorous obser-
        vation which are very curious in a boy of twelve.

              The summer of 1843 was also memorable for the

        completion of the New Offices at Grlenlair. Whatever
        he may have intended before the death of his wife,
        Mr. Clerk Maxwell made no change in the dwelling-
        house during his lifetime. But these out-buildings
        had been designed by himself; he had drawn the
        working plans for the masons ; he had acted as clerk
        of the works, rejecting unfit material, etc., and every
        detail had been executed under his own eye. So
        absorbed was he in the supervision, that he omitted

        his usual visit to Edinburgh in July. In one of Mrs.
CHAP. III.]  HOLIDAYS AT GLENLAIR.  65

Blackburn's drawings of the previous year, he is seen
laying out the ground for the new offices, with James
beside him intently contemplating his father's work.
We may be sure that Mr. Maxwell had explained
every step in the whole procedure, and equally sure
that his son laid the lesson well to heart.

      Soon after this he was provided with a new source

of endless amusement in the " devil-on-two-sticks,"

which thenceforth became inseparable from the home

life at Glenlair, and the companion of his holidays at
Glasgow and elsewhere, even in the Cambridge time.

In the family dialect it was humorously referred to
sotto-voce as " the deil." There was nothing he could
not do with that d 1. No performer on the slack

or tight rope ever made such intricate evolutions
and gyrations. His delight in it was like that which
afterwards he used to take in the dynamical top.

      The boy now came to know his own neighbourhood 1343-44.

                                                                                                                    JJ?t 1 2-1 S

more widely. There were expeditions, visits, rides.
The Covenanter's pool in the burn above Upper
Corsock, New Abbey, Caerlaverock, and other places
of traditional interest, were explored. And in the

summer of 1844 there was a sort of driving excursion
into the Cairnsmuir country, which is described in

detail in the Diary.

    It may be mentioned here in a general way, that

the Christmas holidays were spent either at Penicuik
(with skating, etc.) or Killearn, and afterwards some-
times at Glasgow with Professor and Mrs. Blackburn
or Professor (now Sir William) Thomson.
66  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. IV.

                      CHAPTER IV.

            ADOLESCENCE 1844 TO 1847 JET. 13-16.

THE commencement of the fifth year at the Academy
was, for many of us boys, a time of cheerfulness and
hope. The long period of mere drill and task- work
was supposed to be over. We had learned the 800
irregular Greek Verbs, either by our own efforts, or by
hearing others say them, and had acquired some
moderate skill in Latin verse composition. On enter-
ing the rector's class-room, our less mechanical faculties
were at once called into play. We found our lessons
less burdensome when we had not merely to repeat
them, but were continually learning something also in
school. And the repetition of Virgil and Horace was a
very different thing from the repetition of the rules of
gender and quantity. Some foretaste of this more
genial method had been afforded us in the previous
year, when we had been encouraged to turn some bits
of Virgil into English verse. But the change was,
notwithstanding, considerable, and it was accompanied
with another advance, which for Maxwell was at least
equally important, for it was now that we began the
serious study of geometry.

     In October 1844 Mr. Clerk Maxwell and his sister,

Mrs. Wedderburn, were both far from well, and James
CHAP. IV.]  HOLIDAYS AT GLENLAIR.                                  67

was received in Edinburgh by his aunt, Miss Cay.
He writes to his father, October 14, 1844:

I like P               1 better than B      .2 We have lots of

jokes, and he speaks a great deal, and we have not so much
                             In the English, Milton is better than
... Imonotonous parsing.
                               was at Uncle John's, 3 and he showed
history of Greece.

me his new electrotype, with which he made a copper impres-
sion of the beetle. He can plate silver with it as well as

Icopper, and he gave me a | | thing with which it may be

done. At night have generally made vases.

     This letter is sealed with the scarabaeus referred
to as " the beetle."

    In the next letter we have a trace of his hesitation

not being yet conquered:

              says that a person f of education never puts in f
fhums and haws ; he goes on with his t sentence without

senseless interjections.

    fN.B. Every means a dead pause. 4

     While thus privately retorting on his censor, he
took a singular means for curing his own defect. He
made a plan of the large window in the rector's room,
and wrote the words of the lesson in the spaces of the

frame-work. He conned his task in that setting, and,

      1 The boys' nickname   for the Rector, Archdeacon Williams.    Max-
well's first interview with                                        part of
                             him was as follows -.Rector : " What
Galloway do you come from ?" J. C. M.: " From the Vale of Urr,

Ye spell it o, err, err, or oo, err, err."

2 Ditto for Mr. Carmichael.

3 Mr John Cay, Sheriff of Linlithgow. See above, p. 7.
                                                    often filled, in less
     4 These pauses in  the Rector's case   were    yes," which he had a
guarded moments, with     What you call,"   " Yes,

trick of interposing.
68              JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                                                                                           [CHAP. IV.

            it,

                a
                                      a

                                              a
                                                                            a

                                                                                                                                         1
when saying looked steadily at the actual window,

where, as he averred, the arrangement of the panes

then helped to recall the order of the words. The

only fear was that by changing his place in the class

he might be obliged to stand sideways to the window.

    Our mathematical teacher, Mr. Gloag, was man

who combined    real gift for teaching with certain

humorous peculiarities of tone and mariner. He was

sometimes impatient, but had kind heart, and we

liked him all the better because we mimicked him.

Old academicians still delight in talking of him. He

never allowed us to miss step in any proof, and
made us do many " deductions," which we puzzled

out entirely without help. It must have been the

companionship of Maxwell that made those hours so

delightful to me. We always walked home together,

and the talk was incessant, chiefly on Maxwell's side.

Some new train of ideas would generally begin just

when we reached my mother's door. He would stand

there holding the door handle, half in, half out, while,

    " Much like press of people at door

      Thronged his inventions, which should go before,"
1

      a

                                 aa

                                                          !

                                                                    a

                                                                                                                            3

                                                                            a
till voices from within complained of the cold

draught, and warned us that we must part.

    From some mathematical principle he would start

off to joke of Martinus Scriblerus, or to quotation

from Dryden,    intersperping puns   and other                                                                                  outrages
on language of                       humming                                                                                   and haw-
                the wildest kind, "

         He once said to nervous boy who had crossed his legs and was
sitting uneasily, " Ha, booy are ye making baskets wi your legs ?"
CHAP. IV.]  ADOLESCENCE        1844 TO 1847.  69

ing " in spite of P  ; or in a quieter mood he would

tell the story of Southey's Thalaba, or explain some

Inew invention, which often failed to understand.

Our common ground in those days was simple geo-

metry, and never, certainly, was emulation more at one

with friendship. But whatever outward rivalry there

might be, his companions felt no doubt as to his

vast superiority from the first. He seemed to be in

the heart of the subject when they were only at the

boundary ; but the boyish game of contesting point
by point with such a mind was a most wholesome

stimulus, so that the mere exercise of faculty was a

pure joy. With Maxwell, as we have already seen,

the first lessons of geometry branched out at once

into inquiries which soon became fruitful.
     " Meantime, the rural ditties were not mute." 1844-46.

                                                                                                        ^.13-1

Besides a serio-comic impromptu on the grievance of

a holiday task, and other effusions concerning in-

cidents of our school life, there was a romantic ballad

written about Christmas 1844 or 5, and in July 1845

the prize for English verse was gained by the poem
on the death of the Douglas, to which he refers in one

of his letters to Miss Cay. 1

But a prize of more consequence was the mathe-                               1845.

                                                                           JEt, 1 4.

      1 His turn for versifying may be traced back to his twelfth year,
when, in one -of his quaint letters to his father, there occur some lines
(profusely illustrated) on the death of a goldfinch :

              " Lo ! Ossian makes Comala fall and die,

                    Why should not you for Kichard Goldie cry," etc.

And in September 1843, as above mentioned, he wrote for the Archers
in the " Happy Valley " a page and more of spirited verse.
*70                      JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                                                [CHAP. IV.

matical medal, of which he writes to his aunt in a

tone of undisguised though generous triumph.                                                                           The
following letters were written in June and
                                                                                                                      July
1845:-

                          To Miss CAY.

                                                                              June 1845.

     I have drawn a picture of Diana,1 and made an octohed-

ron on a new principle, and found out a great many things
Ifin geometry.
                         you make two circles equal, and make three

steps with the compasses (of any size), and cut them out in
card, and also three equal strips, with holes at each end, and

joint them with thread to the upper side of one circle and
the lower side of the other ; then if you put a pin through

the centre of one and turn the other, the one will turn, and
if you draw the same thing on both in the same position,
if you turn them ever so, they will always be in the same

position.

                                                                                          July 1845.

     The subjects for prizes are as follows: English Verses

The gude Schyr James Dowglas ; Latin Hexameters and Pen-

tameters The Isles of Greece; Latin Sapphics The Bhine.
I have been getting information in many books for Douglas,
Ibut found it so difficult not to Marmionise, that
                                                                                          it                          to

                                                                                                   is,
speak in imitation of Marmion, that am making in eight
                                                                                I

                                                                                      is
syllable lines.           have got Barbour's Bruce, Buke 20, which
is
   a
                       a

             I
     help in different language, which all fair my motto
                                                                                          ;

is:

     " Men . may weill wyte . thouch . nane them                                                                      tell .
       How . angry . for . sorrow and . how . fell .
      Is to . tyne sic a . lord as . he
       To them . that war of hys . mengye . "
     ..                                                                         .
                              .                                                                .

                                   .                                                                    2
                                            .                                                                      .

                                                 ..
                                                             .
                                                                        .

                                                                            ..

      Pa andII         went to your house on Saturday and watered
the plants.            have got the lend of the whole of Home's
                     21
                         i.e. A sketch from the antique.

                         Barbour's Bruce, B. xx., 11. 507-10.
             Jf           it

11 (tnA ru.r9 &39Jf on a

il

Mri^ &* paw't "i o a

              war fa
L*U0i JCLU ll?5l</0^

                            or n,

m. a. f/ftjf

                tfi9

                            off

%o;r                               jma fft j
               wo rw to ft

Jo ff*y 9 i{d of $9 wood tfisy

                                   if9

       h

              An. tfi* ty of \ds

^G>^,
      fau^ *Cd foofcii- af          %ct3\j*  ,
JIM rI f<ifrjoPi fiirlooW ati "P '
                                    cfiw^ '

                                    e<?wm
                                    "f 'f>

                4

      Ct rid fiif &air 1*0*9 u on,
                                  fc his

"-n*  foud      ?v>*  crifi'fet     frco my

                 i,
              on, vtimfryr cor      /?/
          // i*t fiir
Cl it3 on. tto , \vyte u/
CHAP. IV.]  ADOLESCENCE         1844 TO 1847.                        71

Introduction to the Knowledge of the Scriptures, and Prideaux's
Connection of the Old and New Testaments, and Townshend's
Harmony, which are of great use. 1

I llthhave got the                                  July 1845.            ^t. 14.

                         prize for Scholarship, the 1st for

IEnglish, the prize for English verses, and the Mathematical
Medal.      tried for Scripture Knowledge, and Hamilton in

the 7th has got it. We tried for the Medal 2 on Thursday.
I had done them 3 all,
ICampbell stayed till 4.and got home          at ^ past   2 ; but
                             was rather       tired with  writing

            a9ndtillw^enptas"t
exercises from                    2. 4  more  unto  the b(r)each  "  to-
                                once
    ICampbell
Iday at Portobello.
                     can swim a little now. Campbell

has got 6 prizes. He got a letter written too soon con-

gratulating him upon my medal ; but there is no rivalry

betwixt us, as B     Carmichael says.

     His aunt, Miss Cay, to whom these letters are
addressed, had begun again to take more charge of
him than in the preceding years. Mrs. Wedderburn's
health was very uncertain. Cousin Jemima was
grown-up and immersed in her own pursuits, -and the
companionship of his cousin, George Wedderburn, a

young man about Edinburgh, and a humourist of a
different order, was not in every way the most suit-

     1 Viz. for a competition in Scripture Knowledge, which was open
to the 5th, 6th, and 7th classes. The prize was gained that ya !

one of the 7th.
     2 " Mathematical Prize " is added between the lines by Mr. Clerk

Maxwell, who writes a P.S. to the letter.

     3 " The trial exercises," ditto, ditto.
     4 In these competitions we seem to have been allowed to stay till
we had done all we knew. Witness the following extract from the
Diary : " 1847, July, Mon. 19. James at Academy trial for Prize for

Scripture Knowledge. Worked from 9 to 5. Lewis Campbell and

W. Tait worked till 6."
72  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. IV.

able for the growing boy. The Diary shows that he
was continually at his aunt's house, No. 6 Great Stuart
Street, and she is associated with some of my earliest
recollections of him. She sought to bring him out
amongst her friends, to soften his singularities, and to
make him more like other youths of his age. And he
would help her with patterns, arrangement of colours,
etc., as well as with her flowers. One of his earliest

applications of geometry was to set right the perspec-
tive of a view of the interior of Eoslin Chapel on which

she was engaged.

     Mr. Clerk Maxwell was a frequent visitor at the
Academy at this time. His broad, benevolent face
and paternal air, as of a gentler Dandie Dinmont,
beaming with kindness for the companions of his son,
is vividly remembered by those who were our school-
fellows in 1844-5.

     The summer vacation of 1845 was spent almost
wholly at Glenlair. James passed a day now and
then at Upper Corsock with the Fletcher boys, l and
sometimes accompanied his father when he went out
shooting ; but he must have had abundance of time
for reading and for following his own devices. The
country gentlemen were particularly absorbed that year
in political excitement, and Mr. Clerk Maxwell was
often called away. The only event worth mentioning
was a "jaunt," evidently suggested by Miss Cay, to
Newcastle, Durham, and Carlisle, which gave Maxwell

                    1 Sons of Colonel Fletcher of Upper Corsock.
CHAP. IV.]  ADOLESCENCE                                                 1844 TO 1847.                       73

his first direct impression of English Cathedral Archi-

tecture.

      The taste thus formed was strengthened by a visit
to Melrose in the following summer.

      Saw the House of Abbotsford and antiquities in and
go to Melrose. Got there about and settle to remain all

night. Spend the day and also the evening about the
Abbey. Jane Cay and James drawing. Diary, 1846,
Sept. 10.
                                                                        2,

                                                                                                       it,

     On returning to Edinburgh for the winter, Mr.
Clerk Maxwell seems to have been roused by the
expectation which his son's first school distinction had

awakened amongst his kindred and acquaintance.
He became more assiduous than ever in his attend-

ance at meetings of the Edinburgh Society of Arts

and Eoyal Society, and took James with him repeatedly

to both. And so          happened that early in his
a

                  it
fifteenth year the boy dipped his feet in the current

of scientific inquiry, where he was to prove himself so

strong swimmer. In our walks round Arthur's

Seat, etc., he had always something new to tell. For

example, in February 1846, he called my attention to
the glacier - markings on the rocks, and discoursed

volubly on this subject, which was then quite recent,

and known to comparatively few.
         prominent member of the Society of Arts at
1A
                                                                     1
this time was Mr. D. E. Hay, the decorative painter,
whose attempt to reduce beauty in form and colour to

mathematical principles had attracted considerable

        " First Principles of Symmetrical Beauty," ]by D. R. Hay, Black-
woods, 1846.
74  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. IV.

     attention amongst scientific men. Such ideas had a

     natural fascination for Clerk Maxwell, and he often

    discoursed on " egg -and -dart," "Greek pattern,"
     " ogive," and what not, and on the forms of Etruscan
     urns. One of the problems in this department of

     applied science was how to draw a perfect oval ; and

14. Maxwell, who had by this time begun the (purely

     geometrical) study of Conic sections, became eager to
     find a true practical solution of this. How completely
     his father entered into his pursuit may best be shown
     by the following extracts from Mr. Clerk Maxwell's

     Diary :

                                                                                                       1846,
                                                                                                    February.

           W. 25. Called on . . Mr. D. E. Hay at his house, Jordan
     Lane, and saw his diagrams and showed James's Ovals Mr.
     Hay's are drawn with a loop on 3 pins, consequently formed
     of portions of ellipses.

            Th. 26. Call on Prof. Forbes at the College, and see
     about Jas. Ovals and 3 -foci figures and plurality of foci.
     New to Prof. Forbes, and settle to give him the theory in
     writing to consider. 1

                                                                                                        March.

            M. 2. Wrote account of James's ovals for Prof. Forbes.
     Evening. Eoyal Society with James, and gave the above
     to Mr. Forbes.

            W. 4. Went to the College at 1 2 and saw Prof. Forbes,
     about Jas. ovals. Prof. Forbes much pleased with them,
     investigating in books to see what has been done or known

           1 Part of the entry on the same day is : " Parliament House.
      Return with John Cay, called at Bryson's and suggested to Alexander
      Bryson my plan for pure iron by electro-precipitation from sulphate or

     other salt." It is interesting to observe this revival of his youthful

      ardour for science in the old companionship, following upon his sym-
      pathy with the efforts of his son.
CHAP. IV.]  ADOLESCENCE         1844 TO 1847.                   75

in this subject. To write to me when he has fully con-
sidered the matter.

      Sa. 7. Eecd. note from Prof. Forbes :

IMY DEAR SIR                    Edinburgh, 6th March 1846.

                       have looked over your son's paper carefully, and
I think it very ingenious, certainly very remarkable for his years ;
I Iand, believe, substantially new. On the latter point have referred
Iit to my friend, Professor Kelland, for his opinion.
                                                               remain, dear

Sir, yours sincerely,                      JAMES D. FORBES.

W. 11. Eecd. note from Professor Forbes:

IMY DEAR SIR                    3 Park Place, llth March 1846.

                       am glad to find to-day, from Professor Kelland,

that his opinion of your son's paper agrees with mine ; namely, that
it is most ingenious, most creditable to him, and, we believe, a new

way of considering higher curves with reference to foci. Unfortu-

nately these ovals appear to be curves of a very high and intractable

order, so that possibly the elegant method of description may not lead
Ifto a corresponding simplicity in investigating their properties. But
                                           think that the sim-
that is not the present point.  you wish   it,

                                                1

                                                     it
plicity and elegance of the method would entitle to be brought
before the Koyal Society. Believe me, my dear Sir, yours truly,

                                           JAMES D. FORBES.

J.  CLERK MAXWELL, Esq.

Th. 12. Called for Prof. Forbes at the College and

conversed about the ovals.

      M. 16. Went with James to Eoyal Society.                  to
      T. 17. Jas. at Prof. Forbes's House, Park Place,
                                                                A
Tea, and to discourse on the ovals. Came home at 10.
                                1

                                                            3
successful visit.
      T. 24. Cut out pasteboard trainers for Curves for James.
     W. 25. Call at Adie's, to see about Eeport on D. E.

Hay's paper on ovals.
      Th. 26. Eecd. D. E. Hay's paper and machine for

drawing ovals, etc.
      M. 30. Called on Prof. Forbes at College and saw

Mr. Adie about report on Mr. Hay's paper. Jas. ovals to
be at next meeting of E.S.

                       1  The Optician's.
76        JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                                                                                            [CHAP. IV.

      M. 6. Eoyal Society with Jas. Professor Forbes gave
acct. of James's ovals. Met with very great attention and

approbation generally.

      The result of the attempt thus eagerly pursued,

as communicated by Professor Forbes that evening,

is embodied in the Proceedings of the Edinburgh

Royal Society, vol. pp. 89-93.
    1.
            a

                            ii.

                                                                                                                       :
                    MONDAY, 6th April 1846.
Sm THOMAS M. BRISBANE, Bart., President, in the Chair:

   The following communications were read

          On the Description of Oval Curves, and those having
                plurality of Foci. By Mr. CLERK MAXWELL,

             junior, with Eemarks by Professor FORBES. Com-

             municated by Professor FORBES.

     Mr. Clerk Maxwell ingeniously suggests the extensiona                                                                :
of the common theory of the foci of conic sections to curves1.                                                                 a
of higher degree of complication, in tjie following manner
          a
          As in the ellipse and hyperbola, any point in the
curve has the sum or difference of two lines drawn from two&
points or foci = constant quantity, so the author infers
that curves to certain degree analogous may be described2. a4-
                   a
and determined by the condition that the simple distance1a

from one focus, plus multiple distance from the other, may;

be = constant quantity or more generally, m times the2
one distance n times the other = constant.a

           The author devised simple mechanical means, by
the wrapping of thread round pins, for producing these
curves. See Figs. and (Plate 11). He then thought
of extending the principle to other curves, whose property
should be, that the sum of the simple or multiple distances

of any point of the curve from three or more points or foci,

should be = constant quantity and this, too, he has
effected mechanically, by very simple arrangement of
          a
                                   a

                                                                      ;
CHAP. IV.]  ADOLESCENCE          1844 TO 1847.                                                     77

string of given length passing round three or more fixed

pins, and constraining' a tracing point, P. See Fig. 3.
Further, the author regards curves of the first kind as con-
stituting a particular class of curves of the second kind, two
or more foci coinciding in one, a focus in which two strings

meet being considered a double focus; when three strings

meet a treble focus, etc.

Professor Forbes observed that the equation to curves

of the first class are easily found, having the form

                 I*Jx + y = a + ^(x cf +
       is

                                                                                    y*,
which       that of the curve known under the name of the

First Oval of Descartes. Mr. Maxwell had already observed

that, when one of the foci was at an infinite distance (or
the thread moved parallel to itself, and was confined, in

respect of length, by the edge of board), curve resembling
                        ;                       a

                                            a
an ellipse was traced from which property Professor Forbes

was led first to infer the identity of the oval with the

Cartesian oval, which well known to have this property.
                        r is

                            /
                                            is
But the simplest analogy of all                 that derived from the

method of description, and being the radients to any

point of the curve from the two foci.

                        mr + nr = constant,r

which, in fact, at once expresses on the undulatory theory of

light the optical character of the surface in question, namely,

that light diverging from one focus without the medium,
                                               F

                                                    /

                                                                            it

                                                                                                                ;
-shall be directly convergent at another point within

and in this case the ratio expresses the index of refraction

of the medium.                                 either focus, the number of
                                 of
    If we denote, by the power
                                                     is
                                                           a

                                                           if

                                                                                             ;

                                                                   if if
strings leading to ..by Mr. Maxwell's construction, and
                      ; it
one of the foci be removed to an infinite distance,                                                the
                         if
powers of the two foci be equal, the curve                                               parabola

the power of the nearer focus be greater than the other, the

curve  is   an ellipse       the power of the infinitely distant

focus be the greater, the curve                hyperbola. The first case
                                 is
                                     a
                                                                a
                                                                                      aa
evidently corresponds to the reflection of parallel rays to
focus, the velocity being unchanged after reflection; the
second, to the refraction of parallel rays to focus in
78  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                   [CHAP. IV,

    Proceedings of the Edinburgh Royal Society, vol. ii.

                          PLATE XI.

                        Fig.l. Two Foci. Ratios 1:2.

                        P

    Fig.3. Three Foci. Ratios of Equality
CHAP. IV.]  ADOLESCENCE  1844 TO 1847.  79

dense medium (in which light moves slower) ; the third
case, to refraction into a rarer medium.

       The Ovals of Descartes were described in his Geometry,
where he has also given a mechanical method of descrihing
one of them, but only in a particular case, and the method

is less simple than Mr. Maxwell's. The demonstration of
the optical properties was given by Newton in the Principia,
Book i. Prop. 9 7, by the law of the sines, and by Huyghens
in 1690, on the Theory of Undulations, in his TraiU de la

Lumi&re. It probably has not been suspected that so easy

and elegant a method exists of describing these curves by
the use of a thread and pins whenever the powers of the
foci are commensurable. For instance, the curve, Fig. 2,
drawn with powers 3 and 2 respectively, give the proper
form for a refracting surface of glass, whose index of refrac-

/tion is 1*50, in order that rays diverging from may be

refracted to F.

      As to the higher classes of curves, with three or more
focal points, we cannot at present invest them with equally
clear and curious physical properties, but the method of
drawing a curve by so simple a contrivance, which shall

satisfy the condition,
                       mr + nr' +pr" + etc., = constant,

is in itself not a little interesting ; and if we regard, with
Mr. Maxwell, the ovals above described, as the limiting case

of the others by the coalescence of two or more foci, we
have a further generalisation of the same kind as that so
highly commended by Montucla, by which Descartes eluci-
dated the conic sections as particular cases of his oval

curves.

     This was the beginning of the lifelong friendship

"Ibetween Clerk Maxwell and James D. Forbes.

loved James Forbes " was his own emphatic statement

to me in 1869. Maxwell's gratitude to all from whom

he  had received any help or stimulus was imperishable.         ^
     The curve -drawing, and the problems connected
                                                                   14 ' 15-
80              JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. IV.

with   it,

                                                                                                       3

                                                                                                                                       1
       were by no means the only original inves-

tigations of this year. Mr. John Scott, of Scott

Brothers, Greenock, remembers being in the attic of

Heriot Eow, and seeing some preparations of jelly

with which James was experimenting there. Mr.

Scott left Edinburgh in the summer of 1846. What

was the exact object of these experiments and others

on gutta percha at this time matter of conjecture.
       is

                           it

                                               is

                                                                                                                        1

                                                                    of
There  little doubt that they prepared the way

for the investigation concerning the compression of

elastic solids. But  seems probable that they

were immediately suggested by Forbes's Theory

Glaciers, which had recently called attention to the

whole question of the difference between solid, liquid,
and " viscous " bodies, and the different effects of

gravitation and pressure as applied to them. Another

set of phenomena with which his mind was soon

afterwards engaged, viz. those of the refraction and
polarisation of light, were partly studied through

similar means.

     The work of his cousin, who was now rising
artist, still interested him. An entry in the father's
    1

                                 5,

                                               it
                                                                              a
                                              I
                                                                                      : .a
Diary, December  1845, has reference to this

     Walk with Jas. and Jemima to Botanical Garden to

inspect palm-trees for her sketching for picture.

Either in this or the following year remember
his raising the question, Whether was not possible
to determine mathematically the curve of the waves

        See especially Forbes's paper on the " Viscous Theory of Glacier-
Motion" in the Philosophical Transactions for 1846, pp. 143-210.
CHAP. IV.]  ADOLESCENCE         1844 TO 1847.                       81

on a particular shore, so as to represent them with

perfect truth in a picture.

After contributing to the Proceedings of the Edin-                         JEt.  15-16.
                          i. t
burgh  Royal  Soci. ety,              .  perhaps  have been

                                might

expected that Clerk Maxwell, although scarcely 15,

would at least have been taken from the Academy and

sent to the classes of Mathematics and Natural Philo-

sophy at the University. Instead of this, he simply
completed his course at school. His inventions may
perhaps have interfered a little with his . regular

studies for he missed the Mathematical medal in

1846 but he was one of the few of the class which

he had joined in 1841 who continued at the Academy

until 1847. And when he left, although still younger

than his competitors by about a twelvemonth, he was

not only first in mathematics and English, but came

very near to being first in Latin. He had not yet

"specialised" or "bifurcated," although the bent of

his genius was manifest. Nor have I ever heard him

wish that it had been otherwise. On the contrary, he

has repeatedly said to me in later years that to make

out the meaning of an author with no help excepting

grammar and dictionary (which was our case) is one
of the best means for training the mind. Some of his

school exercises in Latin prose and verse are still

extant, and, like everything which he did, are stamped

with his peculiar character. 1 The first Greek play we

read (the Aleestis of Euripides) made an impression

     1 On his copy of Monk's Alcestis, which we read in the 6th     class
1845-46), the owner's name is followed by an original distich :

                  " Si probrum metuis, nolito tangere libruin,
                           Nam magni domini nomina scripta vide?."

                                                               G
82              JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                             [CHAP. IV.

on him to which he reverted in a conversation many

years afterwards. 1 At the same time he had a quick

eye for the absurdities of pedantry. One of the
teachers was apt to annoy our youthful taste by a
literal exactness in translating the Greek particles,
which would have pleased some more recent scholars.
Maxwell expressed our feelings on this subject in a few

lines, of which I can only recall the beginning :

                ..."" Assuredly, at least, indeed,
                                             Decidedly als6

The frigid climax in " decidedly " is a good instance of
his roguish irony.

    In September 1846 I made my first visit to Glen-
lair. It was a time of perpetual gladness, but the

particulars are hardly worth recording. James used

to sleep long and soundly, and seemed to be the whole

day at play, eagerly showing me his treasures and
accompanying each exhibition with lively talk,
sprinkled with innumerable puns. 2 After such a
breakfast as became that land of milk and honey, there
was a long interval, while Mr. Maxwell was attending
to home business and deliberating what the " expedite"

     1 The following bit of Diary deserves to be quoted in this connec-

Ition : " 1845, Saturday, December 27. Jas. dined at Miss Cay's.

went there to tea, taking Lewis and Kobert Campbell. Then we all

went to the play ' Antigone,' by Miss Faucit."
     I2 can only compare him to the fraternal spirit that William
Blake saw in vision " clapping its hands for joy" (Gilchrist's Life of
William BlaJce, vol. i. p. 59). In the talk of that period a butterfly
                " flutterby   "                       as " used      could "
was  always  a                   and idiotisms  such             to
                             ;
and " be-you-have yourself ! " were in common use.
CHAP. IV.]  ADOLESCENCE  1844 TO 1847.          83

should be. Miss Cay meanwhile was writing letters,

or finishing some drawing of Lincluden or New Abbey

(where they had lately been) , and James would flit to
and fro between the little den, where his books and

various apparatus lived, and the drawing-room, 1 where
his father sat in the arm-chair, with Tobs on knee.

Ever and anon we boys would escape out of doors and

have a run in the field or the garden, or a bout with

the d       1. So the morning would pass till an early

luncheon, after which Tobin must do his various tricks ;

then, if the men were busy, James would himself har-

ness Meg, the Galloway pony, for the drive of the

afternoon. After dinner and Toby's second perform-

ance, and another turn at the deil, there would be

something more to see Cousin Jemima's drawings,

recent diagrams or other inventions of his own, the

magic discs, etc. etc., the charm of the whole consist-
ing in the flow of talk, incessant, but by no means

unbroken,

            " Changing, hiding,
              Doubling upon itself, dividing,"

of which neither of us ever tired. On Sunday there

was the drive to Corsock Church (where the absolute
gravity of his countenance was itself a study), 2 and the

walk home by the river, past the Kirk pool, renowned

for bathing, with conversations of a more earnest kind,

     1 The present dining-room.
     2 At church he always sat preternaturally still, with one hand
lightly resting on the other, not moving a muscle, however long the .
sermon might be. Days afterwards he would show, by some remark,
that the whole service, whether good or bad, had been, as it were,

photographed upon his mind.
84  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. IV.

and a stroll on the estate in the afternoon ; or, if we

stayed at home, he would show his favourite books and

talk about them, till the evening closed with a chapter

and a prayer, which the old man read to the assembled

household.

      During the winter of 1846-47, James was unusually
delicate. He was often absent from school, and seems

not to have attended the meetings of the Societies.
But of these his father was sure to give him a faithful
report. He was certainly more than ever interested
in science. The two subjects which most engaged his
attention were magnetism and the polarisation of light.
He was fond of showing " Newton's rings " the chro-
matic effect produced by pressing lenses together
and of watching the changing hues on soap bubbles.

     In the spring of 1847 (somewhere in April) his
uncle, Mr. John Cay, whose scientific tastes have been

mentioned more than once above, took James and my-
self (with whom he chose to share all such delights) to
see Mr. Nicol, a friend of Sir David Brewster, and the
inventor of the polarising prism. 1 Even before this
James had been absorbed in " polarised light," work-
ing with Iceland spar, and twisting his head about to
see "Haidinger's Brushes" in the blue sky with his
naked eye. But this visit added a new and important
stimulus to his interest in these phenomena, and the
speculations to which they give rise. 2

      1 He lived in Inverleith Terrace, Edinburgh..

    I2 So far as can recall the order in which his ideas on this sub-

ject were developed, the phenomena of complementary colours came
CHAP. IV.]  ADOLESCENCE  1844 TO 1847.  85

      Shortly afterwards (May 25th) he went with his
father to the cutler's to choose magnets suitable for

experimenting.
      And a little earlier in the same year (March 17),

he was taken to hear a lecture 1 on another subject,
which was also connected with his subsequent labours,
and must have impressed him not a little at the time.
This was the discovery by Adams and Leverrier

simultaneously, through a striking combination of
hypothesis and calculation, of the planet Neptune,
which then first " swam into" human "ken."

      The magnetic experiments were continued that

autumn at Glenlair, as appears from two entries in

the Diary :

      Sept. 3. Walk round by smiddy ; gave steel to be made
into bars for magnets for James.

      Sept. 7. James and Eobert (Campbell) most of the
time at the smiddy, and got the magnet bars.

     My brother perfectly remembers the magnetising
of these bars of steel.

     Lastly, in 1847 unless my memory deceives me
   James had commenced the study of chemistry, and
had taken extra lessons in German.

     There was an odd episode in our school life. To
keep our education " abreast of the requirements of

first, then the composition of white light, then the mixture of colours
(not of pigments), then polarisation and the dark lines in the spectrum,
and about the same time " the art of squinting," stereoscopic drawing,

etc., then colour-blindness, the yellow spot on the retina, etc.
      1 The lecturer was Mr. Nichol, Professor of Astronomy at Glasgow,

the father of the distinguished Professor of English Literature in the

same University.
86  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. IV.

the day," etc., it was thought desirable that we should
have lessons in "Physical Science." So one of the

classical masters gave them out of a text-book. The

sixth and seventh classes were taught together ; and

the only thing I distinctly remember about these

hours is that Maxwell and P. G. Tait seemed to know

much more about the subject than our teacher did.
      Maxwell and Tait were by this time acknowledged

as the two best mathematicians of the school, and it

was already prophesied that Tait, who was about

fifteen, would some day be a Senior Wrangler. The
two youths had many interchanges of ideas, and Pro-
fessor Tait remembers that Maxwell had by this

time proved, by purely geometrical methods, that
the central tangential section of a " tore," or anchor-
ring, is a pair of intersecting equal and similar curves,

probably circles.
     This is referred to in the following extract from

Professor Tait's admirable summary :

    IWhen first made Clerk Maxwell's acquaintance about
Ithirty-five years ago, at the Edinburgh Academy, he was a

year before me, being in the fifth class while was in the

fourth.

      At school he was at first regarded as shy and rather

dull. He made no friendships, and he spent his occasional
holidays in reading old ballads, drawing curious diagrams,
and making rude mechanical models. This absorption in
such pursuits, totally unintelligible to his schoolfellows
(who were then quite innocent of mathematics), of course
procured him a not very complimentary nickname, which 1
know is still remembered by many Fellows of this Society.
About the middle of his school career, however, he surprised
his companions by suddenly becoming one of the most
CHAP. IV.]  ADOLESCENCE  1844 TO 1847.  87

brilliant among them, gaining high, and sometimes the

Ihighest, prizes for scholarship, mathematics, and English

verse composition. From this time forward became very

intimate with him, and we discussed together, with school-

Iboy enthusiasm, numerous curious problems, among which

remember particularly the various plane sections of a ring

Ior tore, and the form of a cylindrical mirror which should
show one his own image unperverted.  still possess some

of the MSS. we exchanged in 1846 and early in 1847. Those
by Maxwell are on " The Conical Pendulum," " Descartes'

Ovals," " Meloid and Apioid," and " Trifocal Curves." All

are drawn up in strict geometrical form, and divided into

consecutive propositions. 1 The three latter are connected

with his first published paper, communicated by Forbes to

this Society and printed in our Proceedings, vol. ii., under
the title " On the description of Oval Curves, and those

having a plurality of Foci" (1846). At the time when
these papers were written he had received no instruction

in mathematics beyond a few books of Euclid and the merest

elements of Algebra. 2

      On the whole, he looked back to his schooldays
with strong affection ; and his only revenge .on those
who had misunderstood him was that he understood
them. To many of us, as we advance in life, the
remembrance of our early companions, except those
to whom we were specially drawn, becomes dim and
shadowy. But Maxwell, by some vivid touch, has
often recalled to me the image of one and another of

our schoolfellows, whose existence I had all but for-

gotten.

     1 See note appended to this chapter (pp. 91-104) containing two
papers which must have been written about this time.

      2 Proceedings of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. Session 1879-80.
p. 332.
88  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. IV.

     The following letters to his father still belong to
his schoolboy life :

                          [April] 1847.
    I have identified Descartes' ovals with mine.
                                                            His

first oval is an oval with one of its foci outside ; the second

is a meloid with a focus outside. It also comprehends the

circle and apioid. The third is a meloid with both foci

inside ; and the fourth is an oval with both foci inside."

IHe says with regard to the last that rays from A are re-

flected to B, which can disprove. . . .
       [This is interesting as a proof of the complete independ-

ence and originality of the communication made to the Eoyal

Society on April 6th, 1846. It is also important as an

example of that love of comparing his own results with

great authorities, which made Maxwell the most learned as
well as the most original of scientific men. See above, p.

 74, where Forbes promises to consult books on the subject,

and the references to Descartes in the Proceedings. Forbes

cannot, however, have made any very careful scrutiny into
the history of the matter, else he would have mentioned
that Descartes actually figures the cord by which his ovals
are described, and his process is precisely that of Maxwell.]
CHAP. IV.]  ADOLESCENCE   1844 TO 1847.                  89

I [1847.}

  have made a map of the world, conical projection

=ACD is the one cone, BCD the other ; the side AC        dia-

meter of the base CD ; therefore, when unrolled, they are

each semicircles.

fTo make the map take OD = OD and OA = of
OD, and describe a circle from 0, with radius OA ; this is
                                                     P=
the circle of contact. Let the longitude of a point      60 ;
                                                     be
take AOC in the map = 30; let its latitude               65;

subtract 30, and take the tangent of 35, make AB =

tangent. B is the point.
90  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. IV.

     Mr. Clerk Maxwell made inquiries early in the
summer of 1847, with a view to placing his son at
College in November. In deciding not to continue

his classical training, he appears to have been chiefly
guided by some disparaging accounts of the condition
of the Greek and Latin classes in comparison with
those of Logic, Mathematics, and Natural Philosophy.
The result was that in his seventeenth year Maxwell

entered the second Mathematical Class, taught by
Professor Kelland, the class of Natural Philosophy

under J. D. Forbes, and the Logic Class of Sir William

Hamilton. Classical reading, however, was not by

any means relinquished, as the correspondence of

1847-50 clearly shows.
CHAP. IV.]  OVAL AND MELOID.  91

                                       NOTE.

 THE two following series of propositions concerning the
 Ovals belong to this period, and afford an illustration of
 Maxwell's mode of working in those early days. See above,
 p. 87. The only alterations made, with the exception of
 corrections of obvious slips of the pen, consist in a sparing
 insertion of stops. The MS., as will be seen by the facsimile
 at p. 104, has almost no punctuation.

                                          I. OVAL.

     Definition 1. If a point move in such a manner that m times its

 distance from one point, together with n
 times its distance from another point, may
be equal to a constant quantity, it will
 describe a curve called an Oval.

       Definition 2. The two points are
called the foci, and the numbers signified
by m and n are called the powers of the
foci.

      Definition 3. The line joining the
foci is called the axis.

                PROPOSITION 1 PROBLEM.

      To describe an oval with given foci,
given multiples, and given constant quantity.

     Let A and B be the given foci, 3 and
2 the multiples, and EF the constant quantity, it is required to
describe an oval. At A and B erect two infinitely small cylinders.

Take a perfectly flexible and iiiextensible thread, without breadth

or thickness, equal to EF ; wind it round the focal cylinders and

another movable cylinder C, so that the number of plies between

A and C may be equal to m, that is 3, and the number between

B and C equal to n or 2. Now move C in such a manner that
the thread may be quite tight, and an oval will be described by
the point.
92                     JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.             [CHAP. iv.

     For take any point C. There are m plies of thread between A
and C, and n plies between B and C, which taken together make up
the thread or the constant quantity, therefore m AC + n BC = EF.

     The focus A, which has the greatest number of plies is called the
greater focus, and B is called the less focus.

                                        PROPOSITION 2 THEOREM.

     The greater focus is always within the oval, but the less is within,
on, or without the curve, according as the distance between the foci,
multiplied by the power of the greater focus, is less equal or greater
than, the constant quantity.

A,   The greater  focus is always within the Oval, for suppose it to be at
    Fig. 1, then  m AG + n BC = constant quantity = m AD + ra DC +
n BO, and m AD + n DB = constant quantity = m AD + n DC +
n BC = ?ft AD + m DC + n BC, and n DC = m DC, and m = w, but

m > n.     less focus  B is within the oval when m AB < EJ?       the  con-
      The

stant quantity.                               EF - mAB

           For it is evident that BC (Fig. 2) = m + n
                     the curve when m AB = EF, this
           It is in   the curve when m AB > EF, for  is evident.

           without                                   AC = E- F
    -It                                                           n AB

    is

                       PROPOSITION 3 THEOREM.

    If a circle be described with a focus for a center, and the constant
                          power of  that focus for a radius, the distance
quantity divided by the   from the   other focus is to the distance from
of any point of the oval
the circle as the power of the central focus is to the power of the other.
                  EHP is described with the   centre B and radius = con-
     The circle                               At any point C, AC : CH : :
stant quantity,   divided by the power of B.

power of B : power of A.
CHAP. IV.]  OVAL CURVES.

      Let m power of A, and n = power
of B, n BH = constant quantity = n BC
 + n CH, and n BC + m AC = constant
quantity = n BC + n CH, take away n BC,
and n HC = m AC, therefore HC : CA : :

m : n. QED.
      Cor. 1. When the powers of the

foci are equal the curve is an ellipse.

      Cor. 2. When the less focus is at an infinite distance the curve is
an ellipse, for the circle becomes a straight line ; and

      Cor. 3. When the greater focus is at an infinite distance, the
curve is an hyperbola for the same reason.

                PROPOSITION 4 THEOREM.

     When the less focus is in the curve, an
angle will be formed equal to the vertical
angle of an isosceles triangle, of which the
side is to the perpendicular on the base, as
the power of the greater focus to that of the

     For let a circle be described, as in Prop. 3.
it is evident that it will pass through B. Take indefinitely small arcs
CB = BD, join CA and DA, join EH. EC : EB = power of B : power
of A, and EC = BO, therefore EB : BO, power of A : power of B.

            PROPOSITION 5 PROBLEM.

     A point A, and a point B in the line BC being given, to find a
point in the line as D, so that m AD + n BD may be a minimum.

    Take a line HP, raise HX perpendicular, and from X as a centre

describe a circle with a radius =  ' so that m : n : : XP : XH.
94               JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.         [CHAP. IV.

                                              x 4-

       IfDraw AC perpendicular to BC, and make an angle CAD =
HPX. D is the required point.  not, take any point E on the
opposite side of D from B, make AT = AE. Join TE, and make
DTL = right angle, then DTE > right angle DTL, because ATE
is less than a right angle (1.16), therefore L is within E. And in the
triangle DTL, DTL = PHX and TDL = HXP, therefore the triangles
are similar, and TD : DL = (XH : XP) = n:m; and n DL = m DT, then
%DE > mDT, add wBD and raTA or ?nEA, then riBT> + ?iDE + mEA >

?iBD + mDT + mTA and nBD + raDA < wBE + mAE.
       Now take a point E- on the other side. Join AH, and cut off
AO = AD, make SRD = HXP = ADC. S will be beyond AR. Draw
DS perpendicular to AD, then it will be perpendicular to RS, and
below the line OD, then RSD similar to XHP and RS : RD =
(XH:XP = ) n:m, and m ~RS = n RD, but SR < RV < RO and

n RD ( = m RS) < m RO, add n BR and m OA or m DA, and
n BR + n RD + m DA < n BR + m RO + in OA and n BD + m DA
< n BR + m RA. QED.

       PROPOSITION 6 PROBLEM.

       To draw a tangent to an oval from a

focus without :

    Take m for the power of the greater

focus, and n for that of the less, and find

the angle ADB (Prop. 5). Upon AB de-

scribe a segment of a circle containing an

equal angle. Join B and C, the point where
it cuts the oval, B C is a tangent. For take

any point 0, join AO, m AO + n OB >
m AC + n CB, therefore
                        is without the

oval.
CHAP. IV.]                  OVAL CURVES.                                   95

                         PROPOSITION 7 PROBLEM.

To draw a tangent to a given Oval, the foci and the ratio being

given :
It is required to draw a tangent at C to the oval CNT, ratio m : n.
From B the less focus describe a circle as in (Prop. 3). Join CA, join
CB, and produce to D, then DC : CA ::m:n. Join AD and pro-
duce it. Bisect the angle DCA by the line CO. DO : OA : :
(DC : CA : :) m : n. Draw CK perpendicular to CO, and describe
the circle OCLK. Because OCK is a right angle, OCK = DCO +
KCB = OCA + ACK. But OCA             = DCO .-. KCB = ACK and
                                     KA : KD : : AO : OD, and at           (6.3)
KA : KD : : CA : CD : : AO : OD .-.                                         any
point L in the circle, AL : DL : : AO : OD (6 F), and AL : DL : : n : m ;
and the circle is wholly without the oval, and can only touch it in the

two points C and P, where DB cuts the oval ; for suppose the circle
coincided with the oval at L,
Join     BL and produce to  X, then  AL  : DL
And                                  AL  : XL  : :n :m  /) ' m  ^j.  _ XL
         by Prop. 3               .
                         .                     ::n:m
but DL > XL (3.7), therefore the oval is within the circle. There-
fore draw ECF a tangent to the circle, and as it is without the circle
it is without the oval.
96          JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                                 [CHAP. IV.

                                        Scholium. Join AC, join BC,
                                   and produce till AC : CD : : n : m.
                                   Join AD, bisect ACD by CO.
                                   Draw OE perpendicular to AO.
                                   Make OCE = EOC. It is evident
                                   from the proposition that ECF is

                                   the tangent.

    If a line AE be cut in C and B, so that AB : BC : : AE : CE, and
two semicircles BOB, BXE be described on BE, and AO, CO be drawn

to in the circumference, and perpendiculars DH, DL, be drawn from
the centre, DH : DL : : AB : BC.
    For AB : BC : : AE : CE .'. AB : AE : : BC : CE .-. (AE + AB) =
            AD : AB : : (CE + BC = ) 2 BD              : BC and AD : AB : :
              AB = ) BD : AB : : (BD                   BC = ) CD : BC .%
- -(2 AB + 2 BD)= 2

BD : BC .-. (AD
BD : CD : : AB : BC.
    Draw DT perpendicular to OB, then as it bisects the base it
bisects the angle ODB and ODT = BDT, then in the triangles OTP,
DPL, OTP = DLP and OPT = DPL .-. PDL = POT. But POT =
      (6 F
BOA   SHO   Cor.) and BOA = SOH = PDL, and  in the triangles     SOH,
STD,        = STD, and OSH = TSD .-. SOH =  SDT and SDT =        PDL.
But ODT = BDT /. CDL = ODH and DHO = DLC .'. HOD, CDL are
equiangular, and HD : DL           =)  BD   : CD, but  BD        : : AB  : BC
                          : : (DO                          : CD
.-. HD:DL::AB:BC.
            Cor. Sine HOD : Sine DOL : : AB : BC.

             PROPOSITION 9 THEOREM.

    If lines be drawn from the foci to any

point in the oval, the sines of the angles
which they make with the perpendicular
to the tangent are to one another as the
powers of the foci.

     Sine DCE : sine ACE : : power of A :

power of B.

     For describe the circle CXT as in
Prop. 7, so that DT : TA : : DX : AX,
then SC the tangent to the circle is a
CHAP. IV.]                OVAL CURVES.                              97

tangent to the oval, and CE the radius is perpendicular to it ; then by
Prop. 8 Corollary,  sine  DCE  : sine ACE : : (DT : TA : :)         of A :
power of B.                                                  power

      As the ratio of the sines of incidence and refraction is invariable
for the same medium, and as this ratio is as 2 to 3 in glass ; and as in

the oval at Fig. 1 the powers of the foci are as 2 to 3 ; if the oval

Ifwere made of glass, rays of light from B would be refracted to A.

now a circle be described from A, the case will not be altered, for the
rays are perpendicular to the circle as in fig. 2.

      The ellipse and hyperbola, figs. 3 and 3 [&&], cause parallel rays to
converge, for (Prop. 3) they are ovals with one of the foci at an infinite
distance.

     Fig. 4 is a combination of 2 hyperbolas, and rays from A are

refracted to B.

                                                        H
98  JAMES CLEKK MAXWELL.    [CHAP. iv.

    II. MELOID AND APIOID.

    If a point C move so that m CA ~ n CB = a constant quantity,

it will describe a curve called a meloid when m CA > n CB, and an
apioid when n CB > m CA. The points A and B are called the foci.

                                        PROPOSITION 1 PROBLEM.

                  To describe a Meloid, Fig. 1, or Apioid, Fig. 2.

     Take a rigid straight rod AD, centered at A. At D erect a small
cylinder upon the rod, and also another at B on the paper. Then take
a flexible and inextensible thread of such a length that m AD n times
the thread = constant quantity; then wrap the thread round B and D and
a movable cylinder C, so that there may be n plies between B and C,
and m plies between C and D ; if now AD be turned round and the
thread kept tight, the point C will describe a meloid or apioid.
CHAP. IV.]       MELOID AND APIOID.                     99

=   For take any point C,  mDC +   w CB = thread,  and  m DC + mAC
   m AD ; therefore take           DC, and n CB    ~m   AC = thread
                           away m
~ m AD = constant quantity. As m > n, A is called the greater and B
the less focus.

             Proposition 2 is the same as proposition 2 of the Oval.

                                        PKOPOSITION 3 THEOREM.

    If a circle be described with a focus for a center, and the constant

difference divided by the power of that focus for a radius, the distance
of any point in the curve from the other focus is to the distance from
the circle as the power of the central focus is to the power of the other.
100      JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                                                             [CHAP. iv.

     Let TLO, PXS be the circles : at any point                                           C, BC : CO : : m : n
and PC : CA : : m : n.                                                                    m OA = constant

     For m CA ~ n CB = constant difference, but

difference . . m CO = n CB and BC : CO : : m : n. QED.
IfAnd nEP = constant difference . . wiCA = nCP and PC : CA : : m : n.
Cor. 1.  the constant difference = the curve is a circle. Cor. 2.
If an oval be described with a thread = constant difference, with

the same foci and the same powers as the meloid, and any line be

drawn from A, and CB, OB, VB be joined, the angle CBO = VBO.
    For BC:CO::m:7i and BV : VO : :m : rc . . BC : CO : : BV : VO
. . BC : BV : : CO : VO and CBO = VBO (6.3).

                                   PROPOSITION 4 THEOREM.

     When the less focus is in the curve, an angle will be formed = that
in the Oval (Prop.
         it

                                4).
                                       is

                                                                             :
     For take an indefinitely small arc DB
in the circle, CBD = DBE (3. Cor. 2),
and LBT = TBP .-. CBL = EBP.

If Or may be proved as in the oval.

    the greater focus A at an infinite
distance the figure will appear thus

         PROPOSITION  5                                                         THEOREM.

    If the distance between the greater focus and the point where the

axis cuts the meloid, be to the distance between that point and the less
CHAP. IV.]         MELOID AND APIOID.                  101

focus, in a greater proportion than the power of the greater focus to
that of the less, the curve is convex toward the greater focus at that

point, but if the proportion is less, concave.

                   Let AD:T>E::p:q.

If AD : DB > m : n, ODE is convex towards A ; but if AD :
DB < m : n, it is concave towards A                    Take C and E near D,
and CD = DE. Join CE, CE cuts the axis in 0. Draw the circle
CLE from B, and CPE from A. Also draw HTK as in Prop. 3

     Then BD : DT : : m : n : : BC : CH, but BC = BL, and OH = PT

-.-.BD:DT::BL : PT .'. BD : BL : : DT : PT . . BD :BL-BD ::

DT : PT DT . . BD : DL : : DT : DP . . BD : DT : : DL : DP . . DL :
DP ::m:n.
As E and C are very near D, AD : BD : : AC : BC, but PE = LE
and PCE : 2 right angles : : PE : circumference of CPE, and LCE
LE.\A: 2C|:JB_ C: :::LAED::BcDircum::fepr:eqnceandof   circ. CPE : circ. CLE : :
                                       CLE,       but
                                      PE =             PCE: 2 [L: :q PE : q
                                                  : Q? circ. CLE or) q circ. CPE .*.
circ. CPE, and     LPCEE:^: P2 E[L_:  : : p PE    PCO : LCO : :q :p and PO : OL
PCE: LCE                              : q :p .'.  > DL : DP, and D is nearer to
::q:p; and  ::if2  p : q > m : n,     OL : OP
A than the line COE, and CDE is convex toward A ; but if p : q < m : n,
D is on the opposite side, and it is concave.

                   PROPOSITION 6 PROBLEM.

To draw a tangent to a meloid or apioid from a focus without :

      Take  m for the power of         the greater focus, and n for that of the
less, and
            find the angle ADC        (Prop. 5 of the Oval) upon AB describe a
102       JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                     [CHAP. IV.

segment ACCCB containing an equal angle. Join BC and produce to
H, BH is a tangent, for suppose H to be the end of the rod, and take
any point O, n CH + m CA < n OH + n OA, therefore
                                                   is without the

curve.

    CP is an apioid, CT is a circle, and CL is a meloid, with A and B

as foci.

                                       PROPOSITION 7 PROBLEM.

     To draw a tangent to an apioid from any point in the same, the
foci and the ratio being given.

    It is required to draw a tangent to the apioid at the point C.

Join BC, and draw a circle as in Prop. 3. Join AD, and produce it.
Make AP : PD : : n : m. Join CP, and draw CK at right angles to PC.
Describe a circle through P, C, K, and it was proved in Prop. 7 of the
Oval that if any point be taken and DO, AO joined, DO : AO : : m : n.
Suppose to be both in the circle and in the apioid, join BO, then
LO : AO : : m n, but DO : AO : m : n .'. LO = DO, but LO < DO .-. the
circle is without the apioid ; therefore a tangent C T to the circle at C

is a tangent to the apioid.

                                                  AXIOM 1.

    It is possible for a circle to be described touching any given curve

internally.

                                                  PROPOSITION 8.

     To draw a tangent to a meloid at any point C.
     Case 1. Let the curve be concave towards B. Describe the circle
POCK as in Prop. 7 : it will be wholly within the meloid. At C
draw a tangent to the circle : it is also a tangent to the meloid.. For
CHAP. IV.]  MELOID AND APIOID.  103

let RN be the tangent to the meloid, it must cut the circle (3.16),

and therefore cuts the meloid.

                                Fig. 9, Meloid.

     Case 2. When the curve is convex towards B, draw a circle V as
before. Draw CT a tangent to the circle ; it is also a tangent to the

meloid. For suppose a circle S drawn touching the curve internally,

it must touch V and also CT, and any other line would cut S. QED.
     Scholium (see Figs. 8 and 9). Let M be the point. Join AM,

BM, cut off ME, so that AM : ME : : power of B : power of A. Join
AE, bisect AME by MH, make XH perpendicular, make XMH =
XHM, XM is a tangent.

                                        PROPOSITION 9 THEOREM.

    If lines be drawn from the foci to any point in a meloid or apioid,

the sines of the angles which they make with the perpendicular to the
tangent are to one another as the powers of
'''''104 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                                   [CHAP. IV.
              ^'^/fc^^***^*^^
                                                             L
CHAP. V.] OPENING MANHOOD 1847 TO 1850.               105

                                              '/* y.  3RSITY]

               CHAPTER V.                             0:E '

OPENING MANHOOD 1847 TO 1850 JET. 16-19.

WHEN he entered the University of Edinburgh, James
Clerk Maxwell still occasioned some concern to the

more conventional amongst his friends by the origin-
ality and simplicity of his ways. His replies in ordi-

nary conversation were indirect and enigmatical, often
uttered with hesitation and in a monotonous key. 1
While extremely neat in his person, he had a rooted

objection to the vanities of starch and gloves. He
had a pious horror of destroying anything even
a scrap of writing paper. He preferred travelling
by the third class in railway journeys, saying he
liked a hard seat. When at table he often seemed

abstracted from what was going on, being ab-
sorbed in observing the effects of refracted light
in the finger-glasses, or in trying some experiment
with his eyes seeing round a corner, making invis-

ible stereoscopes, and the like. Miss Cay used to

call his attention by crying, " Jamsie, you're in a
prop." 2 He never tasted wine ; and he spoke to gentle

1 This entirely disappeared afterwards, except when ironically

assumed.       It was accompanied with a certain huskiness of voice,

which was observed also in later years.
     2 " Prop." here and elsewhere is an abbreviation for " mathematical

proposition."
        106  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                    [CHAP. V

        and simple in exactly the same tone. On the other

        hand, his teachers Forbes above all had formed the

        highest opinion 1 of his intellectual originality and

        force ; and a few experienced observers, in watching

        his devotion to his father, began to have some inkling
        of his heroic singleness of heart. To his college com-

        panions, whom he could now select at will, his quaint

        humour was an endless delight. His chief associates,

        Iafter went to the University of Glasgow, were my

        brother, Kobert Campbell (still at the Academy), P.
        G. Tait, and Allan Stewart. 2 Tait went to Peter-

        house, Cambridge, in 1848, after one session of the

        University of Edinburgh ; Stewart to the same College

        in 1849 ; Maxwell did not go up until 1850.

16-19.       These three years November 1847 to October

        1850 were impartially divided between Edinburgh

        and Glenlair. He was working under but slight
        pressure, and his originality had the freest play. His

        studies were multifarious, but the subjects on which

        his thoughts were most concentrated during these

        years were 1. Polarised light, the stereoscope, etc. ;
        2. Galvanism ; 3. Kolling curves ; 4. Compression of

        solids. That he early felt the necessity of imposing

        a method on himself will appear from the letters.

        His paper on Rolling Curves was read before the

        Edinburgh Royal Society on February 19th, 1849, by
        Professor Kelland (for it was not thought proper for

              1 Forbes's certificate at the end of the second year goes beyond
        the merely formal language of such documents : " His proficiency
        gave evidence of an original and penetrating mind."

             2 Allan Stewart, Esquire of Innerhadden, Perthshire, C.E. JEq. 9th

        Wrangler, 1853.
CHAP. V.] OPENING MANHOOD 1847 TO 1850.  107

a boy in a round jacket to mount the rostrum there) ;
that on the Equilibrium of Elastic Solids in the
spring of 1850.

     With regard to his class studies, it appears that

he attended Forbes for two sessions as a regular
student, and occasionally as an amateur student in
his third year ; Kelland for two sessions ; and Sir W.

Hamilton for two. In his third session, while par-

tially attending Forbes, he was a regular student in
the Classes of Chemistry (Professor Gregory), Prac-
tical Chemistry (Mr. Kemp), and Moral Philosophy

(Professor Wilson).
     Mr. Macfarlan of Lenzie, in the letter already

quoted, says : " He was in the Natural Philosophy

Class, Edinburgh University, the year before I was,

and was spoken of by Forbes and his fellow-students
as a discoverer in Natural Philosophy, and a very
original worker in Mathematics."

    All scientific theories had an interest for him. It

was at some time during these years that in a walk
towards Arthur's Seat he discoursed to me of Owen's

hypothesis of types of creation, not only with com-
plete command of Owen's terminology, but with far-

reaching views of the questions to which the theory

led. On the same occasion he made some character-

istic remarks on the importance of cultivating the
senses, adding that he regarded dulness in that respect

as a bad sign of any man.
     The lectures in Mental Philosophy, which were a

prominent element in the Scottish University curri-
culum, interested him greatly ; and from Sir William
108                 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                 [CHAP. V.

Hamilton especially he received an impulse which

never lost its effect. Though only sixteen when he

entered the Logic Class, he worked hard for as his;1

letters show; and from the Class of Metaphysics,           ;"
                                                               it,
which he attended in the following year, his mind

gained many lasting impressions. His boundless

curiosity was fed by the Professor's inexhaustible

learning his geometrical imagination predisposed him
to accept the doctrine of " natural realism while his
     a
mystical tendency was soothed by the distinction
             ;
between Knowledge and Belief. The doctrine of                       is a

muscular sense gave promise of rational analysis of
                                            a

                                                     it
the active powers. However strange                       may appear

that born mathematician should have been thus

influenced by the enemy of mathematics, the fact

indisputable that in his frequent excursions into the
region of speculative thought, the ideas received from
Sir William Hamilton were his habitual vantage-

ground the great difference being, that while Sir
     a
William remained for the most part within the sphere
           ;
of Abstract     Logic,  Maxwell ever        sought to bring         each
" concept"      to the  test of fact.       Sir William in
                                                                    turn

took genial interest in his pupil, who was indeed the

nephew of an old friend Sheriff Cay having at one2a
time been constant companion and firm ally of Sir
William's. This perhaps the most striking example
                        is
     A slight illustration of his devotion to Sir William's teaching,
2; 1                                     a
and also of his powers of endurance,:       is afforded by the following

incident      One day he sprained his ankle badly on the College stair-if

case but, instead of going home, he attended Sir William Hamilton's

class as usual, and sat through the hour as nothing had happened.
        John Lockhart had made third as the comrade of both.
CHAP. V.] OPENING MANHOOD 1847 TO 1850.  109

of the effect produced by Sir William Hamilton on

powerful young minds, an effect which, unless the
best metaphysicians of the subsequent age are mis-
taken, must have been out of all proportion to the
independent value of his philosophy.

     It was impossible that young Maxwell should

listen to speculations about the first principles of
things, speculations, too, which, like all the Scottish

philosophy, turned largely on the reality of the ex-
ternal world, without eagerly working out each
problem for himself. Besides various exercises done

by him for the Logic Class, and, like all his youthful
work, preserved by him with pious care, there is

one which seems to have attracted special attention,
and was found by Professor Baynes, when he came to
assist Sir William, in the Professor's private drawer.
This is so significant, and is so closely related to
Maxwell's after studies, as to deserve insertion here.

ON THE PEOPERTIES OF MATTER.                                    J&. 17.

      These properties are all relative to the three abstract

entities connected with matter, namely, space, time, and

force.

      1. Since matter must be in some part of space, and in
one part only at a time, it possesses the property of locality
or position.

      2. But matter has not only position but magnitude ; this

property is called extension.

      3. And since it is not infinite it must have bounds, and
therefore it must possess figure.

       These three properties belong both to matter and to
imaginary geometrical figures, and may be called the
110                 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                      [CHAP. V.

geometric properties of matter. The following properties do

not necessarily belong to geometric figures.

      4. No part of space can contain at the same time more

than one body, or no two bodies can coexist in the same

space; this property is called impenetrability. It was

thought by some that the converse of this was true, and

that there was no part of space not filled with matter. If

there be a vacuum, said they, that is empty space, it must

be either a substance or an accident.                                                       as
                                                                                            be
    If a substance it must be created or uncreated.
    If created it may be destroyed, while matter remains

it was, and thus length, breadth and thickness would

destroyed while the bodies remain at the same distance.

    If uncreated, we are led into impiety.
    If we say it is an accident, those who deny a vacuum

          is                        and say that length, breadth and
                               it,
challenge us to define

thickness belong exclusively to matter.

This      not true, for they belong also to geometric

figures, which are forms of thought and not of matter there-
                                                              is
fore the atomists maintain that empty space                   an accident,is

and has not only possible but real existence, and that               is
     5.
       is                                                                               ;;

                     a
                             a

                              is
                                     a
                                                      a

                                                           a
there more space empty than full. This has been well

stated by Lucretius.

          Since there   vacuum, motion                        possible there-

fore we have fifth property of matter called mobility.
      And the impossibility of body changing its state of

motion or rest without some external force called inertia.

Of forces acting between two particles of matter there

are several kinds.

The first kind          independent of the quality of the
                       is
                                             is
particles, and depends solely on their masses and their
mutual distance. Of this kind the attraction of gravi-

tation and that repulsion which exists between the par-

ticles of matter which prevents any two from coming into

contact.

The second kind depends on the quality of the particles                                     ;

of this kind are the attractions of magnetism, electricity, and
CHAP. V.] OPENING MANHOOD 1847 TO 1850.  Ill

chemical affinity, which are all convertible into one another
and affect all bodies.

      The third kind acts between the particles of the same
body, and tends to keep them at a certain distance from one
another and in a certain configuration.

      When this force is repulsive and inversely as the dis-
tance, the body is called gaseous.

      When it does not follow this law there are two cases.

      There may be a force tending to preserve the figure of
the body or not.

      When this force vanishes the body is a liquid.
      When it exists the body is solid.

    If it is small the body is soft ; if great it is hard.
    If it recovers its figure it is elastic ; if not it is inelastic.

      The forces in this third division depend almost entirely
on heat.

      The properties of bodies relative to heat and light are
                Transmission, Eeflection, and Destruction,

and in the case of light these may be different for the three
kinds of light, so that the properties of colour are

                     Quality, Purity, and Integrity ; or
                     Hue, Tint, and Shade.

      We come next to consider what properties of bodies may
be perceived by the senses.

      Now the only thing which can be directly perceived by
the senses is Force, to which may be reduced heat, light,
electricity, sound, and all the things which can be perceived
by any sense.

     In the sense of sight we perceive at the same time two

spheres covered with different colours and shades. The

pictures on these two spheres have a general resemblance,
but are not exactly the same ; and from a comparison of the
two spheres we learn, by a kind of intuitive geometry, the
position of external objects in three dimensions.

      Thus, the object of the sense of sight is the impression
made on the different parts of the retina by three kinds of
light. By this sense we obtain the greater part of our
112  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. V.

practical knowledge of locality, extension, and figure as pro-
perties of bodies, and we actually perceive colour and angular
dimension.

     And if we take time into account (as we must always

do, for no sense is instantaneous), we perceive relative

angular motion.

      By the sense of hearing we perceive the intensity,
rapidity, and quality of the vibrations of the surrounding

medium.

      By taste and smell we perceive the effects which liquids

and aeriform bodies have on the nerves.

      By touch we become acquainted with many conditions
and qualities of bodies.

      1. The actual dimensions of solid bodies in three dimen-

sions, as compared with the dimensions of our own bodies.
      2. The nature of the surface ; its roughness or smooth-

ness.

      3. The state of the body with reference to heat.
      To this is to be referred the sensation of wetness and

dryness, on account of the close contact which fluids have
with the skin.

     By means of touch, combined with pressure and motion,

we perceive

       1. Hardness and softness, comprehending elasticity,
friability, tenacity, flexibility, rigidity, fluidity, etc.

      2. Friction, vibration, weight, motion, and the like.
      The sensations of hunger and thirst, fatigue, and many
others, have no relation to the properties of bodies.

                      LUCRETIUS ON EMPTY SPACE.

     Nee tamen undique corporea stipata tenentur
     Omnia natura, namque est in rebus Inane.

     Quod tibi cognosse in multis erit utile rebus

     Nee sinet errantem dubitare et quserere semper
     De summa rerum ; et nostris diffidere dictis.
     Quapropter locus est intactus Inane Vacansque
     Quod si non esset, nulla ratione moveri
CHAP. V.] OPENING MANHOOD 1847 TO 1850.                            113

    Ees possent ; namque officium quod corporis extat
    Officers atque obstare, id in omni tempore adesset
    Omnibus. Haud igitur quicquam procedere posset,
    Principium quoniam cedendi nulla daret res,

    At nunc per maria ac terras sublimaque cseli
    Multa modis multis varia ratione moveri

    Cernimus ante oculos, quse, si non esset Inane,

    Non tarn sollicito motu privata carerent
    Quam genita omnino nulla ratione fuissent,

    Undique materies quoniam stipata quiesset. 1

    Ill connection with his logical studies it should be

mentioned that Professor Boole's attempt, made about
this time, towards giving to logical forms a mathemati-
cal expression, 2 had naturally strong attractions for
Clerk Maxwell.

      1 Lucr. de Rer Nat., L 329-345. The following Hamiltonian

notions will be found appearing from time to time in Maxwell's corre-

spondence and occasional writings :     to " Cosmothetic Idealism  "

1.  Opposition of Natural  Eealism                                     :

2. Unconscious Mental Modifications :
3. Distinction between Knowledge and Belief in relation to the

doctrine of Perception :
     4. The Infinite or Unconditioned.

      The following passage is worth quoting here, although the experi-
ment in question was probably well known to Maxwell before he went

"...to college :
                 The experiment which Sir W. Hamilton quotes from Mr.
Mill, and which had been noticed before either of them by Hartley.

    " It is known that the seven prismatic colours, combined in certain
proportions, produce the white light of the solar ray. Now, if the

seven colours are painted on spaces bearing the same proportion to one

another as in the solar spectrum, and the coloured surface so produced

is passed rapidly before the eyes, as by the turning of a wheel, the

whole is seen as white." Mill On Hamilton (1st      edition,  186 5), p. 286.
                                                     " The    Mathematical
      2 Mr. George Boole's first logical treatise,

Analysis of Logic, being an Essay towards a Calculus of Deductive

Reasoning," was published in 1847 at Cambridge, by Macmillan,

Barclay, and Macmillan.              I
114  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. V.

      The metaphysical writers who had received most
of his attention before going to Cambridge were Des-
cartes and Leibnitz. He knew Hobbes well also, but

chiefly on the ethical side.

    When, in his address to Section A of the British

Association at the Liverpool meeting in 1870, Maxwell
spoke of the barren metaphysics of past ages, he knew
the full force of his own words. And he certainly felt
that his psychological studies had given him a distinct
advantage in conceiving rightly the functions of the

eye.

     His grasp of Moral Philosophy at the age of nine-
teen, when he had been stimulated to precise thought
on the subject by listening to the vague harangues of
Professor Wilson (Christopher North), appears in
some of his letters, and reveals an aspect of his genius
of which too little is known ; and one which his subse-

quent career did not allow him to carry to perfection.

     In the third year of his course, as above men-

tioned, besides attending Professor Wilson's lectures,
he renewed his study of Chemistry under Professor
Gregory, to whose laboratory he had unlimited access,
and also to some extent continued his attendance on

Professor Forbes.

    It cannot be said that this period was unfruitful ;

yet perhaps it is to be regretted that he did not go
to Cambridge at least one year earlier. His truly

sociable spirit would have been less isolated, he would
have gained more command over his own genius, and
his powers of expression would have more harmoniously
developed. The routine of Cambridge would have
CHAP. V.] OPENING MANHOOD 1847 TO 1850. -115

been not only more valuable but less irksome to him,

and he would have entered sooner and more fully upon
the study of mankind, for which he had such large
capacity, and opportunities hitherto so limited. He suf-
fered less from isolation than most human beings, and
his spirit was deepening all the while ; yet the freedom
of working by himself during the summer months had

manifestly some drawbacks, and the tone of his corre-
spondence shows that he felt the disadvantages of
solitude.

      LETTERS, 1847 TO 1850 JET. 16-18.

      To LEWIS CAMPBELL, Esq.

                                 27 Heriot Row, 1

                                                         Tuesday [16th Novr. 1847}.                                                                         jEt. 16.

In Kelland we find the value of expressions in numbers

as fast as we can, the values of the letters being given ; light

work. In Forbes we do Lever, which is all in Potter ; no

notes required, only read Pottery ware (light reading).

ILogic needs long notes. On Monday, Wednesday, Friday,
Iread Newton's Fluxions in a sort of way, to know what am

about in doing a prop. There is no time of reading a book

      it                     and when you are on the

                       if it,
better than when you need

point of finding out yourself you were able.

      " Non usitata nee tenui ferar

      Pinna biformi per liquida sequora

      Piscis neque in terris morabor

      Longius"             but will take to swimming
      a
with
                    I

                                                          1

                               I
                                             I J.

                                                                                                                                                         .

                                                                                                            2.
      two formed oar with blades at right angles. . .
                                                     Yours, C. M., No.

                  To THE SAME.

                               31 H&fiot Row, Novr. 1847.

As you say, sir,  have no idle time.          look over

                  Above, p. 55.
116  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                 [CHAP. V.

I Inotes and such like till 9.35, then go to Coll., and

always go one way and cross streets at the same places ;

then at 10 comes Kelland. He is telling us about

arithmetic and how the common rules are the best. At 11

there is Forbes, who has now finished introduction and

properties of bodies, and is beginning Mechanics in earnest.

IThen at 12, if it is fine, perambulate the Meadows; if
Inot, go to the Library and do references. At 1 go to Logic.

\Sir W. reads the first of his lecture, and commits the rest
to his man, but reserves to himself the right of making

remarks. To-day was examination day, and there was no

Ilecture. At 2 go home and receive interim aliment, and
Ido the needful in the way of business. Then extend

notes, and read text-books, which are Kelland's Algebra and

IPotter's Mechanics. The latter is very trigonometrical, but
not deep ; and the Trig, is not needed.   intend to read a

...few Greek and Latin beside. What books are you doing ?
       In Logic we sit in seats lettered according to name,

and Sir W. takes and puts his hand into a jam pig x full of

metal letters (very classical), and pulls one out and examines

the bench of the letter. The Logic lectures are far the

most solid and take most notes.
    I IBefore left home
                         found    out a   prop for Tait (P. G.) ;
but he will not do it.           to find  the algebraical equa-
                       It is "

tion to a curve which is to be placed with its axis vertical,

and a heavy body is to be put on any part of the curve,

as on an inclined plane, and the horizontal component of
the force, by which it is actuated, is to vary as the nth power

of the perpendicular upon the axis."

                                    To THE SAME.

   ... Glenlair, 26th April 1848.
               On Saturday, the natural philosophers ran up
Arthur's Seat with the barometer. The Professor set it
up at the top- and let us pant at it till it ran down with
drops. He did not set it straight, and made the hill grow
fifty feet ; but we got it down again.

                                             1 i.e. Jar.
CHAP. V.] OPENING MANHOOD 1847 TO 1850.

     IWe came here on Wednesday by Caledonian.                                         intend
Ito open my classes next week after the business is over.

have been reading Xenophon's Memorabilia after breakfast ;

also a French collection book. This from 9 to 11. Then

a game of the Devil, of whom there is a duality and a
Iquaternity of sticks, so that can play either conjunctly or
Iseverally.
             can jump over him and bring him round with-
Iout leaving go the sticks.
                                                                        can also keep him up behind

me.  I IThen go in again to science, of which have only just

Igot the books by the carrier. Hitherto                                                have done a
Iprop on the slate on polarised light. Of props have done

several.

     1. Found the equation to a square.

     2. The curve which Sir David Brewster sees when he

squints at a wall.

     3. A property of the parabola. . . .

     4. The same of the Ellipse and Hyperbola. . . .

     I can polarise light now by reflection or refraction in 4

ways, and get beautiful but evanescent figures in plate glass
Iby heating its edge.
                             have not yet unannealed any glass. . . .
     I Idon't understand hpw you mug x straight on.
                                                                                                              suit
I Imy muggery to my temper that day. When
IW; Iread Xenophon's defence of                                                        am deep

                                                                                    when not read Sw/e's
If I Iwitty dialogues.
                             do not do this, always find myself

reading Greek, that   ? is,  reading the words with all their con-

tractions, as Jew reads Hebrew.                                                     I  get on very rapidly
          I                                                                            1.
                   a                                                                                   ;
but know nothing about the meaning, and do not even know

but that am really translating.

     Please to write about your Prizes at College, and about
                             You must learn the D
coming here to mug

     Tatties planting. Yours, etc.
             is

                             To THE SAME.

                                                                                    Glenlair, 5\G July 1848.

     was much glad of your letter, and will be thankful for
a

  I
            I

                                                                     1
repetition.           understand better about your not coming.

                                                                        i.e. Work.
118             JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                                                                                              [CHAP. V.

I Ithehagvaeter,eginulaarlygasrertet.ulpshop now     above the wash-house at
                                               have  an old door set on two

barrels, and two chairs, of which one is safe, and a skylight

above, which will slide up and down.

      On the door (or table), there is a lot of bowls, jugs,
plates, jam pigs, 2 etc., containing water, salt, soda, sulphuric

acid, blue vitriol, plumbago ore ; also broken glass, iron, and

copper wire, copper and zinc plate, bees' wax, sealing wax,

clay, rosin, charcoal, a lens, a Smee's Galvanic apparatus, and

a countless variety of little beetles, spiders, and wood lice,

which fall into the different liquids and poison themselves.

I Iintend to get up some more galvanism in jam pigs ; but
Imust first copper the interiors of the pigs, so am experi-
Imenting on the best methods of electrotyping. So am
Imaking copper seals with the device of a beetle. First,
Ithought a beetle was a good conductor, so embedded one
Iin wax (not at all cruel, because slew him in boiling water
Iin which he never kicked), leaving his back out ; but he

would not do. Then took a cast of him in sealing wax,

Iand pressed wax into the hollow, and black-leaded it with a

brush ; but neither would that do. So at last took my

fingers and rubbed  it it,  which find the best way to use the
                                        I

black lead. Then            coppered famously.            I  melt out the

wax with the lens, that being the cleanest way of getting                                                                            a

strong heat, so do most things with                          that need heat.
                I                                         it

To-day astonished the natives as follows.                   I  took crystal
     ;I                                                                                                                           a

of blue vitriol and put the lens to                  it,  and so drove off the

water, leaving  white powder. Then did the same to
                a                                         I

                            3

                             a
                                  a
some washing soda, and mixed the two white powders

together and made                  small native spit on them, wThich

turned them green by mutual exchange, thus                                                                                           Sul-
                                                             2.
phate of copper and carbonate of soda.
                                                                       :

                                                                            1.
                                                               Sulphate of

soda and carbonate of copper (blue or green).
     With regard to electro-magnetism you may tell Bob that

have not begun the machine he speaks of, being occupied
21 I

                                       3

                                      is
                                                           p.
                                                        1, is

                                                                                                                               a
with better plans, one of which rather down cast, however,

In the " old house " (above,              26, 4); now fitted up as gun-room.
                This still remembered by " Lizzy," Mrs. MacGowan.
i.e. Jars.
CHAP. V.] OPENING MANHOOD 1847 TO 1850.                                       119

I Ibecause the machine when tried went a bit and stuck ; and

  did not find out the impediment till had dreamt over it

Iproperly, which consider the best mode of resolving diffi-

culties of a particular kind, which may be found out by

thought, or especially by the laws of association. Thus, you
are going along the road with a key in your pocket. You
hear a clink behind you, but do not look round, thinking it

is nothing particular ; when you get home the key is gone ;

so you dream it all over, and though you have forgotten

everything else, you remember the look of the place, but do
                                                            as thus, " Near large
                 it                                           nowhere in particular,

                   is
                                                      is,
not remember      the locality (that                     "  a
thistle on the   left side of the road                                  a
                                                                           a
but so that      can be 'found). Next day comes woman

from the peats who has found the key in corresponding
                 not " believing in dreams," for the dream
place. This

did not point out the place by the general locality, but by

the lie of the ground.

   Please to write and tell how Academy matters go,         I

                                                                 if
they are coming to head.            am reading Herodotus, Euterpe,
                 a        ;

                             I
having taken the turn that to say, that sometimes canis

do props, read diff. and Int. Calc., Poisson, Hamilton's dis-
sertations, etc. Off, then take back to experiments, history
                             it, I
of what you may call make up leeway in the newspapers,

read Herodotus, and draw the figures of the curves above.

   deary,  1     P.M. Hoping to see you before October.                       .  ..
              1  I
                          !
                      I
1  defer till to-morrow.

   July    6.    To-day have set on to the coppering of the

jam pig which polished yesterday.

   have stuck in the wires better than ever, and
   I

                  a
                   a

                          I
                                                         a
                                    I
                                                                         it
                                                                              it
                                                                                                   is
going on at great rate, being rainy day, and the skylight
                                                            have left for an
shut and smell of Hydrogen gas.
                                    am pleased with him to-day.
hour to read Poisson, as
120             JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                 [CHAP. V.

ISometimes do not like him, because he pretends to give

information as to calculations of sorts, whereas he only tells

how it might be done if you were allowed an infinite time

to do it in, as well as patience. Of course he never stoops

to give a particular example or even class of them. He

Itells lies about the way people make barometers, etc.
         bathe regularly every day when dry, and try aquatic

Iexperiments.
         first made a survey of the pool, and took soundings

and marked rocky places well, as the water is so brown that

Ione cannot see one's knees (pure peat, not mud). People

are cutting peats now. So have found a way of swim-
ming round the pool without knocking knees. The lads 1

are afraid of melting, except one. No one here would touch
water if they could help
                               it,  because there are two or three

eels in the pool, which are thought near as bad as adders.

           took down the clay gun and made centrifugal pump
    I                                   I

of also tried experiments on sound under water, whichis a
    it

        ;

is  very distinct, and can understand how fishes can be
                       aI

                            a
stunned by knocking stone.

     We sometimes get rope, which take hold of at one

end, and Bob Eraser the other, standing on the rock and
                                                                                     ;

after flood, when the water up, there sufficient current
    I                               is
         a
to keep me up like kite without striking at all.a
     The thermometer ranged yesterday from 35 to 69.

           have made regular figures of 14, 26, 32, 38, 62, and

102 sides of cardboard.

     Latest intelligence Electric Telegraph. This going
                it a

                    is

                                           I
                                              I

                                                                 it

                                                                               ; is
so as to make compass spin very much.                must go to

see my pig, as         an hour and half since left                                 so, sir,

am your afft. friend,                   JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

                                    To THE SAME.

                                                                    Glenlair, 22d Sept. 1848.

         . . When waken do so either at 5.45 or 9.15, but
now prefer the early hour, as take the most of my violent
exercise at that time, and thus am saddened doivn, so that

                                                     See above, p. 93.
    .

               I
                      1I

                           I
                                                       II
    CHAP. V.] OPENING MANHOOD 1847 TO 1850.                                                        121

    can do as much still work afterwards as is requisite, whereas
    I Iif was to sit still in the morning would be yawning all
    Iday. So get up and see what kind of day it
                                  1                                                                  and
                                              ;

                                            I
                                                                                      is,
    what field works are to be done then catch the pony and

    bring up the water barrel.           This barrel used to be pulled

    by the men, but Pa caused the road to be gravelled, and so

it    became horse work to the men, so proposed the pony
                                  I
                                               I

                                                         it

                                                                  I;
    but all the men except the pullers opposed the plan. So

    and the children not working brought                 up, and silenced

    vile insinuators. Then take the dogs out, and then look

    round the garden for fruit and seeds, and paddle about till

    breakfast time after that take up Cicero and see
                 ;                                                                                      can
                                                                                                   set to
                  I
                        II

                                             a

                                   I

                                                                                                  ;

                                                        if

                                                   I iIf
    understand him. If so, read till stick                                     not,

    Xen. or Herodt. Then do props, chiefly on rolling curves,

    on which subject have got great problem divided into

    Orders, Genera, Species, Varieties, etc.

      One curve rolls on another, and with particular point
             is
               :a

                             I.

                                                                            a
    traces out third curve on the plane of the first, then the

    problem      Order Given any two of these curves, to find

the third.

    Order II. Given the equation of one and the identity of

    the other two, find their equation.
      III.Order
                 Given all three curves the same, find them.

    In this last Order have proved that the equi-angular spiral
                it

                     I
possesses the property, and that no other curve does. This

a is  the most reproductive curve of any.        BI      think John Ber-

    noulli had   on his tombstone, with the motto EademB,

    mutata resurgo. There are great many curious properties
                                  a
    of curves connected with rolling. Thus, for example,a

        If the curve A when rolled on straight line produces
                                         a

                and the curve A when rolled up on itself
      curve  C C,

                     if                          when rolled upon

                              B,
produces the curve then the curve

    the curve will produce straight line.
         Thus, let the involute of the circle be represented by A,

                the spiral of Archimedes by

                and the parabola by      C,

    then the proposition1         true.      1.

                           is
                          See above, p. 28, 6.
122       JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                 [CHAP. V.

Thus the parabola rolled on a straight line traces a Catenary

with its focus, an easy way to describe the Catenary. Pro-
fessor Wallace just missed it in a paper in the Eoyal

Society.

     After props come optics, and principally polarised light.
     IDo you remember our visit to Mr. Nicol ?
                                                have
Igot plenty of unannealed glass of different shapes, for
Ifind window glass will do very well made up in bundles.

cut out triangles, squares, etc., with a diamond, about 8 or 9

of a kind, and take them to the kitchen, and put them on a

piece of iron in the fire one by one. When the bit is red
Ihot, drop it into a plate of iron sparks to cool, and so on
Itill all are done.
                     have got all figures up to nonagons,
Itriangles of all kinds, and irregular chips.
                                               have made a

pattern for a tesselated window of unannealed glass in the

proper colours, also a delineation of triangles at every

Iprincipal inclination. We were at Castle-Douglas yester-
day, and got crystals of salt Peter, which     have been

cutting up into plates to-day, in hopes to see rings. There

Iare very few crystals which are not hollow-hearted or filled
up with irregular crystals.  have got a few cross cuts

like { ) free of irregularities and long [wedge-shaped] cuts

for polarising plates. One has to be very cautious in sawing

Iand polishing them, for they are very brittle.
          have got a lucifer match box fitted up for polaris-

ing, thus. The rays suffer two reflections at the polar-

ising angle from glasses A and B. Without the lid
it does for an analysing plate. In the lid there is set a

plate of mica, and so one observes the blue sky, and turns

the box round till a particular colour appears, and then a
line on the lid of the box points to the sun wherever he

is. Thus one can find out the time of day without the sun.
CHAP. V.] OPENING MANHOOD 1847 TO 1850.                       123

[Herefolloiv thirteen diagrams of patterns in triangles, squares,
pentagons, and hexagons] These are a few of the figures one

sees in unannealed glass.

Pray write soon and tell when, how, and where by, you

intend to come, that you may neither on the other hand fall

I Iupon us at unawares, nor on the one hand break and not
come at all.  suppose when you come will have to give

Iup all my things of my own devizing, and take Poisson, for

the time is short, and am very nearly unprepared in actual

Ireading, though a great deal more able to read it.           I

       hope not to write any more letters till you come.

Iseal with an electrotype of the young of the ephemera.       So,

sir, was, etc.

                     To THE SAME.

                                                       Bannavie, 6th July [1849'}.  & 18.

    IThis being a wet night, and having exhausted my
Itravelling props, set to to write to you about what can

recollect of my past history. It is curious that though the

remembrance of ploys remains longer than that of home

doings, it is not so easily imagined after a short interval.

By imagining is here meant bringing up an accurate

image of thoughts, words, and works, and not a mere

geographical summary of voyages and travels.

But to the point. Perhaps you remember going with

my Uncle John Cay (7th Class), to visit Mr. Mcol in
Inverleith Terrace. There we saw polarised light in abun-
Idance.
         purposed going this session but was prevented.
IWell, sir, received from the aforesaid Mr. Cay a "Mcol's
prism," which Mcol had made and sent him. It is made

Iof calc-spar, so arranged as to separate the ordinary from the

extraordinary ray. So adapted it to a camera lucida, and

made charts of the strains in unannealed glass.
   I have set up the machine for showing the rings            in
Icrystals, which planned during your visit last year.
Ianswers very well.                                           It

                     also made some experiments on com-

pressed jellies in illustration of my props on that subject
The principal one was this : The jelly is poured while hot
124                JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                   [CHAP. V.

into the annular space contained between a paper cylinder

                   and a cork : then, when cold, the cork

                   is twisted round, and the jelly exposed

                   to polarised light, when a transverse cross,

                   x , not -f- , appears with rings as the

                   inverse square of the radius, all which is

                   fully verified. Hip ! etc. Q.E.D.
                       But to make an abrupt transcision, 1' as

Forbes says, we set off to Glasgow on Monday 2d ; to
Inverary on 3d ; to Oban by Loch Awe on 4th ; round Mull,

by Staffa and lona, on (5th), and here on 6th. To-morrow

we intend to get to Inverness and rest there. On Monday

perhaps? to the land of Beulah, and afterwards back by

Caledon. Canal to Crinan Canal, and so to Arran, thence

to Ardrossan, and then home. It is possible that you may

get a more full account of all these things (if agreeable), when

I fall in with a pen that will spell ; my present instrument
Ipartakes of the nature of skates, and can hardly steer it.

     There is a beautiful base here for measuring the height, etc.,

of Ben Nevis. It is a straight and level road through a moss

for about a mile that leads from the inn right to the summit.

     It is 'proposed to carry up stones and erect a cairn 3 feet

high, and thus render it the highest mountain in Scotland.

      During the session Prof. Forbes gave as an exercise to
describe a cycloid from top of Ben Nevis to Fort William,

and slide trees down it. We took an observation of the

Islide, but found nothing to slide but snow.

         think a body deprived of friction would go to Fort
William in a cycloid in 49*6 seconds, and in 81 on an
I Iinclined plane.
                   believe should have written the greater
Ipart of this letter to Allan Stewart, but know not where

1

                        it,

                                                    1.

                                          it
                                                      if
he is, so you get         and may read or no as you like.

     We will be at home between the 15th and 22d of this

month, so you may write then, detailing your plans and

specifying whether you intend to come north at all between
this and November, for we would be glad either you or

Bob would disturb our solitude.

      See below, p. 138,  2. Forbes was extra-precise in articulation.
Hence the spelling.
CHAP. V.] OPENING MANHOOD 1847 TO 1850.           125

                                    To THE SAME.

                                                                Glenlair, 19th October 1849.

      Here is the way to dissolve any given historical event in
a mythical solution, and then precipitate the seminal ideas

in their primitive form. It is from Theodore Parker, an

American, and treats of the declaration of American Inde-
pendence. " The story of the Declaration of Independence

is liable to many objections if we examine it a la mode

Strauss. The Congress was held at a mythical town, whose
very name is suspicious, Philadelphia, brotherly love. The
date is suspicious: it was the fourth day of the fourth
month (reckoning from April, as it is probable that the
Heraclidse and Scandinavians, possible that the Americans,
and certain that the Ebrews, did). Now 4 was a sacred
number among Americans : the President was chosen for 4
years, 4 departments of affairs, 4 political powers, etc. The
year also is suspicious. 1776 is but an ingeni\pus\ ? com-
bination of the sacred number, thus

                                             444

                                                      4

                              1776

Still further, the declaration is metaphysical and presupposes

an acquaintance with the transcendental function on the part

of the American people. Now the Kritik of Pure Reason

was not yet published," etc.                ' it

To THE SAME.

                  . October 1849.

    ISince last letter, have made some pairs of diagrams

representing solid figures and curves drawn in space ; of
these pictures one is seen with each eye by means of

mirrors, thus . . .           Stereoscope,  which Sir David
      This is Wheatstone's

Brewster has taken up of late with much violence at the
Brightish Association. (The violence consists in making two
lenses out of one by breaking it). (See Eeport). Last
winter he exhibited at the Scottish Society of Arts Calotype
126                JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. v.

pictures of the statue of Ariadne and the beast seen from

two stations, which, when viewed properly, appeared very

Isolid.            have been doing practical props on com-
       Since then

pression, and writing out the same that there may be no

mistake. The nicest cases are those of spheres and cylinders.
I have got an expression for the hardness of a cricket ball
Imade of case and stuffing.
                             have

also the equations for a spherical

cavity in an infinite solid, and this

prop : Given that the polarised

colour of any part of a cylinder

of unannealed glass is equal to the

square of the distance from the

centre (as determined by observa-
tion), to find 1st, the state of

strain at each point ; 2d, the tem-

perature of each.

    I have got an observation of       This is the likeness of a SKEW SCREW
                                                                 SUBFACE.
the latitude just now with a saucer
of treacle, but it is very windy.

      Pray excuse this wickedly

perplexed letter as an effect of

the paucity of our communica-

tions. If you would sharpen me

a little it would be acceptable, but

when there is nobody to speak to

one [loses] the gift of speech. . . .

                                    To THE SAME.

                                                    31 Heriot Row, Edinburgh, N.B.,
                                                                 Monday, Nov. 5, 1849.

    I go to Gregory to Chemistry at 1 0, Morale Phil, at 1 2,
Iand Pract. Chem. at 13, finishing at 14, unless perhaps
I Itake an hour at Practical Mechanics at the School of Arts.

   do not go to Sir W. H. logic, seeing was there before.
CHAP. V.] OPENING MANHOOD 1847 TO 1850.                                                                127

Langhorne has got your Buchananic notes. Why do you
Ithink that    can endure nothing but Mathematics and
ILogic, the only things have plenty of ? and why do you
presuppose my acquaintance with your preceptors, professors,
tutors, 1 etc. ? . . .
I don't wonder at your failing to take interest
Iexponential theorem, seeing dislike                                                                   in the
        I                                                                  although                     know
                I

                   I
                                I

                                                           it,

                                                  II
...the use and meaning of it.             But           never would have, unless

Kelland had explained it.
In your next letter you may give an abstract of Aris-

totle's Rhet., for do not attend Aytoun, and so know

not what Ehet. is.                    know Logic only by Keid's account

of it.    will tell you about Wilson's Moral Philosophy,

provided always you want to know, and signify your desire.

                                      To THE SAME.

                                                        [Edin.] 14th March 1850.

As am otherwise engaged, take this opportunity of
a                                            I

     I
provoking you to write letter or two.                                          have begun to
                                      a                                    II

write Elastic Equilibrium, and find that must write you
                                          I

                                                     2
letter in order at least, indeed, to serve on the one hand

as an excuse to myself for sticking up, and on the other

hand as sluice for all the nonsense which would have
        Ia                                                                 1.

                                                                            I
written. therefore propose to divide this letter as follows:

My say naturally breaks up into                                                Education;              2.

Notions;
1.             Hearsay.
           3.
        Education Public.

10-11. Gregory                        is  on Alloys of Metals just now.

Last Saturday was examined, and asked how would do
if                                                                             I

           I
              I

                                   a
the contents of stomach were submitted to me to detect

arsenic, and had to go through the whole of the preparatory

processes of chopping up the tripes, boiling with potash, filter-
ing, boiling with H                   and K
                        C                                                  all which Kemp the

                         L

                                               C

                                          L

                                                                       5,

Practical says are useless and detrimental processes, invented

by chemists who want something to do. 11-12. Prof.

Forbes on Sound and Light day about, as Bob well knows,
        1

         is

                   if

                                                                                                2

                                                                                                   p.
and can tell you he chooses. He (E. C.) has written an essay

          At Oxford.                                    See above, 82.
128  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                           [CHAP. V.

Ion Probabilities, with very grand props in it ; everything

original, but no signs of reading, guess. It was all written

in a week. He has despaired of Optics. 12-1. Wilson,

after having fully explained his own opinions, has proceeded

to those of other great men : Plato, Aristotle, Stoics, Epicu-

reans. He shows that Plato's proof of the immortality of

the soul, from its immateriality, if it be a proof, proves its

pre-existence, the immortality of beasts and vegetables, and

why not transmigration ? (Do you remember how Raphael
tells Adam about meats and drinks in Paradise Lost?}
(Greek Iambics, if you please.)
                                 "   He quarrels with Aristotle's
doctrine of the Golden Mean,        a virtue is the mean between

two vices," not properly understanding the saying. He

chooses to consider it as a pocket rule to find virtue, which

it is not meant to be, but an apophthegm or maxim, or dark

saying, signifying that as a hill falls away on both sides of

the top, so a virtue at its maximum declines by excess or

defect (not of virtue but) of some variable quantity at the
disposal of the will. Thus, let it be a virtue to give alms
with your own money, then it is a greater virtue to pay

one's debts to the full. Now, a man has so much money :

the more alms he gives up to a certain point, the more

virtue. As soon as it becomes impossible to pay debts, the

virtue of solvency decreases faster than that of almsgiving

increases, so that the giving of money to the poor becomes

a vice, so that the variable is the sum given away, by
Iexcess or defect of which virtue diminishes, say ; so that
I IWilson garbles Aristotle, but bamboozle myself.
                                                    say

that some things are virtues, others are virtuous or generally
lead to virtue. Substitute goods for virtues, and it will be

more general : thus, Wisdom, Happiness, Virtue, are goods,
and cannot be in excess ; but Knowledge, Pleasure, and

what ? (please tell me, Is it Propriety, Obedience, or what is

it ?) lead to the other three, and are not so much goods as

Itending to good ; whereas particular knowledges, pleasures,
and obediences may be in excess and lead to evils.  post-

pone the rest of my observations to my Collection of the

Metaphysical principles of Moral Philosophy founded on
CHAP. V.]   -OPENING MANHOOD 1847 TO 1850.                                                                         129

the three laws of Liberty, Equality, Fraternity, thus ex-

pressed :

1. That which can be done is that which has been

3.done; that
             ; is,
                          is

                                                                                           1

                                                     is
            that the possibility (with respect to the
agent) of an action (as simple) depends on the agent having

had the sensation of having done it.

2. That which ought to be done                                                                                     that which (under

the given conditions) produces, implies, or tends to the
greatest amount of good (an excess or defect in the variables
will lessen the good and make evil).
Moral actions can be judged of only by the principle

of exchange that      (1), our own actions must be judged

by the laws we have made for others; (2), others must
be judged by putting ourselves in their place.

                                                                                                                   March.

At Practical Mechanics have been turning Devils of
                              of I I
sorts. For private studies have been reading Young's
Lectures, Willis's Principles Mechanism, Moseley's Engineer-

ing and Mechanics, Dixon on Heat, and Moigno's Repertoire

d'Optique. This last is is    very complete analysis of all that

                           a
has been done in the optical way from Fresnel to the end

of 1849, and there    another volume a-coming which will
complete the work.
                      There           in besides common optics
                              is      it

all about the other things which accompany light, as heat,

chemical action, photographic raj^s, action on vegetables, etc.

     My notions are rather few, as do not entertain them
           I

                            a

                                  I
just now.   have notion for the torsion of wires and

rods, not to be made till the vacation; of experiments on the

action of compression on glass, jelly, etc., numerically done

up of papers for the Physico-Mathematical Society (which
    to revive in earnest next session on the relations of
is

      1;

                     I
                                                                                            !)
                                                                                                                ;
optical and mechanical constants, their desirableness, etc., and
suspension-bridges, and catenaries, and elastic curves. Alex.

Campbell, Agnew, and are appointed to read up the subject

        Maxwell often insisted on this in conversation, with especial
reference to our command of the muscles depending on experience of

the muscular sense.

                              K
130  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.              [CHAP. V.

of periodical shooting stars, and to prepare a list of the pheno-
mena to be observed on the 9th August and 13th November.

The Society's barometer is to be taken up Arthur's Seat at

the end of the session, when Forbes goes up, and All students

are invited to attend, so that the existence of the Society

Imay be recognised.

       have notions of reading the whole of Corpus Juris and
Pandects in no time at all ; but these are getting somewhat

dim, as the Cambridge scheme has been howked up from

its repose in the regions of abortions, and is as far forward

as an inspection of the Cambridge Calendar and a communi-

Ication with Cantabs.                  rejected for him all

     Mr. Bob is choosing his college.

but Peter's, Caius, or Trinity Hall, the last being, though

legal, not in favour, or lazy, or something. Caius is popu-
lous, and is society to itself. Peter's is select, and knows

Ithe University. Please give me some notions on these
things, both for Bob and me.  postpone my answer to

you about the Gorham business till another time, when also
I shall have read "Waterland on Regeneration, which is with
IMrs. Morrieson, and some Pusey books  know. In the
Imeantime admire the Judgement as a composition of great

art and ingenuity.

     What cross influences had delayed his entrance at

Cambridge may be guessed at, but cannot be clearly
known. Mr. Clerk Maxwell was always slow in mak-
ing up his mind, and the habit of inertia had grown
upon him. There had been a lingering expectation,
to which James alludes in the preceding letter, that

he would follow his father's profession, and become a
member of the Scottish Bar. And although he himself

felt, as he told me at the time, that it was " another
kind of laws" he was called upon to study, the
practical result of this conviction was slow in assert
CHAP. V.] OPENING MANHOOD 1847 TO 1850.                                                          131

ing itself. The fact that in going to Cambridge heit,

decided against the profession which his friends had2
destined for him made the step a more serious one

than it might have otherwise been. The close and

constant intercourse between father and son made the

parting more difficult. James's delicate health 1 would
count heavily amongst the reasons contra, and certain
floating prejudices about the " dangers of the English
universities," Puseyism, infidelity, etc., had then con-
siderable hold, especially on the Presbyterian mind.
James himself was patient, and had hitherto decided
nothing for himself. Only when Tait and Allan
Stewart were already at Cambridge, my brother
Robert destined for and myself at Oxford, his own
voice was added to those which had long been urging
the claims of Cambridge, and then they prevailed.
There had been searchings of heart on the subject as

early as April 1849, when the following entries occur-
in the Diary
1
                             :

                                :
   On this subject the following entry from Mrs. Morrieson's Diary is.
                                   " 5th Deer. 1846. L. and R. dined with Miss Cay.
of some interest

James Maxwell has been under her care during his father's absence

and has been suffering very much from toothache and earache, in con-

sequence of cutting his eye-teeth an extraordinary thing at 15." To
which may be added the following from his father's Diary " 1846,
                                   it
                                                                     .
                                                                           a
                                                                                              :
Sa., Dec. 12. Jas. still affected by the tooth. . . Took short walk,,

and came back by Mr. Nasmith (dentist), and went in, and on consulta-

tion, got the tooth drawn at once                      was nicely and quickly done, and

Jas. never winced."

2  Amongst these may be specially mentioned Mr. Hugh Blackburn

and Dean Ramsay.                   Professor Forbes and Charles Mackenzie were

also interested in the question.   Professor Blackburn, in particular,,

insisted that the mathematical discipline of Cambridge would enable

him to exercise his genius more effectively.
132                 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. V.

      T. 17. Called on Hugh Blackburn to talk about Cam-

bridge.
      W. 18. Called on Capt. Wemyss to talk of Cambridge,

and Prof. Forbes called on me and had a talk on James's

studies, etc.

     The only other document at my command which

bears upon the point is a journal kept by my mother,
then Mrs. Morrieson, in which she occasionally noted
matters relating to her sons' friends. She was herself
at this time (1850) making inquiries about Cambridge
for my brother Eobert. The following entries may be

quoted :

     1850. 1st April. James Clerk Maxwell came in full of

Forbes's recommendation of Trinity College above all others

at Cambridge, and that Peterhouse was less expensive than

Caius ; that the latter is too full to admit of rooms, and

Ifreshmen are obliged to lodge out.
     28th October.  had a kind letter from Mr. C. M., from

Glenlair, after placing his son James at Peterhouse. He

has already distinguished himself at Edinburgh by papers

on the compression of solids, and other scientific subjects,

read for him at the Eoyal Society. His manners are very

peculiar ; but having good sense, sterling worth, and good

humour, the intercourse with a College world will rub off
Ihis oddities.
                    doubt not of his becoming a distinguished

man.

     January 1851. James Clerk Maxwell often comes in.

He is full of genius. He went to Cambridge with Eobert in

IOctober, E. to Caius, James to Peterhouse ; but he is

" migrating " to Trinity, and have no doubt he will be a

distinguished Philosopher some day.

    IIn concluding the account of this period, again

beg leave to quote from Professor Tait's excellent

paper :
CHAP. V.] OPENING MANHOOD 1847 TO 1850.  133

      The winter of 1847 found us together in the classes of
Forbes and Kelland, where he highly distinguished himself.
With the former he was a particular favourite, being
admitted to the free use of the class apparatus for original
experiments. He lingered here behind most of his former

associates, having spent three years at the University of

Edinburgh, working (without any assistance or supervision)
with physical and chemical apparatus, and devouring all sorts
of scientific works in the library. 1 During this period he

wrote two valuable papers, which are published in our

Transactions, on The Theory of Rolling Curves and on The
Equilibrium of Mastic Solids. Thus he brought to 'Cam-
bridge, in the autumn of 1850, a mass of knowledge which

was really immense for so young a man, but in a state of dis-

order appalling to his methodical private tutor. 2 Though that
tutor was William Hopkins, the pupil to a great extent took
his own way, and it may safely be said that no high wrangler

of recent years ever entered the Senate-house more imper-

     1 " From the University Library lists for this period it appears that

Maxwell perused at home Fourier's Theorie de la Chaleur, Monge's
Geometric Descriptive, Newton's Optics, Willis's Principles of Mechanism,
Cauchy's Calcul Differential, Taylor's Scientific Memoirs, and many other
works of a high order. Unfortunately no record is kept of books con-

sulted in the reading-room."
     2 On the other hand it should be mentioned (though the statements

are not contradictory) that Hopkins used to say he had never known
Maxwell " make a mistake," i.e. he never misapprehended the condi-

tions of any problem. Of this fact, which was communicated to me by

Imy brother, have since received the following confirmation from Mr.

W. N. Lawson, of the Equity Bar : Mr. Lawson quotes from a diary

kept by himself at the time "July 15, 1853. He (Hopkins) was

talking to me this evening about Maxwell. He says he is unquestion-
ably the most extraordinary man he has met with in the whole range
of his experience ; he says it appears impossible for Maxwell to think
incorrectly on physical subjects ; that in his analysis, however, he is far
more deficient ; he looks upon him as a great genius, with all its
eccentricities, and prophesies that one day he will shine as a light in
physical science, a prophecy in which all his fellow-students strenuously

unite."
134  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                              [CHAP. V.

fectly trained to produce "paying" work than did Clerk
Maxwell. But by sheer strength of intellect, though with
the very minimum of knowledge how to use it to advantage
under the conditions of the Examination, he obtained the

position of Second Wrangler, and was bracketed equal with
the Senior Wrangler in the higher ordeal of the Smith's
Prizes. His name appears in the Cambridge Calendar as
Maxwell of Trinity, but he was originally entered at Peter-
house, and kept his first term there, in that small but most

ancient foundation which has of late furnished Scotland with

the majority of the professors of mathematics and natural
philosophy, in her four universities.

     To the books mentioned by Professor Tait in his
footnote should be added Poisson's Mechanics, which

was taken out from the Advocates' Library 6th March
1848, and carried off into the country. A copy of
Fourier's Theorie de la Chaleur was ordered through
Maclachlan, 6th April 1849, for 25s.

     LETTERS, APRIL TO SEPTEMBER 1850.

     To LEWIS CAMPBELL, Esq.

                                                     Glenlair, 26ih April 1850.

    IAs ought to tell you of our departure from Edinburgh
Iand arrival here, so ought to tell you of many other

Ithings besides. Of things pertaining to myself there are

these: The tutor of Peterhouse has booked me, and am

booked for Peterhouse, but will need a little  more booking
                                               problems and
Ibefore can write Algebra like a book.
   I Isuppose must go through Wrigley's

Paley's Evidences in the same sort of way, and be able to
                                                       In the
Itranslate when required Eurip. Iph. in Aulid.

meantime have my usual superfluity of plans.

      1. Classics Eurip. !</>. ev AiA. for Cambridge.  (I hope
no Latin or Greek verses except for honours.)
                                                        Greek
CHAP. V.] OPENING MANHOOD 1847 TO 1850.          135

Testament, Epistles, for my own behoof, and perhaps some of

Cicero De Officiis or something else for Latin.
      2. Mathematics Wrigley's Problems, and Trig, for Cam-

Ibridge; properties of the Ellipsoid and other solids for

practice with Spher. Trig. Nothing higher if can help it.
      3. Nat. Phil. Simple mechanical problems to produce

that knack of solving problems which Prof. Forbes has

taught me to despise. Common Optics at length; and for

experimental philosophy, twisting and bending certain glass

and metal rods, making jellies, unannealed glass, and crystals,

and dissecting eyes and playing Devils.

     4. Metaphysics Kant's Kritik of Pure Reason in
German, read with a determination to make it agree with

Sir W. Hamilton.

5. Moral Philosophy Metaphysical principles of moral

philosophy. Hobbes' Leviathan, with his moral philosophy,

to be read as the only man who has decided opinions and
avows them in a distinct way. To examine the first part of

the seventh chapter of Matthew in reference to the moral
principles which it supposes, and compare with other

I Ipassages.
      But
question if shall be able to overtake all these

things, although those of different kinds may well be used

as alternate studies.

    I read in Edinburgh Wilson's Poems to see what he

Iused to be like, and how much he had improved since then.
Did you finish Festus ? l  had only two days to read      it,

so that skipped part of the long speech and good deal of
I                                 it

     a                                is
           a                                  a

              I
the jollification, which think the dullest part of the book.

The opening makes one think that  to be an imita-

tion of the book of Job, but you soon see that you have to

do with dreamy mortal without profession, but vain
                           a
                               a
withal, and hero among women, jolly companion of some

men, admired of students for talking of things which he

knows not, nor can know, having so-called philosophy, an
                           a

intuitive science, and an underived religion, and with all

these not perfect, but needing more expanded views of the

Festus, poem by Philip James Bailey, 1849.
1

                 a
136   JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.              [CHAP. V.

folly of strict virtue and outward decency, of the magnifi-

cence, nay, of the duty of sinning, and of the identity of

virtue and vice, and of all opposites. He takes for his

friend one whom Wilson calls a very poor devil, who has

wonderful mechanical powers, but never attempts but once

the supposed object of his visit to earth, namely, tempta-
tion. He takes a more rational view of affairs than Festus

in general, but is so extremely refined from ordinary devils,

that the only passage sufficiently characteristic for ordinary

rapid readers to recognise is the sermon to the crowd, as the

speech in Hell is quite raw. He has not such an absolute

and intuitive sense of things as Festus, and does not change

so much according to his company. He seems a sincere,

good-natured, unselfish devil; while Festus is very change-

able, solemn when alone, jolly when with the jolly, drunk

with the drunk, open with Lucifer, reserved in good com-

pany, amorous with all women, talkative and serious with

all angels and saints, stern towards the unfortunate, and in

all his affections altogether selfish.

     The book is said to have a plan, but no plot. The plan

is an exposition of the state of a man's mind after having

gone through German metaphysics. It was one destitute of

notions, and has now been convinced that all these notions

are one and the same. It is neither meat, nor drink, nor
rank, nor money, nor any common thing he wants : " he is

sure it isn't," and he is sore troubled for want of some great
thing to do; and when L
                         r starts into proximity he is
the very being he wanted to speak to ; " he knew who it

would be," and recognises him at once. An opportunity is

thus given for showing two ways of thinking about things,

and therein lies the matter of the book. This may be seen
in L
      r's sermon and Festus' prayer. To turn and get

out of the confusion of this letter, pray let me hear your

opinion of the book. It may be considered thus:

     1. People read the book and wonder, why ?

     It is not read for the sake of the story that is plain;

nor for the clearness with which certain principles are

developed, nor for the consistency of the book, nor for the
CHAP. V.] OPENING MANHOOD 1847 TO 1850.                                                                                                          137

variety of the characters ; there must therefore be something
overpoweringly attractive to hold you to the book. Some

say he has fine thoughts, sufficient to set up fifty poets; to
which some may answer, Where are they ? Eead it in a

spirit of cold criticism, and they vanish. There is not one

that is not either erroneous, absurd, German, common, or                                                                                         it,

Daft. Where lies the beauty ? In the reader's mind.

The author has evidently been thinking when he wrote

and that not in words, but inwardly. The benevolent reader

    compelled to think too, and           so great relief to the
is                                        it           a

reader to get out of wordiness that he can put up withis
                                                   is
insanity, absurdity, profanity, and even inanity,         is                                                                                     by so

doing he can get into rapport with one who                  if
                                                               so trans-

cendental, and yet so easy to follow, as the poet. When

Galileo set his [lamp] a-swinging by breathing on his powerit,

lay in the relation between the interval of his breaths and

the time of vibration so in Festus the mind that begins to
                      ;

perceive that his train of thoughts                    that of the poem                                                                          is

readily made to follow on. There are some passages where

one breaks loose, especially the rhyming description of the

subpoenaing of the planets, and the notion of the angel of the

earth giving Festus                       pair of bracelets, and the way in
           .

                            is
                                       a
which F. improves his mind by travel.

    . . Beauty attributed to an 6bject when the subject
anticipates pleasure in it. A true pleasure
                                                          conscious-
                                                       is
                                                          a is a

                                                                  I
ness of the right action of the faculty or function or power.

Happiness the integral of pleasure, as wisdom of know-
        .
             .

               is
ledge.     . Don't take all this about Festus for truth, as

don't believe much of and I'll maybe tell you new storyit,

if  you tell me one.

    What of St. Peter, as compared with the Keys and with

Bob?    1

                      FKOM PROF. FORBES.

     MY DEAR SIR Professor                       Edinburgh, 4th May 1850.
was referred by the Council               Kelland, to whom your paper

                                          R S., reports favourably upon

           ie. Is Robert Campbell going to Peterhouse or Cains
        1
                                                                                                                                              ?
138                       JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.          [CHAP. V.

        but complains of the great obscurity of several parts, owing
it,
         is
to the abrupt transitions and want of distinction between

what         assumed and what          proved in various passages,
                                   ;

                                    it is

                                         if,

                                                  I
which he has marked in pencil, and which trust that you

will use your utmost effort to make plain and intelligible.
It perfectly evident that
        is                             must be useless to publish     a

paper for the use of scientific readers generally, the steps of

which cannot, in many places, be followed by so expert an

algebraist as Prof. Kelland            indeed, they be steps at all

and not assumptions of theorems from other writers who are

not quoted. You will please to pay particular attention to

clear up these passages, and return the MS. by post to Pro-

fessor Kelland, West Cottage, Wardie, Edinburgh, so that he
                          by Saturday the llth, as shall then have
may receive           it                 I

left town. Believe me, yours sincerely,

                                       JAMES D. FORBES.

                              To L. CAMPBELL, Esq.

                                                        [June? 1850]

        As there has been long truce between us since last
        a

                 I
                                            a
                                 I
                                                         I

                                                                 I
got letter from you, and an do not intend to despatch

this here till receive Bob's answer with your address,

have no questions to answer, and any news would turn old

by keeping, so intend briefly to state my country occu-
                      I

pations (otherwise preparation for Cambridge, you please).
  find that after breakfast the best time for reading Greek
iIf is I                           is  aI
                                          I;
                                                iIf if
        and Latin, because    iIf  read newspapers or any of those

        things, then  it      dissipation and ruin and  begin with

                          is

        props, experiments, or calculations, then would be continu-

        ally returning on them. At first had got pretty well

        accustomed to regular study with Dictionary, and did

        about 120 lines of Eurip. day, namely, 40 revised, 40 for
                                   a

        to-day, and 40 for to-morrow, with the looking up of to-

        morrow's words. As am blest with Dunbar's Lexicon,            ; it
             it

                  is

                         it a I
                                   I
        not very highly probable that will find my word at all

       do, used in                 different sense from Dunbar's (so
much the better), and               has to be made out from the con-

        text (either of the author or the Dictionary). So much for
CHAP. V.] OPENING MANHOOD 1847 TO 1850.     139

I Iregular study, which have nearly forgot, for when had
Igot to the end of the first chorus began to think of the
Irods and wires that had in a box. They have entirely
I Istopped Eurip., for found that if spent the best part of
Ithe day on him, and took reasonable exercise, could not

much advance the making of the apparatus for tormenting

these wires and rods. So the rods got the better of the Lexi-

con. The observations on the rods are good for little till

they are finished ; they are of three kinds, and are all

distinguished for accuracy and agreement among themselves.

Thus a rod bent by a weight at the middle takes the

form of a curve, which is calculated

to be one of the fourth order. Let

A C B be the rod bent by a weight
at C. Mirrors fastened to it at A

and B make known the changes of

the inclination of the tangent to

the rod there, and a lens at C projects an image of a copper

scale of inches and parts from A to B, where it is observed,

and so the deflection of the rod at C becomes known. Now

the calculated value of the elasticity deduced from the

deflection differs from that deduced from the observations
y^on the mirrors by about
                           of either, and as the deflection

at C was about ^ inch, the difference of the observed and

calculated deflections is about ^^ of an inch, which is near

Ienough for home-made philosophical instruments to go.
      Thus you see would run on about rods and wires,

and weights, angles, and inches, and copper and iron, and

silvered glass, and all sorts of practicalities. Where is now

Eurip.? Ay, where ? On the top of the Lexicon, and behind

bundles of observations and. calculations.  When will he

come out ? for he was a good soul after all, and wise (beg his

Ipardon, wiser). For the rest have been at Shakespeare and
ICowper. used to put Thomson and Cowper together (why
I
                             ;

                                                ?),I
and Thomson first now they are reversed and far asunder.
     As suppose my occupations are not very like yours,

pray you send me an account of what Oxford notions you

have got, either from Oxonians, books, or observation; and
140      JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.           [CHAP. V.

Ias, if  was to question you, you could but answer my
Iquestions, leave you to question yourself and send me

some of the answers.

    IThe only regular College science that have thought

of lately is Moral Philosophy. Whether it is an Oxford

Iscience know not ; but it must be, if not taught, at least
Iinteresting ; so purpose to fill up this letter with unuttered

thoughts (or crude), which, as they are crammed into words,

may appear like men new waked from sleep, who leap in

confusion into one another's breeches, hardly fit to be seen

of decent men. Then think not my words mad if their

clothes fit them not, for they have not had an opportunity

of trying them on before.

     There are some Moral Philosophers whose opinions are

remarkable for their general truth and good sense, but not

for their utility, fixity, or novelty.

     They tell you that in all your actions you ought to be

virtuous, that benevolence is a virtue, that lawful rulers

ought to be obeyed, that a man should give ear to his con-

science.

      Others tell you of unalterable laws of right and wrong,
of Eternal truth and the Everlasting fitnesses of things.
Others of the duty of following nature, of every virtue
between two vices (Aristot.), and of the golden mean. That
a man should do what is best on the whole (1) for himself;

I(2) for other men only, and not himself; (3) for the whole

universe, including himself, and so on. Now think that

the answers to the following questions should be separate

parts of M. Ph.:
       1. What is man ? This is the introduction, and is

called statical or proper Metaphysics.
      2. What are the laws of human action ? Action being

all that man does thought, word, deed.
      3. What are the motives of human actions ?
      4. What actions do men perform in preference to what

others, and why ?
      5. What is the principle by which men judge some

actions right, others wrong ?
CHAP. V.] OPENING MANHOOD 1847 TO 1850.                                                 141

    6. What do particular men think of this principle ?

What are their doctrines ?

    7. What is the best criticism of right and wrong, or

what (to us) is absolute right ?
      8. What are the best motives of human actions ?
      9. How are these motives to be implanted without

violating the laws of human action ?

    10. What might, or rather what will, mankind become

after this has been effected ?
     Moral Philosophy differs from Nat. Phil, in this, that

the more new things we hear of in Nat. Phil, the better; but
in Mor. Phil, the old things are best, 'so that a common
objection to Mor. Phil, is that everybody knows it all before.

If a' man tells you that tyranny and anarchy are bad things,

and that a just and lawful government is a good thing, it

sounds very fine, but only means that when men think the

government bad from excess or defect they give it the name

of tyranny and anarchy. The ancient virtue of Tyrannicide

was a man's determination to kill the king whenever he dis-

pleased him. Thus it is easy to call a dog a bad name to
beat him for. But there are other parts of Mor. Phil, in

which there are differences of opinion, such as the nature

of selfishness, self-love, appetites, desires, and affections, dis-

interestedness (what a word for a rush at which belong
    I
               I                                                                      have told you

                  I
                               II

                                                                                   !),
to the first three questions, and so on.

something (p. 129) of three laws which had been con-

sidering. In all parts of Mor. Phil, these three laws seem

to meet one, and in each system of Morals they take                                     it a
different form. Now, that might not deceive myself in

thinking that was safe out of the hands of the philosophers

who argue these matters, have been looking into the books

of Moralists the most opposed to one another, to see what

is  that makes them differ, and wherein they agree. The

three principles concerning the nature of man are continually

changing their shape, so that               not easy to catch them in
    :

                             it

                                      : is
their best shape. Nevertheless

     Lemma Metaphysics. A man thinks, feels, and wills,

and therefore Metaphysicians give him the three faculties of

cognition, feeling, and conation.
142  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. V.

       Cognition is what is called Understanding, and is most
 thought of generally.

        Feelings are pleasures, pains, appetites, desires, aversions,
 approval and disapproval, love, hate, and all affections.

       Conations are acts of will, whatever they be.
      Now to move a man's will it is necessary to move his
affections. (How ? Wait !) For no convictions of the
understanding will do, for a man does what he likes to do,

not what he believes to be best for himself or others. The

feelings can only be moved by notions coming through the
understanding, for cognition is the only inlet of thoughts.
Therefore, although it can be proved that self-love leads to
all goodness, or, in other words, that goodness is happiness,
and self loves happiness, yet it can also be proved that men
are not able to act rightly from pure self-love; so that though

self-love is a very fine theoretical principle, yet no man can
keep it always in view, or act reasonably upon it. Now,

most moralists take for granted that the end which men,

good or bad, pursue is their own happiness, and that happi-
ness, false or true, is the motive of every action, and that it

is the only right motive. Others say that benevolence is

the only virtue, and that any action not done expressly for

the good of others is entitled to no praise.
      Most of the ancients, and Hobbes among the moderns,

are of the first opinion. Hutcheson and Brown (I think) are

of the second, and call the first selfish Philosophers and the

selfish school. A few consider benevolence to the whole

universe as the proper motive of every action, but they all
(says Macintosh) confound men's motives with the criterion of
right and wrong, the reason why a thing is right, and that

which actually causes a man to do it. In every book on Moral

Philosophy some reference is made to that precept or maxim,
which is declared to be the spirit of the law and the pro-
phets (see Matt. vii. 12), and the application of it is a good
mark of the uppermost thoughts or mode of thinking of the

author.

      Hobbes lays down as the first agreement of men to
secure their safety, that a man should lay down so much
CHAP. V.] OPENING MANHOOD 1847 TO 1850.          143

                                                  >f

of his natural liberty with respect to others, as he wishes

that other men should to him. Hobbes having shown that

men, in what the poets and moralists call a state of nature

(that is, of equality and liberty, and without government),
must be in a state of war, every man against every other,

and therefore of danger to every man, deduces the obligation

of obeying the powers that be from the necessity of Power

to prevent universal war. Adam Smith's theory of Moral

Sentiments (which is the most systematic next to Hobbes)
is that men desire others to sympathise with them, and

therefore do those things which may be sympathised with ;

that  is,   as Smith's opponents say, men ought to be guided

by the desire of esteem and sympathy. Not so. Smith

does not leave us there, but suppose you have read him,
                             II
as he almost the only Scotch Moral Philosopher.
        is

          it
      As Saturday night will not write very much
               is is
more.   I   was     thinking to-day of the duties of [the] cognitive
faculty.             universally admitted that duties are voluntary,
            It

and that the will governs understanding by giving or with-

holding Attention. They say that Understanding ought to

work by the rules of right reason. These rules are, or ought

to be, contained in Logic but the actual science of Logic  is
                      ;

conversant at present only with things either certain, impos-

sible, or entirely doubtful, none of which (fortunately) we

have to reason on. Therefore the true Logic for this world

the Calculus of Probabilities, which takes account of the
is is
magnitude of the probability (which is, or which ought toa
be in reasonable man's mind). This branch of Math., which

generally thought to favour gambling, dicing, and wagering,
                                     the only " Mathematics for
and therefore highly immoral,a

                                 is
Practical Men," as we ought to be. Now, as human knowledge
comes by the senses in such way that the existence of things

external    is  only inferred from the harmonious (not similar)

testimony of the different senses, Understanding, acting by the

laws of right reason, will assign to different truths (or facts,

or testimonies, or what shall  I     call them) different degrees

of probability. Now, as the senses give new testimonies

continually, and as no man ever detected in them any real
144                JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.         [CHAP. V.

inconsistency, it follows that the probability and credibility

of their testimony is increasing day by day, and the more a

man uses them the more he believes them. He believes

them. What is believing ? When the probability (there is
no better word found) in a man's mind of a certain proposi-
tion being true is greater than that of its being false, he

believes it with a proportion of faith corresponding to the

probability, and this probability may be increased or dimin-

ished by new facts. This is faith in general. When a man

thinks he has enough of evidence for some notion of his he

sometimes refuses to listen to any additional evidence pro or

con, saying, " It is a settled question, probatis prolata ; it

needs no evidence ; it is certain." This is knowledge as
I Idistinguished from faith.
                        He says, " do not believe ;
Ifknow." " any man thinketh that he knoweth, he knoweth

yet nothing as he ought to know." This knowledge is a

shutting of one's ears to all arguments, and is the same as
" Implicit faith " in one of its meanings. " Childlike faith,"

confounded with I  not credulity, for children are not
                       it,
                              is

                                  if
credulous, but find out sooner than some think that many

men are liars.     must now to bed, so good night only please
                                         ;

to write when you get this, convenient, and state the prob-
ability of your coming here. We perhaps will be in Edin-

burgh when the Wise men are there. Now you are invited

in corner of letter by
a               a

                                      JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

                                      Glenlair, 16th September 1850.

Professor W. Thomson has asked me to make him some
1

                                                   is

                                 I
                                                                                                           1

                                                I is
magne-crystallic preparations which am now busy with.

Now, in some of these bismuth required, which not to

be found either in Castle-Douglas or Dumfries.                                                                have,

therefore, thought fit to request you, and do now request

         This request had probably some connection with the meeting of
the " wise men " in Edinburgh. Maxwell had been present, and had
spoken in Section A. Professor Swan remembers the surprise felt by
all but Forbes at seeing the beardless stripling rise to dispute some
point in the colour theory with Sir David Brewster.
CHAP. V.] OPENING MANHOOD 1847 TO 1850.                               145

you, during your transit through Edinburgh on your way

here, to go either to Mr. Kemp's establishment in Infirmary

Street, beside the College, or to some other dealer in metals,

and there purchase and obtain two ounces of metallic bismuth

(called Eegulus of Bismuth), either powder or lumpish all
one. Thus you may perceive that the end of this letter is

in two ounces of Eegulus of Bismuth, that       is,  the metal

                                                                ;
bismuth, which you do bring with you, will please me
                  I if

                                        it
well. Not that am turned chemist. By no means but

common cook. My fingers are abominable with glue and

chalk, gum and flour, wax and rosin, pitch and tallow, black

oxide of iron, red ditto and vinegar. By combining these

ingredients, strive to please Prof. Thomson, who intends
a
to submit them to Tyndall and Knoblauch, who, by means
     ;
of them, are to discover the secrets of nature, and the origin
      if if I
of the magne-crystallic forces.
                  it
Now, by coming here you could turn me from cook
                                                it
to grammarian by an irresistible influence you would do
                                                     Ia
                                                         I
well but you remember the way used to translate at
                                            II
the Academy, distorting the Latin of Livy to mean what

had preconceived, you will understand that at first                     had

not only to find out what the author meant, but to become

convinced that could not be what thought was.

John Wilson's lectures on Moral Philosophy do not

improve on reconsideration they become indistinct and are
                          II ;
resolved into the excellence of happiness, the acquiredness

of conscience, and general good-humour, philanthropy and

<f)i\ayaOia. Here an outline of Abstract Mor. Phil.
                      is                             ?

3. 2. 1.   The principles of the growth of the mind (that is,is
                                                                     :
the acquisition of opinions, propensities, and abilities).
           The principles of government (the governor suits his

actions to the laws of the thing governed).

           The principle of sympathy (sauce for goose                 sauce
for gander).

Out of these heads may one make something

     As bed-time, and have to put the glue and oxideit
of iron into shape to-night, must stop here, and remain in
              is

hope of seeing you soon (say when).
146  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. VI.

                    CHAPTEE VI.

   UNDERGRADUATE LIFE AT CAMBRIDGE OCTOBER 1850 TO

                        JANUARY 1854 JET. 19-22.

BEFORE placing his son at Cambridge Mr. Clerk
Maxwell had, as was usual with him, consulted various
persons, including Professor James Forbes and Pro-
fessor Kelland of Edinburgh, Professors Thomson and
Blackburn of Glasgow, and Charles Mackenzie, after-
wards Bishop of Natal, then* a Lecturer of Caius
College, Cambridge. 1 Forbes strongly advised Trinity,
and offered an introduction to Whewell ; but after
various reasons urged for Trinity, Caius, and Peter-
house, the decision was in favour of Peterhouse.

      Maxwell's first impression of college life, like that
of some other clever freshmen, was not one of un-
alloyed satisfaction. He was transplanted from the
rural solitudes of Galloway into the midst of a society
which was of curious interest to him, but did not
make him feel immediately at home. He found him-
self amongst the freshmen spelling out Euclid again,
and again "monotonously parsing" a Greek play.
He had brought with him his scraps of gelatine, gutta-

      1 He was the younger brother of Mr. Mackenzie of Silverknowe,
who had married Isabella Wedderburn.
CHAP. VI.]  AT PETERHOUSE, CAMBRIDGE.  147

 percha, and unannealed glass, his bits of magnetised
 steel, and other objects, which were apt to appear to
 the uninitiated as " matter in the wrong place."
 And this in the home of science ! Nor were his
 experiments facilitated by the casual " dropping -in "
 of the average undergraduate.

      His boyish spirits and his social temper, together
with the novelty of the scene, and a deep-rooted pre-
sentiment of the possibilities of Cambridge, no doubt
made even his first term a happy one. But there

was an undercurrent of restlessness and misgiving.
And this made him lend a readier ear to the advice

which was pressed upon him from various quarters,
that he should migrate to Trinity.

      The ground of this advice was simply that from
the large proportion of high wranglers at Peterhouse,
and the smallness of the foundation, the chances of a

fellowship there for a mathematical man were less

than at Trinity College. And this was the reason
which, together with his son's evident wish, most
weighed with Mr. Clerk Maxwell. He was also
struck with the fact that " Porter senior," who about

this time became Maxwell's private tutor, recom-

mended the change, although he himself belonged to
Peterhouse. But the friend whose counsel in this

whole matter was most prized both by father and son
was Charles Mackenzie, of whom one who was his
colleague at Caius has said that he was " the best of
all men whom he had known."

     On Maxwell's own mind, it need hardly be said,
the prospect of a fellowship had little or no influence,
148         JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.     [CHAP. VI.

except in so far as he desired to please his father.
His own prime motive was undoubtedly the hope, in
which he was not disappointed, that the larger College
would afford him ampler opportunities for self-im-

provement.

            To LEWIS CAMPBELL, Esq.

                                                                      St. Peter's College, 18th Oct. 1850.

19. You tell me to lay my account with being dull at first,
      and to condole with Eobert, whereas there is continual
     merriment (stop it!), and Eobert is not settled yet. As for
      secrets of nature, they are not for Freshmen even to think
      of. Now for personal journal, with observations on the

      manners and customs, etc. . . .
            We spent the night at Peterborough, and saw the

      Cathedral in the morning. Very grand outside. West end
      a fine subject for calotype seen right perpendicular, and the

     o^ point P for a picture made by hand, fine weeping

                willows, etc.

     Proceeded to Ely with some Gloucester people we met
in the Cathedral, and inspected Ely Cathedral like regular

Archbishops. Went up the steeple to see land like sea.

Heard all the people talking of the enclosure of the Wash

to be called Victoria county, and to be worth 30s. per acre.

Got to Cambridge, and called on Mr. Fuller, 1 after getting

room for my father (as the Bull was full) in a lodgement,
Got rooms in College, sitting and bed, six paces from Chapel,

and good light. Had Tait to tea. Next day breakfast with

Tait and Steele (of Glasgow and Ireland, and a future
wrangler), and so on in detail.

      M'Kenzie came up to-day. He took us to most of the

colleges. Saw Newton and Bacon in Trin. Chapel. At

Hall there was a proclamation to this effect nearly:

Whereas (on the  day of  , 1850), application was

made to the Syndicate (or Senate or something), by William

Cooke, for leave to erect his equestrian establishment ; and

1 Then Tutor of Teterhouse, now Professor Emeritus of Aberdeen.
CHAP. VI.]  AT PETERHOUSE, CAMBRIDGE.                    149

whereas, considering the immoral nature of said establish-
ment, it was unanimously resolved to refuse leave. And

whereas, notwithstanding said refusal, said W. C. did

publicly notify his intention of putting up said estab. :

Be it known, etc., that it is resolved and enacted, that
if any undergraduate or graduate in statu pupillari, or

tutor, or fellow, or master, etc., be caught at said estab-

lishment, he will be punished with expulsion, rustication,

Castigation, or such other punishment as the case may
require. 1

So there is to be a quarrel between the Town and

University about this, and also about whether they are to

pay poor rate, as the University is supposed to be extra-

parochial.                           Peter can't afford to
      Prelim, exam, to-morrow at 9.

pluck at it. C. H. Eobertson has past his at Trin. He is
in Ling's lodgings. He wants to keep quiet and to read by

himself, and have only old acquaintances.

         To A FRIEND SUFFERING FROM DEPRESSION.

Hope to write you more again; but to conclude and get

to bed: You are always talking of your withering up,
Iawful change, etc. Now have not a sermon on this sub-
Iject by me, neither will deliver an extempore one ; but
Ithough     do not pretend to have examined you in all the
Ibranches, yet would take the liberty to say that with re-
spect to intellect, as the Laird of Dumbiedykes said, " It'll

be growing when ye're sleeping," that is to say, what you

take for corruption and decay is only stratification. 2

     The letters written to his father by Maxwell while
an undergraduate at Cambridge have unfortunately
disappeared. But something of their tenor may be

1 Contrast with this the following entry in the Diary: " 1842,

Feb. 19. Saturday. Go with James to Cooke's Circus at 2 P.M. at

York Hotel, Arena being James's first time of seeing such entertain-

ments."     2 See above, p. 113, note.
150        JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. VI.

gathered from Mr. Maxwell's letters to his son. The
following extracts are related to his first term at

college :

           FROM HIS FATHER.

     Did Prof. Thomson                     Glenlair, 22d October 1850.
and if so, what thought
                          catch you, and view your " dirt ;" l

                          he thereof?

                           Glenlair, 30th October 1850.
     IWho is the lecturer in the Greek play ? Did see
Ihim while at Cambridge ?
                           am sorry to hear the Greek

class is a bad one, for you would have got more good of it
if [it] had required you to work to maintain a good position
in it ; but you should study your part well, for it is not
comparative excellence, but absolute, that will be of use in

University competitions.

                           Glenlair, 8th Novr. 1850.

     You say your lecturer in Greek is good, so 1 hope you

profit accordingly, altho' your classfellows are not great

...scholars. . . .
           It would be necessary to take care there are no
mouse-holes. A very hungry Chapel mouse might come

through. There had been an entrance that way to the

Chapel. It would be to the organ loft.

     Have you called on Profs. Sedgwick at Trin., and
IfStokes at Pembroke ?
                          not, you should do both. Stokes
will be most in your way if he takes you in hand at all.

Sedgwick is also a great Don in his line, and if you were

entered in Geology would be a most valuable acquaintance ;

and, besides, not going to him would be uncivil, both to him

and to the Alisons, after their having arranged the intro-
duction. Provide yourself with cards.

     It might be worth your while to stop at York to

view it.

     1 " Jamsie's dirt," the disrespectful name for the bits of unannealed
glass, etc. etc., in the Coterie-Sprache
CHAP. VI.]   UNDERGRADUATE OF TRINITY.                 151

                                                   Glenlair, 13th Now. 1850.

I am glad you have communication with Stokes and

Mackenzie.

IIs all Cambridge up in arms against the Pope and
Cardinal Wiseman ?  cannot enter into all the fuss about
Ifit. there is any law to hinder people calling themselves
Cardinals or Archbishops, let it be acted on ; but if there
...is no such law, let the assumption of empty titles
                                                       be

laughed at.

     Men of genius are often represented by themselves
and others as owing little or nothing to their educa-
tion. This certainly was not true of Maxwell, whose
receptivity was only less than his originality. He laid

a strong retentive grasp on all that was given to him,

and set his own stamp on it in return. Both what
was good and what was defective in his early training
had left a lasting impress on him, and it was by no
means an indifferent circumstance that, in the matu-

rity of his powers, he entered Trinity College, Cam-
bridge, at an advanced period of the long mastership

of Whewell.

    I well remember my surprise, not unmixed with

needless pangs of boyish jealousy, on finding in the

following summer that Maxwell had all at once made
a troop of friends. Their names were always on his
lips, and he loved by some vivid trait to indicate the
character of each. His acquaintance was multifarious,
and he had many pithy anecdotes to relate of other

than his own particular associates.
     He was at first in lodgings in King's Parade, where

he "chummed" with an old Edinburgh schoolfellow,
152  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. VI.

Charles Hope Kobertson. 1 It appears that the college

lectures in mathematics were still felt to be rather

elementary, but that he worked harder problems (some
were of his own invention) with Tait and with Porter

of Peterhouse, who was still his private tutor. A

certain amount of classical reading was required of
freshmen, and he still took his classics seriously.
There is an allusion to the Ajax in one of his letters,
and he makes critical remarks upon Demosthenes.
There was also a lecture on Tacitus by a " deep, half-
sentence lecturer." Either now or in the following

year at -some time before the little-go examination
of March 1852 he translated the choral odes of the

Ajax into rhymed English verse, 2 and made a rough
caricature of Ajax slaughtering the oxen.

      His chief outdoor amusements were walking,
bathing, and sculling. He was upset in his "funny"
in May 1851 a trifling accident to so expert a
swimmer. " But," writes a contemporary Cantab, " he
richly deserved it. For he tried to take off his jersey
after c shipping' his oars. The oscillations of the
funny became rapidly more extensive, in spite of his
violent efforts at equilibrium." For winter recreation

he ordered a pair of basket-sticks to be made at home.
      He tried some odd experiments in the arrangement

of his hours of work and sleep. But his father disap-

proved of such vagaries, and they were not continued

long although not entirely abandoned even when he
had rooms in college. The authority just quoted says,

        1 Now Rector of Smeeth, near Ashford, in Kent.

     I2 did not know of this until the present year, 1881.
CHAP. VI.]  UNDERGRADUATE OF TRINITY.  153

"From 2 to 2.30 A.M. he took exercise by running                      1851.

along the upper corridor, down the stairs, along
the lower corridor, then up the stairs, and so on,
until the inhabitants of the rooms along his track

got up and lay perdus behind their sporting-doors to
have shots at him with boots, hair-brushes, etc., as he

passed."
      Intellectual interests of all kinds surrounded him,

and he soon began to lend new life to all. There were
also in the Cambridge of this period religious influences
of a remarkable kind. Apart from the Simeonite tra-
dition which still lingered, there was a class- of younger
men, who, while faithful to a pious evangelical upbring-
ing, had open and inquiring minds. The names of
Henry and Frank Mackenzie of Trinity, the one senior
to Maxwell, the other junior to him, 1 may be men-
tioned in particular. To such men, and to many
others, the preaching of Harvey Goodwin, now Bishop
of Carlisle, but at that time chiefly known as a mathe-
matical authority, was full of interest.

     Two events of some importance to the scientific

world were the introduction of Foucault's pendulum
experiment for proving the rotation of the earth, and
the Great Exhibition of 1851.

     Maxwell saw the pendulum experiment in Mr.
Thacker's (the tutor's) rooms at Trinity in April or

     1 In 1852 H. M. had left Cambridge. F. M. went as a freshman to
Trinity in October 1852. See a book named Early Death not Premature,
being a Memoir of Francis L. Mackenzie, late of Trinity College
Cambridge. With Notices of Henry Mackenzie, B.A. By the Rev.

Charles Popham Miles, M.A., M.D., F.L.S., Glasgow. Nisbet and Co.
Fourth Edition. 1861.
154  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. VI.

May, and wrote an account of it to his father, which

has been lost.

     The " viewing " of the Crystal Palace, although a
thing to be done, was made less exciting than it would
otherwise have been by the constant habit of visiting
all manufactures according to opportunity. Maxwell
disclaims all " fanaticism " on the subject, and his
father writes that while a fortnight would be required
to see it properly, a great deal of it must be already
familiar to them both.

     In the October term he joined the "team" of

Hopkins, the great private tutor, as a fifteenth pupil.
     He also became a regular attendant of Professor

Stokes's lectures, and commenced his lifelong friend-
ship with one whose original investigations were so
closely akin to some of his own.

      Professor Stokes's kindness was greatly valued even
in those old days, and much more afterwards. The
young man's happiness in all ways at Trinity is mani-
fested by the reappearance of the poetic vein, about

the time of the junior sophs' examination, in the Lay
of King Nwma, dated 13th December 1851.

     To this sketch of his first year at college there
must be appended one more reminiscence of Glenlair.

We met there in the autumn of that year, and I

remember that either then or in the previous year,

he put into my hands Carlyle's translation of Goethe's

Wilhelm Meister, remarking that it was a book to be
read with discretion.

     In the autumn of 1850 the neighbouring estate of
CHAP. VI.]      UNDERGRADUATE OF TRINITY.                                              155

Upper Corsock had been let to a shooting-party, 1 one
of whom remarked to me what a pity it was that
young Mr. Clerk Maxwell was " so little suited for a

country life." I clearly recollect his look of exulting

mirth when this was repeated to him. His disinclina-

tion to field sports was certainly not due to any lack
of activity, nor even to his shortsightedness, which for

other purposes was easily overcome, but simply to

his love for animals. The moral of Wordsworth's

Hart-Leap Well was not so much a principle as an
Iinstinct with him. 2
                       remember his once speaking to

me on the subject of vivisection. He did not condemn

its use, supposing the method could be shown to be

fruitful, which at that time he doubted, but "Couldn't

it,

                                               is

                                 Ia
do you know," he added, with sensitive wistful

look not easy to forget. This all ever heard him

say on the subject.

                     LETTERS, 1851.

                 To LEWIS CAMPBELL, Esq.

                                                             llth March 1851.

                                                     Lings, King's Parade, Cambridge.

      . . . Have you read Soph. Ajax, or would you like to
do then
I I it      ?

      5      I3
       have been trying an experiment of sleeping after 'hall.

Last Friday      went to bed from                    a5  to 9.30, and read very

hard from 10 to and slept again from 2.30 to2,           7.
                                                                      is
       intend some time to try for week together sleeping

from to and reading the rest of the morning. This1,

practical scepticism with respect to early rising.

                     Including the present Earl Cairns.
His uncle, Sir G. Clerk, said to have had the same peculiarity.

         Viz. at the time of my proposed visit to Cambridge.
2
               8

                                    1

                                                 is
156               JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.               [CHAP. VI.

     An Oxford man is reported to have complained of the

Ilateness of morning chapel ; he could not sit up for it.

Iwill have the most of my reading over by that time. . . ,
     Demosthenes goes on.  begin to see what may be
written in prose, and how ill it may be translated.
     It is a ypa(f)7) Trapavo/jLwv, so there is less declamation

and more demonstration; but the arguments, small at first,

are added as they proceed, and never left behind, so by oft

Irepetition they seem stronger than they are.
      Last night searched for difficult problems to puzzle

Steele and Porter junior with. Here are some much more

Imild, which we freshmen get. . ; .

     It is twelve o'clock, and have to do Demosthenes to-

Imorrow before breakfast.  This implies Chapel, therefore

bed, therefore shut up.

                  FROM HIS FATHER.

                           Glenlair, 6th March 1851.

     Simpson rages at present in the Electro-biology.  Dr.

Alison is very wrroth about it. He says he has known two

Icases of nervous people whose minds were quite disordered
by it.      hope it is not in fashion at Cambridge, and at
Ifany rate that you d'o not meddle with it.
                                             it does any-
thing, it is more likely to be harm than good ; and if harm

ensue, the evil might be irreparable, so let me hear that you

have dismissed it; you have plenty better things in hand

where you are. 1

                           Glenlair, 29th April 1851.

     Explain the pendulum experiment to me. You used
often to speak of the retardation of the Rotation of the

Earth by the friction of the tides.
     What is the Phosphate of Lime theory of mental

progress ?

    I1 In the preceding Christmas vacation was at a private " seance "

in Edinburgh, where Maxwell whether he shammed or not who

Ican tell? was selected by the operator (a man named Douglas,

think), who vainly tried to make him seem to forget his name.
CHAP. VI.]   UNDERGRADUATE OF TRINITY.                          157

                                                            Glenlair, 18th May 1851.

     Do you like the Trig, lectures A ?* Tacitus is not new

to you. His style must be congenial to a deep, half-sentence

lecturer.

      Were you carrying your watch when you were upset in

Iyour funny ? and if so, how did it agree with the douking ? 2
         shall be glad to hear about the Pendulum. Who is
Thacker, who asked you to his rooms to see it ?

             To LEWIS CAMPBELL, Esq.

                            Cambridge, 9th June 1851.
I I I Iwrite
      find    owe you one   letter this term.  intended to
      three  days ago, but
                            am now refreshed by classical

papers, and disburdened of half the subjects of examination.

On Friday we had Euclid, on Saturday Greek, cram on
Iboth subjects ; to-day Ajax and Tacitus translations.
                                                                did

no composition, but did various readings, strongly preferring

certain of them for obvious reasons.
      I find that 4 hours Euclid is worse than 2 3 -hour
Ipapers of cram, though
                            sent up much more cram than

Euclid. This of itself shows that disburdening cram is not
like grinding out Mathematics. M
                                         in the Plato cram,

writing a comparison of Cynics and Platonists, said that

Platonism was a real live thing, but Cynicism was sleepy,
and that even in its greatest ornament, Diogenes, the

view of the universe was contracted to a front look-out from

a wash-tub, and the summum bonum reduced to sunning

one's self with eyes shut and buttons open. This was to let

off his jaw on first setting down, but he let it in among his

papers, and could not get it out again.
      IExcuse my square sentences.
                                      have spent my curves
Ion Tacitus, and must now proceed to Trig. Write.

Yrs.

             To THE SAME.

                                                      8 King's Parade, 9th Nov. 1851.

      I began a letter last week, but stopped short for

                1 Mr. Mathison's lecture on trigonometry.
            2 i.e. Anglic^ " How did the dip agree with it ? "
158      JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. VI.

Iwant of matter.  will not send you the abortion. Facts

are very scarce here. There are little stories of great men

for minute philosophers.  Sound intelligence from New-

market for those that put their trust in horses, and Calen-

dristic lore for the votaries of the Senate-house. Man

requires more. He finds x and y innutritions, Greek and

Latin indigestible, and undergrads. nauseous. He starves

while being crammed. He wants man's meat, not college
pudding. Is truth nowhere but in Mathematics ? Is

Beauty developed only in men's elegant words, or Eight in

Whewell's Morality ? Must Nature as well as Eevelation

be examined through canonical spectacles by the dark-

lantern of Tradition, and measured out by the learned to the
Iunlearned, all second-hand.
Inot rashly say that          might go on thus. Now do

                      am disgusted with Cambridge and
Imeditating a retreat. On the contrary, am so engrossed
I Iwith shoppy things that have no time to write to you.

am also persuaded that the study of x and y is to men an

essential preparation for the intelligent study of the material

universe. That the idea of Beauty is propagated by com-
munication, and that in order thereto human language must

be studied, and that Whewell's Morality is worth reading, if

only to see that there may be such a thing as a system of

Ethics.

That few will grind up these subjects without the help

of rules, the awe of authority, and a continued abstinence

Ifrom unripe realities, etc.
         believe, with the Westminster Divines and their pre-
decessors ad Infinitum that " Man's chief end is to glorify
God and to enjoy him for ever."

That for this end to every man has been given a pro-

gressively increasing power of communication with other

creatures. That with his powers his susceptibilities increase.

That happiness is indissolubly connected with the full

exercise of these powers in their intended direction. That

Happiness and Misery must inevitably increase with in-

creasing Power and Knowledge. That the translation from

the one course to the other is essentially miraculous, while
CHAP. VI.]  UNDERGRADUATE OF TRINITY.  159

Ithe progress is natural. But the subject is too high.

will not, however, stop short, but proceed to Intellectual

Pursuits.

     It is natural to suppose that the soul, if not clothed

with a body, and so put in relation with the creatures, would

run on in an unprogressive circle of barren meditation. In

order to advance, the soul must converse with things external

to itself.

     In every branch of knowledge the progress is propor-

tional to the amount of facts on which to build, and there-

fore to the facility of obtaining data. In the Mathematics
this is easy. Do you want a quantity ? Take x ; there it

is ! got without trouble, and as good a quantity as one would
wish to have. And so in other sciences, the more abstract

the subject, the better it is known. Space, time, and force
come first in certainty. These are the subjects in Mechanics.

      Then the active powers, Light, Heat, Electricity, etc. =

Physics.

      Then the differences and relations of Matter = Chemistry,

and so on.

      Here the order of advancement is just that of abstracted-

ness and inapplicability to the actual. What poor blind
things we Maths, think ourselves ! But see the Chemists !
Chemistry is a pack of cards, which the labour of hundreds

is slowly arranging; and one or two tricks, faint imitations of
Nature, have been played. Yet Chemistry is far before all
the Natural History sciences ; all these before Medicine ;

IMedicine before Metaphysics, Law, and Ethics ; and these

think before Pneumatology and Theology.
      Now each of these makes up in interest what it wants

in advancement.

       There is no doubt that of all earthly creatures Man is
the most important to us, yet we know less of him than
any other. His history is more interesting than natural
history; but nat. history, though obscure, is much more
intelligible than man's history, which is a tale half told, and
which, even when this world's course is run, and when, as
some think, man may compare notes with other rational
160  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. VI.

beings, will still be a great mystery, of which the beginning
and the end are all that can be known to us while the

Iintermediate parts are perpetually filled up.

     So now pray excuse me if think that the more grovel-

ling and materialistic sciences of matter are not to be
despised in comparison with the lofty studies of Minds and
Spirits. Our own and our neighbours' minds are known but

very imperfectly, and no new facts will be found till we

come in contact with some minds other than human to

elicit them by counterposition. But of this more anon.

                                    FKOM HIS FATHER.

                                                              Glenlair, 3d Now. 1851.

      How do you like and how do you profit by Hopkins'
mode of driving ? He should get one more pupil, and drive
16 in hand like Batty or Cook.

                                                                 Glenlair, 18th Novr. 1851.

                                                                                                 t

      You seem to have great gaieties with College Parties
with Scientific Dons. Do you take notes of Stokes' experi-
ments on the bands of the Spectrum ? Will they be suitable
for repetition in the garret of the old House ? *

    IThe clearing away a bank of weeds was a sly trick of

the Trinity 4-oar, and think Peterhouse and Sidney justi-
fied in protesting. 2 What tribunal is there to settle such

Imatters ?
           copied from your letters plan and section and
elevation of the Baskets for single stick, and committed the
same to the Davie. 3

     In the spring of 1852 he got rooms in college

1 See above, p. 118, 1. 2.
2 According to the " contemporary Cantab," Peterhouse and Sidney

really won the race, in spite of the removal of the bank of weeds.

The reason why Trinity got the cups was that the pistol of P. and

S.'s umpire missed fire.  3 David M'Vinnie, see above, p. 39.
CHAP. VI.]                 SCHOLAR OP TRINITY.       161

(Letter Old Court, south. Attics), succeeding to hisa G-,
                a
friend Blakiston, and passed his Little-go. In April

of the same year he gained his scholarship, and was

now launched without further necessary distraction

on the long pull of preparation for the Tripos under
Hopkins. But his energies were by no means ab-
sorbed in this continuous "grind." He contributed

various papers to the Cambridge and Dublin Mathe-
matical Journal, did not confine himself to mathe-

matics in the May examination, and in November,

besides writing the comic Vision                     a University,           of
                                        a
Pedantry, and Philosophy, made elaborate prepara-of
tion for College declamation, " the Scottish Cove-of
                                     1
nanters" being the subject characteristically chosen

by him.

    In June he had paid short visit to Oxford,

and made trip to Lowestoft with P. GL Tait, before

settling at Cambridge (to read and bathe) for the
vacation term.

     Living in college and dining at the scholars' table, JEt. 21.
he naturally became more intimate with the other

scholars, and he appears especially to have sought
contact with classical men. To the names of Cra-

croft, Whitt, and Blakiston, amongst his newer friends
are now added in his correspondence those of " Droop
the ingenuous," Gedge, Howard Elphinstone, Isaac

Taylor, Maclennan, and Vaughan Hawkins.
     The idea of self-improvement in society had taken

   firm hold of him, and he was conscious of the
a
difficulty of guiding himself amongst so many cross
          1
             The late  J.  F. Maclennan, author of Primitive Marriage, etc.
                                                  M
162  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. VI.

influences. He knew that he was involuntarily
different with different men, and there are curious

traces in his correspondence of the struggle to make
the highest use of social circumstances. Those who
saw him about this time after an interval were struck

by a marked change in his countenance, which, as
compared with the Edinburgh days, had very dis-
tinctly gained in manliness and gravity, and showed
a certain massiveness in its proportions which they
had not previously noticed. His dark brown eye
seemed to have deepened, some parts of the iris being

almost black. A slight contraction of the chest, and

a stature which, although above the average, was not
tall enough to carry off the weight of his brow, made
him less handsome standing than sitting. But his
presence had by this time fully acquired the unspeak-
able charm for all who knew him, which made him

insensibly become the centre of any circle, whether
large or small, consisting of his friends or kindred.

His hair and incipient beard were raven black, with
a crisp strength in each particular hair, that gave
him more the look of a Nazarite than of a nineteenth
century youth. His dress was plain and neat, only

remarkable for the absence of everything adventitious
(starch, loose collars, studs, etc.), and an "aesthetic"
taste might have perceived in its sober hues the effect
of his marvellous eye for harmony of colour. 1

      1 He was the first who spoke to me (about 1865) of the principles
of coloured glass, which have since become fashionable ; observing
that it should be rich in sea-green, and not, " like the banners of the
Assyrian, gleaming with purple and gold." In his critical studies of
CHAP. VI.]             SCHOLAR OF TRINITY.          163

     The impression he made on older persons with

whom he was less intimate may be gathered from
the remarks of Dean Eamsay in a note to Miss Cay :

    I had great pleasure in seeing your nephew, young
IClerk Maxwell. He is shrewd and cautious. He seems to

like Cambridge, and doubt not will distinguish himself.
He is sparing in his words, but what he says is to the

point.

     The following contribution from the Kev. Charles
Hope Kobertson, the Sector of Smeeth (above, p. 152),
throws light on more than one aspect of his life at
this period :

   I was at Trinity College, Cambridge, in the same years

as Clerk Maxwell, and for some time had lodgings in the

same house. This, as well as knowing him before in

Edinburgh, led to our frequently meeting.

I IHe was of a very kindly disposition (under a blunt
exterior), of which can give an example.            had hurt my

eyes a good deal with experiments on light, while working
up for a course of Professor Forbes's lectures at Edinburgh

College, and for a good part of iny undergraduate course

was able to use them very little. He used to find me

sitting in my rooms with closed eyes, unable to prepare for

next day's lectures, and often gave up an hour of his recre-

Iation time, to read out to me some of the book-work

wanted to get over. This infirmity prevented my reading

Ifor more than a moderate degree in mathematical honours ;

but should have been still worse off if he had not thus

been " eyes to the blind" for me.

   IHe had an innate reverence for sacred things, which

do not think was ever much disturbed by the scepticism

modern poets he used   to note  their fondness for  particular colours, e.g.,
the uses of " white,"           " black," " ruby,"  " emerald," " sapphire,"
                       " red,"

in Tennyson and Browning.
164         JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. VI.

fashionable among shallow scientific men. As my main

Iobject in coming to Cambridge was to prepare for holy

orders, had more interest in theological subjects than any

others. He knew this, and would refer to me points of

difficulty for our mutual consideration till we next met.

The result was useful to us both. On one occasion an

attack on the Mosaic history having perplexed him, he was

glad of an idea that occurred to me, that the account of
God's driving out the heathen by " sending the hornet "

before the Israelites, was not an idea likely to occur in a

book of human origin, where a leader would rather be apt

to magnify than to diminish his own and his people's

prowess. This exactly suited the sceptical state of some

friend he had been conversing with. On another occasion

he hit on a very beautiful mathematical illustration of St.
Paul's closing view of his career, in 2 Tim. iv. 6-8 ; " St.

Paul was looking backward, forward, and downwards so

the resultant was upwards"

     As an original experimenter he was most ingenious in

Icontriving out of simple means apparatus for delicate ex-
periments.  have to this day some crystals for showing-

polarised light, which he gave me, cut and polished by most

simple rubbing, mounted with cardboard and sealing-wax.

     His Essay on the, Rings of Saturn, showing how

mechanical principles required that these bodies were not

solid, but formed by multitudes of small bodies revolving

round Saturn, in bands of orbits, has received abundant

confirmation from recent observation with large telescopes.

His own simple experiments with corks and rings suggested

the idea.

     But while so ingenious himself, he had great difficulty

in imparting his ideas to others ; consequently was not so

clear a lecturer or writer as might have been expected. It

was probably this that prevented his being senior wrangler

Iof his year.

        may mention that though not joining in the ordinary

Igames of young fellows, such as cricket and rowing, he was
very active; and  have seen him in bathing take a
CHAP. VI.]  SCHOLAR OF TRINITY.                                     165

running header from the bank, turning a complete somersault
before touching the water. 1

    If shortly described, he might be said to combine a

grand intellect with childlike simplicity of trust. He was
too deep a thinker to be sceptical, but too well read not to

feel for others' difficulties. All his experiments led him to

greater reverence for the Great First Cause, heartily agreeing

with Young's Night Thoughts, "An undevout astronomer

is mad."

     In the course of the winter he was elected a

member of the Select Essay Club, the creme de la
creme of Cambridge intellects, familiarly known
(because limited to the number twelve) as " the
Apostles." His contributions to this famous associa-
tion still remain,2 and present a curious reflection of
the contemplative activities of his mind, which is far

indeed from being engrossed with mere mathematics,
but is rather, in the language of Plato, "taking a
survey of the universe of things," iracrav irdvrwv fyva-uv
 p6vvci)jj,evr) ra>v ovrcov e/cd&Tov 6\ov. Yet amidst this

speculative ardour, and even wildness, we trace the
persistence of certain root-ideas, and are often re-

minded of his intention (expressed with curious self-

directed irony in 1850), "to read Kant's Kritik with
a determination to make it agree with Sir William

Hamilton." 3

     His coming of age, June 13, 1852, had been
celebrated with a few quiet words in his fa-ther's

1 Professor Tait says, "He used to go tip on the pollard at the

bathing-shed, throw himself flat on his face in the water, dive and
cross, then ascend the pollard on the other side, project himself flat

on his lack in the water. He said it stimulated the circulation !"

2 See chap. viii.                3 P. 135.
166         JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                          [CHAP. VI.

letter of June 12, graced with the unusual addition

of a Scripture text " I trust you will be as discreet

when Major as you have been while Minor (Prov.

x. I 1
     a )."
     The six months from .December 1852 to June 1853

were time of great and varied mental activity. When

1853. the Tripos work became most exacting, he seemed to
        have the most spare energy. No part of the rich
        mental life of Trinity failed to touch and stimulate

him from the Moral Philosophy of the Master, to

undergraduate discourses upon whist and chess. When

most burdened with analytical book- work, he yearned

the more deeply after comprehensive views of Nature
and Life, and found refreshment in metaphysical

discussion, and occasionally in theological contro-
versy. Even the " occult " sciences, in the contem-

porary shapes of electro-biology and table-turning, had

their share of ironical attention.

     His relations with the dons, " scientific" and other-

wise, whatever may have been their first impression of

him, were, for the most part, smooth, but humorous
21                                                  J. a
passage of arms between him and the Senior Dean was2
long remembered in Trinity. The lines to A. Frere,
        is

                                                 a
although somewhat personal, are too well known to be
omitted from his collected poems, and anything in

them which might give offence at the time                 is  more

than redeemed by the large humanity of the conclud-

       " A wise son maketh glad father."
      It said that on the first occasion of his reading in chapel after

gaining his scholarship, his delivery of his first lesson (from the Book
of Job) in tones which, perhaps from nervousness, were unusually
broad, upset the gravity of every one, from the Master downwards.
CHAP. VI.]  SCHOLAR OF TRINITY.                      167

ing stanza. The following letter, addressed (but per-
haps not sent) to the same personage, throws an

amusing light on the circumstances under which the
parody of " John Anderson" was written :

            To THE REV. JOHN ALEXANDER FRERE.

                             Trin. Coll., 26th Feb. 1853.
I IDEAE SIR Looking back on the past week find have
Ikept only seven chapels.
                           have no excuse to offer. The

reason, however, of the deficiency is this. Unaware that a

ISaint's Day would occur in the course of the week parted
Iwith my surplice on Monday in order to have it washed.

  was thus prevented from appearing in chapel on the even-
Iings of Wednesday and Thursday, as otherwise would have
Idone.
            might even after this have completed the requisite

Inumber; but, unfortunately, reading till a late hour on Friday

night found myself unable to attend chapel on Saturday

Imorning.
         can but hope that more forethought on my part may

prevent the recurrence of such accidents.
I have also to acknowledge the receipt of a small paper
Ifrom you relative to the observance of Sunday.
                                                     have

read and will keep in mind.
it,

  J.

                       it

                  I

                                        J.
Trusting that my past and future regularity may atone

for my present negligence, remain, yours sincerely,

                                            C. MAXWELL.

Rev. A. FRERE.

    It was while staying up at Easter in the spring of                                          3%. 21.
1853, and working " at high pressure," that his longing

for the untrammelled and reverent investigation of
Nature's secrets found rhythmical expression in the

most serious of his poems, the " Student's Evening
Hymn," in which religious and philosophical aspira-
tions are combined. Thus was always with him

when most plunged in the minute investigation either
                           it

                                                                                             ;
168       JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.         [CHAP. VI.

of phenomena or of abstract ideas, he was most eager
to rebound towards the contemplation of the whole of

things, and that which gives unity to  the whole. Yet
no mind could be more averse from       " viewiness," or

more determined to bring every statement to the test

of fact.

     The brief remainder of that Easter vacation was

spent at Birmingham with his friend Johnson Gedge,

a scholar of Trinity, whose father was the headmaster

of King Edward's School. The exactions of Trinity

and Hopkins had only left him a few days of holiday,
and these were passed in the manner already men-

tioned, 1 in viewing the manufactures of Birmingham.
Mr. Clerk Maxwell's own delight in such things pre-

vented him from realising how laborious a programme

he had suggested for the interval between two long

spells of severe head-work. Yet in the midst of it

Maxwell seems to have found time to contribute an

elaborate piece of humorous correspondence to the

King ^Edward's School Chronicle.

     When working hardest he was never a recluse,
nor was he ever more sociable than in his third year
at college. He seems to have had some difficulty even
in avoiding supper parties, and one of his most

brilliant metaphysical jeux d'esprit purports to be a

mode of escaping from them. To the names already

mentioned as amongst his intimate friends, those of
Farrar 2 and Butler 3 are now added. Besides the

          1 Above, p. 7, note 1.

          2 The Rev. F. W. Farrar, D.D., Canon of Westminster.
          3 The Rev. H. Butler, D.D., Head-Master of Harrow.
CHAP. VI.]  SCHOLAR OF TRINITY.  169

metaphysical discussions, there were Shakespeare

readings, of which he was an auditor sometimes, if

not an actor in them.

     Whilst speaking of these side-sparks from his anvil,
it is right to keep in view the loyal and trustful spirit
in which he did his regularly-appointed work. His
words on this subject in one of the letters to Miss
Cay, which will be given presently, are well worthy
of separate quotation here :

                                                         " Trin. Coll., 7th June 1853.

    If I" any one asks how am getting on in Mathematics,
Isay that am busy arranging everything, so as to be able to

express all distinctly, so that examiners may be satisfied

now, and pupils edified hereafter. It is pleasant work, and

very strengthening, but not nearly finished."

     As became his kindliness, he was still mindful of the                              isss.

freshmen. Amongst these, Alexander Eobertson, now
Sheriff of Forfarshire, the brother of Charles, and Frank

Mackenzie, were Scotsmen and compatriots. Another
junior with whom he became still more intimate was
"Freshman Tayler," 1 so called, though now a junior

Soph., in contradistinction to Isaac Taylor. Like
Frank Mackenzie and others who have been men-

tioned, Freshman Tayler was of pious evangelical
antecedents. Maxwell's own thoughts at this time, as

has been seen, were taking a more decidedly religious
colour, and this side also of his rich and deep nature
received a fresh impulse in this critical year.

     He had been persuaded to spend the short interval
between the summer and vacation terms with the

1 The Rev. G. W. H. Tayler, now Vicar of Trinity Church, Carlisle.
                JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.               [CHAP. VI.

Kev. C. B. Tayler, rector of Otley, in Suffolk,
who had been touched with Maxwell's kindness to his

nephew. Here he found himself for the first time in

the midst of a large and united English family, and in
his half-speculative, half- emotional way, was contrast-
ing what he saw with the experience of an only son,
when he was suddenly taken ill. The long continuous
strain of the past months had been too much for him,

and indeed it appears that even in the early spring

he had been physically below par. 1 The illness is
described by Mr. Tayler as a sort of brain fever, and

he was disabled by it for more than a month. The

Taylers nursed him as they would have nursed a son
of their own, and Maxwell, in whom the smallest

kindnesses awakened lasting gratitude, was profoundly
moved by this. He referred to it long afterwards as
having given him a new perception of the Love of
God. One of his strongest convictions thenceforward
was that " Love abideth, though Knowledge vanisli
away." And this came to him at the very height
of the intellectual struggle. 2

1 See the letter of 2d February 1853, in which his father refers

to Miss Cay's advice that he should take wine.

2 At the same time, it is not to be supposed that Maxwell was

ever completely identified with any particular school of religious
opinion. He was too much " the heir of all the ages/' and, as he him-
                " his faith was too deep to be in bondage to any set of
aself expressed

          it,
                                               is
opinions." Scottish Calvinism was the theological system which had

most historical interest for him, and most claim on his hereditary

piety. He was learned in the writings of Owen and Jonathan Edwards.
But that which his latest pastor has called " his deep though simple

faith," was not enclosed in any system. Even his youthful training

(which in the case of one so loyal not to be disregarded) was favour-
able to comprehensive view of Christianity. Beginning with the
CHAP. VI.]         SCHOLAR OF TRINITY.             171

      The father was also much affected by this kindness
shown to his son. Mr. Tayler had said nothing to
make him anxious until the crisis of the illness was

past. But when he knows all, there is something
more than eloquence in his brief, inarticulate phrases
of recognition :

I I" With yours have Mr. Tayler's letter.  do not write

Ito him to-day. My only subject is thanks, and these are

not to be measured in words the strongest can use; so

at present give my respects and highest regards."

     Though weakened by his illness, Maxwell was able
to keep the vacation term, and profit by Hopkins'

continued training, before going home for a few weeks

of thorough refreshment. In the following term, with
the Senate-House examination in immediate prospect,

he was careful not to read inordinately hard.

     In the autumn of this year the controversy which

had been called forth by Professor Maurice's Theo-

Bible, which, he knew by heart from a child, Presbyterian and Epis-

copalian influence had been blended as we have already seen. Hence,

when he went to Cambridge, there was nothing strange to him in the

service    of the  English   Church.     Haibsovme inadndw"asbeaylownadysthmesoevinvgoice(se,l"k
2)lanait,  as the  French   would say),

yet they were not indifferent to him.

    It is to be regretted that a letter on the Parties in the Church of

England, written to his father in 1852, has not been found. His

general approval of Hare's sermons, and his remarks on the Maurician

controversy, indicate the direction which his thoughts on this subject

must have taken. His interest in sermons, good and bad, was like

Macaulay's interest in novels, or Charles Lamb's in old plays. Years

after this, on board a friend's yacht one Sunday, he gave a sort of im-

promptu exposition of a chapter in the Book of Joshua, shouting up his
remarks from below, which struck those who heard it as full of origin-

ality and wisdom.
172         JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                          [CHAP. VI.

logical Essays was brought to a crisis through his
deprivation of his office by Principal Jelf. Disputa-
tion on this theme was nowhere more rife than

amongst the scholars of Trinity, and Maxwell's re-
marks upon it will be read with interest even now.

He was from the first strongly attracted by Maurice's

combination of intense Christian earnestness with

universal sympathy, and although he sometimes felt

that the new teacher was apt to travesty the Popular

Theology in trying to delineatea                  he had          deep

                                      it,

                                                             a
                                                               a
respect for what was positive in his doctrine. He was

still more drawn to him when he came to know him

personally, no longer as writer, but as friend.

A mention of Thomas Erskine of Linlathen in Mr.

Maxwell's letter of 16th December 1853, was probably
occasioned by some question raised in connection with
Mr. Maurice.

     The following letter, addressed to me by the Eev.
G. W. H. Tayler, will be read with interest in the

light of the preceding narrative
                            I
                                           :Holy Trinity Vicarage,
                                                Carlisle, 4th March 1882.

     MY DEAR SIR You have asked me to send you some

account of James Maxwell, as remember him during the

space of three years, 1852, 1853, and 1854. My first

acquaintance with him was about February 1852.                    I

was soon attracted by the frankness of his manner and the

singular charm of his quaint and original remarks in con-

versation.

     We undergraduates felt we had                very uncommon
            ;

                                               a
personage amongst us but we did not then appreciate his
rare powers. We had of course heard of the reputation

which he had at Edinburgh.
CHAP. VI.]  SCHOLAR OF TRINITY.  173

       But this acute mathematician, so addicted even then to
original research, was among his friends simply the most
genial and amusing of companions, the propounder of many
a strange theory, the composer of not a few poetic jeux

d'esprits.

       Grave and hard-reading students shook their heads at
his discursive talk and reading, and hinted that this kind of
pursuits would never pay in the long run in the Mathe-

Imatical Tripos.
           have sometimes watched his countenance in the

lecture-room. It was quite a study there was the look of

a bright intellect, an entire concentration on the subject,

and sometimes a slight smile on the fine expressive mouth,

as some point came out clearly before him, or some amusing
fancy flitted across his imagination. He used to profess a
dislike to reproducing speculations from books, or hearing

opinions quoted taken bodily from books.
      Yet he read a good deal in other lines of study than

natural philosophy. Sir Thomas Brown's Eeligio Medici
was one of his favourite books. Any such author, who
propounded his speculations in a quaint, original manner

Iwas sure to be a favourite with him.

      But particularly remember his attraction to Sir
Thomas Brown during the long vacation, when he was laid
up with severe illness (a brain fever) in my dear uncle's
house in June 1853. He came to stay at Otley, near
Ipswich, of which my uncle was the rector. For a few
days he was tolerably well, then suddenly fell ill, probably

Ithrough overwork for his third year college examination.

It was on his recovery from that illness that seemed to
know him better than ever. It was then that my uncle's

conversation seemed to make such a deep impression on his

mind. He had always been a regular attendant at the
services of God's house, and a regular communicant in our

College Chapel. Also he had thought and read much on
religious subjects. But at this time (as it appears from his
own account of the matter) his religious views were greatly
deepened and strengthened.
174            JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.      [CHAP. VI.

     I Imust add that  spent some little time in the long

vacation of 1854 with Maxwell at Glenlair. His father

was then living, and it was touching to witness the perfect

affection and confidence which subsisted between father and

son : the joy and satisfaction and exulting pride which the

father evidently felt in his son's success and well-earned

fame ; and, on the other hand, the tender, thoughtful care

and watchfulness which James Maxwell manifested towards

his father.

      Maxwell has indeed left a very bright f memory and
example. We, his contemporaries at college, have seen in

him high powers of mind and great capacity and original

views, conjoined with deep humility before his God, reverent
submission to His will, and hearty belief in the love and

the atonement of that Divine Saviour who was his Portion

Iand Comforter in trouble and sickness, and his exceeding
great reward.  remain, my dear sir, yours very truly,

                       G. W. H. TAYLER,

                       Vicar of Trinity Church, Carlisle.

     Mr. Lawson of the Equity Bar, whose diary has
preserved the remark quoted on p. 133, has also fur-
nished me with the following vivid account of his
impressions of Maxwell as an undergraduate :

                                                    22 Old Square, Lincoln's Inn,
                                                London, W.G., 6th January 1882.

    I was in his year at Trinity, and knew him intimately,
I Ithough our ways separated after left Cambridge, and

scarcely ever saw him, except once or twice when he was

Professor at King's College, and later on only at very long
intervals, on an occasional visit to the University.

     There must be many of his quaint verses about, if one

could lay hands on them, for Maxwell was constantly pro-
ducing something of the sort, and bringing it round to his
friends, with a sly chuckle at the humour, which, though

Ihis own, no one enjoyed more than himself.
         remember Maxwell coming to me one morning with a
CHAP. VI.]     SCHOLAR OF TRINITY.                                                            175

copy of verses beginning " Gin a body meet a body Going
through the air," in which he had twisted the well-known

song into a description of the laws of impact of solid bodies.

   IThere was also a description which Maxwell wrote of

some University ceremony, forget what, in which some-
body " went before," and somebody " followed after," and
" in the midst were the wranglers playing with the symbols."

IThese last words, however meant, were in fact a descrip-
tion of his own wonderful power.                                                remember one day in

lecture, our lecturer had filled the black board three times

with the investigation of some hard problem in Geometry of

Three Dimensions, and was not at the end of when Max-                           1 a it
                                                                                         it,
well came up with       question whether                                        would not come
               I
out geometrically, and showed how with figure, and ina                                            aa

few lines, there was the solution at once.

Maxwell was, daresay you remember, very fond of

talk upon almost anything. He and were pupils (at an
enormous distance apart) of Hopkins, and well recollect
                                                                                I
                                                                                    I

how, when had been working the night before and all the
            I

morning at Hopkins's problems with little or no result, Max-

well would come in for gossip, and talk on while wasa                                         I
wishing him far away, till at last, about half an hour or so                                      I
before our meeting at Hopkins's, he would say " Well,
must go to old Hop's problems " and by the time we met
                              ;

there they were all done.

;I       remember Hopkins telling me, when speaking of Max-

well, either just before or just after his degree, " It not
                                                                                              is

possible for that man to think incorrectly on physical sub-
jects " and Hopkins, as you know, had had perhaps more

experience of mathematical minds than any man of his

time.

Of Maxwell's geniality and kindness of heart you will

have had many instances. Every one who knew him

       Compare Plato, Thcet. 147, D. A Cambridge friend who knew

Maxwell at later time, says of him, " One striking characteristic was
remarked by his contemporaries at Hopkins's lectures. Whenever the
subject admitted of he had recourse to diagrams, though the rest
might solve the question more easily by train of analysis."
1
                 a

                         it
                                               C

                                                                             a
176             JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. VI.

at Trinity can recall some kindness or some act of his which
has left an ineffaceable impression of his goodness on the
memory for " good " Maxwell was, in the best sense of the

word.

     Mr. Lawson adds the following extract from his
diary :

      IUnder date January 1. 1854 (Sunday evening), after
saying  had been at tea at a friend's rooms, and naming

the men who were there, of whom Maxwell was one, there

is this note :

"Maxwell, as usual, showing himself acquainted with
Ievery subject upon which the conversation turned.
Imet a man like him.                                never

                      do believe there is not a single sub-

ject on which he cannot talk, and talk well too, displaying

always the most curious and out-of-the-way information."

     The great contests of January came at last, with
the result that Maxwell was Second Wrangler, Eouth

of Peterhouse being the Senior, and that Kouth and
Maxwell were declared equal as Smith's Prizemen.

    A reminiscence of Professor T. S. Baynes which

has reference to this time is interesting in connection
with other signs of something exceptional in Maxwell's
physical state during the previous year :

      He said that on entering the Senate-house for the first
paper he felt his mind almost blank ; but by and by his
mental vision became preternaturally clear. And, on going

out again, he was dizzy and staggering, and was some time
in coming to himself.

                         LETTERS, 1852-53.

                    To LEWIS CAMPBELL, Esq.

                                               8 King's Parade, 10th Feb. 1852.

I was at Isaac Taylor's to-night. His father has come to
CHAP. VI.]  SCHOLAR OF TRINITY.               177

see him, a little, cold man, with a tremulous voice, who talks

about the weather as if he were upon oath, but who can

lift up his testimony against any unwarrantable statement.

Taylor junr. and Maclennan were talking about associa-

tions of workmen, Christian socialism, and so forth. T.

junr. approved of the system where each workman has a

share in the firm. M. liked one master better than many.

T. senr. described the inducement to hard work among

engineers at Manchester; the reward is not profit, but

situation.

      There are advantages in subordination, besides good
direction, for it supplies an end to each man, external to

himself. Activity requires Objectivity. Do you ever read
Ibooks written by women about women ?
                                              mean fictitious

tales, illustrating Moral Anatomy, by disclosing all thoughts,

motives, and secret sins, as if the authoress were a perjured

confessor. There you find all the good thinking about

themselves, and plotting self-improvement from a sincere

regard to their own interest, while the bad are- most dis-

interestedly plotting against or for others, as the case may

be ; but all are caged in and compelled to criticise one
another till nothing is left, and you exclaim :

            " Madam ! if I know your sex,

              By the fashion of your bones."

No wonder people get hypochondriac if their souls are made

to go through manoeuvres before a mirror.     Objectivity

alone is favourable to the free circulation of the soul. But

let the Object be real and not an Image of the mind's own

creating, for Idolatry is Subjectivity with respect to gods.

Let a man feel that he is wide awake, that he has something

to do, which he has authority, power, and will to dp, and is

doing ; but let him not cherish a consciousness of these
things as if he had them at his command, but receive them

thankfully and use them strenuously, and exchange them

freely for other objects. He has then a happiness which

may be increased in degree, but cannot be altered in

kind.

            N
178                 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.       [CHAP. VI.

                         To THE SAME.

                                 8 King's Parade, 7th March 1852.
     I Ihave now nobody that
                                 see too much of, though
I have got several new acquaintances, and improved several
Iold ones.
                   find nothing gives one greater inertia than

knowing a good many men at a time, who do not know

each other intimately. N.B. Inertia, not = laziness, but
mass ; i.e. if one knows a man, he forms an idea of your
                                            If one knows a
character, and treats you accordingly.

company of men, they are strong in union, and overawe
                    If one man only, we become mutual
the individual.
tyrants. If several independently, every one plays the part
of Dr. Watt's celebrated " Busy Bee," and by mixing

Iaccording to every possible combination hit out the best

results. Now you see am theorising again and preach-

                         I
                            iIs,

                                                          I
ing as of old ; but the fact     am always laying plans and

preaching to myself till         seek for some one to whom

may disgorge without fear of an immediate reply. Now, my

great plan, which was conceived of old, and quickens and

kicks periodically, and          continually making itself more
                    is a
obtrusive,  is  a  plan of Search and Recovery, or Eevision andis

Correction, or Inquisition and Execution, etc. The Eule of

the Plan   is     to let nothing be wilfully left unexamined.
              is
Nothing to be holy ground consecrated to Stationary Faith,
whether positive or negative. All fallow land
                                         I                            to be

ploughed up, and regular system of rotation followed.is (I if it
All creatures as agents or as patients are to be pressed into
                                                                . is
the service, which  never to be willingly suspended till

nothing more remains to be done; i.e. till A.D.+ OC                   The

part of the rule which respects self-improvement by means

of others   is     Never hide anything, be  weed or no, nor

                :

                it
seem to .wish hidden. So shall all men passing by pluck

up the weeds and brandish them in your face, or at least

display them for your inspection (especially you make no

secret of your intention to do likewise).   speak not here

literally of the case of those who revise each other's faults

every night, and quarrel before the month   out, but you

did not so misunderstand me.) Again assert the Eight of
CHAP. VI.]         SCHOLAR OF TRINITY.       179

Trespass on any plot of Holy Ground which any man has set

apart (as the rustics did their Gude-man's Eig) to the power
of Darkness. Such places must be exorcised and desecrated

till they become fruitful fields. Again, if the holder of

such property refuse admission to the exorcist, he ipso facto

admits that it is consecrated, and that he fears the power of

Darkness. It may be that no such darkness really broods

over the place, and that the man has got a habit of shutting

Ihis eyes in that field, which makes him think so.
      Now am convinced that no one but a Christian can

actually purge his land of these holy spots. Any one may
profess that he has none, but something will sooner or later

occur to every one to show him that part of his ground is

Inot open to the public. Intrusions on this are resented, and

so its existence is demonstrated. Now, do not say that

no Christians have enclosed places of this sort. Many have

a great deal, and every one has some. No one can be sure

Iof all being open till all has been examined by competent

persons, which is the work, as said before, of eternity.

But there are extensive and important tracts in the territory

of the Scoffer, the Pantheist, the Quietist, Formalist, Dog-

matist, Sensualist, and the rest, which are openly and

solemnly Tabooed, as the Polynesians say, and are not to

be spoken of without sacrilege.

a
                          a
                                         is,
                                                                       is
                                                                                              is
Christianity that the religion of the Bible                                                       the

only scheme or form of belief which disavows any posses-

sions on such tenure. Here alone all    free. You may

fly to the ends of the world and find no God but the Author

of Salvation. You may search the Scriptures and not find

text to stop you in your explorations.

You may read all History and be compelled to wonder

but not to doubt.

Compare the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob with

the God of the Prophets and the God of the Apostles, and
however the Pantheist may contrast the God of Nature with
the " Dark Hebrew God," you will find them much liker

each other than either like his.

The Old Testament and the Mosaic Law and Judaism
180             JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. VI.

are commonly supposed to be " Tabooed " by the orthodox.
Sceptics pretend to have read them, and have found certain

witty objections and composed several transcendental argu-
ments against " Hebrew 0' Clo'," which too many of the
orthodox unread admit, and shut up the subject as haunted.
But a Candle is coming to drive out all Ghosts and Bugbears.
Let us all follow the Light.

                        To Miss CAY.

    I received  yours            8 King's Parade, 23d March 1852.
                muse
and began to            I(of the 18th suppose) on Saturday,

                        on the difference of our modes of

life : your sickness my health ; your kind dealings with

neighbours our utter independence of each other; you

visit without seeing people we see without visiting each

other; you hear all about people's families and domestic

concerns we do not, but we know exactly how everybody

is up in his different subjects, and what are his favourite

pursuits for the time.
     IThe Little-go is now going on, so am taking my
IEaster vacation at this time.
                                do nothing but the papers

in the Senate-house, and then spend the day in walks and

company, reading books of a pleasant but not too light

Ikind, lest should be disgusted with recreation.
    I find myself quite at grass, and am sure that in 10

I Idays will be reading again as if had been rusticated for

a year.

    I never did such a feat as get up at 5 in the morning.
I get up at 6.30 for chapel in winter, and read in the day-
Itime, but have now begun my summer practice of sleeping
Iin the mornings and reading at night, save when get up

on a fine day to take a walk in the morning, which makes

Ime idle all day, and is sometimes agreeable.

        met old Isaac Taylor in his son's rooms some time

ago. He began by speaking of the weather in a serious

way, and went on to his Manchester concerns, effective

motives to work, actual methods adopted, and so got into

the merits of socialism, joint-stock workmen's associations,
CHAP. VI.]  SCHOLAR OF TRINITY.                            181

and so forth, appearing all the while to say nothing, but
quietly feed on the wisdom of the undergrads., as they
enounced their opinions.

                    FROM HIS FATHER.

                              Glenlair, 10th April 1852.

      The Ordnance   Surveyors are   doing    Contour Lines.
The line 250 feet   above sea-level  passes  just in front of
the Bees. 1

  I ... Glenlair, 25th April 1852.
                    congratulate you on your scholarship. You
write of entering on the duties, what are they ? and what

are the Privileges and Profits ?

                                                            Glenlair, 12th May 1852.

      Is M'Millan the Publisher of the Cambridge and Dublin,
whereof William Thomson is editor ? Have you sent him
your prop, you were doing at Christmastime ?

      The gold-fever of Australian type prevails in these
parts.

                                                            Glenlair, 19th May 1852.

[Prop, about resistance of sides and bottom of a meal-ark.]

      . . . The meal, which may be called a fluid as much as
a glacier. 2

      Query: Whether by putting bars beneath the bottom
at points removed from the middle of the joist, the pressure
would be more advantageously distributed ?

                              Glenlair, 12th June 1852.

            [Eve of James C. M.'s 21st birthday.]

I trust you will be as discreet when major as you have

I Ibeen while minor (Prov. x. 1).            did not see him
Eemember me to Tait.          am sorry

in Edinburgh to wish him joy of his honours.

1 In the garden at Glenlair.          2 See above, p. 80.
182              JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                [CHAP. VI.

                              Glenlair, 29th June 1852.
I21.
     j)i(j yOU ake O tk e iGr eo gy at all ?  suppose that

the cliffs at Lowestoft are Tertiary, with plenty of fossils.

                              Glenlair, 9th Novr. 1852.

           Nativity of the Prince of Wales.

     Received yours of St. Guy and William.

     The Cambridge Commission as you report of it will not

affect you in any way.        " College Declamation  "

     What  sort  of thing is                            ?  You

- say you have chosen The Scottish Covenanters. Do you

take the part of Advocate or Apologist for them ? or do

you try the impartial historian ? It would be difficult to

give the Scots Prelates their due without offending some of

the Order. During the Persecutions both the civil and

ecclesiastical government of Scotland was getting ripe for

the Revolution.

                              Glenlair, llth Novr. 1852.

     It has been said, Had there been two other Leightons

instead of Sharp of St. Andrews and                  of Gal-

loway, Episcopacy would have been securely established.

                              Glenlair, 2d Feb. 1853.

     Aunty Jane was saying    a glass of wine daily,       port

for preference.

                              Glenlair, 12th Feb. 1853.

      . . . Mathematical Journal, to which you send props.
What props.? The one about the Pendulum ?

                          To LEWIS CAMPBELL, Esq. .

                                                          Trin. Coll, 20th Feb. 1853.

   IAfter Chapel was at Litchfield's, where he, Farrar,

Pomeroy, and Blakiston, discussed eternal punishment from
8 to 12. Men fall into absurdity as soon as they have settled

for themselves the question of the origin of evil. A man

whose mind is " made up " on that subject is contradictory
CHAP. VI.]       SCHOLAR OF TRINITY.                         183

on every other ; one day he says that the man that can be

happy in such a world is a brute, and the next day that if
a man is not happy here he is a moping fool. At last they
assert the Cretan dilemma, that if a man says that man is
ignorant and foolish, it was ignorant and foolish to say so.

Solomon, they say, was used up when he wrote Ecclesiastes,
and said " all is vanity" in a relative sense, having himself

been so. Solomon describes the search after Happiness for

its own sake and for the sake of possession. It is as if a

strong man should collect into his house all the beauty of

the world, and be condemned to look out of the window
and marvel that no good thing was to be seen. " No man
Ican eat his cake and have it."
                                 would add that what

Iremains till to-morrow will stink.   say nothing with

     As for evil being unripe good,

respect to objective evil, except that it is a part of the

universe which it may be the business of immortal man to

search out for ever, and still see more beyond. We cannot

understand it because it is relative, and relative to more

than we know. But subjective evil is absolute; we are
conscious of it as independent of external circumstances ;

its physical power is bounded by our finitude, bodily and

mental, but within these its intensity is without measure.

A bullet may be diverted from its course by the medium
through which it passes, or it may take a wrong one owing

to the unskilfulness of the shooter, or the intended victim

may change his place; but all this depends, not on the will

of the shooter, but on the ignorance of his mind, the weak-

ness of his body, the resistance of inert matter, or the

subsequent act of another agent ; the bullet of the murderer
may be turned aside to drive a nail, or what not, but his

will is independent of all this, and may be judged at once

without appeal.

                 Yet still the lady shook her head,

                    And swore by yea and nay,

                 My whole was all that lie had said,
                    And all that he could say.

                                             J. C. MAXWELL.
184              JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.              [CHAP. VI.

                 FKOM HIS FATHER.

                 Edinburgh, 21st February 1853.

     IThe Halo and accompaniment of the 15th had been
very curious.    never saw the appearance of Mock Suns.

     Lord Cockburn went in plain dress to the fancy ball.

When the crowd hissed him, he said he was the minister

that was to many them all ! !

                 To Miss CAY.

                               Trin. Coll, llth March 1853.

I was so much among the year that is now departed that it
Imakes a great difference in my mode of life.
                                                   have been

seeking among the other years for some one to keep me in
order. It is easier to find instructive men than influential
Iones.
Iwhere  left off here last night to go to a man's rooms
        met several others, who had gone a -prowling like
... Ime.
               have been reading Archdeacon Hare's sermons,

which are good.

                 Trin. Coll, Feast of St. Charles II.

     IPomeroy's mother and sister were up here lately. They
used to be at Cheltenham. From them    learnt a good

deal about the systematic and uncompromising mode of

thinking and speaking which marks the great Irish Giant
of Trinity. Bishop Selwyn of New Zealand prought l here

yesterday about missions. He founded the Lady Margaret

boat club at John's, and got the boat to the head of the

river. He was 2d Classic in 1831, and still he is too

energetic for his curates to keep up with him in his own

visitations about the South Pole. He made a great im-

pression on the men here by his plainness of speech and

Iabsence of all cant, whether he spoke of the doctrines of
Christianity or the history of Pitcairn's Island.            have

been reading various books, but few very entertaining.

They are chiefly theories about things in general which

take the fancies of men now-a-days. The only safe way to

                 1 i.e. preached.
CHAP. VI.]   SCHOLAR OF TRINITY.                              185

Iread them is to find out the facts first. With this pre-
caution they are tolerably transparent.  have been attend-

Iing Sir James Stephen's lectures upon the causes of the first

French Eevolution. They are now done, so look in upon

Stokes' dealing with light.

             FROM HIS FATHEB.

                             Edinburgh, 13th March 1853.

      Ask Gedge to get you instructions to Brummagem

workshops. View, if you can, armourers, gunmaking and

gunproving swordmaking and proving Papier-macht

and japanning silver-plating by cementation and rolling

    ditto, electrotype Elkington's Works Brazier's works,

by founding and by striking up in dies turning spinning
teapot bodies in white metal, etc. making buttons of sorts,

steel pens, needles, pins, and any sorts of small articles
which are curiously done by subdivision of labour and by

ingenious tools glass of sorts is among the works of the

place, and all kinds of foundry work engine-making

tools and instruments (optical and philosophical) both coarse
Ifand fine.
             you have had enough of the town lots of

Birmingham, you could vary the recreation by viewing

Kenilworth, Warwick, Leamington, Stratford-on-Avon, or
suchlike. 1

                                                    Glenlair, 29th April 1853.

      You write (from King Edward's School, Birmingham)
about plans and visits, Freshman Tayler and two others

innominate.

                                                           Glenlair, 12th May 1853.

      What do you know of Henry Mackenzie ? Do you find
Frank to be clever, good, agreeable, and wise, which you
state to be the desiderata for a friend ?

      Here is a Prop, anent fuel. What would be the amount
of heat evolved in the combustion of a given weight of dry
wood compared with the same weight of coal ?

            1 This letter has been quoted above, p. 7, note.
186                 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                  [CHAP. VI.

     I have  yours            Glenlair, The Day after the Wedding*  She
                                            1st June (1853).

                    of the day of the Eestoration. . . .

(Maria Clerk) also wrote about the new phase of animal
magnetism called table-Turning. Do you know about that ?

   IPhotography is also in the ascendant. You will, no

doubt, be at Ipswich, believe an ancient city, and hath

old kirks and sundries worthy of notice. Is Otley towards

the sea ? Douking, etc. ?

                    To Miss CAY.

                            Trin. Coll., 7th June 1853.
     I have an engagement to go and visit a man in Suffolk, but
the spare bed is at present occupied by the " celebrated Dr.
I ITing of America."
                    only wait here for his departure.

spent to-day in a great sorting of papers and arranging of

the same. Much is bequeathed to the bedmaker, and a

number of duplicate examination papers are laid up to give

to friends.

    I intend to-morrow to get up early and make breakfast

for all the men who are going down, wakening them in good

time ; then read Wordsworth's Prelude till sleepy ; then
sally forth and see if all the colleges are shut up for the

season ; and then go and stroll in the fields and fraternise
with the young frogs and old water-rats. In the evening,

something not mathematical. Perhaps write a biograph-

Iical sketch of Dr. Ting of America, of whom you know as
much as      do. To-morrow evening, or next day, our list

Icomes out. You will hear of it from the Robertsons if in
town, or Mackenzie if not.  have done better papers than

those of this examination ; but if the examiners are not

satisfied with them it is not my fault, for they are better
If Ithan they have yet seen of mine.
                                  any one asks how
Iam getting on in mathematics, say that am busy arranging

everything so as to be able to express all distinctly, so that

examiners may be satisfied now and pupils edified hereafter.

         1 Viz. of Elizabeth M'Keand (see above, p. 47).
CHAP. VI.]   SCHOLAR OF TRINITY.                         187

It is pleasant work and very strengthening, but not nearly

finished.

             FROM HIS FATHER.

                                                          Glenlair, 24th June 1853.  ^st. 22.

    I have just received your letter and Mr. Tayler's. You
Imay be sure am thankful to hear of your recovering,
Ialthough not previously made anxious about the illness.

cannot but think of the fever fit you had in Edinburgh after

an Academy exam., when we had settled to go to Melrose

Ithat was in 1846. 1 Nothing can exceed the kindness of
Mr. and Mrs. Tayler, and       hope you will not need long
Ifnursing.
             you are well and not much hindered, you can

let me know more fully how you are getting on. Neither
you nor Mr. Tayler mention the day you were taken ill.

Mr. T.'s letter is dated 22d.

                                                    Glenlair, 28th June 1853.

I am most thankful and happy to hear of your con-

valescence through Mr. Tayler's most kind and daily
Ibulletins.
             know not how sufficiently to thank Mr. and
IMrs. Tayler for their very great kindness.
                                             think you may

be best to come home, when fit to travel, for further

recreation.

                               Glenlair, 1st July 1853.

Mr. Tayler says, both truly and kindly, "You must be

Ihis guest till you are fit to travel." . . .            I do

     With yours have Mr. Tayler's letter of 28th.
not write to him to-day. My only subject is thanks, and

Ithese are not to be measured in words the strongest that

can use ; so at present give my respects and highest regards.

     1 From the Diary: "1846, July, W., 29. (Day of the prize-
giving at the Edinburgh Academy). Made all ready to start on journey
to-morrow morning. At night James complained of the light of the

candle hurting his eyes. Th. 30. Bad, wet day. Jas. awoke at six ;
eyes weak and headache ; . . . seems to be a disorder from excitement

of school examinations."
188        JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                   [CHAP. VI.

           To THE EEV. C. B. TAYLER.

           Trin. Coll, 8th July 1853.

                                   Evening Post.

     MY DEAR FRIEND Your letter was handed to me by
Ithe postman as was taking a walk after morning chapel.
I I IAs was engaged then, thought  might wait till the
Ievening.
           breakfasted with Macmillan the publisher,

who has a man called Alexander Smith with him, who

published a volume of poems in the beginning of the year

which have been much read here, and, indeed, everywhere,

for 3000 copies have been sold already. He is a designer
of patterns for needlework, and he refuses to be made cele-

brated or to leave his trade. He speaks strong Glasgow,

but without affectation, and is well-informed without the pre-

tence of education, commonly so called. People would not
expect from such a man a book in which the author seems

to transfer all his own states of mind to the objects he sees.

But he is young and may get wiser as he gets older.
He sees and can tell of the beauty of things, but he

connects them artificially. He may come to prefer the

real and natural connection, and after that he may per-

haps stir us all up by bringing before us real human
objects of interest he has only dimly seen in the solitude

of his youth.

   I Itold you how meant to go to Hopkins. He was not
Iin. had a talk with him on Sunday ; he recommended

light work for a while, and afterwards he would give me an

Iopportunity of making up what had lost by absence.
IYesterday did a paper of his on the Differential Calculus

without fatigue, and as well as usual.  Ask George
Ihow Mr. Hughes has arranged about Examinations.

will write to him soon, and send him a mass of papers

in an open packet, to be taken twice a week, or not so

often.

     You dimly allude to the process of spoiling which has
Igone on during the last 2 years.
                                   admit that people have
Ibeen kind to me, and also that have seen more variety
Ithan in other years ; but maintain that all the evil influ-
CHAP. VI.]            SCHOLAR OF TRINITY.  189

Iences that can trace have been internal and not external,
I Iyou know what mean that have the capacity of being

Imore wicked than any example that man could set me, and

that if escape, it is only by God's grace helping me to get
rid of myself, partially in science, more completely in society,

    but not perfectly except by committing myself to God as
the instrument of His will, not doubtfully, but in the certain

hope that that Will will be plain enough at the proper time.

I INevertheless, you see things from the outside directly, and

  only by reflexion, so hope that you will not tell me you

have little fault to find with me, without finding that little

and communicating it.

     In the Athenceum of the 2d there is Faraday's account

of his experiments on Table-turning, proving mechanically

that the table is moved by the unconscious pressure of the
fingers of the people wishing it to move, and proving besides

that Table-turners may be honest. The consequence has

been that letters are being written to Faraday boastfully

demanding explanations of this, that, and the other thing, as

if Faraday had made a proclamation of Omniscience. Such

is the fate of men who make real experiments in the popular

occult sciences, a fate very easy to be borne in silence and

confidence by those who do not depend on popular opinion,
or learned opinion either, but on the observation of Facts in

rational combination. Our anti-scientific men here triumph

over Faraday.
I hope the Eectory has flourished during the absence of
Iyou and Mrs. Tayler.
                       had got into habits with you of
I Iexpecting things to happen, and if wake at night think

the gruel is coming.

Macmillan was talking to me to-day about elementary

books of natural science, and he had found the deficiency,
but had a good report of " Philosophy in Sport made Science

I Iin Earnest," which spoke of with you. When am settled
I will put down some first principles and practicable experi-

ments on Light for Charlie, who is to write to me and

answer questions proposed ; but this in good time. Your
                       J. C. MAXWELL.
affectionate friend,
190          JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                   [CHAP. VI.

             To LEWIS CAMPBELL, Esq.

                                                    Trin. Coll, 14th July 1853.

    IYou wrote just in time for your letter to reach rne as
Ireached Cambridge. After examination went to visit the
IKev. C. B. Tayler (uncle to a Tayler whom think you have

seen under the name of Freshman, etc., and author of many

tracts and other didactic works). We had little expedites,

and walks, and things parochial and educational, and domes-
Iticity.
             intended to return on the 18th June, but on the
I17th felt unwell, and took measures accordingly to be

well again i.e. went to bed, and made up my mind to

recover. But it lasted more than a fortnight, during which
I Itime was taken care of beyond expectation (not that did
Inot expect much before). When
                                   was perfectly useless,

Iand could not sit up without fainting, Mr. Tayler did every-

thing for me in such a way that had no fear of giving

trouble. So did Mrs. Tayler; and the two nephews did all

they could. So they kept me in great happiness all the
Itime, and detained me till was able to walk about, and
Igot back strength.
                         returned on the 4th July.
     IThe consequence of all this is that cerrespond with

I IMr. Tayler, and have entered into bonds with the nephews,

of all of whom more hereafter. Since came here have

Ibeen attending Hop., but with his approval did not begin
full swing.  am getting on, though, and the work is not

grinding on the prepared brain.
     I have been reading Villette by Currer Bell alias Miss
IBronte.     think the authoress of Jane Eyre has not ceased

to think and acquire principles since that work left her

hands.                             The ego is a personage

    It is autobiographic in form.

of great self-knowledge and self-restraint, strength of prin-

ciple and courage when roused, otherwise preferring the

station of an onlooker.

     Then there is an excellent prying, upright, Jesuitical,

and successful French school directress ; a fiery, finical, phy-
siognomic professor, priestridden, but taking his own way in
benevolence as in other things, etc. etc.
CHAP. VI.]       SCHOLAR OF TRINITY.                  191

Faraday's experiments on Table-turning, and the answers

of provoked believers and the state of opinion generally, show

what the state of the public mind is with respect to the

principles of natural science. The law of gravitation and

the wonderful effects of the electric fluid are things which

you can ascertain by asking any man or woman not deprived

by penury or exclusiveness of ordinary information. But

they believe them just as they believe history, because it is

in books and is not doubted. So that facts in natural science

Iare believed on account of the number of witnesses, as they
ought !     believe that tables are turned ; yea ! and by an

unknown force called, if you please, the vital force, acting, as

believers say, thro' the fingers. But how does it affect the

table ? By the mechanical action of the sideward pressure

of the fingers in the direction the table ought to go, as
Faraday has shown. At this last statement the Turners

recoil.

                 RTo B. LITCHFIELD, Esq.

                                                        Coniston, 23d August 1858.

I came here with Campbell of Trin. Hall to meet his

brother and another Oxford man called Christie.1 We are

Iall in a house 2 just above the lake, recreating ourselves and
reading a little. Pomeroy is off to Ireland.     have seen a
good deal of him, and we have read " at the same time suc-
cessively " Vestiges of Creation and Maurice's Theological
... IEssays. Both have excited thought and talk.
                                                      was

Idown after the Mug 3 with Tayler's uncle in Suffolk, and was
taken in there.  was there made acquainted with the

peculiar constitution of a well-regulated family, consisting

entirely of nephews and nieces, and educated entirely by

the uncle and aunt. There was plenty of willing obedi-
ence, but little diligence : much mutual trust, and little self-

reliance. They did not strike out for themselves in different

lines, according to age, sex, and disposition, but each so

excessively sympathised (bond fide, of course) with the rest,

1 W. Christie, Esq., advocate.        2 Bank-ground.

                 3 Trinity College Examination.
192             JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.     [CHAP. VI.

that one could not be surprised at hearing any one take part

in criticising his own action.
     IIn such a case some would recommend " a little whole-
some neglect."  would suggest something like the scheme

of self- emancipation for slaves. Let each member of the

family be allowed some little province of thought, work, or

study, which is not to be too much enquired into or sym-

pathised with or encouraged by the rest, and let the limits

of this be enlarged till he has a wide, free field of inde-

pendent action, which increases the resources of the family

Iso much the more as it is peculiarly his own.
          see daily more and more reason to believe that the

Istudy of the "dark sciences" is one which will repay
investigation.  think that what is called the proneness to

superstition in the present day is much more significant

than some make it. The prevalence of a misdirected

tendency proves the misdirection of a prevalent tendency.

It is the nature and object of this tendency that calls for

examination.

                To LEWIS CAMPBELL, Esq.

                                                           Glenlair, 15th September 1853.

    I see that Principal Jelf is going to " have up " Maurice

for heresy published in his Theological Essays. The conse-
quence will probably be that some others unconnected with
Maurice will be set upon, and will perhaps join with him
in self-defence, or at least be associated with him in

popular opinion.

    If the row becomes general it will be the controversy of

the day. They have no firm and dogmatic statements to

grapple with, but they will soon make them. All the

ordinary disputes have been revivals of the letter of old

contests. Here we have the very spirit of all reformations ;
an attempt must be made to find what is requisite to
a Christian system, and whether the " variables " of such

a system ought to remain constant, as they were at some
arbitrary epoch (that of sect -founders, Fathers, General
Councils, Keformers, etc.), and not rather to be trusted to
the true and approved Christians of every age.
CHAP. VI.]  SCHOLAR OF TRINITY.                     193

But he that is misty let him be misty still, and the

same for him that is shallow ; but let him that is active not
mar his activity by " tearing his neighbours in their slime,"

or by ascending into the thick mist and    walking  with
" Death and Morning on the silver horns."

            FKOM His FATHER.

                                Glenlair, 10th October 1853.

1 have set up the rain-gauge in the middle of the

Igarden at the crossing of the  gooseberry bushes at the
Camomile.   think it will do.
                                I suppose from that, you
As to changing your rooms

have settled to continue for a time at Cambridge and to

look out for a fellowship.

                                                               Glenlair, 28th October 1853.

      Be sure to keep a long way within your powers of
working, and then you may do well whatever you undertake.

                                                           Glenlair, 13th November 1853.

      Your letter was chiefly a dissertation on the election of
Examinators ; the names were all strange to me, except our
old friend Charles Mackenzie.

            To Miss CAY.

                                                  Trin. Coll., 12th November 1853.

    I am in a regular state of health though not a very
Iregular state of reading, for hold that it is a pernicious
Ipractice to read when one is not inclined for it. So read

occasionally for a week and then miss a few days, always

remembering to do whatsoever College and Hopkins prescribe

to be done, and avoiding anything more. Allan Stewart

was up a week ago to be made a bye Fellow of Peter-

house, so you may congratulate him when you see him.

He is to be in Edinburgh this winter. Frank Mackenzie is

up, and seems pretty well. He tells me that he does not
Isit up late ; but as
                       have not the management of his
I Icandles do not know what that means with him.
                                                    have

                            o
194                JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                [CHAP. VI.

Inot been up after twelve for a long time except on Satur-
days when          am not reading. . . . You will have heard

how the Council of King's College have sat upon Professor

Maurice and intend to turn him out of the college. So

there are pamphlets and replies on the meaning of the word
I" Eternal," and broadsides of the Eecord on the SIDE of the
attack.     see that the Kev. Berkeley Addison is in trouble

about the Scottish Reformation Society, for associating with

non-episcopal clergymen.

                   To LEWIS CAMPBELL, Esq.

                                            Trin. Coll., 3d Dec. 1853.

      . . . We have the usual amount of discussion here on

labour parliaments, multiplicity of votes, Eternity and
Maurice and Jelf, or the contest between those who think

that there is a real depth to which thought must go, though

words cannot well follow and those who maintain that
                        a
that which                     it,

                                         a
            it is  not obvious to man of sense, cannot be

really connected with       religion which  is         not confined to

deep thinkers, but professes to afford the highest principles

to the simple. That what most men discuss. Maurice
                        is

has settled for himself, believing that the things of which

he treats do actually form the necessary thoughts of all men

whether learned or no.

                       FKOM HIS FATHER.

                            Glenlair, 16th December 1853.

         knew Thomas Erskine of Linlathen very well long ago.
He and his mother and sisters lived in No. 30 Heriot Eow.
He came to the Bar in Edinburgh the year before me. He

    related to George Duudas, and Stirlings, and Erskines,

and many families we visited. For long he has lived at
Linlathen, near Dundee, and author of various religious
is
books.
  I

                                                   is

                                I
                                   I
     Your dissertation on the parties in the Church of Eng-

land goes far beyond my knowledge.                     would need an ex-

planatory lecture first, and before can follow the High,

Broad, and Low, through their ramifications.
CHAP. VI.]     SCHOLAR OF TRINITY.                        195

                                                              Penicuik, 30th December /53.

     You will need to get muffetees for the Senate-Eoom.
Take your plaid or rug to wrap round your feet and legs.

               To Miss CAY.

                                            Trin. Coll., 13th January 1854.

All my correspondents have been writing to me, which

I Iis kind, and have not been writing questions, which is

kinder. So answer you now, while am slacking speed

Ito get up steam, leaving Lewis and Stewart, etc., till

next week, when will give an account of the five days.

There are a good many up here at present, and we get on

very jolly on the whole, but some are not well, and some are

going to be plucked or gulphed, as the case may be, and others
Iare reading so hard that they are invisible.
                                               go to-morrow
Ito breakfast with shaky men, and after food am to go and

hear the list read out, and whether they are through, and

bring them word. When the honour list comes out the

poll -men act as messengers.  Bob Campbell comes in

Ioccasionally of an evening now, to discuss matters and vary
sports. During examination    have had men at night
working with gutta-percha, magnets, etc. It is much better

than reading novels or talking after 5-J- hours' hard writing.
      Hunter is up here all the vacation. Do you know

Ianything of him in Edinburgh ? His father, who is dead,
or his uncle, were known in Edinburgh, but     am not

up in that subject. The present man is a freshman at
Queen's, and is a thundering mathematician, is well in-

formed on political, literary, and speculative subjects, and

is withal a jolly sort of fellow with some human nature at

the bottom, and lots of good humour all through. He does

not talk much, and when he does it is broad Scotch and to
Ithe purpose.
               hope to see more of him next term. Old
ICharlie Eobertson is in better case think than usual, and

rejoices in the good opinion of several men whose opinion

is most worth having. He has become better known and

better estimated of late, especially since Sandy 1 came up.

1 Alexander Robertson, Esq., now Sheriff of Forfarshire.
196            JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. VI.

He did pretty well in the three days, and does not fret about

Ianything. The snow here is nearly gone, and it looks like
frost again.  have never missed a long tramp through the

slush day by day. When one is well soaked in a snow

wreath, cleaned and dried, and put beside a good fire, with

Ibread and butter and problems, one can eat and grind like a

miller. . . have been reading a book of poems called

Benoni, by Arthur Munby of Trinity, which are above the

Icommon run of such things   (not  Lorenzo Benoni, illustrated
                  have seen  but   not read). Have you seen
by J. B., which

the Black Brothers, a small book of Euskin's, illustrated by

Doyle ; a good child's book, which big people ought to

read.

                 FKOM His FATHER.

                             18 India St., 30th January 1854.
   I heartily congratulate you on your place in the list.
I suppose it is higher than the speculators would have
Iguessed, and quite as high as Hopkins reckoned on.
                                                     wish

I I Iyou success in the Smith's Prizes ; be sure to write me the
result.       will see Mrs. Morrieson, and think will call

on Dr. Gloag to congratulate him. He has at least three

pupils gaining honours.
CHAP. VII.]  BACHELOR-SCHOLAR.  197

                    CHAPTEE VII.

            BACHELOR-SCHOLAR AND FELLOW OF TRINITY

                         1854 TO 1856 JET. 22-24.

                               " In the Main of Light."

JAMES CLERK MAXWELL'S position as Second Wrangler
and equal Smith's Prizeman, gave deep satisfaction

to his friends in Edinburgh. Any lurking wish that

he had been Senior was silenced by the examples of
William Thomson and Charles Mackenzie, as others
have been since consoled with the examples of
Maxwell and Clifford. His father was persuaded by

Miss Cay to sit for his portrait to Sir John Watson
Gordon, as a gift of lasting value to his son. James

was not indifferent to these reflex aspects of his
success ; but the chief interest of the moment to him
undoubtedly was that he was now free to prosecute
his life-career, and to use his newly-whetted instru-
ments in resuming his original investigations. His
leisure was not absolute, for he took pupils as a
matter of course, and the Trinity Fellowship was only
to be gained by examination. But his freedom was

as great as he himself desired, and it is a fact worthy
of attention from "researchers," that Maxwell, with
his heart fully set on physical inquiries, engaged of
198  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. VII.

his own accord in teaching, undertook the task of

examining Cheltenham College, and submitted to the

routine which belonged to his position at Cambridge.
As a foretaste of delights in store, he had spent
the evenings of the Senate-house days in (physico-)
magnetic seances with his friends. But when actually

emancipated he seems to have reverted principally
at first to his beloved Optics. He makes inquiries

about a microscope manufactory at Zurich ; reads

Berkeley's Theory of Vision taking up Mill's Logic

by the way, and finding there by no means the
last word on the relation of sense to knowledge ;
looks up his stock of coloured papers furnished
by D. K. Hay, and sets to work spinning and

weaving the different rays ; inquires him out colour-
blind persons on all sides ; and invents an instru-

ment for inspecting the living retina, especially
of dogs. By and by it is the Art of Squinting which
again has charms for him, and he combines it with
the teaching of solid and spherical geometry, by

drawing wonderful stereoscopic diagrams. So far, his
investigations oscillate between colour and form.
But even the fascination of the Colour-Top * cannot

1 The "colour-box," though perfected only in 1862, was in full
Ioperation in the study at Glenlair several years before this
                                                               think as

early as 1850. And even then he had begun spinning coloured discs,
proportionately arranged, so as to ascertain the true " mixture of

colours." He was fond of insisting, to his female cousins, aunts, etc.,
Ion the truth that blue and yellow do not make green.
                                                       remember

his explaining to me the difference between pigments and colours, and

showing me, through the " colour-box," that the central band in the
spectrum was different from any of the hitherto so-called " primary
CHAP. VII.]  BACHELOR-SCHOLAR.                                  199

hold him long from searching into the more hidden

things of Matter in Motion. Thus, in his letter to

his father of May 15, 1855, after describing a suc-

cessful exhibition of the Top and extemporary state-

"Iment of his optical theories before the Cambridge
Philosophical Society, he adds :              am reading

Electricity and working at Fluid Motion." And on

IMay 23 " am getting on with my electrical cal-

culations every now and then, and working out any-

thing that seems to help the understanding thereof/

ISome days earlier, May 5, he had written : " am

working away at Electricity again, and have been

working my way into the views of heavy German

writers. It takes a long time to reduce to order all

Ithe notions one gets from these men, but hope to

see my way through the subject, and arrive at some-

thing intelligible in the way of a theory." These brief

notices obviously refer to the studies which led up to

his important paper on Faraday's Lines of Force,

which was put into shape in the winter of 1855-6.

The "vassals" were not forgotten by him even

when most occupied at Cambridge. The choice and

colours." His theory on this subject was gradually formed through

an immense number of ingeniously arranged observations.

His interest in Faraday's investigations must have dated from a

very early time, certainly before 1849. And now he sought to give

to these speculations, at which his imaginative mind had long been
I Iworking, precise mathematical expression.
                                  wish could recall the

date (1857 ?) of a drive down the Vale of Orr, during which he described
to me for the first time, with extraordinary volubility, the swift, invis-

ible motions by which magnetic and galvanic phenomena were to be

accounted for. It was like listening to a fairy-tale. For the substance

of it see his papers in the Philosophical Magazine for 1861-2.
200  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. VII.

provision of suitable literature for the consumption of
Sam Murdoch and Sandy Fraser is a frequent topic of
correspondence between him and his father.

     How earnestly he now set himself to make the
most of life in a religious sense appears from a sort of

aphorism on conduct which he wrote down originally
for his own use, and afterwards communicated as a

parting gift to his friend Farrar (now Canon of West-
minster), who was about to become a master at Marl-
borough School. As a record of the spirit in which
Maxwell entered at three-and-twenty on his independ-
ent career, this fragment 1 is of extraordinary value.

      He that would enjoy life and act with freedom must

h ave the work of the day continually before his eyes. Not
yesterday's work, lest he fall into despair, nor to-morrow's,

lest he become a visionary, not that which ends with the

day, which is a worldly work, nor yet that only which re-
mains to eternity, for by it he cannot shape his actions.

      Happy is the man who can recognise in the work of

To-day a connected portion of the work of life, and an

embodiment of the work of Eternity. The foundations of

his confidence are unchangeable, for he has been made a

partaker of Infinity. He strenuously works out his daily
enterprises, because the present is given him for a possession.

      Thus ought Man to be an impersonation of . the divine
process of nature, and to show forth the union of the infinite
with the finite, not slighting his temporal existence, remem-
bering that in it only is individual action possible, nor yet
shutting out from his view that which is eternal, knowing
that Time is a mystery which man cannot endure to
contemplate until eternal Truth enlighten it.

     1 An autograph copy was found amongst his papers. Another
copy, together with the interesting fact mentioned above, determining

the date, has been supplied by Canon Farrar's kindness.
OHAP. VII.]  BACHELOR-SCHOLAR.             201

Meanwhile in his recreations he was as boyishly

agile as ever, and his feats in bathing and gymnastics,

though cautiously reported by him, somewhat alarmed

his father, whose own health now showed signs of

breaking.                                  To the list
     His friendships went on multiplying.

already given must now be added in particular the

names of Hort, V. Lushington, Pomeroy, and Cecil
Monro. And his constant observation of character

was gaining in fulness and precision. A letter to his
father of 21st April 1855, besides referring to a pupil

(Platt) who had gained a Trinity scholarship, contains
a graphic delineation of several of his coevals wTho

were going in for the first open competition for ap-
pointments in the Indian Civil Service. He confides

to his father all his thoughts about them, in which

speculative and personal interests are combined.
     He had soon another outlet for this kind of sym-

pathy. The children of his uncle, Mr. E. Dundas

Cay, who had lately returned from Hong-Kong, were
advancing in their education, and two of the boys,
William and Charles, showed considerable promise in
mathematics. He had spent some days with his
cousins in the summer vacation of 1854 at Keswick,

where there was also a Cambridge reading party under
Mathison, the tutor of Trinity. After a joyous time
with them he walked home to Galloway from Carlisle,

and it was during this walk that he thought out
certain improvements in his dynamical top. He
took a continuous interest in the progress of his

cousins, and prepared a special set of problems for
202  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                     [CHAP. VII.

the behoof of Willy, the eldest, who was by this time
a student in Edinburgh.

     Maxwell continued his contributions to the

"Apostle" Essay Club, and on May 5, 1855, he
read to them in his own rooms a paper on Morality,
in which he summed up the principles and tendencies
of the chief existing systems of moral philosophy, so

resuming another thread of his earlier thought. 1
     This essay appears to have been promised early in

the year, to judge from an allusion to the subject of

it in a letter to C. J. Monro of February 7, which may

be quoted here as showing also by what home cares
his intellectual energies were interrupted or diversified.
The reader of what precedes will not be misled by the
light way in which he speaks of things which touched

his heart so nearly.

     I am at present superintending a course of treatment

practised on my father, for the sake of relieving certain

defluxions which take place in his bronchial tubes. These

obstructions are now giving way, and the medico, who is a

skilful bellowsmender, pronounces the passages nearly clear.
     However, it will be a week or two before he is on his

pins again, so would you have the goodness to tell Freeman
Ito tell Mrs. Jones to tell those whom it may concern, that
... Icannot be up to time at all.
                                   may be up in time to

keep the term, and so work off a streak of Mathematics,

I Iwhich begin to yearn after. At present confine myself
Ito Lucky Nightingale's line of business, except that have

been writing descriptions of Platometers for measuring plane

figures, and privately by letter confuting rash mechanics,

Iwho intrude into things they have not got up, and suppose
that their devices will act when they can't.  hope that

     1 Supra, p. 114.
CHAP. VII.]  BACHELOR-SCHOLAR.                           203

my absence will not delay the assumption of W. D.

Maclagan. 1 He has been here all the vacation, if not there

and everywhere. The foundation of Ethics, though it may

have tickled my core, has not germinated at my vertex.

IWhether it will yet be laid bare, either as a paradox or a
truism, is more than             can tell. Perhaps it may be a

Ipun. . . .

         have now to do a little cooking and buttling, in the

shape of toast and beef-tea and everfizzing draught. . .
                                                         ?
Does Pomeroy flourish, and has he Crimean letters still              .'.-

It was only because his father insisted on his

doing so that he returned to Cambridge at all at this

time.

At the meeting of the British Association, held at ^t. 24.

Glasgow in September 1855, Maxwell was present

when Brewster made an attack on Whe well's optical

theories, but he followed the example of the Master
of Trinity, who was present, in saying nothing. He

exhibited his Colour -Top, however, the same after-

noon, by appointment, at Professor Ramsay's house,

where Brewster had been expected, but did not appear.
Maxwell at the same time renewed his intercourse

with Dr. George Wilson, the Edinburgh Professor of

Technology, whose likeness hung beside that of
Forbes in his rooms at Trinity. Wilson brought out

immediately afterwards little book on Colour Blind-
1

           is
                                        a
ness, in which the substance of his conversations with

Maxwell recorded.

     In October he gained his fellowship at Trinity.                        1855 -

It was his second trial, and his name appeared as one

       Now Bishop of Lichfield.            Maxwell had recommended him for

co-optation by the "Apostles'" Club.
204  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.      [CHAP. VII.

of three mathematicians who had been chosen from
the bachelors of the second year.

      He was at once appointed to lecture to the Upper
.Division of the third year in Hydrostatics and Optics,
and, to reserve time for his own studies, he now

desisted from taking private pupils. He had indeed
enough to occupy him without burdening him self with
them. Besides the lecture in hydrostatics and optics,
for which he found it desirable to read beforehand " so
as not to tell lies," he had a large share in " exercising

the questionists," i.e. preparing pass-men for the final
examination, by setting papers in arithmetic, algebra,
etc., and looking them over with the writers indi-

vidually.
     He had also been asked to prepare a text-book 1 on

optics, and made some plans for doing so, having pre-
viously resisted the solicitation of his friend Monro,
who had urged upon him the task of " translating

Newton." And it is a fact worthy of the attention of
bachelor fellows, that young Clerk Maxwell thought it
worth while to attend the lectures of the Professor of

Mechanics 2 and to exchange ideas with him.
     For Electricity and Magnetism he took out Poisson

again, and presently began putting together more sys-

tematically his own ideas on Faraday's Lines of Force.
     His interest in coevals and juniors, which even in

his undergraduate days was often like that of an

1 The MS. of a considerable part of this book is still extant. There

Iappears to have been sometimes a contest in his mind between the

claims of different subjects. " will have nothing to do with optics,"

he was heard once to exclaim.  2 Professor Willis.
CHAP. VII.]  BACHELOR-SCHOLAR.  205

elder brother, assumed a deeper and more authoritative

cast. He read more widely than ever, and nothing,
from the latest novel to the newest metaphysical
system, escaped his penetrating mind. He never
read without criticising, and his criticisms, often
quaintly expressed, were always worth attending to.

" I hope that analysis of Hegel has done the writer

good," " Comte has good ideas about method, but no
notion of what is meant by a person," " Some people
keep wrater-tight compartments in their minds." Such

were the sparks that flew about. Other examples,

not less striking, will be found in the letters. His
observation of social phenomena also took a new

departure, and his remarks on life and manners were

endlessly entertaining.
     He was elected a member of the Kay Club, which

he had attended as a visitor in the spring, and did not
forsake the assembling of the " Apostles," as appears
from at least two essays which can only be referred
to this period. He also took an active interest in the
scheme for the higher education of working men,
which had been lately set on foot by Mr. Maurice.

     Between whiles he found time for a full course of

classical English reading. And as all that he read
he read critically, and had it thereafter in perfect pos-
session, his literary acquirements were bv this time of
no mean order. He was, at the same time, careful to
maintain himself in proper physical condition, by a
steady course of exercises at the new gymnasium,
which proved a welcome refuge in the wet November

of that year. It was an unhealthy season, and to
206  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.     [CHAP. VII.

all his other employments was now added that of

helping to nurse his friend Pomeroy, who was struck

down with bilious fever.                             It is
     His many-sided nature was in full activity.

most characteristic of him that at this important crisis

of his intellectual life, the best hour of day after day

was given ungrudgingly to the task of literally making

a friend's bed in his sickness. A lighter trait of the

same kind may be found in the fact that, in the midst

of the fellowship examination, he had given his father
detailed advice about the " vassals' " reading :
" When Sam Murdoch has finished Arabia, there are

the volumes of the Cabinet Library, called Drake,

Cavendish, and Dampier, and Circumnavigation of
the Globe, Humboldt's Travels and Polar Regions,

but it would be better to change and try the third

volume of Household Words."

     His thoughts turned homewards the more often,

because his father's health was now becoming a matter

for grave anxiety. In going up to Trinity for the
fellowship trials, he had been doubtful whether in any
case it would be right for him to stay up for the rest

of the term. And, although this question was decided

in the affirmative, every letter home bears some trace

of his unceasing solicitude.

     Thus, at the close of a period of manifold brightness,

there was some foreshadowing of darker days shortly to

come, when Death would take his father from him, and

make the first breach in the circle of his friends.
CHAP. VII.]    BACHELOR-SCHOLAR.                                                     207

               LETTERS, 1854 TO 1856.

               FROM HIS FATHER.

                                 India Street, 4th Feby. 1854.
I have got yours of the 1st inst., and to-night or on
I IMonday will expect to hear of the Smith's Prizes.
                                                                                     get

congratulations on all hands, including Prof. Kelland and

Sandy Eraser, and all others competent.

                                 18 India St., 6th Feby. 1854.

George Wedderburn came into my room at 2 A.M.

Iyesterday morning, having seen the Saturday Times, received

by the express train, and got your letter before breakfast

yesterday. As you are equal to the Senior in the champion

trial, you are but a very little behind him.
I am going to dine with John Cay, and with him pro-
Iceed to the Royal Society.
                                 may perhaps catch Prof.

Gregory about the microscopist.

                                              5th March 1854.

Mrs. Morrieson told me she had a poetical epistle from

you on St. David's Day. 1

     Aunt Jane stirred me up to sit for my picture, as she
said you wished for it and were entitled to ask for qua
is

       I

              it

                     is
                                           a

                               ;I

                                                             it

                                                                              is
                                                                                 is

                                                                                it,
wrangler.    have had four sittings to Sir John Watson

Gordon, and    now far advanced          think       very like.
It Kit-cat size, to be
                           companion to Dyce's picture of

your mother and self, which Aunt Jane says she to leave

to you.

               To E. B. LITCHFIELD, Esq.

                                 Trin. Coll., 25th March 1854.

         am experiencing the effects of Mill, but take him
I                                it
                                   of is
      is
                                           II
    I                                           I

                                                                                                       ;
slowly.      do not think him the last of his kind.           think

more wanted to bring the connexion of sensation with

Science to light, and show what          not. have been

reading Berkeley on the Theory           Vision, and greatly

             as do all his other non-mathematical works
admirei
          it,

            I
         Mrs. Morrieson's early home was in Montgomeryshire.
208  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. VII.

Ibut was disappointed to find that he had at last fallen

into the snare of his own paradoxes, and thought that his
discoveries with regard to the senses and their objects would
show some fallacy in those branches of high mathematics

which he disliked. It is curious to see how speculators are

led by their neglect of exact sciences to put themselves in

opposition to them where they have not the slightest point

of contact with their systems. In the Minute Philosopher

there is some very bad Political Economy and much very
good thinking on more interesting subjects. Paradox is
still sought for and exaggerated. We live in an age of
wonder still.

                                 To Miss CAY.

                                                     Trin. Coll., Whitsun. Eve, 1854.

    I am in great luxury here, having but 2 pups., and able to
Iread the rest of the day, so have made a big hole in some
I Isubjects wish to know. We have hot weather now, and

am just come from a meeting of subscribers to the Bathing
Shed, which we organised into a Swimming Club so as to
make it a more sociable affair, instead of mere " pay your

money and use your key."

     A nightingale has taken up his quarters just outside my

window, and works away every night. He is at it very
fierce now. At night the owls relieve him, softly sighing

Iafter their fashion.
          have made an instrument for seeing into the eye
through the pupil. The difficulty is to throw the light in

Iat that small hole and look in at the same time ; but that

difficulty is overcome, and can see a large part of the back

Iof the eye quite distinctly with the image of the candle on it.

People find no inconvenience in being examined, and have
got dogs to sit quite still and keep their eyes steady. Dogs'
eyes are very beautiful behind, a copper-coloured ground,

with glorious bright patches and networks of blue, yellow,
and green, with blood-vessels great and small.

                                                     Trin. Coll, 24th Novr. J54.

I have been very busy of late with various things, and
CHAP. VII.]        BACHELOR-SCHOLAR.             209

am just beginning to make papers for the examination at
I llthCheltenham, which have to conduct about the
IDecember.                                         of

Ipups. with.  have also to make papers to polish off my

              have been spinning colours a great deal,

and have got most accurate results, proving that ordinary
peoples' eyes are all made alike, though some are better

than others, and that other people see two colours instead

Iof three ; but all those who do so agree amongst themselves.
   have made a triangle of colours by which you may make

out everything.

     You see that W lies outside the triangle B, K, Y, so that

White can't be

made with Blue,

Ked, and Yellow ;

but if you mix

blue and yellow

you don't get

green, but pink            Those who see two colours

a colour between W and K.

only distinguish blue and yellow, but not red and green: for

instance

      6 of blue and 94 of red make a red which looks to

them like a gray made of 10 W and 90 Black.

    I40 of blue and 60 of green make 34 of W and 66 Black,

       should like you to find out if the Normans have got
Bishop Percy's JReliques of Ancient Ballad Poetry, for if they

I Ihave would not send them a duplicate ; if not think the

book would suit one-half of that family.

    If you can find out any people in Edinburgh who do

I Inot see colours (I know the Dicksons don't), pray drop a
hint that would like to see them.     have put one here

Iup to a dodge by which he distinguishes colours without

fail. have also constructed a pair of squinting spectacles,

and am beginning operations on a squinting man.

                 To C. J. MONRO, Esq.

                               18 India Street, Edinburgh, 19th Feb. /55.

My steps will be no more by the reedy and crooked
210  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                        [CHAP. VII.

till Easter term. My father's recovery is retarded by the
frosty weather, though we have got up an etherial mild-

ness here by means of a good fire and a towel hung up wet
at the other end of the room, together with an internal

exhibition of nitric ether.

    I wrote to Mackenzie about putting a respectable man

I Iin my rooms as a stopper to Cat's Hall men, Manns and
Boy Joneses, but have not heard of his success.  have

no time at present for anything except looking through

novels, etc., and finding passages which will not offend my

father to read to him. He strongly objects to new-fangled

books, and knows the old by heart. But he likes the Essays

in Intervals of Business, cause why, they have not too many

Iwords. The frost here has lasted long, and am beginning
Ito make use of it.
                     get an uncle to take my place in the
I Iafternoon, and rush off to Lochend or Duddingston.

have not yet succeeded in skating on one foot for an inde-

finite time and getting up speed by rising and sinking at the

Ibends of the path ; but attribute my failure to want of
Ifaith, for can get up speed for a single bend, only I always
Islip at a certain critical turning. However, have only
Ibeen 3 days, and may do it yet. My plans are not
Ifixt, but think it will be some while before my father is
Ion his pins again, and when he is I intend to look after him

still, but do a private streak of work, for will soon be in a

too much bottled up condition of mathematics, from which
Ieven mental collapse would be a relief.
                                          have no intention
Iof doing a Newton or any elegant mathematics.
                                                 have a

few thoughts on top-spinning and sensation generally, and a

kind of dim outline of Cambridge palavers, tending to

shadow forth the influence of mathematical training on

I Iopinion and speculation.

        suppose when my father can move will see him out of
this eastern clime and safe located in Gallovidian westnesses,

Iand so be up in Cam. before the beginning of next term.
          should like to know how many kept baccalaurean

weeks go to each of these terms, and when they begin and
end. Overhaul the calendar, and when found make note of.
CHAP. VII.]  BACHELOR-SCHOLAR.  211

      Is Pomeroy up, or where ? This is the 2nd time of

asking.

                                   To HIS FATHER.

                                        Triii. Coll., Saturday, 21st April 1855.
                                                  [Date in John C. M.'s hand.]

      Lots of men are going in for the H.E.I. C.S. examination,

  IPomeroy, B., C., D. (the best double degree for many

years), E. (Senior Wrangler), etc., so suppose the competi-
tion will be pretty active ; but it is evident that these men
will be totally different judges, etc., tho' they may be all
good in examination subjects.

       Pomeroy is a genial giant, generous and strong, but
hasty in condemnation tho' slow to wrath. B., intelligent
and able to detect any humbug but his own ; but excitable,
and impudent in the extreme to people he does not know.
C. has strong feelings and affections, with a great amount

of sympathy for all cases, but it is repressed for want of
courage, and he is left with somewhat of a sneaking virtue
of his own, always trying to put on the manners which
suit those he is with. D. is a good man of business, using

Iup every scrap of his time most successfully, and honest,
I Ibelieve. E. is what don't know, but can conceive him

reduced by circumstances to act the part of Sir Elijah Impey

Iin India ; but hope circumstances may be different, and

then he may be a harmless mathematician or scientific

referee, and leave a high reputation behind him.

                               Trin. Coll., Vesp. SS. Philipp. & S. Jac. 1855.

    I have been working at the motion of fluids, and have

got out some results. I am going to show the colour trick

at the Philosophical on Monday. Eouth has been writing
a book about Newton in conjunction with Lord Brougham.
Stokes is back again and lecturing as usual.

                                                               Saturday, 5th May 1855.

    IThe Eoyal Society have been very considerate in send-

ing me my paper on colours just when wanted it for the
212              JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.    [CHAP. VII.

IPhilosophical here.     am to let them see the tricks on
IMonday evening, and have been there preparing their

experiments in the gas-light. There is to be a meeting in

I Imy rooms to-night to discuss Adam Smith's "Theory of Moral
Sentiments," so must clear up my litter presently.    am

working away at electricity again, and have been working

my way into the views of heavy German writers. It takes

Ia long time to reduce to order all the notions one gets from

these men, but hope to see my way through the subject

and arrive at something intelligible in the way of a theory.

                              Trin. Coll., 15th May 1*55.
     IThe colour trick came off on Monday, 7th.
                                                    had the
Iproof sheets of my paper, and was going to read ; but

changed my mind and talked instead, which was more to the

purpose. There were sundry men who thought that Blue

I Iand Yellow make Green, so had to undeceive them.

have got Hay's book of colours out of the Univ. Library,

and am working through the specimens, matching them
Iwith the top.
                 have a new trick of stretching the string

horizontally above the top, so as to touch the upper part of

the axis. The motion of the axis sets the string a-vibrating

in the same time with the revolutions of the top, and the

colours are seen in the haze produced by the vibration.

Thomson has been spinning the top, and he finds my dia-

Igram of colours agrees with his experiments, but he doubts
about browns what is their composition.  have got col-

cothar brown, and can make white with    it,and blue and

green also, by mixing red with little blue and green and1
a                          a
                                                I
great deal of black, can match colcothar exactly.I
             ;   aI
              have been perfecting my instrument for looking into

the eye. Ware has little beast like old Ask, which sits

quite steady and seems to like being looked at, and have

got several men who have large pupils and do not wish to

let me look in.  have seen the image of the candle dis-
                 I
tinctly in all the eyes1I  have tried, and the veins of the

                         Above, p. 57.
CHAP. VII.]  BACHELOR-SCHOLAR.                  213

retina were visible in some ; but the dogs' eyes showed all

the ramifications of veins, with glorious blue and green net-
Iwork, so that you might copy down everything.
                                                have

shown lots of men the image in my own eye by shutting off

the light till the pupil dilated and then letting it on.

    I am reading Electricity and working at Fluid Motion,

and have got out the condition of a fluid being able to flow

the same way for a length of time and not wriggle about.

                                                  Trin. Coll., Eve. of H. M. Nativity.

    IWednesday last went with Hort and Elphinstone to

the Ray Club, which met at Kingsley of Sidney's rooms.
Kingsley is great in photography and microscopes, and
showed photographs of infusoria, very beautiful, also live

... Iplants and animals, with oxy-hydrogen microscope.
                  am getting on with my electrical calculations now
and then, and working out anything that seems to help the

understanding thereof.

                                   FROM HIS FATHER,

                                                               Glenlair, 21st May 1855.
      Have you put a burn in fit condition to flow evenly,
and not beat on its banks from side to side ? That would
be the useful practical application.

             J.FROM PROFESSOR  D. FORBES.

                                                    Clifton, Bristol, 4th May 1855.

    I left directions with Messrs. Neill & Co. to forward
Iproofs of your paper, by inquiring at 1 8 India Street, and
Iunderstand that they were sent out on the 1st May.

         am informed that my note to you about some of my
experiments on colour has been printed in the Edinburgh

IPhilosophical Journal. This was by no means what in-
Itended. . . . What thought that you might do was to intro-

duce into that part of your paper where you speak of what
has been done or written on the subject, mention of the fact

that as early as January 1 8 (I do not at the moment recol-
214  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.      [CHAP. VII.

I Ilect the year stated to you) had used the method of
Irapid motion in blending colours ; that had endeavoured

to obtain an equation between certain mixed colours and

Ipure gray ; and that had pointed out before Helmholtz, or
I believe any one else, that a mixture of yellow and blue,

under these circumstances at least, does not produce green ;

I Iyou yourself being a witness to what then tried, though

was prevented from resuming the subject by ill health and

Isome experimental occupations (conduction of heat) which
Iconsidered more imperative.

         hope you will continue to prosecute your interesting

I Iinquiries, and with an equal measure of success.
         address this to Cambridge, as think you said you
should be there this month.

     FROM THE SAME.

                                                  Clifton, Bristol, 16th May 1855.

     I am much obliged by your note mentioning your

Iintention of referring to my experiments.

     You inquire how altered the proportions of the con-

I Istituent colours. My plan was, in fact, the same as yours.
had sectors much larger than   required of each colour,

making them overlap, and fixing them down by a screw at

the centre, pressing a disc of indiarubber on the discs.

I IWhen got the anomalous result of blue and yellow,

got Mr. Hay to make a disc of many alternating narrow
sectors merely to see whether it might be a physiological

Ieffect from the imperfect blending of the colours.

        still think the experiment ought to be tried without

motion, by winding blue and yellow threads of silk or

worsted round a card and looking at it at a good distance,

or (as you proposed) by viewing it with a telescope out of

Ifocus.                        had -a whirling-machine (made

      You will recollect that

Ion purpose), in which a number of discs revolved simultane-
ously with equal velocities.   used black and white on

one of these; colours on another. Your teetotum, com-

Ibining both, consider preferable for experiments. By the
CHAP. VII.]     BACHELOR-SCHOLAR.                                  215

Iway,  did not get the teetotum you were to leave for

me.

      IP.S.  hope you have got the proof of the plate as
Ifwell as of the paper.
                         not, write to Messrs. Johnston,

engravers, 4 St. Andrew Square, Edinburgh.

                RTo B. LITCHFIELD, Esq.

                                    Trin. Coll, 6th June 1855.

    IIt is hard work grinding out "appropriate ideas," as

Whewell calls them. However, think they are coming

out at last, and by dint of knocking them against all the
Ifacts and ^--digested theories afloat, hope to bring them to
Ishape, after which
                        hope to understand something more
Iabout inductive philosophy than do at present.
      I have a project of sifting the theory of light and mak-

ing everything stand upon definite experiments and definite

assumptions, so that things may not be supposed to be

Iassumptions when they are either definitions or experiments.
         have been looking into all the dogs' eyes here to see
the bright coating at the back of the eye, thro' an instru-

I Iment made to that end. The spectacle is very fine.

remember the appearance of Mungo's eyes at Cheltenham.
He would be the dog to sit. Human eyes are very dark
and brown as to their retina, but you can see the image of

a candle quite well on  and sometimes the blood-vessels,it,

etc.                            of

      FROM WILLIAM DYCE CAY, Esq., TO JOHN C. M.

      (Glasgow, at the Meeting the British Association).

                                             18th September 1855.

      Sir David Brewster was upon the triple spectrum. As

far as can understand, he believes the spectrum to be
      I
             I
composed of three colours red, blue, and yellow; and that
the intermediate colours are composed of mixtures of these,

as, for example, the green from              mixture of blue and
                        is
                                          a
yellow, which, think,    different from what James be-
216         JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. VII.

lieves. James did not say anything in the controversy
which followed his speech, as he was to meet Sir D.
Brewster at the Kamsays' afterwards, where he would have
his top and other apparatus to show him.

            To HIS FATHER.

(After the Meeting of the British Association at Glasgow).

            Holbrooke, by Derby, %4tli Sept. 1S55.

      We had a paper from Brewster on the theory of three
colours in the spectrum, in which he treated Whewell with

philosophic pity, commending him to the care of Prof.
Wartman of Geneva, who was considered the greatest
authority in cases of his kind, cases in fact of colour-blind-
ness. Whewell was in the room, but went out, and avoided

the quarrel ; and Stokes made a few remarks, stating the

case not only clearly but courteously. However, Brewster

did not seem to see that Stokes admitted his experiments to

be correct, and the newspapers represented Stokes as calling
in question the accuracy of the experiments.

    I Iam getting my electrical mathematics into shape, and
Isee through some parts which were rather hazy before ; but

do not find very much time for it at present, because I am

Ireading about heat and fluids, so as not to tell lies in my
lectures.   got a note from the Society of Arts about the

platometer, awarding thanks, and offering to defray the ex-

penses to the extent of 10, on the machine being produced

I Iin working order. When have arranged it in my head,

Iintend to write to James Bryson about it.
          got a long letter from Thomson about colours and

electricity. He is beginning to believe in my theory about

Iall colours being capable of reference to three standard ones,

and he is very glad that should poach on his electrical

preserves.

                                                           Trin. Coll., 27th Sept. 1855.

  ',,: . . It is difficult to keep up one's interest in intel-

lectual matters when friends of the intellectual kind are
CHAP. VII.]       BACHELOR-SCHOLAR.                                   217

scarce. 1 However, there are plenty friends not intellectual,
who serve to bring out the active and practical habits of

Imind, which overly-intellectual people seldom do. Where-
Ifore, if am to be up this term, intend to addict myself

rather to the working men who are getting up classes, than
to pups., who are in the main a vexation. Meanwhile there

is the examination 2 to consider.

                  Trin. Coll., 5th October 1855.
IYou say Dr. Wilson has sent his book.
                                                              will write and
IIthank him.
             suppose it is about colour-blindness.

intend to begin Poisson's papers on electricity and magnetism
Ito-morrow.
             have got them out of the library ; my reading

hitherto has been of novels, Shirley and The Newcomes, and

now Westward Ho.

                  Trin. Coll., 10th October 1855.

    IMacmillan proposes to get up a book of optics, with my

assistance, and feel inclined for the job. There is great

bother in making a mathematical book, especially on a sub-
ject with which you are familiar, for in correcting it you do

as you would to pups. look if the principle and result is

Iri^ht, and forget to look out for small errors in the course

of the work. However, expect the work will be salutary,

as involving hard work, and in the end much abuse from

coaches and students, and certainly no vain fame, except in

IMacmillan's puffs. But, if have rightly conceived the plan

of an educational book on optics, it will be very different in

manner, though not in matter, from those now used.

                                    FROM HIS FATHER.

                                                         Gknlair, 10th October 1855.

     The book sent by Dr. Wilson is the full edition about
colour-blindness, with notes and appendices, containing your
letter to him and notices of your communications to him on

the subject.

     1 This is said d propos of a recent visit  to a college  friend  who was
settled as a clergyman in the country.

     2 For the Trinity College Fellowship.
218                   JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.     [CHAP. VII.

                      To LEWIS CAMPBELL, Esq.

                            Trin. Coll, 17th October 1855.

     I expect to be grinding this term. There are lectures on

hydrostatics and optics, papers for questionists to be set

and read over with the men, which is procrastinations.
IBesides this may have to lecture the working men, and
I Iwhat spare time have intend to use on various subjects,
Iwhich will keep me in work for some time to come, so do
Inot require any pupils to keep my hand in this term.
                                                       was

looking for Jowett's book in the library, but, as usual, all the

new theology had been carried off in a lump by the M.A.'s,
Iwho get in the first day.
                            wanted Ellicott, but he was out
I Itoo, so took Carlyle on the French Ee volution.
                                                    have

been reading the English language, comprising Chaucer, Sir

Tristram, Bacon F., Pope, Berkeley, Goldsmith, Cowper, Burns'

letters, Isaac Taylor's Saturday Night, Carlyle, Kuskin,

IKingsley, Maurice, and combining the whole with Trench on

English Past and Present, and with all this derive pleasure

and information, but not a single glimmer of a theory about

Words.

    IAnd yet have presently to state whether words mould

thought or thought brews words. Is not one theory as

good as another ? Faith and a dale better too, if it was not

for the sake of laying them together by the ears, which is a

I Idifficult task when you have to catch both yourself.
         was staying at the Blackburns' when was at Glas-

gow, but they were away, and the Kamsays fed and tended
Ime. found your photograph there, together with a few
Iother pleasant recollections.
                                have been over to H. M.

Butler, who is come up again. We were talking about

IMaurice, etc. Maurice is a man am loath to say nay to, or
Ito accuse of wilful perversion of facts; but in some matters

think he is in great error, especially in his estimate of

respectable ordinary Christians, as far as regards their creed.

He cannot go too far in enforcing practice and work on
people who were bound to it before, and theoretically confess

but he                too hard upon the theories, and totally mis-
it,
                  is
CHAP. VII.]  FELLOW OF TRINITY.                  219

Irepresents them.     would rather be taken for a Yezide than

for one of Maurice's popular religionists.

                      To HIS FATHER.

                      Trin. Coll., 17th October 1855.
IThe lectures were settled last Friday.
                                            am to do the

Iupper division of the third year in hydrostatics and optics,

and have most of the exercising of the questionists.

                                    FROM HIS FATHER.

                                                                 Glenlair, 20th October 1855.

    If you do a book for M'Millan on optics, do not let him

hurry it on. Take full time to yourself to revise and
re-revise the MS., and let anything published be creditable.
Do nothing in a careless manner, and so get a bad name.

A first work especially should be very carefully got up.

      When you are set to lecture on hydrostatics and optics,
have you any apparatus for illustration ?

                      To HIS FATHER.

                                                Trin. Coll., 25th October 1855.

I Ihave refused to take pupils this term, as want to get

Isome time for reading and doing private mathematics, and

then can bestow some time on the men who attend lectures.

    I go in bad weather to an institution just opened for

sports of all sorts jumping, vaulting, etc. By a little
exercise of the arms every day, one comes to enjoy one's
breath, and to sleep much better than if one did nothing but

walk on level roads.

                                                                       1st November 1855.

I have been lecturing two weeks now, and the class

seems improving, and they come up and ask questions, which

Iis a good sign.
          have been making curves to show the relations of

pressure and volume in gases, and they make the subject
I I Ieasier.
             think told you about the Eay Club.  was
220  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                       [CHAP. VII.

elected an associate last Wednesday. . . . We had a dis-

cussioD and an essay by Pomeroy last Saturday about the
position of the British nation in India, and sought through
ancient and modern history for instances of such a relation
between two nations, but found none. We seem to be in
the position of having undertaken the management of India
at the most critical period, when all the old institutions and

religions must break up, and yet it is by no means plain
how new civilisation and self-government among people so

different from us is to be introduced. One thing is clear, that

if we neglect them, or turn them adrift again, or simply

make moDey of them, then we must look to Spain and the
Americans for our examples of wicked management and

consequent ruin.

                  FROM HIS FATHER.

                                              llth November 1855.

     The platometer will require much consideration, both by

you and by any one that undertakes the making. You need

hardly expect the details all rightly planned at the first ;

Imany defects will occur, and new devices contrived to con-
quer unforeseen difficulties in the execution.  would suspect

10 would not go far to get it into anything like good
Ifworking order.
                  the instrument were made, to whom is it

to belong ? And if it succeeds well, for whose profit is all

to be contrived? Does Bryson so understand it as to be

able to make it ? Could he estimate the cost, or would he

contract to get an instrument up ? Fixing on a suitable

size is very important.

                         To HIS FATHER.

                                                    Trin. Coll., 12th November 1855.

   I I Iattended Willis on Mechanism to-day, and think

will attend his course, which is about the parts of machinery.

I was lecturing about the velocity of water escaping from a

hole this morning. There was a great noise outside, and we

Ilooked out at a magnificent jet from a pipe which had gone

wrong in the court. So that was saved the trouble of

making experiments.
CHAP. VII.]    FELLOW OF TRINITY.                            221

    I was talking to Willis about the platometer, and he
Ithinks it will work. Instead of toothed wheels to keep the

spheres in position always, think watch-spring bands would

be better.

                                                   Trin. Cell, 25th November 1855.

    I Ithink told you that Pomeroy was ill. He has had

rather a sharp attack of bilious fever. His mother has come

up. He was getting round on Thursday, but he saw too
many people, and was rather the worse of it. However, the

doctor says that the recovery simply requires attention, and

Ipatience, and no hurrying.
         have been reading old books of optics, and find many
things in them far better than what is new. The foreign

mathematicians are discovering for themselves methods which
were well known at Cambridge in 1720, but are now

Iforgotten.
          have got a contrivance made for expounding instru-

ments. It is a squared rod, one yard long, on which slide

pieces, which will carry lenses. Each piece has a wedge
which fixes it tight on the rod, and a saw-shaft, with

               it,

                            I
holes through  for fastening the pasteboard frame of

the lens. By means of this intend to set up all kinds

of models of instruments.

                           To E. B. LITCHFIELD, Esq.

                                                     Trin. Coll., 28th November 1855.

         am busy with questionists pretty regularly just now,
slanging them one after another for the same things. As
they have just set upon me for the evening, must stop now
and get out some optical things to show them.
I

                                        I

                                   To HIS FATHER.

                                                       Trin. Coll, 3d December 1855.

          had four questionist papers last week, as my subjects

come thick there so am full of men looking over papers.
   have also to get ready paper on Faraday's Lines of Force

for next Monday.
I
    I

                                                     ;
                                                          1

                                                  a
222       JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.             [CHAP. VII.

     Pomeroy is still very ill, but to-day he feels easier, and

his mouth is not quite so dry and sore. He gets food every
Itwo or three hours, and port wine every time.
                                                                 go

up in the morning and look after the getting up and bed-

making department along with the nurse, after which Mrs.

Pomeroy comes, and the nurse goes to bed.

     Maurice was here from Friday to Monday, inspecting

the working men's education. He was at Goodwin's on

Friday night, where we met him and the teachers of the

Cambridge affair. He talked of the history of the foundation

of the old colleges, and how they were mostly intended to

counteract the monastic system, and allow of work and study

without retirement from the world.

                                    Trin. Coll., llth December.
     ILast night lectured on Lines of Force at the Philoso-
Iphical.
          put off the second part of it to next term.
I have been drawing a lot of lines of force by an easy dodge.
I have got to draw them accurately without calculation.

     Pomeroy has been improving slowly, but sometimes

Istopping. He is so big that it requires a great deal to get
up his strength again.  saw Dr. Paget at the Philosophical

to-day, and he seemed to think him in a fair way to

recover.
CHAP. VIII.]  ESSAYS AT CAMBRIDGE.  223

              CHAPTER VIII.

ESSAYS AT CAMBRIDGE 1853 TO 1856.

THE description of Maxwell's life at Cambridge would
be incomplete without some notice of the Essays
written by him from time to time for the "Apostles' "
Club. These range from the spring of 1853 to the
summer of 1856. Thrown off, as such things are,
in irresponsible gaiety of heart, mere "gardens of
Adonis," as Plato would call them, they contain real

indications of the writer's speculative tendencies, and
are most characteristic of the activity and fulness of

his mind, of his ironical humour, and of his provoking
discursiveness and indirectness of expression. He is

not " upon his oath," and often throws out tentatively
a whole train of arguments or ideas.

            1. "Decision:' Written in February 1853.          ^. 21.

     After a humorous sketch of the distraction arising from
the different associations of term and vacation time, the

question is raised whether on the whole a learned education
is unfavourable to decision of character and opinion. The
answer pointed at, though not distinctly given, is that
high education may often unsettle opinion, but ought to

strengthen character. It must suffice here to quote a few

of the most characteristic passages :

   "... In this charitable (holiday) frame of mind, we
224  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                      [CHAP. VIII.

resolved to try the effect of our learning upon a mixed com-

pany.
      " Not to dazzle them too much at first, we merely

ventured to quote to an elderly lady a passage from Griffin
on Presbyopic Vision. She intended to get a new pair of

spectacles, and hoped that optical advice, fresh from College,

might assist her in her choice. She was surprised to learn

that she must ascertain the distance behind the retina at

which the image of a distant object is formed, and that she
might then determine from the proper formula the focal
lengths of the lenses she required.

    " Shocked at the unhesitating way in which we proposed

the most barbarous if not impossible operations, she replied

that she would rather try several pairs, and take those that

"...suited her best."
                  When this indecision" (of opinion) " cannot be
traced to hypochondria, we generally find indications of a

defective appreciation of quantity and a deceptive memory.
      " Its victims measure reasons by their number and not

by their weight. They do not say ' so much/ but ' so

many things to be said on both sides.' To make the

number equal on both sides they will split an argument or

state it in several ways. These ingenious self- tor mentors

have invented a form of reasoning which ought to take its
...place beside the ' reasoning in a circle.'
                                             We may call it
reasoning in a corner, or tergiversation.
                                               It derives its

name from the motion of the imprisoned monarch in a

...drawn game at draughts, and is resorted to when pressed by
a disjunctive argument.  In this way these clacking

metronomes endeavour to transfer their inquietude to their

"...neighbours."
             It is this consciousness of aim that gives to

their experience the character of self-education. While other
men are drifted hither and thither by conflicting influences,
their sails seem to resolve every blast in a favourable direc-

tion. To them catastrophes are lessons and mysteries

illustrations. Every thing and every person is estimated
by its effect in accelerating personal advancement.
CHAP. VIII.]       ESSAYS AT CAMBRIDGE.                        225

      " The aims thus adopted may be different in kind and

value. One may aim at effective deeds, another at com-
pleteness, a third at correctness, a fourth at dignity, while

another class estimates its progress by the universality of
its sentiments and the comprehensiveness of its sympathy
with the varieties of the human mind. Some, in short,

attend more to self-government, and some to mental expan-

sion. "When these tendencies can be combined and sub-

ordinated, there emerges the perfectly educated man, who,
in the rigidity of his principles, acts with decision, and in
the expansibility of his sympathy tolerates all opinions."

2. " What is the Nature of Evidence of Design ?" 1853.

" Design ! The very word . . . disturbs our quiet dis-

cussions about how things happen with restless questionings-
about the why of them all. We seem to have recklessly

abandoned the railroad of phenomonology, and the black

rocks of Ontology stiffen their serried brows and frown inevi-

"...table destruction.
                 The belief in design is a necessary consequence
of the Laws of Thought acting on the phenomena of per-

"...ception.  The essentials then for true evidence of design are
(1) A phenomenon having significance to us ; (2) Two-

ascertained chains of physical causes contingently connected,,

and both having the same apparent terminations, viz., the

phenomenon itself and some presupposed personality. . . ..

IIf the discovery of a watch awakens my torpid intelligences
    perceive a significant end which the watch subserves.

It goes, and, considering its locality, it is going well. . . .
My young and growing reason points out two sets of

phenomena . . . (a) the elasticity of springs, etc. etc., and
     the astronomical facts which render the mean solar day
(b)

                      is a

                                                            Q
the unit of civil time combined with those social habits-

"...which require  cognisance of the time of day.
             It    the business of science to investigate these

causal chains.     If they are found not to be independent,

but to meet in some ascertained point, we must transfer the
226  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.            [CHAP. VIII.

evidence of design from the ultimate fact to the existence of

the chain. Thus, suppose we ascertained that watches are

now made by machinery . . . the machinery including the

watch forms one more complicated and therefore more

evident instance of design."

  "... The only subordinate centres of causation which

I have seen formally investigated are men and animals; the

latter even are often overlooked. But every well-ascertained

law points to some central cause, and at once constitutes

that centre a being in the general sense of the word. Whether

that being be personal is a question which may be deter-

mined by induction. The less difficult question whether the

being be intelligent is more practicable, and should be kept

in view in the investigation of organised beings.
      " The search for such invisible potencies or wisdoms

Imay appear novel and unsanctioned. . . . For my part do

not think that any speculations about the personality or

intelligence of subordinate agents in creation could ever be

perverted into witchcraft or demonolatry.
      " Why should not the Original Creator have shared the

pleasure of His work with His creatures and made the

Imorning stars sing together, etc.?
     " suspect that such a hope has prompted many specula-

tions of natural historians, who would be ashamed to put it

"...into words. x                    (1) Putting the final cause in
                    Three fallacies
the place of a physical connection, as when Bernoulli saw the

propriety of making the curves of isochronous oscillations

and of shortest time of descent both cycloids; (2) The
erroneous assertion of a physical relation, as when Bacon

supplemented the statement of Socrates about the eyebrows

     1 This Neo-platonic fancy (of SrjfjLiovpyoi), with which the reader
may contrast the serio-comic lines on " Paradoxical Philosophy," is
embodied in the alternative title of the paper " Ought the Discovery

of a Plurality of Intelligent Creators to weaken our Belief in an

Ultimate First Cause I" A third title has been added later in the

author's hand " Does the Existence of Causal Chains prove an Astral
Entity or a Cosmothetic Idealism 1 "
CHAP. VIII.]  ESSAYS AT CAMBRIDGE.                          227

by saying that pilosity is incident to moist places ; (3) (and
worst) applying an argument from final causes to wrongly
asserted phenomena : ' Because water is incompressible, it
cannot transmit sound, and therefore fishes have no ears.'

Every fact here stated is erroneous."

In the course of this paper in which are discernible

the traces of early impressions derived through the poetry
of Milton there occurs also incidentally a statement of the

Hamiltonian doctrine of Perception, 1 with the following

significant corollary : -

"Perception is the ultimate consciousness of self and

thing together.

    If" we admit, as we must, that this ultimate phenomenon

is incapable of further analysis, and that subject and object

alone are immediately concerned in
is                                                          follows that the
   it,
                is

                           it
                                                     a it,
                                                    it
fact strictly private and incommunicable. One only can
know therefore two cannot agree in name for it. And

since the fact simple cannot be thought of by itself nor
compared alone with any other equally simple fact. We may
therefore dismiss all questions about the absolute nature of

perception, and all theories of their resemblances and differ-

ences. We, may next refuse to turn our attention to percep-

tion in general, as all perceptions are particular."

              Idiotic Imps. Summer Term, 1853.
1

              3.

                   it

                                      a
                                                                   a

                                                                                              :

                                                                          of
                                                                          it
Starting from Isaac Taylor's Physical Theory another

Life, which Maxwell at this time seems to have regarded as

in itself an innocent and rather attractive piece of fancy,
" the perusal of has tendency rather to excite specula-

tion than to satisfy curiosity, and the author obtains the

approbation of the reader, while he fails to convince him of

the soundness of his views," he takes occasion from                                              to

This statement concludes as follows  " The late superfluity of

assertions might have been avoided by simply, unintelligibly and there-

fore unanswerably, proclaiming myself natural dualist, uncontam-

inated with the heresy of unitarianism or the pollution of cosmothetic

idealism."
228            JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. VIII.

characterise the "Dark Sciences" to which Taylor's book
may unintentionally lend encouragement a result to be

deprecated.

    I" The first question would ask concerning a spiritual

theory would be, Is it favourable or adverse to the present

developments of Dark Science ? The Dark Sciences . . .

while they profess to treat of laws which have never been

investigated, afford the most conspicuous examples of the
...operation of the well-known laws of association
                                                       in

imitating the phraseology of science, and in combining its

facts with those which must naturally suggest themselves to

a mind unnaturally disposed. In the misbegotten science

thus produced we have speciously sounding laws of which

our first impression is that they are truisms, and the second

that they are absurd, and a bewildering mass of experi-

mental proof, of which all the tendencies lie on the surface

and all the data turn out when examined to be heaped

together as confusedly as the stores of button-makers . . .

and those undigested narratives which are said to form the

nutriment of the minute philosopher. . . . The most ortho-

dox system of metaphysics may be transformed into a dark

science by its phraseology being popularised, while its

principles are lost sight of."

       Three   phases of dark science are described :  physical
       " (1.)                                           popular
sciences.      At first they were or pretended to be

                 Their language was imitated from

physics, and their professed aim was to explain occult

phenomena by means of new and still more occult material

laws. Experiments in animal magnetism were always per-

formed with the nose carefully turned towards the north. In

electrobiology a scrupulous system of insulation was prac-

tised at first, and afterwards, when galvanism became more

popular than statical electricity, circuits were formed of

alternate elements, those of one sex being placed between

those of the other. . . . The fluid which in former times

circulated through the nerves under the form of animal

spirits, is in our day expanded so as to fill the universe, and
CHAP. VIII.]  ESSAYS AT CAMBRIDGE.                       229

is the invisible medium through which the communion of

the sensitive takes place.
      " (2.) The next phase of the dark sciences is that in

which . . . the phraseology of physics is exchanged for

that of psychology. In this stage we hear much of the power
of the will. The verb to will acquires a new and popular
sense, so that every one now is able to will a thing without
bequeathing it. People can will not to be able to do a

thing, then try and not succeed ; while those of stronger
minds can will their victims out of their wits and back

again.
"
  (3.)  The third or pneumatological  phase begins by dis-

trusting, as it well may, the explanations prevalent during
the former stages of apparitions, distant intercourse, etc. It

suggests that different minds may have some communion,

though separated by space, through some spiritual medium.

Such a suggestion if discreetly followed up might lead to

important discoveries, and would certainly give rise to

entertaining meditations. But the cultivators of the dark

sciences have done as they have ever delighted to do.

Their spirits are not content with making themselves present

              ' Where all the nerves of sense are numb,
               Spirit to spirit, ghost to ghost.'

but they become the familiar spirits of money -making

media, and rap out lies for hours together for the amusement
of a promiscuous 'circle.' . . . While the believers sit
round the table of the medium and form one loop of the

figure 8, the spiritual circle enclosing the celestial mahogany

forms the upper portion of the curve, the medium herself
constituting the double point. But who shall say of the
dark sciences that they have reached the maximum of dark-

ness ? Men have listened to the toes of a medium as to

the voice of the departed. Let them now stand about her

table as about the table of devils. If one spirit can wrap

itself in petticoats, why may not another  dance with three
                                           And accordingly
legs ? A most searching question truly !   him to the con-

the powerful analysis of Godfrey has led

clusion that a table of which the plane surface is touched
230             JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.         [CHAP. VIII.

by believing fingers may be transformed into a diaboloid of

revolution. . . . Will there be an interminable series of

such expressions of belief, each more unnatural than its
predecessor, and gradually converging towards absolute
absurdity ? "

4. Has everything beautiful in Art its original in Nature ?

        Spring of 1854 shortly after the Tripos Examina-

         tion.

     " As the possibility of working out the question within

the time forms no part of our specification, we may glance
at heights which mock the attenuated triangle of the mathe-

matician, and throw our pebble into depths which his cord

and plummet can never sound."

      Maxwell here takes his revenge upon the Senate-house
by becoming more discursive than ever. 1

     He begins by deprecating precise definitions and pro-

posing an appeal to facts.

      His conclusion is as follows : " Nothing beautiful can be

produced by Man except by the laws of mind acting in him
as those of Nature do without him ; and therefore the kind

of beauty he can thus evolve must be limited by the very
small number of correlative sciences which he has mastered ;
but as the Theoretic and imaginative faculty is far in advance

of Reason, he can apprehend and artistically reproduce

natural beauty of a higher order than his science can attain

to ; and as his Moral powers are capable of a still wider

range, he may make his work the embodiment of a still

higher beauty, which expresses the glory of nature as the

instrument by which our spirits are exercised, delighted, and
If Itaught.
                there is anything more desire to say it is that
Iwhile confess the vastness of nature and the narrowness of
Iour symbolical sciences, yet
                               fear not any effect which

either Science or Knowledge may have on the beauty of

that which is beautiful once and for ever."

     The following observations occur in the course of the

essay :

                1 See above, pp. 167, 8.
CHAP. VIII.]         ESSAYS AT CAMBRIDGE.  231

"All your analysis is cruelly anatomical, and your

separated faculties have all the appearance of preparations.

You may retain their names" for distinctness, but forbear to

tear them asunder for lecture-room demonstration. . , . .

They separate a faculty by saying it is not intellectual, and

then, by reasoning blindfold, every philosopher goes up his

own tree, finds a mare's nest and laughs at the eggs, which

turn out to be pure intellectual abstractions in spite of every

definition.

      " With respect to beauty of things audible and visible,
we have a firm conviction that the pleasure it affords to any

...being would be of the same kind by whatever organisation
he became conscious of it.  Our enjoyment of music is

accompanied by an intuitive perception of the relations of

sounds, and the agreement of the human race would go far

to establish the universality of these conditions of pleasure,

though Science had not discovered their physical and numer-

ical significance."
Beauty of Form. " A mathematician might express his
...admiration of the Ellipse. Euskin agrees with him.  It

is a universal condition of the enjoyable that the mind must

...believe in the existence of a law, and yet have a mystery to
move about in.       All things are full of ellipses bicen-

tral sources of las-ting joy, as the wondrous Oken might

have said." Beauty of form, then, is 1. Geometrical; 2.

Organic; 3. "Kivers and mountains have not even an

organic symmetry; the pleasure we derive from their

forms is not that of comprehension, but of apprehension of

their fitness as the forms of flowing and withstanding matter.

When such objects are represented by Art, they acquire an

additional beauty as the language of Nature understood by

Man, the interpreter, although by no means the emendator,

"...of her expressions.
                   The power of Making is man's highest power in
connexion with Nature."
     Beauty of Colour. " The Science of Colour does, indeed,

point out certain arrangements and gradations which follow

as necessarily from first principles, as the curves of the
232  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.       [CHAP. VIII.

second order from their equations. These results of science
are, many of them, realised in natural phenomena taking
place according to those physical laws of which our mathe-
matical formulse are symbols ; but it is possible that com-
binations of colours may be imagined or calculated, which
no optical phenomenon we are acquainted with could repro-
duce. Such a result would no more prove the impropriety
of the arrangement than ignorance of the planetary orbits

kept the Greeks from admiring the Ellipse."

5. Envelopment : Can Ideas be developed without Reference
        to Things as their developing Authorities ? Summer

        Term, 1854.

     Early in 1854 Maxwell had read J. H. Newman's 1

Essay on the Development of Christian Doctrine. He

appears to have felt an inconsistency between the tenor of

that work and its title, which set him meditating on the

difference between true Development i.e. Education and

Envelopment or Self-Involution, as a tendency incident to

certain habits of thought.

     He traces the working of this tendency in various sub-

jects ending with theology, and then proceeds as follows :
      " Envelopment is a process by which the human mind,

possessed with a preternatural impatience of facts and fasci-

nated by the apparent simplicity of some half-apprehended

theory, seeks, by involving the chain of its speculations in

hopeless confusion, to round1   as were, to separate

                      it,

                           it

                                                           a
whole.
      " Thus Mr. Newman and his predecessors take up some

single practice of Christians, and by means of analogies

derived from the practices of Egyptian priests, Eoman

emperors, or Jewish rabbis, they determine, most precisely,

the situation, extent, and exposure of the place of purging

by fire, together with all the technicalities, observances, and
etiquette of that mysterious region. The convolutions of

the brain are very wonderful."

     Cardinal Newman.
CHAP. VIII.]    ESSAYS AT CAMBRIDGE.         233

     As a further illustration he proceeds to trace the genesis

of phreno-niesmerism.

      Against the Theory of the Development of Doctrine he
sets the fact of the Education of Mankind.

      The Essay is highly ironical and full of caustic touches,

but it is difficult to detach them for quotation.
      " One great art in argument when you have the first

move is to divide everything into that which is and that

which is not in some assigned class. In this way you make
it the business of the opponent to discover what other

important things there may be which may be said of the

"...subject in hand.
                  These subtle differences when further multiplied
by the application of the seven tests of development, would

require a seven years' apprenticeship with Thomas Aquinas

before anything could be said of them except assent or

"...contempt.
               In every human pursuit there are two courses
one, that which in its lowest form is called the useful, and

has for its ultimate object the extension of knowledge, the

dominion over Nature, and the welfare of mankind. The

objects of the second course are entirely self-contained.

Theories are elaborated for theories' sake, difficulties are

sought out and treasured as such, and no argument is to be

considered perfect unless it lands the reasoner at the point

"... Ifrom which he started.      encountered a gentleman whose
                  Some years ago

Imain object was to discover the musical relations of the
number eleven.  hear on good authority that the question

"... Iis not only more perplexed but more interesting than ever.
                      have unaccountably passed over that Logic by
means of which many a powerful mind has persuaded itself
that it was usefully engaged while devoting a life to the

defence or attack of the fourth figure of the syllogism, and

that Metaphysics which even now seeks to find arguments
about the operations of the senses, while it rejects the aid

of physiology or any other appeal to facts.
234  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. VIII.

   I" now proceed to envelop an argument from one of

those dark sciences which seem to have been sent up from
Dom Daniel for the special purpose of displaying reasonings
of this kind.

     " It is well known that the brain is the organ of intel-
lectual activity. It is held by all that the intellect is made

up of many distinct faculties. Therefore the brain must be
composed of corresponding organs." . . .

      The Essay concludes quite seriously " The education of
man is so well provided for in the world around him, and so
hopeless in any of the worlds which he makes for himself,
that it becomes of the utmost importance to distinguish
natural truth from artificial system, the development of a
science from the envelopment of a craft."

6. Morality. May 1855. (See above, p. 202), Is Ethical
     Truth obtainable from an Individual Point of View ?

      An inquiry concerning the first principles of Moral

Philosophy.
      Of three criteria, fitness, pleasure, and freedom, the last

is preferred, but is pronounced incomplete. Adam Smith's
use of the principle of sympathy is then considered. " The
repeated action of what Smith calls sympathy, calls forth
various moral principles, which may be deduced, no doubt,
from other theories, as necessary truths, but of which
the actual presence is now first accounted for. . . . Instead
of supposing the moral action of the mind to be a speculation
on fitness, a calculation of happiness, or an effort towards
freedom, he makes it depend on a recognition of our relation
to others like ourselves." This method (that of self-projection)
is pronounced the only true one, but is to be extended so as

to embrace other relations than that of mere similarity.
      Such is the bare outline of an essay which would fill at

least a dozen pages. It touches on various themes, from

the origin of law to the religious sanction of morals, and
contains no little evidence of the writer's growing power of

observing human life.
CHAP. VIII.]  ESSAYS AT CAMBRIDGE.              235

7. Language and Speculation. Autumn of 1855. (See

       above, p. 2 1 8.) Is the Modern Vocabulary of the Eng-

         lish Language the Effect or the Cause of its Speculative

           State ?

     A series of observations on style, original but mry dis-

cursive, chiefly aimed at certain literary affectations which
were then beginning to creep in.

   "... The new form of the old thought must be dressed

out with words, and must attract attention by bringing for-
ward what should be kept in the background. No wonder
the poor fellow thinks his head is turned, when he is trying

"...to see over the collar of his coat.
                 By all means let us have technical terms belong-
ing to every science and mystery practised by men, but let
us not have mere freemasonry or Ziph language by which
men of the same cult can secretly combine."

8. Analogies. February 1856. Are there Eeal Analogies
                                 in Nature ?

This essay contains a serious exposition of Maxwell's

deliberate views on philosophical questions, and is therefore

given here entire, not omitting the playful opening para-

graph.

     " In the ancient and religious foundation of Peterhouse

there is observed this rule, that whoso makes a pun shall be

counted the author of but that whoso pretends to finda it,      is it

out shall be counted the publisher of and that both shall
                                        is it,
be fined. Now, as in pun two truths lie hid under one

expression, so in an analogy one truth          discovered under

two expressions. Every question concerning analogies

therefore the reciprocal of question concerning puns, anda

the solutions can be transposed by reciprocation. But since
we are still in doubt as to the legitimacy of reasoning by

analogy, and as reasoning even by paradox has been pro-

nounced less heinous than reasoning by puns, we must adopt
236            JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                                                  [CHAP. VIII.

the direct method with respect to analogy, and then, if

necessary, deduce by reciprocation the theory of puns.
      " That analogies appear to exist is plain in the face of

things, for all parables, fables, similes, metaphors, tropes, and

figures of speech are analogies, natural or revealed, artificial or

concealed. The question is entirely of their reality. Now, no

question exists as to the possibility of an analogy without a
mind to recognise it that is rank nonsense. You might as

well talk of a demonstration or refutation existing uncondi-

tionally. Neither is there any question as to the occurrence

of analogies to our minds. They are as plenty as reasons,

not to say blackberries. For, not to mention all the things

in external nature which men have seen as the projections of

things in their own minds, the whole framework of science,

up to the very pinnacle of philosophy, seems sometimes a dis-

sected model of nature, and sometimes a natural growth on

the inner surface of the mind. Now, if in examining the

admitted truths in science and philosophy, we find certain

general principles appearing throughout a vast range of

subjects, and sometimes re-appearing in some quite distinct

part of human knowledge ; and                                 on turning to the con-
                                                              if,
                                                                                  a
stitution of the intellect itself, we think we can discern there

the reason of this uniformity, in the form of fundamental

law of the right action of the intellect, are we to conclude

that these various departments of nature in which analogous

laws exist, have real inter -dependence or that their rela-
      is                                                      ;
                  is
tion
                           a

                                                           ?

                                              a
      only apparent and owing to the necessary condi-

tions of human thought
      " There
               nothing more essential to the right under-

standing of things than                                       perception of the relations of

number. Now the very first notion of number implies                                  a

previous act of intelligence. Before we can count any

number of things, we must pick them out of the universe,
and give each of them fictitious unity by definition. Until
               a
                            a
we have done this, the universe of sense neither one nor
                                                                 is

many, but indefinite. But yet, do what we will, Nature

seems to have certain horror of partition. Perhaps the
most natural thing to count " one " for
                                                              is     man or human
                                                                  a
CHAP. VIII.]  ESSAYS AT CAMBRIDGE.  237

being, but yet it is very difficult to do so. Some count by
heads, others by souls, others by noses; still there is a
tendency either to run together into masses or to split up
into limbs. The dimmed outlines of phenomenal things all
merge into another unless we put on the focussing glass of
theory and screw it up sometimes to one pitch of definition,

and sometimes to another, so as to see down into different

depths through the great millstone of the world.
      " As for space and time, any man will tell you that ' it

is now known and ascertained that they are merely modifica-

tions of our own minds.' And yet if we conceive of the

mind as absolutely indivisible and capable of only one state

at a time, we must admit that these states may be arranged
in chronological order, and that this is the only real order of

these states. For we have no reason to believe, on the

ground of a given succession of simple sensations, that
differences in position, as well as in order of occurrence,

exist among the causes of these sensations. But yet we
are convinced of the co-existence of different objects at the
same time, and of the identity of the same object at different

times. Now if we admit that we can think of difference

independent of sequence, and of sequence without difference,

we have admitted enough on which to found the possibility
of the ideas of space and time.

     " But if we come to look more closely into these ideas,

as developed in human beings, we find that their space has
triple extension, but is the same in all directions, without

behind or before, whereas time extends only back and for-

ward, and always goes forward.
      " To inquire why these peculiarities of these fundamental

ideas are so would require a most painful if not impossible

act of self-excenteration ; but to determine whether there is
anything in Nature corresponding to them, or whether they
are mere projections of our mental machinery on the surface

of external things, is absolutely necessary to appease the
cravings of intelligence. Now it appears to me that when

we say that space has three dimensions, we not only express
the impossibility of conceiving a fourth dimension, co-ordi-
238  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                            [CHAP. VIII.

nate with the three known ones, but assert the objective truth

that points may differ in position by the independent

variation of three variables. Here, therefore, we have a

real analogy between the constitution of the intellect and

that of the external world.
      " With respect to time, it is sometimes assumed that the

consecution of ideas is a fact precisely the same kind as the
sequence of events in time. But it does not appear that

there is any closer connection between these than between

mental difference, and difference of position. No doubt it is

Ipossible to assign the accurate date of every act of thought,

but doubt whether a chronological table drawn up in this

Iway would coincide with the sequence of ideas of which we
are conscious. There is an analogy, but  think not an

identity, between these two orders of thoughts and things.

Again, if we know what is at any assigned point of space

at any assigned instant of time, we may be said to know all

the events in Nature. We cannot conceive any other thing
which it would be necessary to know ; and, in fact, if any
other necessary element does exist, it never enters into any
phenomenon so as to make it differ from what it would be

on the supposition of space and time being the only neces-

sary elements.
      " We cannot, however, think any set of thoughts without

conceiving of them as depending on reasons. These reasons,

when spoken of with relation to objects, get the name of

causes, which are reasons, analogically referred to objects

instead of thoughts. When the objects are mechanical, or

are considered in a mechanical point of view, the causes are

still more strictly  denned, and are called forces.  the  events,
                     are acquainted not only with
     " Now if we

but also with the forces, in Nature, we acquire the power of

predicting events not previously known.
      " This conception of cause, we are informed, has been

ascertained to be a notion of invariable sequence. No doubt

invariable sequence, if observed, would suggest the notion of

cause, just as the end of a poker painted red suggests the

notion of heat, but although a cause without its invariable
CHAP. VIII.]    ESSAYS AT CAMBRIDGE.  239

effect is absurd, a cause by its apparent frustration only
suggests the notion of an equal and opposite cause.

      " Now the analogy between reasons, causes, forces, prin-
ciples, and moral rules, is glaring, but dazzling.

" A reason or argument is a conductor by which the mind

is led from a proposition to a necessary consequence of that

proposition. In pure logic reasons must all tend in the same

direction. There can be no conflict of reasons. We may lose

sight of them or abandon them, but cannot pit them against
Ifone another.
                our faculties were indefinitely intensified,

so that we could see all the consequences of any admission,

then all reasons would resolve themselves into one reason, and

all demonstrative truth would be one proposition. There

would be no room for plurality of reasons, still less for

conflict. But when we come to causes of phenomena and

not reasons of truths, the conflict of causes, or rather the

mutual annihilation of effects, is manifest. Not but what

there is a tendency in the human mind to lump up all

causes, and give them an aggregate name, or to trace chains

of causes up to their knots and asymptotes. Still we see,

or seem to see, a plurality of causes at work, and there are

some who are content with plurality.
      " Those who are thus content with plurality delight in the

use of the word force as applied to cause. Cause is a meta-

physical word implying something unchangeable and always

producing its effect. Force on the other hand is a scientific

word, signifying something which always meets with opposi-

tion, and often with successful opposition, but yet never fails

to do what it can in its own favour. Such are the physical

forces with which science deals, and their maxim is that

might is right, and they call themselves laws of nature.

But there are other laws of nature which determine the

form and action of organic structure. These are founded

on the forces of nature, but they seem to do no work except

that of direction. Ought they to be called forces ? A

force does work in proportion to its strength. These direct

forces to work after a model. They are moulds, not forces.
240      JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                         [CHAP. VIII.

Now since we have here a standard from which deviation may

take place, we have, besides the notion of strength, which

belongs to force, that of health, which belongs to organic

law. Organic beings are not conscious of organic laws, and

it is not the conscious being that takes part in them, but

Ianother set of laws now appear in very close connexion
with the conscious being.    mean the laws of thought.

These may be interfered with by organic laws, or by

physical disturbances, and no doubt every such interference

is regulated by the laws of the brain and of the connexion
between that medulla and the process of thought. But the

thing to be observedaI       that the laws which regulate the
                        is,
right process of the intellect are identical with the most

abstract of all laws, those which are found among the

relations of necessary truths, and that though these are

mixed up with, and modified by, the most complex systems

of phenomena in physiology and physics, they must be re-

cognised as supreme among the other laws of thought. And

this supremacy does not consist in superior strength, as in

physical laws, nor yet, think, in reproducing         type as in
                                        ;

                                                   a
organic laws, but in being right and true even when other

causes have been for season masters of the brain.

     "When we consider voluntary actions in general, we

think we see causes acting like forces on the willing being.

Some of our motions arise from physical necessity, some

from irritability or organic excitement, some are performed

by our machinery without our knowledge, and some evi-
dently are due to us and our volitions. Of these, again,

some are merely repetition of customary act, some are
         a                       is, a

due to the attractions of pleasure or the pressure of con-I

strained activity, and few show some indications of being
                      a

the results of distinct acts of the will. Here again we have

a  continuation of the analogy of Cause. Some had supposed
that in will they had found the only true cause, and that

all physical causes are only apparent.   need not say that

this doctrine exploded.is
      " What we have to observe
                                 that new elements enter

into the nature of these higher causes, for mere abstract
CHAP. VIII.]  ESSAYS AT CAMBRIDGE.                     241

reasons are simply absolute; forces are related by their

strength ; organic laws act towards resemblances to types ;
animal emotions tend to that which promotes the enjoy-

ment of life ; and will is in great measure actually subject
to all these, although certain other laws of right, which are
abstract and demonstrable, like those of reason, are supreme
among the laws of will.

      " Now the question of the reality of analogies in nature

derives most of its interest from its application to the

opinion, that all the phenomena of nature, being varieties of

motion, can only differ in complexity, and therefore the only
way of studying nature, is to master the fundamental laws
of motion first, and then examine what kinds of complica-

tion of these laws must be studied in order to obtain true
Ifviews of the universe.
                          this theory be true, we must

look for indications of these fundamental laws throughout

the whole range of science, and not least among those

remarkable products of organic life, the results of cerebra-
                                    In this case, of course,
tion (commonly called ' thinkingis

the resemblances between the laws of different classes of').I

phenomena should hardly be called analogies, as they areif is

only transformed identities.                           is
     " If, on the other hand, we start from the study of the
                                                                  it
laws of thought (the abstract, logical laws, not the physio-
logical), then these apparent analogies become merely                         is

repetitions by reflexion of certain necessary modes of action

to which our minds are subject.     do not see how, upon

either hypothesis, we can account for the existence of one

set of laws of which the supremacy necessary, but to the

operation contingent. But we find another set of laws of

the same kind, and sometimes coinciding with physical

laws, the operation of which      inflexible when once in

action, but depends in its beginnings on some act of volition.

The theory of the consequences of actions  greatly per-

plexed by the fact that each act sets in motion many trains

of machinery, which react on other agents and come into

regions of physical and metaphysical chaos from which

difficult to disentangle them. But  we could place the
242  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. VIII.

  telescope of theory in proper adjustment, to see not the
  physical events which form the subordinate foci of the
  disturbance propagated through the universe, but the moral
  foci where the true image of the original act is reproduced,

  then we shall recognise the fact, that when we clearly see

  any moral act, then there appears a moral necessity for the
 trains of consequences of that act, which are spreading
 through the world to be concentrated on some focus, so as
 to give a true and complete image of the act in its moral

 point of view. All that bystanders see, is the physical act,

 and some of its immediate physical consequences, but as a

 partial pencil of light, even when not adapted for distinct

 vision, may enable us to see an object, and not merely light,
 so the partial view we have of any act, though far from
 perfect, may enable us to see it morally as an act, and not

 merely physically as an event.

     If" we think we see in the diverging trains of physical

 consequences not only a capability of forming a true image
 of the act, but also of reacting upon the agent, either directly
or after a long circuit, then perhaps we have caught the
idea of necessary retribution, as the legitimate consequence
of all moral action.

       " But as this idea of the necessary reaction of the con-
sequences of action is derived only from a few instances, in
 which we have guessed at such a law among the necessary
laws of the universe ; and we have a much more distinct

 idea of justice, derived from those laws which we necessarily
 recognise as supreme, we connect the idea of retribution
much more with that of justice than with that of cause and
effect. We therefore regard retribution as the result of inter-
ference with the mechanical order of things, and intended to
vindicate the supremacy of the right order of things, but
still we suspect that the two orders of things will eventually
dissolve into one.

    "I have been somewhat diffuse and confused on the

subject of moral law, in order to show to what length
analogy will carry the speculations of men. Whenever
they see a relation between two things they know well, and
CHAP. VIII.]  ESSAYS AT CAMBRIDGE. .          243

think they see there must be a similar relation between

things less known, they reason from the one to the other.

This supposes that although pairs of things may differ
widely from each other, the relation in the one pair may be

the same as that in the other. Now, as in a scientific point
of view the relation is the most important thing to know, a

knowledge of the one thing leads us a long way towards a
Ifknowledge of the other.
                           all that we know is relation,

and if all the relations of one pair of things correspond to

those of another pair, it will be difficult to distinguish the

one pair from the other, although not presenting a single

point of resemblance, unless we have some difference of

relation to something else, whereby to distinguish them.

Such mistakes can hardly occur except in mathematical and

physical analogies, but if we are going to study the consti-

tution of the individual mental man, and draw all our

arguments from the laws of society on the one hand, or

those of the nervous tissue on the other, we may chance to

convert useful helps into Wills-of-the-wisp.  Perhaps the
' book,' as it has been called, of nature is regularly paged ;
if so, no doubt the introductory parts will explain those that

follow, and the methods taught in the first chapters will be

taken for granted and used as illustrations in the more

advanced parts of the course ; but if it is not a ' book ' at

all, but a magazine, nothing is more foolish to suppose that

one part can throw light on another.

       " Perhaps the next most remarkable analogy is between

the principle, law, or plan according to which all things are

made suitably to what they have to do, and the intention
which a man has of making machines which will work. The
doctrine of final causes, although productive of barrenness
in its exclusive form, has certainly been a great help

to enquirers into nature; and if we only maintain the

existence of the analogy, and allow observation to determine

its form, we cannot be led far from the truth.
      " There is another analogy which seems to be supplant-

ing the other on its own ground, which lies between the

principle, law, or plan according to which the forms of
244          JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.       [CHAP. VIII.

things are made to have a certain community of type, and

that which induces human artists to make a set of different

things according to varieties of the same model. Here

apparently the final cause is analogy or homogeneity, to the

exclusion of usefulness.                ^.-;
     " And last of all we have the secondary forms of crystals

bursting in upon us, and sparkling in the rigidity of mathe-

matical necessity and telling us, neither of harmony of design,

usefulness or moral significance, nothing but spherical trigo-

nometry and Napier's analogies. It is because we have

blindly excluded the lessons of these angular bodies from

the domain of human knowledge that we are still in doubt

about the great doctrine that the only laws of matter are

those which our minds must fabricate, and the only laws of

mind are fabricated for it by matter."

     9. Autobiography. (Dated) 8th March 1856.

                  Is Autobiography possible ?

     Under the guise of an ironical paradox, that all biography

is (1) impossible, (2) inevitable, Maxwell recommends the
simple record of facts, and deprecates the method of intro-
spection. Of many shrewd remarks occurring in the course

"...of this essay, the following are the most noticeable :
                 When a man once begins to make a theory of

himself, he generally succeeds in making himself into a

"...theory.  The truthfulness of the biography depends quite

as much upon the relations which subsisted between the

author and his subject, as upon his fidelity in collecting

"...authentic accounts of his actions.

             It will be found that the motives under which

the celebrated characters of history have acted, are, whether

good or bad, pretty much of the same order of refinement, as

long as we gather them from the same historian. It is when

we pass from one historian to another that we discover

a new order of motives, both in the good and the bad

"...characters.
              People do not talk of you, or if they do, they
CHAP. VIII.]  ESSAYS AT CAMBRIDGE.                  245

make blunders. But they do reflect you, and that more

"...faithfully than your looking-glass.
                 The stomach-pump of the confessional ought only
to be used in cases of manifest poisoning. More gentle

"...remedies are better for the constitution in ordinary cases.
                 Every man has a right and is bound to become
acquainted with himself; but he will find himself out better
by intercourse with well-chosen reagents, than by putting on
his own thumbscrews, or by sending round to his friends for

their opinions. In the choice of reagents, the first thing to

be avoided is incapability and insincerity, which generally

"...go together.
                 Suppose such a history or biography to exist,
where actions are described without comment, but in a spirit

faithful to the highest truth. It will be an indestructible

picture of life, which cannot be distorted by future accidents,

and which, by its clear arrangement and perfect simplicity,
is sure to pass into our experience without that opposition
which, by the constitution of man, accompanies the forcible
administration of moral precept."

10. Unnecessary Thought.        October (?), 1856.  " Is a

horror of Unnecessary Thought natural or unnatural?
Which does Nature abhor most, a superplenum or a
                          "
vacuum        of thought
                             ?

     A great part of every life is necessarily unconscious or

mechanical. " We have a natural and widespread aversion
to the act of thinking, which exists more or less in all men."
But, on the other hand, abstract thought needs to be con-
tinually checked through contact with reality, and it is more
important that our thoughts should have a living root in

experience, than that they should be perfectly self-consistent

"...at any particular stage of their growth.
                 They know the laws by heart, and do the calcu-
lations by fingers. . . . When will they begin to think ?
Then comes active life : What do they do that by ? Pre-

"...cedent, wheel-tracks, and finger-posts.
                 There is one part of the process at least to which
246  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.              [CHAP. VIII.

Iattention is unfavourable.  mean the very important and

"...necessary operation of forgetting useless facts.
                 Growth goes on in the mind as in the body by a
process of appropriation and rejection ; and the mental

growth is rendered steady and real by its close connection

with material and external things."

     11 and 12. Two unfinished Essays, on Sensation,

and on Reason and Faith, may be probably assigned
to the period of attendance on his father's illness in

Edinburgh, in the spring of 1855. See his letter to
"IC. J. Monro, of Feb. 19, on p. 210.
...thoughts on                         have a few

                   sensation generally, and a kind of

dim outline of Cambridge palavers, tending to shadow

forth the influence of mathematical training on opinion

and speculation."
CHAP. IX.]  DEATH OF HIS FATHER.                               247

            CHAPTEK IX.

DEATH OF HIS FATHER PROFESSORSHIP AT ABERDEEN

                   1856, IBS 1/ MT. 24-25.

                                          " And yet thy heart
            The lowliest duties on herself did lay."

SOON after his return to Cambridge in February 1856

(after seeing his father comfortably established in
Edinburgh), Maxwell heard from his old friend Pro-

fessor Forbes that the Chair of Natural Philosophy at

Marischal College, Aberdeen, was vacant, and he

shortly afterwards became a candidate.                         He had

never contemplated a life of entire leisure, but it may

seem strange that Cambridge, where besides his lec-

tureship he had various philanthropic interests, should

not have afforded him a sufficient field for regular

work. He foresaw that the Scotch, appointment

would please his father, and that the arrangement of

session and vacation time would enable him to spend

the whole summer uninterruptedly at Glenlair. Some

expressions in his letters also seem to indicate that he

rather shrank from the prospect of becoming a Cam-

bridge " Don." He had observed the narrowing

tendencies of college life, and preferred the rubs of

the world.
248  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. IX.

     His letters to his father and others at this time

sufficiently explain the course of his candidature, in

which the point most deserving notice is the generous
way in which he speaks of his rivals. While treating
the whole matter with his usual grave irony, he seems

to have conducted his part of it with considerable

sagacity, and when he returned to Edinburgh about
the middle of March everything was well in train.
He had the pleasure of knowing that his father's
interest in the question was at least equal to his own,

and that the old man had been roused by it to some
return of his former vigour. But the end was near.
After a few days spent in Edinburgh, the father and

son went home to Glenlair, as they had planned a
matter of no small anxiety and difficulty. The short
vacation had all but passed away, when, on Thursday
the 2d of April, just before his son was to have
returned to Cambridge, Mr. John Clerk Maxwell

suddenly expired.

     The outward change was not very great. Max-
well went up to Cambridge as usual. Glenlair was
still his home. His interest in his own subjects was
undiminished. His candidature for Aberdeen con-

tinued. But the personal loss to him was incalculable
and irreparable. Their long daily companionship had
been followed by a correspondence which was all but

daily, by vacations spent together, and an uninter-

rupted interchange, whether present or absent, of
thoughts and social interests, both light and grave.
During the last six months it is true the old man had
been failing, and, to outward observers, was consider-
CHAP. IX.]  DEATH OF HIS FATHER.        249

ably changed. But the change had only called out

his son's affection into more active exercise, and had

never checked the flow of communication by word or
letter. What depth of feeling lay beneath Maxwell's

quiet demeanour at this time may be inferred from

the poem written at Cambridge during that summer
term, and put into my hands when we met afterwards

at Glenlair. Some lines of it may be appropriately

inserted here:

I" Yes, know the forms that meet me are but phantoms of the brain,

   For they walk in mortal bodies, and they have not ceased from pain,
    Oh those signs of human weakness, left behind for ever now,
    Dearer far to me than glories round a fancied seraph's brow.
    Oh the old familiar voices ; oh the patient waiting eyes ;
   Let me live with them in dreamland while the world in slumber lies.
   For by bonds of sacred honour will they guard my soul in sleep
    From the spells of aimless fancies that around my senses creep.
   They will link the past and present into one continuous life ;

  IWhile feel their hope, their patience, nerve me for the daily strife.

   For it is not all a fancy that our lives and theirs are one,
   And we know that all we see is but an endless work begun.
    Part is left in nature's keeping, part has entered into rest ;
    Part remains to grow and ripen hidden in some living breast."

Such was James Clerk Maxwell during the " years of
April blood/'

            LETTERS, 1856.

            To HIS FATHER.

                            Trin., 14th Feb. 1856.
IYesterday the Eay Club met at Hort's.
                                        took my

great top there and spun it with coloured discs attached to

Iit. have been planning a form of top, which will have
Imore variety of motion, but am working out the theory, so
I Ithat will wait till know the necessary dimensions before
I settle the plan.
250               JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                    [CHAP. IX.

     I Itold Willie (Cay) how had hung up a bullet by a

combination of threads.

    I have drawn from theory the curves which it ought to
Idescribe, and when set the bullet a-going over the proper

curve, it traces it out over and over again as if it were doing

Ia pre-ordained dance, and kept a steady eye on the line on
the paper.      have enlarged my stock of models for solid

geometry, made of coloured thread, stretched between two

pasteboard ends.

            J.FROM PROFESSOR            D. FORBES.

                                        Edinburgh, 13th Feb. 1856.

     You may not perhaps have heard that Mr. Gray, Pro-
fessor of Natural Philosophy, Marischal College, Aberdeen, is

dead. He was a pleasing and energetic person, in the prime
Iof life and health, a few months ago, when saw him last.
     I have no idea whether the situation would be any
I Iobject to you ; but thought would mention
                                                          as think
                                        a
                                                  it,

                                                 I
would be pity were not filled by Scotchman, and
it

            is
                        a

                                    it
you are the person who occurs to me as best fitted for it.
      Do not imagine from my writing that have the
                                                    it I
smallest influence in the matter, or interest in beyond the

welfare of the Scottish Universities.

     It in the gift of the Crown. The Lord Advocate and

Home Secretary are the parties to apply to.         I     am not

acquainted with either.

     In the Commissioners' Eeport of 1830 the emoluments

are stated at about 350. But they are not always to be

depended upon.

     Another point.  think you ought certainly to be
            if                             I
                                                                           a
                I
Fellow of the Eoyal Society of Edinburgh.           shall be glad

to propose you you wish it.

                                  To HIS FATHER.

                                                          Trin. Coll, 15th Feb. 1856.
      Professor Forbes has written to me to say that the
Professorship of Nat. Phil, at Marischal College, Aberdeen,
    vacant by the death of Mr. Gray, and he inquires
is

                                                       iIf
CHAP. IX.]   ABERDEEN CANDIDATURE.                  251

Iwould apply for the situation, so want to know what your
Inotion or plan may be. For my own part, think the
Isooner get into regular work the better, and that the best

way of getting into such work is to profess one's readiness

by applying for it.

IThe appointment lies with the Crown that is, the Lord
Advocate and Home Secretary.  suppose the correct thing

to do is to send certificates of merit, signed by swells, to one

Ior other of these officers.
         am going to ask about the method of the thing here,

and Thacker has promised to get me the College Testi-
Ifmonials.
             you see any one in Edinburgh that understands

the sort of thing, could you pick up the outline of the process ?

     In all ordinary affairs political distinctions are supposed

to weigh a great deal in Scotland. The English notion is

that in pure and even in mixed mathematics politics are of

little use, however much a knowledge of these sciences may

Ipromote the study of politics. As to Theology, am not

aware that the mathematicians, as a body, are guilty of any

heresies, however some of them may have erred. But these

are too mysterious subjects to furnish matter for calculation,

Iso may tell you that the reflecting stereoscope was finished
Iyesterday, and looks well, and that got a Devil made at
Ithe same time, which play at the Gymnasium for relaxa-

tion and breathing time.

Forbes also suggests my joining the Eoyal Society.

                              Trin. Coll, 20th Feb. /56.

     As far as writing (Testimonials) goes, there is a good
deal, and if you believe the Testimonials you would think
the Government had in their hands the triumph or downfall

Iof education generally, according as they elected one or not.
      However, wisdom is of many kinds, and do not know

Iwhich dwells with wise counsellors most, whether scientific,
practical, political, or ecclesiastical.  hear there are

candidates of all kinds relying on the predominance of one
or other of these kinds of wisdom in the constitution of the

Government.
252             JAMES CLEKK MAXWELL.                 [CHAP. IX.

   I had a letter from Dr. Swan of Edinburgh, who is a
Icandidate, asking me for my good opinion, which gave him,
I Iso far as had one. His printed papers are good, and

hear he is so himself. Maclennan is also a candidate. He

has the qualification of making himself understood.

     The results of this term are chiefly solid Geometry

Lectures, stereoscopic pictures, and optical theorems. My

lectures are to be on Eigid Dynamics and Astronomy next
Iterm, so do not expect to be out of work by reason of
IAberdeen, and
                have plenty to get through in those

subjects.       been making more stereoscopic curves for my
                intend to select some and draw them very neat
   I have
Ilectures.

the size of the ordinary stereoscopic pictures, and write a

Idescription of them, and publish them as mathematical
illustrations.  am going to do one now to illustrate the

theory of contour lines in maps, and to show how the rivers

must run, and where the lines of watershed must be.

                                   FKOM HIS FATHER.

                                                                                  22d Feby. 1856.

   ... I believe there is some salary, but fees and pupils,

I think, cannot be very plenty. But if the postie be gotten,

and prove not good, it can be given up ; at any rate it
occupies but half the year.

                To HIS FATHER.

                                                             Trin. Coll., 12th March.

     I was at the Working College to-day, working at decimal

fractions.      We are getting up a preparatory school for

biggish boys to get up their preliminaries. We are also

agitating in favour of early closing of shops. We have got

the whole of the ironmongers, and all the shoemakers but

one. The booksellers have done it some time. The Pitt

Press keeps late hours, and is to be petitioned to shut up.
     I have just written out an abstract of the second part of
Imy paper on Faraday's Lines of Force.
                                        hope soon to write
CHAP. IX.]         DEATH OF HIS FATHER.                                            253

I Iproperly the paper of which it is an abstract. It is four
weeks since read it.     have done nothing in that way

Ithis term, but am just beginning to feel the electrical state

come on again, and hope to work it up well next term.

                      To Miss CAY.

                         Thursday Afternoon (3d April 1856.)

DEAR AUNT My father died to-day at twelve o'clock.

He was sleepless and confused at night, but got up to break-

fast. He saw Sandy a few minutes, and spoke rationally,

then came into the drawing-room, and sat down on a chair

for a few minutes to rest, and gave a short cry and never

spoke again. We gave him ether for a little, but he could

not swallow it. There was no warning, and apparently no

pain. He expected it long, and described it so himself.

Do you think Uncle Eobert could come and help a

little ? Tell Dr. Bell and other people. As it
             if
better than      it

                 I
                                I

                                            J.

                                                                                 is,

                                                                          it

                                                                                            is
                   had been when was away. He would

not let me stay.   was to go to Cambridge on Friday.
Your aff. nephew,                                        C. MAXWELL.

             To MRS. BLACKBURN of Killearn.

                                                              Glenlair, Thursday.

     DEAR MRS. BLACKBURN My father died suddenly to-day
at 12 o'clock. He had been giving directions about the

garden, and he said he would sit down and rest little as
                                                              a

                                                                 I
usual. After few minutes asked him to lie down on the
             a

                         I

                                                           a
sofa, and he did not seem inclined to do so, and then                              got
him some ether, which had helped him before.

      Before he could take any he had slight struggle, and
all was over. He hardly breathed afterwards.

He used often to talk to me about this, which has come

at last, and he seemed fully to have made up his mind to                           it
and to be prepared for it. His nights have sometimes been

troubled, and last night was with him the whole time try-a
ing to get him into comfortable sleep, which did not come
till light.           I
254  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. IX.

       Otherwise we thought him better than when in Edm!"
He was very glad to get back here again.

    I write to you that you may tell Mrs. Wedderburn.
IShe ought to know, and trust you will let her know, that

not only was there no pain or distress about my father's
death, but he had often been speaking of how glad he was
that he had got everything put in order, and that he was

home again.

    I have written to ask my Uncle Eobert Cay to come and
Ihelp me in various things, as am rather alone here. Of
Icourse have written to Sir George, and will do so to other
Irelatives as soon as can. Your affte. cousin,

                                                      JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

   FROM E. DUNDAS CAY, Esq., to Miss CAY, on MR. JOHN

                              CLERK MAXWELL'S Death.

                                                        Ghnlair, 8th April 1856.

    I think you will be glad to hear how we are getting on.

It is very nice to see how natural James is. There is no

affectation of more feeling than he really has, but he talks
away upon his own subjects when not busy with the

necessary preparations for to-morrow. Fortunately these

Ioccupy him a good deal, and as think the business is of
Iuse to him, only assist him and keep him talking. For

instance, he made out all the list and directed the letters

Ihimself ; sat by and sealed them. Then my health requires

a walk every day, so we go out and talk away very much as
usual all the time, discussing the thinning of plantations, etc.

     It is beautiful to see the feeling of all the people towards

him, all thinking for him, and trying to assist him in every
way, and he trying to carry on everything as before : or
when he wants to make a change, his anxiety, lest people
should think he disapproves of the former customs. For
instance, he wished to have the servants in for prayers every

evening, instead of our reading by ourselves and reading to
them separately ; he was quite afraid they should think his

doing so would look as if he thought it was wrong, it not

having been done before.
CHAP. IX.]      DEATH OF HIS FATHER,     255

                To LEWIS CAMPBELL, Esq.

                               Trin. Coll., 22d April 1856.
I have had many things to attend to lately, which have
Ikept me from writing to you.
                               am glad you wrote to me.
I got a very kind letter from your mother and Bob, for

which you must thank them meanwhile. My uncles, Eobert

Iand Albert, stayed with me till the 15th. That day got
Ia letter from Cambridge about college matters, and so had

to set to work at home more vigorously. George Wedder-

burn came in the afternoon, and we had two hard days'

I Iwork of various kinds.
      On Friday he and
                left Glenlair, and       got here on

Saturday, and since yesterday have been lecturing.

   IAll things are as if had been up after a common
Ivacation, and
                see them all the same as they used to be.
I have got back among chapels and halls and scholarships,

and all the regular routine, with now and then some expres-

Ision of condolence, which is all that strangers can or ought

to afford. Neither they nor enter on a subject which
must be misunderstood ; but it seems to me that while all

Ithe old subjects are as interesting to me as ever, talk about
Ithem without understanding the men talk to.

    I have two or three stiff bits of work to get through this
Iterm here, and hope to overtake them. When the term is
Iover must go home and pay diligent attention to every-
Ithing there, so that may learn what to do.

    IThe first thing must do is carry on my father's work

Iof personally superintending everything at home, and for

doing this have his regular accounts of what used to be

done, and the memories of all the people, who tell me every-
thing they know. As for my own pursuits, it was my

Ifather's wish, and it is mine, that should go on with them.
IWe used to settle that what ought to be engaged in was

some occupation of teaching, admitting of long vacations for

being at home ; and when my father heard of the Aberdeen
Iproposition he very much approved.
                                     have not heard any-
Ithing very lately, but believe my name is not yet put out
256         JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                               [CHAP. IX.

If Iof question in the L^ Advocate's book.                     get back to
IGlenlair shall have the mark of my father's work on every-
I Ithing see. Much of them is still his, and must be in
Isome degree his steward to take care of them.
                                                               trust that

the knowledge of his plans may be a guide to me, and never

Ia constraint.
         am glad to hear of your [Oxford] W[orking Men's]
Coll[ege]. The preparatory school here has at once got from

seventy to ninety scholars, all in earnest, and they have had

to migrate to a larger schoolhouse.

     We might consider of you and Bob and W. Cay coming
for a quiet week or two to Glenlair in summer, if all goes

well. Bob is with Willie and Charlie now touring.                           the
                                                                            ex-
   I am getting a new top turned to show my class
Imotion of bodies of various forms about a fixed point.

pect to get very neat results from and agreeing with theory
                  I
of course.
                                 J. it,
                                                   D. FORBES.
                                                 of
            FROM PROFESSOR

                                            Bridge Allan, 30th April 1856.

     MY DEAR SIR  have just seen in the newspaper that

you have been appointed to the Chair in Marischal College,

on which beg sincerely to congratulate you.
I
     regret much that should at the same time be my
     it           I

      I                  it
        I
                                 a

                                 it
lot to express my sympathy on the occasion of the recent

death of your father. Such loss occurs but once in lifetime.
                                                               a

In your case am sure that                   has the greatest alleviation

which admits of   mean the consciousness that you have

been an affectionate and dutiful son, and that your excellent

conduct relieved your father's mind from every shade of

anxiety regarding you. Believe me always, yours very

sincerely,                                           JAMES D. FORBES.

            To E. B. LITCHFIELD, Esq.

                                                   Trinity, 4th June 1856.

     On Thurs. evening take the North-western route to the
        I
North.               I

                                        is
            am busy looking over immense rubbish of papers,

etc., for some things not to be burnt lie among much com-

bustible matter, and some soft and good for packing.
CHAP. IX.]  ABERDEEN.  257

    It is not pleasant to go down to live solitary, but it

would not be pleasant to stay up either, when all one had to
do lay elsewhere. The transition state from a man into a
Don must come at last, and it must be painful, like gradual
outrooting of nerves. When it is done there is no more
pain, but occasional reminders from some suckers, tap-roots,
or other remnants of the old nerves, just to show what was

there and what might have been.

      After his father's death, Maxwell set himself anew               1856.

to the tasks before him, with a mingled sense of loss
and responsibility. One of his first duties was to
apply himself to the management of his estate. He
remained at Grlenlair during most of the summer, only
making a short excursion to Belfast on account of his
cousin, William Cay, who, in accordance with his

advice, was about to study Engineering under James

Thomson, the brother of the Glasgow Professor. In

the autumn, besides entertaining Charles Hope Cay,
then a boy of fifteen, in his school holidays, he had
various Cambridge friends to stay with him, as in

former years. 1

     In November he began his work at Aberdeen. A

Scotch Professor has one advantage over a College

lecturer at Cambridge. If his students are less ad-

vanced, he has the entire direction of their work in

his own department. It is left to him, apart from any

     1 With one of these, who happened to be " Carlyle-mad," he drove
one day on pilgrimage to Craigenputtock. The enthusiast, in his
rapture, harangued an old peasant, who was hoeing " neeps," on the
glorious doings of the former tenant of the farm-house. The man
listened, stooping over his work till the rhapsody was over, then

looked up for a moment saying, " It is aye gude that mends," and

resumed his labour. Maxwell was fond of relating this.
                                                               S
258  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. IX.

prescribed system, to determine the order in which the
parts of his subject shall be developed. His selection
of topics is not dominated by the Final Examination.
This peculiarity of his position was fully appreciated
by Clerk Maxwell, whose experience of the course in
Edinburgh under Forbes, gave him a " standpoint "
from which to arrange his great fund of scientific

acquirement in presenting it to his students.
     Had Maxwell the qualities of a teacher ? That he

was not on the whole successful in oral communica-

tion is an impression too widespread to be contra-
dicted without positive proof. Yet his letters bear
.sufficient evidence that in many respects he had a
true vocation as an educator. The combination of

keen sympathy with native authority and dignity, the
intense interest in his subject, his endless power of
taking trouble, his philanthropic enthusiasm, his criti-
cal study of mankind, his wide range of language and
ideas, must have enabled him to make his mark as a

public teacher, either at Aberdeen or Cambridge, if he

had remained long enough at either place to wear off

some superficial impediments, to adapt his methods to
his environment, and to effect a thorough understand-

ing with his pupils. As it was, his lectureship at
Trinity lasted only for a year, and in the Scotch

university he had only taught for three short sessions

when Marischal College was on the point of being
suppressed, and his reputation as a teacher was, under
these circumstances, brought into comparison with
that of others whose strength lay in exposition. To
those who know what is implied in academical con-
CHAP. IX.]  ABERDEEN.  259

tests and controversies, the mention of these facts will

be a sufficient caution against taking the lowest
estimate of Maxwell's teaching powers ; and in after

years " at Cambridge, where his class consisted of

picked students," we have good authority for say-

ing " his lectures were listened to with an atten-
tion and pleasure similar to that with which his
books are now read." But at this earlier time there

were certainly drawbacks, of which he himself was
imperfectly conscious. Between his students' ignor-

ance and his vast knowledge, it was difficult to find a

common measure. The advice which he once gave a

friend whose duty it was to preach to a country
congregation, "Why don't you give it them thinner ?"
must often have been applicable to himself. Another
hindrance lay in the very richness of his imagination,
and the swiftness of his wit. The ideas with which

his mind was teeming were perpetually intersecting,
and their interferences, like those of the waves s of
light, made " dark bands " in the place of colour,
to the unassisted eye. Illustrations of ignotum per
ignotius, or of the abstruse by some unobserved pro-
perty of the familiar, were multiplied with dazzling
rapidity. Then the spirit of indirectness and paradox,
though he was aware of its dangers, would often take
possession of him against his will, and either from
shyness, or momentary excitement, or the despair
of making himself understood, would land him in
" chaotic statements," breaking off with some quirk
of ironical humour. Add to this his occasional hesi-

tation, his shortsightedness, and the long years of
260           JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.            [CHAP. IX.

solitary intercourse with his father, who understood

his meaning   from the slightest hint and rather en-
couraged the   family trick of " calling things out of

their names," and the list of hindrances is sufficiently

formidable. But he was striving to overcome those

of which he knew, and even if he had never done

so completely, the weight of his character as well as
the profundity of his genius, and his unvarying kind-

liness, must have won their way.

    As marking his educational enthusiasm, it should

not be forgotten here that he continued at Aberdeen

the practice which he had commenced at Cambridge,
of lecturing to working men. This was entirely

Ivoluntary, and for aught know may have been

regarded as a piece of eccentricity.

    A trivial incident may be recorded as throwing

light on his relations to professors and students

severally. The professors had unlimited access to the
library, and were in the habit of sometimes taking out
a volume for the use of a friend. The students were

only allowed two volumes at a time. Maxwell took

out books for his students, and when checked for this

by his colleagues explained that the students were his

friends.

     Amongst the human phenomena surrounding him,

one which    genuinely interested him was  the religious
             which took place about that   time in Scot-
" revival "

land. His intercourse with evangelical friends in

England had prepared     him to sympathise     with such
" experiences," and his  Calvinistic reading  had famili-

arised him with the language used. And he was less
CHAP. IX.]           GLENLAIR.               261

jealous of Antinomianism than of a cut and dried
morality. 1 But he was in no wise distracted from his
professional duties by this or anything else, and
although he referred to it in conversation, it has left

Ino trace in any of his remaining letters which have

seen.

                    LETTERS, 1856-1857.

                    RTo B. LITCHFIELD, Esq.

                                   Glenlair, 4th July 1856.
I have got some prisms and opticals from Edinbro',
Iand am fitting up a compendious colour-machine capable
Iof transportation.
                     have also my top for doing dynamics
Iand several colour-diagrams, so that if come to Cheltenham
I Ishall not be empty handed. At the same time should

like to hear from you soon.

    I have been giving a portion of time to Saturn's Rings,
Iwhich find a stiff subject but curious, especially the case

of the motion of a fluid ring. The very forces which would

tend to divide the ring into great drops or satellites are

made by the motion to keep the fluid in a uniform

I Iring.        get fonder of metaphysics and less of calcula-
          find

tion continually, and my metaphysics are fast settling into

the rigid high style, that is about ten times as far above

Whewell as Mill is below him, or Comte or Macaulay below

Mill, using above and below conventionally like up and

down in Bradshaw.

Experiment furnishes us with the values of our arbitrary

constants, but only suggests the form of the functions.

Afterwards, when the form is not only recognised but under-

stood scientifically, we find that it rests on precisely the

same foundation as Euclid does, that is, it is simply the*

contradiction of an absurdity, out of which may we all get

our legs at last !

                     i Seep. 111.
262              JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.         [CHAP. IX.

                           To THE SAME.

                                                     Glenlair, 18th July 1856.

     I can promise you milk and honey and mutton, with

wind and water to match, a reasonable stock of natives of
Igreat diversity, and very unlike any natives know else-
Iwhere.
         also expect a cousin 1 here, who carries a clear
Iand active mind in a body ditto ditto, and hope to make

them stick closer together by the material above stated.

                           To THE SAME.

                                 Glenlair, 9th September 1856.

     My only hope for Pomeroy is that he may keep Ms
Ihealth; if that remains
                           think it quite presumptuous to
Iinterfere with him by hopes or otherwise, for would rather
Ibe interfered with by him (from which
                                              am safe) than
bother a man who steers so well himself. You must

remember that besides the clerical shell of respectability

which is to be put on, there is sometimes a lay shell of

avrjpiQfjuov 7eAa<r/xa, which has in some measure to be put

off, or perhaps more truly drawn in, for no one that has

once known can ever forget that instead of two views

there are three, good, bad, and grotesque ; and tho' all
things are full of jokes, that does not hinder them from

being quite full, or even more so, of more solemn matters.

It also strikes me that if we were to compare notes, the

thing we would most differ about would be the notion we
have of the " standpoint " (see religious prints, passim) of
the men whom we know in common.

   IMy own notion is that you see him where he ought to

be according to principle, and see him where he acts, as
if he was, that
                 a is,  in the position which would naturally

produce his actual life. But find on comparing notes with
                           is I
other people that man always shows himself up differently
                                 with him. In fact do
'according to the man who                     I

                                                        it

myself, so must now show up the fishing side for theI
benefit of Charlie (Cay).

                        1  Charles Hope Cay.
CHAP. IX.]        ABERDEEN.                                           263

                  TO C. J. MONRO, Esq.

                                         Glenlair, 14th October 1856.
    I. . . During September
Iand two cousins " Cay" here.
                              had Lushington, Maclennan,
                              Now am writing a solemn

I Iaddress or manifesto to the Natural Philosophers of the

North, 1 which am afraid must reinforce with coffee and

Ianchovies, and a roaring hot fire and spread coat-tails to

make it all natural. By the way, have proved that if there

be nine coefficients of magnetic induction, perpetual motion

will set in, and a small crystalline sphere will inevitably
destroy the universe by increasing all velocities till the fric-

tion brings all nature into a state of incandescence, or as

H would say, Terrestrial all in Chaos shall exhibit efflor-

escence.

                  To Miss CAY.

                                         129 Union Street, Aberdeen,
                                               27th February 1857.

      IYou are right about my being two letters in debt to
you.      proceed to " post you up " to the most recent epoch.

The weather is mild and sunny, but the winter has been

severe. The planets Jupiter and Venus have been neigh-

bours ; Saturn, Mars, and Mercury also visible.
      ITo descend to particulars.
Ivery smoothly.                          find everything going on

                  never passed an equal time with less
Itrouble.
I IIn fact,
               have plenty of work but no vexation as yet.
            am beginning to fear that must get into some

Iscrape just to put an end to my complacency.

        will begin with the College. We are having public

meetings and caucuses (that I            the students are) for the
election of Lord Eector. Lord Stanley won't come. Lordis,

Elgin     doubtful. They seem to prefer Elgin to Layard.
       is

              Ia
We are to have commission consisting of Col. Mure, Cosmo

Innes, and Stirling of Keir.

      To-morrow hold my second general examination on

the subject we have done.     hope that my men of science

            1  His Inaugural Lecture at Aberdeen.
264          JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                   [CHAP. IX.

Iwon't have their heads turned with politics.       have all the

squibs regularly presented to me. They are not very good.
     I have had 13 special examinations, and the two last
Ihave been the best answered of any.
                                                    send you my

paper for to-morrow to give it to Bob Campbell with my

profoundest esteem.

     IWe have been at the theory of Heat and the Steam
Engine this month, and on Monday we begin Optics.        have

a volunteer class who have been thro' astronomy, and we
Iare now at high Optics. Tuesday week give a lecture to
Ioperatives, etc., on the Eye.
                                have just been getting cods'

and bullocks' eyes, to refresh my memory and practise

Idissection. The size of the cod and the ox eye is nearly

the same. As this was our last day of fluids, finished off
with a splendid fountain in the sunlight. We were not

very wet.             I have made the most of my time in
      Out of College  I used to walk every day with Professor

seeing the natives.

IMartin, but he was not well for some time, and we broke
that habit.  get on better with people of more decision

Iand less refinement, because they keep me in better order.
          have been keeping up friendly relations with the

King's College men, and they seem to be very friendly too.
I have not received any rebukes yet from our men for
Iso doing, but
                      find that the families of some of our

professors have no dealings, and never had, with those

of the King's people. Theoretically we profess charity.
     I had a glorious solitary walk to-day in Kincardineshire
Iby the coast black cliffs and white breakers.
Isecond dip this season.                            took my

                          have found a splendid place,

sheltered and safe, with gymnastics on a pole afterwards.

             To THE EEV. LEWIS CAMPBELL.

                                129 Union Street,

                                Aberdeen, 6th February 1857.
I Igot your letter 1 this morning at breakfast.
                                                           was

somewhat seedy from being up late, but the perusal seemed

             1 Announcing our marriage engagement.
CHAP. IX.]               ABERDEEN.                           265

Ito clear up everything, and got on better with explaining
Ithe properties of elastic fluids than had any reason to hope.
ISo when have doubts about the best mode of explaining
Ianything, must consult your letter, only it will not do for
Iever.
            must have a new one now and then.
IBut have not been so glad for long. Knowing you of
Iold, can see how things are by the way you write, and it

is not always that similar announcements have given me

similar satisfaction.
    ISo am glad that you                             "it"
                            do     not   know what           was.
Avoid the neuter pronoun.         " is  unworthy of  beasts  that
                           " It
Iperish. " He " and " She " are for ever and ever. What

the form of the pronoun may be after this cannot tell, but
I think more is meant in the distinction than is fully

expressed in this life.

The Sadducees on the one side, and the ascetics on the

other, point out the errors. Solomon, Prov. viii., et passim,

and Eph. vi., indicate matter of contemplation not unallied

Ito action, which in good ground bears good fruit.
      But as Urania remarked to Melpomene, am but dis-

Iplaying the fact of my belonging to a lower stage in the

scale of things, so must for the present go down beside my

native rill.
      With respect to this " northern hermitage," my cell is

pretty commodious. In quitting the coenobitic cloister of

ITrinity for the howling wilderness of Union Street, have

not been made an anchoret. It is quite consistent with the

eremitic life to modify one's fast in friends' houses 4 days

per week or so.

    IOne thing am thankful for, though perhaps you will
Inot believe it. Up to the present time have not even been

Itempted to mystify any one.

        have made out who were most likely to excite my
Ipassion that way, and have avoided some, and broken the
Iice with others.
                       am glad B        is not here ; he would
I Ihave ruined me.
                         once met him.         was as much
Iastonished as he was at the chaotic statements began to
I Imake. But as far as can learn
                                        have not been mis-
266                JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.           [CHAP. IX.

Iunderstood in anything, and no one has heard a single

oracle from my lips. Of course do not mean that my

Iclass do not mistake my meaning sometimes. That is found
out and remedied day by day.  speak of professors,

ministers, doctors, advocates, matrons, maidens, and pheno-

menal existences (Chimerse bombylantes in vacuo). We
Iare through mechanics.  had an exn> on bookwork on
I24th Jan.
            got answers to all the questions and riders,
Ithough no one floored them all right.
                                           have now to be

brewing experiments on Heat, as well as determining the

form of doctrine to be presented to the finite capacities of

my men.

                   FROM C. J. MONRO, Esq.

                                         15th February 1857.

     IHave you seen the Pomeroy packet ? It has much more
in it than any travels  ever read. Lots of phenomena,

human and otherwise, on the way out : especially the waves

in a storm. . . .

     . . . They who deal in instruments of strings say that
if you strike a certain note you hear certain others above.

Is that because of the further terms in a Fourier's integral,

Ior because a sympathetic vibration is excited in certain other
of the strings of the same instrument ?    observe Weber

says that it does not occur in wind instruments.

            FROM PROFESSOR J. D. FORBES.

     MY DEAR MAXWELL                Edinburgh, 31st March 1857.

                        I have often wished to ask you to

Itell me how your first session had turned out ; consequently
   was exceedingly glad to get your letter this Evening, and

to find that you have not been disappointed in the results

of the step to which you kindly say that my assistance was

Iof some use. In what you say about the monotony of re-

iteration, can confidently assure you that your conclusions

are quite correct ; certain precautions being taken which an

active mind like yours is sure to fall upon.

    We shall be delighted to see you at the R S. on the 20th
CHAP. IX.]  GLENLAIR, 1857.                                     267

and to have your paper, which, if convenient, please to put

into my hands, as a matter of form, when ready.

    I have been at several meetings of the Society, but am
Ifeeling a little just now the effects of the season and the

winter's work, so shall not be there on the 6th. On the

Iwhole, however, have got through the winter well.
    I Ishall like much to see your Top, of which read the

account in the Athenaeum.
      Have you observed in that same flippant paper for last

Saturday an attack upon Faraday (as it seems to me) of a
most presumptuous and ignorant kind ? Though by no

Imeans as yet a convert to the views which Faraday main-

tains, yet have so far a general appreciation of them as to

Ibelieve that this conceited mathematician (some fifteenth

Cambridge wrangler, guess) is ignorant altogether of what
Faraday wishes to prove. Always yours sincerely,

                                                              JAMES D. FORBES.

            To C. J. MONRO, Esq.

                                         Glenlair, Springholm,

                                                      Dumfries, 20th May 1857.

I Iwent to Old Aberdeen for Fourier, . . . but have

Iforgotten what was to be discovered out of him.  had Sun
      The session went off smoothly enough.

all the beginning of optics, and worked off all the experi-

Imental part up to Fraunhofer's lines, which were glorious to
see with a water prism  have set up in the form of

Ia cubical box, 5 inch side. The only things not generally

done that attempted last session were the undulatory

medium made of bullets for advanced class, and Plateau's

experiments on a sphere of oil in a mixture of spirits and

Iwater of exactly its own density.       The experiments on
         succeeded very well with heat.

latent heat came out very accurate. That was my part,

I Iand the class could explain and work out the results better

than expected. Next year intend to mix experimental

physics with mechanics, devoting Tuesday and THURSDAY
268          JAMES CLEKK MAXWELL.              [CHAP. IX.

(what would Stokes say ?) to the science of experimenting

accurately.
     I Igot a glorified top made at Aberdeen.
Isaw the wooden type at Cambridge.             think you

                                    have made it the

occasion of a short screed on rotation coming out in the

IEoy. Soc., Edinburgh, presently.
      Last week brewed chlorophyll (as the chemists word
it), a green liquor, which turns the invisible light red. My

Ipot of all the winter spinach that remained was portentous,

so exhibited the optical effects, which were allowed to be

worth the potful.

     My last grind was the reduction of equations of colour

Iwhich made last year. The result was eminently satisfac-

tory.

             To K. B. LITCHFIELD, Esq.

                                                              Glenlair, 29th May 1857.

       IIt is with a profound feeling of pity that write to a

denizen of Hare Court after participating in the blessings of

this splendid day. We had just enough of cloud to prevent

scorching, and the grass seemed to like to grow just as

much as the beasts to eat it.

   I have not had a mathematical idea for about a
Ifortnight, when wrote them all away to Prof. Thomson,
Iand have not got an answer yet with fresh ones. But
I believe there is a department of mind conducted inde-

pendent of consciousness, where things are fermented and

Idecocted, so that when they are run off they come clear.

     By the way, found it useful at Aberdeen to tell the

students what parts of the subject they were not to
remember, but to get up and forget at once as being rudi-
mentary notions necessary to development, but requiring to

Ibe sloughed off before maturity.                        The
         have no one with me but the domestics and dog.

valley seems deserted of its gentry ; but we have one gentle-

man from Dumfriesshire, who is living in a hired house, and
building with great magnificence an Episcopal Chapel in
Castle-Douglas at his own expense. His own house is 20

miles off, a capital place, and this is perhaps the least
CHAP. IX.]       GLENLAIR, 1857.                     269

Episcopal part of Scotland by reason of the memory of the
dragoons. One old family of the Stewartry is of that
persuasion, and most of the persecutors' families are now

Presbyterian and Whig, so that the congregation is but

feeble.

     It is very different at Aberdeen, where the Presbyterians

Ipersecuted far more than the Prelatists, so there actually
Ifound a true Jacobite (female, could not undertake to pro-

duce a male specimen), and there are three distinct Episcopal

religions in Aberdeen, all pretty lively.

I I ICan you tell me what the illustrated Tennyson is like ?
shan't see it till go to Edinbro'.         don't mean are the

Iprints the best possible, or impervious to green spectacles ;
but are they nice diagrams as such things go ?       should like

Ito know before long about    and whether the characters
   I

                      it

                              J.

                                                it,

                                       I
are of the Adamic type, and in reasonable condition, or pre-

Eafaelitic in all but colour, and symbolising everything
except the " Archetypal Skeleton " and the " Nature of

Limbs."

                 To C. MONRO, Esq.

                                         Glenlair, 5th Jund 1857.

have not seen article seven, but agree with your

dissent from  entirely. On the vested interest principle,

think the men who intended to keep their fellowships by

celibacy and ordination, and got them on that footing, should

not be allowed to desert the virgin choir or neglect the

priestly office, but on those principles should be allowed to

live out their days, provided the whole amount of souls

cured annually does not amount to 20 in the King's Book.

But my doctrine  that the various grades of College
                 is
                                      a
officers should be set on such basis that, although chance

lecturers might be sometimes chosen from among fresh

fellows who are going away soon, the reliable assistant

tutors, and those that have plain calling that way, should
                           a

after few years be elected permanent officers of the College,
a

and be tutors and deans in their time, and seniors also,

with leave to marry, or rather, never prohibited or asked
any questions on that head, and with leave to retire after
270       JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.               [CHAP. IX.

so many years' service as seniors. As for the men of the
world, we should have a limited term of existence, and that

Iindependent of marriage or " parsonage."
         saw a paragraph about the Female' Artists Exhibition,
and that Mrs. Hugh Blackburn had her Phaethon there. . . .
She has done a very small picture of a haystack making,
somewhat pre-Eaphaelite in pose, but graceful withal, and
such that the Moidart natives know every lass on the stack,

whether seen behind or before. It was at the Edinburgh

IAcademy of Painters.
         have done a screed of introduction to optics, and am
at a sort of general summary of mechanical principles

doctrines relating to absolute and relative motion, analysis
of the doctrine of Force into the smallest number of inde-

pendent truths, theory of angular momentum and couples of
work done, and vis viva, of actual and potential energy, with
continual jaw on the doctrine of measurement by units all

through.

          To KEV. LEWIS CAMPBELL.

     I Igot your letter yesterday.  Glenlair, 7th August 1857.

                                    have oftener corresponded
I Iwith people expected to see than with those had just

left, so you must excuse my being rather more glad of

I Iit than if had expected it. So you were better than

Itook you for; put that in the Logic -mill and grind it by

" Conversion of Props." Since you left have been stir-
ring up old correspondents. Poor W
                                      is "himself again,"

with not many to care about him. He could not keep the
IA youths in order, and tried to get his authority backed
by the big authorities. Then  suppose ensued a struggle

between bodily weakness and hesitation, and mental stern-

ness, stubbornness, and conscientiousness. The result prob-

Iably was something severe in substance and mild in manner,
or otherwise open to scorn from the youths.  don't

know, but he has resigned his place.  The youths then

proceeded to express their penitence, and the authorities their

regret. But he is now taking private pupils for that seat of

. . . learning, with not more friends and friendliness than
CHAP. IX.]           GLENLAIR, 1857.                               271

Iof old. Not exactly.  am glad to hear of his knowing

some mathematical men, actuaries, etc., and corresponding

with them, and he is much more friendly by the post than

by speech and face.

Yesterday we did our Castle -Douglas, and round by

Greenlaw (Gordon, Esq.) Old Greenlaw impounded us at
once, and embarked us in his boat down to Threave Castle,

where some falsified antiquity, and some apart behind thick

woven thorns bathed in the black water of Dee.

Then back to dinner with another party of chance

visitors, songs both of the drawing-room and the quire and

the cotton fields, and, to conclude, the unpremeditated hop.

The thing was not destitute of its humours. Old Green-

law, heir   of entail, with charters in  his bedroom belonging to
" Young     Lochinvar " his forbear,     and various Douglases,

with rights of pit and gallows, and other curious privileges,
sending all his people and visitors neck and heels in the very

best direction for themselves. Son and daughter mild, inde-

fatigable, generally useful, doing (at home) exactly as they are
bid. One gay litter(ar)y widow, charming never so wisely,

with her hair about her ears and her elbows on her knees,

on a low stool, talking Handel, or Euskin, or Macaulay, or

general pathos of unprotected female, passing off into

criticism, witticism, pleasantry, unmitigated slang, sporting,

Iand betting.                                                      see often,
      One little Episcopal chaplain, a Celt, whom

but do not quite fathom thatis

                            iIs,

                                                                a
                                         don't know how far he

respects and how far he amused with his most patronising

friends. One, mathematical teacher somewhere, friend to

chaplain.   Voice. Mild, good fellow, like                         grown up

chorister, quite modest about everything except his voice
"""TeWBOnuhehtsasSewtuehswao"nilnlm(Catahhhyae"ypalb(asCiiadnhyea"poinbla(ldiiEgnona.)tgl,oela)aa,ndndsd","Ycsoheo"torunTo.shn)e,ce"StCmaonoudrreatri"dn'(HdBaoenwadrneerli,)n",

One good old widow lady, with manners. One son to d?               ,

sanguine temperament, open countenance, very much run

to nose, brain inactive, probably fertile in military virtue.
272             JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.           [CHAP. IX.

Two daughters to d. , healthy, physical force girls, brains

more developed owing to their not having escaped in the

form of nose.

     Now, conceive the Voice set down beside one of the

physical forces, and trying to interest her in the capacities

of different rooms for singing in, she being more benevolent

and horsefleshy than technically musical, the Chaplain

entertaining the other with an account of his solitary life

in his rooms, old Greenlaw hospitably entreating the

mannerly widow, and trying to get the Nose to talk.

      The young widow fixed on Colin, and informed him that

if Solomon were to reappear with all his wisdom, as well as

his glory, he would yet have to learn the polka ; and that

the mode of feasting adopted by the Incas of Peru reminded

her strongly of a custom prevalent among the Merovingian

race of kings of France.

Living in the Pampas she regarded as an enviable lot,

and she was at a loss to know the best mode of studying

Euclid for the advantage of being able to teach a young

Ibrother of six (years old).                   had to be

     So we did not get home till near 11, and

Iup at Glenlair at 5 this morning, the result of which is that
at 12 to-night  am a little sleepy. Johnnie 1 can swim

... Iacross the big pool at the Chapel, all by himself.His taste

of water through the nose did him great good.                 have

Ihad some races after stones down the water in Loch Roan.

  have kept the stone in sight a good way, but it has always

beaten me. I'll try some broken crockery to begin with.

    I have succeeded in establishing the existence of an error
I Iin my Saturnian mazes, but have not detected it yet.
Ihave finished the first part of the Religion Naturelle.2

am not a follower of those who believe they know what per-

fection must imply, and then make a deity to that pattern ;

but it is very well put, and carries one through, though if

Ithe book belongs to this age at all, it is eminently unlike

most books of this century in England. But only know

1 His cousin John Cay, younger brother of William and Charles.
                               2 By M. Jules Simon.
CHAP. IX.]    GLENLAIR, 1857, MT. 26.                                       273

one other     book of French argument     on  t"hdeempoosnistitvraetio(nn.o" t
              side, and that also worked  by
positiviste)
              is,
My notion                   a

                                     it

                                                                of
                                                                        is
              that reason, taste, and conscience are the judges

of all knowledge, pleasure, and action, and that they are the

exponents not of code, but of the unwritten law, which

they reveal as they judge by in presence                                  the facts. The

facts must be witnessed to 'by the senses, and cross-examined

by the intellect, and not unless everything                                 properly put

on record and proved as fact, will any question of law be

resolved at headquarters.

     We are only going through our Lehrjahr in the know-

ledge of Perfection, and we may have Wanderjahr to com-
                                         a
                                                     a
plete even after getting the first diploma, which                           it is a

certificate of having eyes to see the work, conscience to                       is
feel after Eight, and faith to believe in the Word, and to reach

a  station thereby where both those eyes and that conscience

may be satisfied, or at least appeased.   I   do not think

doing Eeason, etc. any injustice to say that rough dead facts
are the necessary basis on which to work in order to elicit

the living truth, not from the facts, but either from the

utterer of facts or the giver of Eeason, which two are one, or

Eeason would never decipher facts.

              For know, whatever was created needs
              To be sustained and fed. Of elements

              The grosser feeds the purer, etc.

                            various degrees
              Of substance, and in things that live, of life

                                     Meanwhile enjoy

              Your fill what happiness this happy state

              Can comprehend, incapable of more.
274  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. X.

                    CHAPTEE X.

      ABERDEEN MARRIAGE 1857 TO 1860, ^ET. 26-29.

THE Glenlair letters of 1857 (see last chapter) suffi-
ciently indicate Maxwell's mental condition in the
interval between his first and second sessions at Aber-
deen. His expansive sociable spirit is putting forth
fresh feelers, and he has made a new beginning in his
observation of man in society. But he has not yet
recovered from the loss of the preceding year, and
those who read between the lines cannot fail to trace
here and there a touch- of sadness peering from
beneath the habitual buoyancy of his style.

    In September of this year another loss re-

newed the feeling of desolation which had haunted
him since his father's death. His friend Pomeroy,
whom he had nursed in illness, and of whose career in
India he had augured so highly, was carried off by a
second attack of fever, caused by a hurried journey
during the first outbreak of the Mutiny. Maxwell's
letters to Mr. Litchfield show how keenly he felt this
blow, and what deep thoughts on human life and
destiny were once more stirred up in him.

     His original work on electricity was now for a
while interrupted by another laborious task, which
CHAP. X.]         ABERDEEN MARRIAGE.                            275

absorbed his best energies for more than a year. The
examiners for the Adam's Prize, given by St. John's

College in honour of the discovery of Neptune, 1 had
set as a subject, "The Structure of Saturn's King."

To frame and test an hypothesis which should account

for the observed phenomena was a problem of no

ordinary complexity, and one to which the speculative

imagination and mathematical ingenuity of Clerk

Maxwell were particularly adapted. It appears to

have completely fascinated him for the time. The

essay by which he gained the prize, and which he

published after elaborately revising                it,       well known
                                                        is
to students, and the allusions to the subject in his
                                                             a
letters at this time will be read with interest.

Such was the strain of feeling, and such the chief

intellectual interest, with which he returned to Aber-

deen, where he seems to have been once more destined,

though in his native country, to understand more than
he was understood and in his letters, together with
                  ;
the deepening earnestness and the unfailing humour,
                         a
thereit         now and then mingled for the first timea        a

grain of bitterness, or what may be taken for such.is is is
But rather the cry of spirit hungering for com-
pletion. And the phase of disharmony quickly passes

off, and followed by song of triumph.

     Of his new acquaintances at Aberdeen he had
become most intimate with the family of Principal
Dewar of Marischal College, and he was frequent

                  See above,                   85.
                  1

                                           p.
2*76  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                            [CHAP. X.

visitor at their house. His deep and varied know-

ledge, not only of his own and kindred subjects, but
of history, literature, and theology, his excellence of

heart, and the religious earnestness which underlay

his humorous " shell," were there appreciated and
admired. He had^been asked to join them in their
annual visit to Ardhallow, the home of the Principal's
son-in-law, |Mr. M'Cunn, in the neighbourhood of

Dunoon, and had accepted the invitation. The time
of his stay there in September 1857 is marked by
letters which, unlike some others of this period,
reflect his brightest mood.

     In February 1858 he announced his betrothal to

Katherine Mary Dewar, and they were married early
in the following June. In May he had made a
journey to the south of England to visit me in my
parish of Milford, in Hampshire, and to act as " best
man " on the occasion of our marriage, which took

place at Brighton. My wife and I found our way to

Aberdeen in time to be present at the wedding there,
and were shortly afterwards entertained at Glenlair.

     The correspondence of these months and the poems
then written contain the record of feelings which in
the years that followed were transfused in action and
embodied in a married life which can only be spoken
of as one of unexampled devotion. 1

      He remained for two more sessions at Aberdeen.

      1 See the Poems of 1858 amongst the Occasional  Pieces in

Part III.
CHAP. X.]  ABERDEEN MARRIAGE.              277

But in 1860 came the fusion of the colleges, and

the Professorship of Natural Philosophy at Marischal

College was one of those suppressed. In the same

winter his old friend Professor James D. Forbes,

after struggling for eight years against ill -health,
resigned his Chair, and Maxwell became a candidate

for the vacant post. It is enough to have alluded

once for all a to the contest, which ended in the

appointment of Professor Tait. It only remains to

say that Maxwell's relations with that eminent
man, who had been his companion both in Edinburgh

and at Cambridge, always continued to be of the
most friendly kind; and their correspondence, often of
the quaintest description, would of itself fill a volume

of very entertaining reading for those possessed of a

clue to the labyrinth of science, learning, wit, and
frolicsome allusion, which it contains. The two men

looked over proof-sheets of each other's writings, and

when they most differed, Maxwell's criticism condensed
in humorous verse was always understood and wel-

comed by the Edinburgh Professor. In the summer

1 See above, p. 258. As this candidature was the last occasion on

which Maxwell was compelled to collect testimonials, it may be well

to add here to what has been said above about his teaching powers,

that his success at Aberdeen was very strongly attested by his
colleagues, and in particular by Thomas Clark, the Professor of

Chemistry. And four years earlier, in February 1854, Professor
G. G. Stokes had given this important testimony : " . . . One thing
more is wanted in a teacher, namely, a power of conveying clearly his

Iknowledge to others. That Mr. Maxwell possesses that power feel

satisfied, having once been present when he was giving an account of

Isome of his geometrical researches to the Cambridge Philosophical
Society, on which occasion  was struck with the singularly lucid

manner of his exposition.'' (See p. 212.)
278  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                                                     [CHAP. X.

of 1860 the ex-professor of Aberdeen was appointed
to the vacant Professorship of Natural Philosophy in

King's College, London.

     To LEWIS CAMPBELL, Esq.

     Glenlair, 28th August 1857.
     ... I have been battering away at Saturn, returning
Ito the charge every now and then.        have effected several
Ibreaches in the solid ring, and now am splash into the

Ifluid one, amid a clash of symbols truly astounding. When

  reappear it will be in the dusky ring, which is something

like the state of the air supposing the siege of Sebastopol

conducted from a forest of guns 100 miles one way, and

30,000 miles the other, and the shot never to stop, but go

spinning away round a circle, radius 170,000 miles. . . .

     To THE SAME.

     Ardhallow, Dunoon, 4th Sept. 1857.

    IThe road along Loch Eck is the most glorious for shape

and colour of hills and rocks that have seen anywhere,

specially on a fine calm day, with clouds as well as sun, and

with large patches of withered bracken mixed with green on

the less steep parts of the hills. Then the crushing and

doubling up of the strata, and the slicing and cracking of

the already doubled up strata, quite without respect to

previous torment, gives a notion of active force, as well as

passive, even to ungeological minds. We inspected Duncan

Marshall, the Hermit of these parts, and wound up the day

with a pull in the boat till dark. . . .                                    to " follow
                                                                             have done
IfollowMrsS.ouWthe"d[wdeherbnuransk]edp,rosfeossweshenheJroshelnf nyreaanddy

our Moidart and Loch Aylort, we shall hoist sail or get up

Isteam or something, and then very likely he may reappear

to his parent and aunt, and shall continue my road with

my aunt to wait upon the faithful Tobs, and realise Saturn's

Kings, and probably feed a few natives of the valley with
CHAP. X.]   ARDHALLOW, 1857.                                                     279

Ithe produce of its soil.  was writing great screeds of

letters to Professor Thomson about those Rings, and lo ! he

was a-laying of the telegraph which was to go to America,

and bringing his obtrusive science to bear upon the engineers,

so that they broke the cable with not following                                  is (itappears)

his advice. However,  know nothing. List to the new                                                           ;
   it

        is
            a

              &

              I
                 II
words to common song, which conceived on the railway
to Glasgow. As have only bizzing, loose, interruption-
to - talking - - deathblow - to - general - conversation - memory of
                           aI

                                 if
the orthodox version, don't know the metre correct

but some such rambling metre anyhow, and contains

some insignificant though apparently treasonable remarks in

   perfect thicket of vain repetitions. To avoid these leta
                           (u) = " Under the sea,"

so that 2(u), by parity of reasoning, represents two repeti-

tions of that sentiment. This being granted, we shall have

as follows  :

                                                 i.
   THE SONG OF THE ATLANTIC TELEGRAPH COMPANY.

                                                 2(u)a
                            is is
            Mark how the telegraph motions to me,
                                                    ;
                                                 2(u)
                            Signals are coming along,

                   With wag, wag, wag
            The telegraph needle vibrating free,
            And every vibration telling to me

                   How they drag, drag, drag,
                            The telegraph cable along,

                                           ii.

                                                 2(u)

            No little signals are coming to me,

                                                 2(u)
                             Something has surely gone wrong,

                    And it's broke, broke, broke
            What the cause of does not transpire,
            But something has broken the telegraph wire

                    With stroke, stroke, stroke,
                           Or else they've been pulling too strong.
            is
                    a

                               it
                                                                              ;
280  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                                              [CHAP. X.

                                            III.

                                                            2(u)

                  Fishes are whispering. What can it be,

                                                            2(u)
                                     So many hundred miles long?

                          For it's strange, strange, strange,
                  How they could spin out such durable stuff,
                  Lying all wiry, elastic, and tough,

                          Without change, change, change,
                              In the salt water so strong.

                                                              IV.

                                                            2(u)

                  There let us leave it for fishes to see ;

                                                            2(u)

                                 They'll see lots of cables ere long,
                          For we'll twine, twine, twine,
                  And spin a new cable, and try it again,
                  And settle our bargains of cotton and grain,
                          With a line, line, line,

                            A line that will never go wrong.

Eeceive, etc.

     To E. B. LITCHFIELD, Esq.

                                                                Glenlair, 23d Sept. 1857.

     I have just returned from the remote Highlands, and

have met all the Indian news on my way, and found your letter
I Iat home.
     suppose it is best to say what think to you,
Irather than what
Iwell ask " Why ?"feel, for that is confusion. You may
                   myself see a horrible despair waiting
for us if we knew or even paid enough attention to things

happening continually. Is it merely a reaction from our

Ianimal life that makes us comfortable again ? or excitement

of some other kind ? or defective sympathy ? No ; think

real sympathy is the very thing we want, and we suffer

Imore from want of union than from any other cause.

cannot make the thing clearer either to you or to myself ;

I Ibut as was coming % home and expecting bad news,

thought of dead and absent friends, and how they endea-
CHAP. X.]    DEATH OF POMEROY.                                                         281

voured when alive to make themselves known to us, and

Ihow the impression they had left in us remained untouched

and sacred during their absence. Then thought of those

who had left the clearest impression on me, how some were

dead, and their character never known or proved to the

world, and their deeds never done as they would have been

if they had lived. But this secret knowledge is strengthen-
ing as well as sad, if our brother's life is an inheritance to us

when he falls, and we rise (like Triamond) to fight his battle

as well as our own.
IDo not understand all this as a theory.
                                                 wish to say
Ithat it is in personal union with my friends that hope to

escape the despair which belongs to the contemplation of

the outward aspect of things with human eyes. Either be a
machine and see nothing but " phenomena," or else try to
be a man, feeling your life interwoven, as it with many
others, and strengthened by them whether in life or in death.
a
                              is

                                   is
                                            a

                                                a
                                                                      is,

                                                                                    a
You will say that this what man writes after course of

healthy exercise and boisterous health, when he suddenly

feels pull on his soul, but his body goes on as before.

But though my knowledge of our friend does not reach so

far back as yours, there      great part of all my thoughts

which bears the mark of his honest handling, for to me he

was most liberal in communication, so that all manner of

thought became our common property. When he was ill at

Cambridge, my father, who was then rather better, was very

much concerned about him, so that afterwards, when he was

worse himself, he would speak of him from recollections of

what had told him before. So used to think of them
I                             it a I
                                   I
          ?                              I

     I                                      I
                                                                    is
together, the one guiding me along by wise plans in the ways

of freedom, and the other supplying the energy of specula-
tive honesty and the freshness of younger mind. And

all gone    Certainly not, look at as you will.                                        am not

trying to persuade myself into hope.     find cannot do

otherwise.   have been miserable about these very things

when there seemed no particular reason at the time, and

then, when the time was worst, felt well but that must be
Ifone's own personal affair.          ;

                              we can hear the General's voice
282  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.            [CHAP. X.

Iwe will rise in our tears and go to our places, having

conquered ourselves. Long ago felt like a peasant in a

Icountry overrun with soldiers, and saw nothing but carnage

and danger. Since then have learned at least that some
soldiers in the field die nobly, and that all are summoned

Ithere for a cause.
          am very sorry for India, and for you and poor Mrs.
Pomeroy. She had a stake in him that none of us could

have.

                                 To Miss CAY.

                          Glenlair, 28th September 1857.

     My dear friend Pomeroy died at Ghazeepore about

1st August, from overwork and forced marches. He was a
civilian, and appointed assistant magistrate at Azinghur.
He and the rest of the civilians proceeded thither with about

400 men. When they got there they fought about
2000 insurgents in two feet of water, and beat them off
three times. Pomeroy volunteered to take in a wounded
man (Lieut. Lewis, 65 N". I.) to Ghazeepore, when no one
else would venture to go. He stayed there a few days, but
was unwell. Then he went back to his post at Azinghur

for about a week. On the news of the Dinapore mutiny
they were all ordered in, and made a forced march on

Ghazeepore, forty miles.

     He died soon after getting in.
     IOf all the men have known he was the most likely
Ito have done something for India.
                                     never knew a man

more able to see his way through difficulties, more respected
by men of all classes, or more determined that duty should
be done whatever might happen. We have one comfort for

ourselves, that few men have made themselves more open to
their friends, so that many men may receive something of

his spirit, though he is cut off before strangers could take

example by his deeds.

                        To E. B. LITCHFIELD, Esq.

                                                             Glenlair, 15th October 1857.

     I was glad S. sent me the letter. Eemember that
CHAP. X.]  DEATH OF POMEROY.                        283

besides all the danger and distance from friends, there was
the fever, of which he had already long experience, and
which in such times he knew to be as inconvenient to his
friends as himself. But it is no use saying this and that.

Some men redeem their characters by their deeds, and we

praise them. Those that merely show their character by

their deeds should be remembered, not praised ; and a com-

Iplete true man will live longest in the memory, and

cannot but think will be less changed in reality, than one
who has doubtfully struggled with duplicity in his constitu-

Ition, and has walked with hesitation, though along a good
path.      know that both do deny and renounce themselves

in favour of duty and truth, as they come to see them ; and

as they come to see how goodness, having the knowledge of

evil, has passed through sorrow to the highest state of all,

they accept it as a token that they have found their true

head and leader, and so, with their eyes on him, they com-
plete the process called the knowledge of Good and Evil,

which they commenced so early and so ignorantly.    cannot

   INow, what the " completion of the process " is
Iconceive, but can feel the difference of Good and Evil in
Isome degree, and
                   can conceive the perception of that
difference to grow by contemplating the Good till the con-

fusion of the two becomes an impossibility. Then comes the
I Imystery.
           have memory and a history, or am nothing
Iat all. That memory and history contain evil, which
Irenounce, and must still maintain that was evil. But it

     II
            .
                 .
                       .
                                                     is
                                                             a
                                                                                              it,
                                                            I
contains the image of absolute good, and the fight for and

the consciousness that all this right.

       So there the matter lies,  problem certain of solu-

tion.

         am grinding hard at Saturn, and have picked many
holes in him, and am fitting him up new and true.

am sure of most of him now, and have got over some

stumbling-blocks which kept me niggling at calculations

two years.
          am to have some artisans as weekly 'students this

winter.
284          JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.               [CHAP. X.

             To THE SAME.

                        Lauriston Lodge,
             Edinburgh, 25th October 1857.

     * . . As to collecting memorials, that is a thing to do
faithfully if at all. No man can write himself down wholly at
once, so no one thing will give a complete autograph of the

man.  As for anecdotes, they are to be tolerated as the

roughest way of giving to the public sketches of public men ;
but they will satisfy no private friend, not even him from

whose memory they are drawn.

     But if any essays (I know some that were not read
aloud to any particular people, but were written by himself

for himself) or anything else of his are to be had, they
might be given to Mrs. Pomeroy with what explanation we

could give, and so (not hastily but) when times occur, she might
continue to learn more of him and his honestly fought and

thoroughly conquered and well secured path through a land

of shadows, where friends and foes seemed to exchange

appearances, so that honesty and sincerity had parted with

order and reverence, and indecision had passed for conscien-

tiousness, and enquiry after truth had been taken for
             A sad world to seek for truth in under any
infidelity.

man's guiding. The exact point at which this progress has

been interrupted may be disputed by men, but they have no

jurisdiction, and are ignorant even of their own true faith

till something bring it into action.
      I could not conceive of any one undertaking to write a
Imemoir.
             am fully satisfied of the impossibility of that,

with respect to any young man. The journal of voyage,
which was meant to be read, is far the best memorial, and it

Iis a very good one indeed for his mother and friends, for it
is so wonderfully open-hearted and unaffected.  appreciate

these qualities on account of the force which it requires for

me to say or do anything according to nature, especially in

Iordinary circumstances.
      This spring read a great deal of MS. at home, which

gave me much light about my father and his dealings with

various people. There were journals of travels and adven-
CHAP. X.]        DEATH OF POMEROY.                                             285

Itures from twelve years of age to thirty, and many other

things. Well, have found that reading profitable in

making me remember him better, and honour him more, and

understand better how he ordered his life, and who were his

friends. That is the use and intent of keeping anything
Ibelonging to our friends.
                            do not intend to advertise these
Ithings for public sale, for doubt whether the public would
Ibe better, and would be worse.

     The following letter from Pomeroy to his mother,
of which a copy was found in Maxwell's handwriting,
throws further light on the character of the man
whose loss was felt so deeply :

MY DEAR MOTHER                                  Azingurh, July 28, 1857.

                        I sit down to write to you in rather a solemn

Iinood, partly owing to my having received yesterday a note from Mrs.
W. H. T., which  enclose, and partly because that, in this part of

India, and particularly in these outlying stations, with no European
soldiers, the lives of Englishmen more clearly lie in God's hand than

on most occasions in our sojourn on earth.
I Ihave told you in former letters that volunteered to go with any
Icivilians who reoccupied a station in the Benares district.
                                                                               did this
Icompletely of my own responsibility, and whether was right or
I Iwrong God alone knows.
                        was then in excellent health, and could
Inot bear to think that should be absolutely doing nothing in a safe

station, when an additional European, who could ride or use firearms,

even if he could do nothing else, was not utterly useless to the brave
men who were going out in order to make, persuade, or enable the natives

to cultivate their fields, during the three important months of the year,

and so avoid a famine.

   IMr.

pointed
mTueck"eAr ssriesstaponntdeMd agiimstmraetedia" teolfy   to my volunteering,   and  ap-
                                                        Azingurh, with nearly          a
month. You know the delay in going, and that was ill during that

Itime. We left (Benares) on the 16th, and arrived here on the 18th.

The march, which performed partly on horseback and partly in my

buggy, did not do me any harm, but the fatigue, excitement, and

varied feelings caused by an affray with a body of natives, led by Oude
I IZemindars, in which we were finally victorious, after five hours of half

fighting (not that fought much, but was on horseback most of the
time), rather weakened me. Then there was a wounded man to be

taken into Ghazipoor, and of those whose duty it was to accompany

Ihim nobody who could be spared could be induced to go, so volun-
286     JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                                     [CHAP. X.

Iteered, whereby pleased him, poor fellow, and his fellow-officers very
I I Imuch, and believe was of use to him.
                                           hoped to have got three

days rest at Ghazipoor, but the excitement of seeing new faces, and
giving all my news over and over again, and trying to soothe angry

officers whose corps had been abused, and explaining mistakes, etc.

Ietc., made the rest very ambiguous ; and the journey back knocked
me up.  was very feverish last night, but Home (the magistrate)

took tremendous care of me, put my bed next his, and got me limes

Iand honey, and everything he could get for cough or fever. To-day
I Iam a great deal better, but still on rice-milk and chicken-broth, and as
have no duties but a share in the mess management,               get lots of

lying down, but no absolute rest, as the nine of us, civil and military,

live in one six-roomed bungalow. Don't imagine that nine (only) is

Ithe number walking about inside : everybody's bearer except mine and

another's, believe, walk about like tame dogs, bringing their masters'
slightest wants, for few think of getting anything for themselves, even

from across the room.

      We have a very grave piece of intelligence from the neighbourhood

of Legowlie, the headquarters of the 12th Irregular Cavalry. A native

brought a report to a gentleman living 8 miles from Legowlie, that on
the 24th of July the men of the 12th who were there left the station,

and that the commanding officer (Major Holmes) and his wife, and the
Doctor (Gardner), had been killed. This news has at length reached

us, whom it concerns nearly, as one hundred of the same regiment are
here. On the other side, it is to be said that all the principal native

officers were absent from Legowlie, two being here now, and one else-

where, so that the mutiny may not spread, and we have no treasure
here to tempt them, and the Hindu Sepoys are not likely to join them,

though their hatred of Musselmans has two or three times given way

to their desire for plunder or love of Christian blood. Our position is

Iprecarious, but can look it straight in the face, and in four days or
Iless the crisis will, hope, have passed.

     Herne is a Poole man, with an uncle there of the name of Biddel.
His wife is in the hills, and he hears from her now pretty often, but

there is a month's interval between the departure and arrival of her

letters. He is a decidedly religious man of a very genuine stamp.

He read us last Sunday that grand sermon the Bishop of Calcutta

preached towards the end of June. You should get it if it is to be

had in England.

      We are daily expecting to hear of the safety of Lucknow. Poor
Mrs. Cooper ! She and her children must have been living in cellars

for the last month, to be out of the way of cannon balls : and to live
in a cellar in India must be dreadfully trying. If any children
survive it will be a mercy, a mercy indeed if they escape the awful,
Ihorrible fate of the ladies of Cawnpore. Mrs. Cave, whom men-
Itioned in my Journal,
Ifusilier said to me (in                             place. As    a Madras
                                                     don't care  what they
do to the likes of me
                        was, fear, at    the latter
                                       accent), "
                       a broad Irish
                       but the women and Ladies too ! "
CHAP. X.]                SCIENTIFIC WORK.                                     287

Poor T     writes me letters intended to be cheery, but really

awfully dismal. She bears up bravely, and thinks no one sees her

sorrow.

      We have a picture  in  the house  tihsatcablleeldong"eWd otmo asnom'se  one who
fled from this on the    3d                                                   Mission."
                             June. It
You must have seen it in the print-shop windows, two Scutari
volunteer nurses attending a wounded man. A pathetic picture suits

Iour feelings. All but two, believe, have either wife or lover to
Ithink of ; but sorry should or any be that any woman should be

with us. Poor Batty married a very short time ago, and had to part

from his Bride almost immediately, and send her to Calcutta. He,

Itoo, has lost a Brother.

       hope the English papers will have better and truer accounts than

the Indian generally have ; but you cannot follow events without

some good map, like Allen's 2 : 2s. one. So don't try ; it will only
puzzle you, and the Times will give you the pith of the matter. The
fire is now really being extinguished, though it will be long before
stray points cease to flare up and burn those within their range.

     There are two hundred of the King of Nepaul's Goorkas on the
march to form part of our garrison, and on those we think we can

really depend. They are very brave, and more than a match for
Sepoys, and are more different in race and manners from the Hindus
than we are, and very different in religion.

      Urgent requisitions have been sent to Ghazipoor and Benares for

Europeans, which may now at length be answered.
IWith regard to Mrs. T
Iegotism,                    , whom was nearly forgetting in my
           hope if she has by the time this reaches you visited

Cheltenham that you have seen her. What a comfort it must be to

her, poor thing, to think that she made him face those thoughts he
had shunned and shirked so long. She left by last mail, so she will

have been a fortnight in England or Ireland when this reaches you.
I hope to write you a letter by Bombay and Marseilles of a later date,
Iand to Editha by Calcutta and Marseilles ; so that this letter, which
Iconfess is an alarmist one, will not arrive till you know the Event.
I Ihave written what have that you may see know my danger, and
I Ihave, hope, right feelings under it.
                                         remain, my very dear mother,

your most affectionate son,              ROBERT HENRY POMEROY.

           To PROF. MAXWELL FROM PROF. G. G. STOKES.

                                                                        School of Mines,

    I Jermyn Street, 7th November J57.
         have just received your papers on a dynamical top, etc.,
and the account of experiments on the perception of colour.

IThe latter, which missed seeing at the time when it was
Ipublished, have just read with great interest. The results
288             JAMES CLEEK MAXWELL.      [CHAP. X.

afford most remarkable and important evidence in favour of

Ithe theory of three primary colour -perceptions, a theory

which you, and you alone, so far as know, have established
on an exact numerical basis.

     J.To PROF.  C. MAXWELL FROM PROF. FARADAY.

                 Albemarle Street, 7th November 1857.
I have just read and thank you heartily for your papers.
I I Iintended to send you copies of two of mine.
                                          think
Ihave sent them, but do not find them ticked off. So now

send copies, not because they are assumed as deserving your

Iattention, but as a mark of my respect, and desire to thank

you in the best way that can.

     J.To PROF.  C. MAXWELL FROM PROF. TYNDALL.

I Royal Institution, 7th November 1857.
   am very much obliged to you for your kind thought-

fulness in sending me your papers on the Dynamical Top

Iand on the Perception of Colour, as also for your memoir on
Lines of Force, received some time ago.   never doubted

the possibility of giving Faraday's notions a mathematical

form, and you would probably be one of the last to deny the

possibility of a totally different imagery by which the

phenomena might be represented. 1

       To PROF. MAXWELL FROM PROF. FARADAY. 2

                                                                 Albemarle Street,
                                                      London, 13th November 1857.

If Ion a former occasion seemed to ask you what you

1 For confirmation of this, see Maxwell's (fragmentary) preface to

Ithe smaller treatise on electricity, published posthumously in 1881 ;

especially these words : " In the larger treatise sometimes made use of
Imethods which
                do not think the best in themselves, but without

which the student cannot follow the investigations of the founders of
Ithe Mathematical Theory of Electricity.
                                          have since become aware

of the superiority of methods akin to those of Faraday, and have there-

fore adopted them from the first."

2 This letter has already been published in the Life of Faraday.
CHAP. X.]     SCIENTIFIC WORK.                                          289

Ithought of my paper, it was very wrong ; for do not think

any one should be called upon for the expression of their

Ithoughts before they are prepared, and wish to give them.
   have often enough to decline giving an opinion because

my mind is not ready to come to a conclusion, or does not

wish to be committed to a view that may by further con-

Isideration be changed. But having received your last
letter, am exceedingly grateful to you for           a         and rejoice
                                                         it,
that my forgetfulness of having sent the former paper
on conservation has brought about such result. Your

letter to me the first intercommunication on the subject

with one of your mode and habit of thinking. It will do me
I
      is

          II
much good, and shall read and meditate again and again.
         daresay have myself greatly to blame for the vague
                                                     I I it
                                                                     a
use of expressive words.        perceive that do not use the
                          I

                                 it,
word " force " as you define          " the tendency of body to-

pass from one place to another." What mean by the

word the source or sources of all possible actions of the
is

particles or materials of the universe; these being often

called the powers of nature when spoken of in respect of the            ;a

different manners in which their effects are shown. In

paper which have received at the moment from the Phil.
Mag., by Dr. Woods, they were called the " forces, such as
electricity, heat, etc." In this way have used the word
" force " in the description of gravity which have given as
           I                                         I
that expressing the received idea of its nature and source aI
                a
and such of my remarks as express an opinion or are critical
apply only to that sense of it. You may remember speakit
                                                               ;I
to labourers like myself, experimentalists on force generally,I
-who receive that description of gravity as physical truth,        a
                            if
and believe that expresses all, and no more than all, that

concerns the nature and locality of the power. To these                 it

limits the formation of their ideas, and the direction of their

exertions, and to these have endeavoured to speak show-

ing how such thought, accepted, pledged them to very

limited and probably erroneous view of the cause of the

force, and to ask them to consider whether they should not

look (for  time at least) to source in part external to-

                                 ll
           a
                                                  a
290             JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.          [CHAP. X.

the particles.  I send you two or three old printed lines

Imarked, relating to this point. To those who disown the

definition or description as imperfect, have nothing to urge,

as there is then probably no real difference between us.

    I hang on to your words because they are to me weighty,
Iand where you say, " for my part can not realise your dis-

satisfaction with the law of gravitation, provided you conceive

Iit according to your own principles," they give me great
comfort.  have nothing to say against the law of action of
gravity. It is against the law which measures its total

Istrength as an inherent force that venture to oppose my
I Iopinion ; and must have expressed myself badly (though
Ido not find the weak point) or should not have conveyed
Iany other impression. All wanted to do was to move

men (not No. I. but No. II.) from the unreserved acceptance

of a principle of physical action which might be opposed to

natural truth. The idea that we may possibly have to con-

nect repulsion with the lines of gravitation force (which is
going far beyond anything my mind would venture on at

present, except in private cogitation), shows how far we may

Ihave to depart from the view oppose.
   IThere is one thing would be glad to ask you. When

a mathematician engaged in investigating physical actions

and results has arrived at his conclusions, may they not be

expressed in common language as fully, clearly, and definitely
Ifas in mathematical formulae ?
                                 so, would it not be a great
Iboon to such as to express them so ? translating them out

I Iof their hieroglyphics, that we also might work upon them
by experiment.  think it must be so, because  have

always found that you could convey to me a perfectly clear

idea of your conclusions, which, though they may give me no

full understanding of the steps of your process, give me the

I Ifresults neither above nor below the truth, and so clear in
character that can think and work from them.  this be

possible, would it not be a good thing if mathematicians, work-

ing on these subjects, were to give us the results in this

popular, useful, working state, as well as in that which is
their own and proper to them ?
CHAP. X.]  SCIENTIFIC WORK.                        291

           To H. R DKOOP, Esq.

                                129 Union Street,

                        Aberdeen, 14th November 1857. ;
I am very busy with Saturn on the top of my regular
Iwork. He is all remodelled and recast, but have more
Ito do to him yet, for
                        wish to redeem the character
Iof mathematicians, and make it intelligible.
                                                   have a

large advanced class for Newton, physical astronomy, the

electric sciences, and high optics. "What is your depart-

Iment by the way ?

        have also a mechanics' class in the evening, once a

Iweek, on mechanical principles, such as doctrine of lever

work done by machines, etc. So have 15 hours a week,

I Iwhich is a deal of talking straight forward.  had at Cam-
         am getting several tops (like the one

bridge) made here for various parties who teach rigid

dynamics.

           To C. J. MONRO, Esq.

                                   127 Union Street,
                        Aberdeen, 26th November 1857.

I IThe enclosed letters came from Mrs. Pomeroy to me.
think they are, one of them at least, yours.     doubt of

the smaller one, but you will know. They seem dropping

in still on poor Mrs. Pomeroy. Even ordinary returned

letters are strange things to read again, as if you had been

talking on when everybody had gone away.
I Igot your letter of the 6th.
                                have been grinding so
I Ihard ever since came here that left many letters un-
I Ianswered. When have time shall write to you, and

Imeanwhile only thank you for your letter.

       am at full college work again. A small class with a

Ibad name for stupidity, so there was the more field for

exciting them to more activity. So have got into regular

ways, and have every man viva voce'd once a week, and the

whole class examined in writing on Tuesdays, and roundly and

Isharply abused on Wednesday morning ; and lots of exer-

cises which find it advantageous to brew myself overnight.
292  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                       [CHAP. X.

     Public Opinion here says that what our colleges want

is inferior professors, and more of them for the money.

Such men, says P. 0., would devote their attention more to

what would pay, and would pay more deference to the

authority of the local press than superior or better paid men.

Therefore, although every individual but one who came before

the Commission was privately convinced that the best thing

in itself would be to fuse our two institutions into one, with

one staff of teachers, yet they all agreed that the public opinion

of the whole was the opposite of the private opinion of each,

and that more harm than good would result from adopting

the course which seemed good to the members, but not to

the body, of the public. So the battle rages hot between

Union (of Universities only) and Fusion (of classes and pro-
fessors). Almost all the professors in Arts are fusionists, and
all the country south of the Dee, together with England and the

rest of Europe and the world, but Aberdeen (on the plat-
form), is Unionist, and nothing else is listened to at public

meetings, though perhaps a majority of those present might

be fusionists. Such is Public Opinion ; but we are all quiet

I Iagain now, and am working at various high matters, for

have a very good class for Physical Astronomy, Electricity,
Iand Undulations, etc., and want to do them justice.
I have had a lot of correspondence about Saturn's Kings,
IElectric Telegraph, Tops, and Colours.
                                         am making a Col-

lision of Bodies' machine, and a model of Airy's Transit

I ICircle (with lenses), and am having students' teas when

can. Also a class of operatives on Monday evening, who do

better exercises than the University men about false balances,

Quantity of Work, etc.

                        To Miss CAY.

                        129 Union Street, Aberdeen,

                                                                28th Nov. 1857.

I had a letter from Willy to-day about jet pumps to be

made for real drains, but not saying anything about the

I IProfessorship of Engineering.                came.  The
         have been pretty steady at work since
CHAP. X.]          SCIENTIFIC WORK.                 293

Iclass is small and not bright, but am going to give them
I Iplenty to do from the first, and find it a good plan.

have a large attendance of my old pupils, who go on with

the higher subjects. This is not part of the College course,
Iso they come merely from choice, and have begun with
Ithe least amusing part of what
                                 intend to give them.

Many had been reading in summer, for they did very good

papers for me on the old subjects at the beginning of the

Imonth. Most of my spare time have been doing Saturn's
IKings, which is getting on now, but lately have had a

great many long letters to write, some to G-lenlair, some to
... Iprivate friends, and some all about science.
                                                   have had

letters from Thomson and Challis about Saturn from Hay--

ward of Durham University about the brass top, of which he

wants one. He says that the Earth has been really found
Ito change its axis regularly in the way supposed. Fara-
Iday has also been writing about his own subjects.
                                                    have

I Ihad also to write Forbes a long report on colours, so that for

every note have got have had to write a couple of sheets

in reply, and reporting progress takes a deal of writing and

spelling. . . .
I Ihave had two students' teas, at which am becoming
Iexpert.
           have also indulged in long walks, and have seen

more of the country. The evenings are beautiful at this

season. There have been some very fine waves on the cliffs

south of the Dee.

                         To THE KEY. L. CAMPBELL.

                             (On taking Priest's Orders).

0*

                                                                 129 Union Street, Aberdeen,
                                                                           22d Dec. 1857.

    I take for granted that sometime on Sunday last you

entered the second of the ecclesiastical transformations.
May your life and doctrine set forth God's glory, and be the
means of setting forward the salvation of all men ! Some of
my friends think that the separation to a " holy function "
puts a man into an artificial position with respect to the
conduct of his thoughts, words, and acts, and that he is
294         JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.             [CHAP. X,

immersed in a professional atmosphere, a world, in fact,

differing from the world of business or of fashion only in the
general colouring of its scenery. It
                                       has   always seemed to
me that men who have fallen into       this  " religious world "

have completely failed in getting into the Church, seeing

that the Church professes to be an escape from the world,
and the only escape. And what holds of the Church ought

Ito hold of the clergy preeminently. So far my theory of the

Church not being a clerical world. Now believe it not

only as a theory, but as a fact, that a man will find the
thing so if he will try it himself.

     The restraints and professional stiffness of sentiment are

not made for lawful members, but for those whom the truth
Ihas not yet made entirely free.
                                   have to tell my men that

all they see, and their own bodies, are subject to laws which

they cannot alter, and that if they wish to do anything they

must work according to those laws, or fail, and therefore we

study the laws. You have to say that what men are and

the nature of their actions depends on the state of their wills,

and that by God's grace, through union with Christ, the

contradictions and false action of those wills may be settled

and solved, so that one way lies perfect freedom, and the

other way bondage under the devil, the world, and the flesh,

and therefore you entreat them to give heed to the things

which they have heard.                                try to
                                                     believe
    INow, no man accuses me of being stiff, because
I Imake what say precise. Everybody knows that

it,whether  am stating             well-established law or only
                        a
 I
         I                 I

                                             it,

                                                            if

                                                                                     a
half-verified conjecture. And think that you have fully

more right to be respected, inasmuch as the nature of your

message implies the duty of preaching  and the convictions

that may be arrived at are as cogent, being more clear, less

distinct, than scientific truths.

         have been reading Butler's Analogy again, specially
with reference to obscurities in style and language, and also

to distinguish the merits of the man, and what habits of

thought they depended on. Also Herschel's Essays, of which

read that on Kosmos, and Froude's History. One night read
                                             I
CHAP. X.]  SCIENTIFIC WORK.                                                   295

160 pages of Buckle's History of Civilisation a bumptious

book, strong positivism, emancipation from exploded notions,

and that style of thing, but a great deal of actually original

matter, the true result of fertile study, and not mere brain-

spinning. The style is not refined, but it is clear, and avoids

fine writing. Froude is very good that way, though you can

see the sort of pleasure that a University man takes in

actually realising what he has talked over at Hall about

showing what England was in the middle ages, and transfus-

ing himself, style and all, thereinto, that his friends may see.
IA solitary student never does that sort of thing, nor can he
appreciate the graces of imitation.                     wish Froude would

state whether he translates, and from what language, in each

document.
       I am still at Saturn's Kings. At present two rings of
Isatellites are disturbing one another.
                                                        have devised a

machine to exhibit the motions of the satellites in a disturbed

is

  I

             it

                                       a
                                           a

                                                   it,
ring ; and Eamage is making for the edification of sensible
image worshippers. He has made four new dynamical tops,

for various seats of learning.
         have set up model of Airy's Transit Circle, and

described to my advanced class to-day. That institution
   working well, with steady attendance of fourteen, who

have come of their own accord to do subjects not required

by the College, and the dryest first.
      To the present time we have been on Newton's Principia

     I a I is,
                          i.
                                  is
                                                   is
(that      Sects, ii. iii., as they are, and general view of
                                                        a
the Lunar Theory, and of the improvements and discoveries
                                                             I
founded on such inquiries). Now we go on to Magnetism,
                                                                           a
which have not before attempted to explain.

      The other class at two subjects at once. Theoretical
and mathematical mechanics the regular subject, but two

days week we have been doing principles of mechanism,
and think the thing will work well. We now go on to
Friction, Elasticity, and Breakage, considered as subjects for

experiment, and as we go on we shall take up other experi-

mental subjects germane to the regular course.          am happy

in the knowledge of good tinsmith, in addition to smith,
           a
296                                   JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.           [CHAP. X.

an optician, and a carpenter. The tinsmith made the Transit

Circle.

      College Fusion is holding up its head again under the

Ifostering care of Dr. David Brown (father to Alexander

of Queen's). 1 Know all men am a Fusionist, and thereby
an enemy of all the respectable citizens who are Unionists

(that    unite the three learned faculties, and leave doubleis,

                    it
chairs in Arts). But there                  is  no use writing out their

theory to you. They want inferior men for professors men

who will find their interest to teach what will pay to

small classes, and who will be more under the influence of

parents and the local press than more learned or better paid
men would be in larger college.
         a
            a
I        send you description of the Murtle Lecture delivered

in our Public School                  :

1    To those who admire the genius of the bard who sang ofa?
             aThe Dee, the Don, Balgownie Brigg's black wall, the following;
lines will be welcome from their resemblance to the opening of
                                   :one of his poems              ;

      Know ye the Hall where the birch and the myrtleis     ;
           Are emblems of things half profane, half divine,
                                                            ;
        Where the hiss of the serpent, the coo of the turtle,  ;
           Are counted cheap fun at sixpenny fine

      Know ye the Hall of the pulpit and form,
       With its air ever mouldy, its stove never warm
       Where the chill blasts of Eurus, oppressed with the stench,

        Wax faint at the window, and strong at the bench
       Where Tertian and Semi are hot in dispute,
       And the voice of the Magistrand never mute
        Where the scrape of the foot and the audible sigh

       In nature though varied, in discord may vie,
      Till the accents of Wisdom are stifled and die

        Where the Bajuns are dense as the cookies they chew,
       And all save the Regents have something to do

        See little book entitled " Crushed Hopes Crowned in Death,"
London, 1862.
CHAP. X.]  SCIENTIFIC WORK.                          297

       'Tis our Hall of Assembly, our high moral School,

        Must its walls never rest from the bray of the fool ?
       Oh vain as the prospect of summer in May
        Are the lessons they learn and the fines that they pay.

All the public discipline, fines, etc., are arranged and levied at

the Public School. The Bajuns, Semis, Tertians, and Magis-
trands are the four years of men. The Eegents are the four
Professors Greek, Nat. Hist., Nat. Phil., and Mor. Phil.

Gaiety is just beginning here again. Society is pretty

steady in this latitude, plenty of diversity, but little of

great merit or demerit, honest on the whole, and not
Ivulgar. . . . No jokes of any kind are understood here.
I Ihave not made one for two months, and if feel one coming
I Ishall bite my tongue.
           shall write as soon as hear again

from you.

           To THE SAME.

                                                129 Union Street, 20th Jan. 1858.

    I should have written to thank you for the little book, 1
I Ibut think you will prefer my thanks now that have

read it.

What is the English book that says dasz Wahrheit

Offeribarung mache, niclit Offenbarung Wahrheit ?

The marrow of the book lies in the man's being a

Fremdling, conscious of the shell that surrounds him and

divides him from others, and able neither to live in it nor

to break it. But the shell is only the outer surface of a

minute drop of fluid, impenetrable because minute, and

arising from molecular forces in himself. But he meets with

another drop, confined to one spot it is true, but a great deal

larger than himself. He coalesces, and both are now larger

and more fluid than before. Note that though he was
movable and active, she fixed and ill, she knew the

Hofrath; he knew no one, unless perhaps his mother.

IPeople differ in their need of knowing others, and in their
power of conquering that knowledge.  have been reading

           1 Deutche Liebe. (By Prof. Max Miiller.)
298      JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. X.

Lavater and his life. He needed to know people ; he was
a man of a refined and tender spirit, but it was vigorous,

although not very massive or powerful, and he came to know
people, made friends, a few enemies, stuck to his work, and
lived happy. Other men have lived well and done good
without even wishing to burst the shell of separate existence,

Ifeeling it like the natural garment of a personal being.
      Now find that the transfusive tendency is not identical
with personal attraction (using the last two words in any-

thing but their newspaper sense). There are some people

Iwhom feel disposed to love, honour, and obey, though in
Imany things may dislike them, and may have no wish to

have a complete fusion of thought and feeling, with them.
There are others who are easily sympathised with, and open

out willingly, but do not thereby acquire the power and
authority which the first have without seeking it. Both is

best, but of the two the first is more permanent than the

second.

      To return to the book, the different sex of the parties is
treated as an accident, but by the effect on the man it
certainly is not, neither is the effect of it insensible on the

Ilady. She treats his statements with more reverence than

is their due, as coming from a man, and, think, fails
entirely in framing a scheme for coalescing, without entering

on that state of which marriage is the symbol, even though
by accident there may be checks which may enable or com-

I Ipel the parties to stop short. It is not society that does it ;

it is a law in us. Now must stop, or shall be teaching

my grandmother to suck eggs.

     Let me try my hand on that worthy relative in her

Iprofessional as well as private capacity, with respect to the
Lilleshall sermon.  am sure you will be able, with pains,

to put anything you have sure hold of before your hearers ;

but there are certain subjects which, after being handled by

some of our writers, get coated over with language so

tenacious that it is difficult to recognise them in plain
clothes, so that you become like the " lovely song of one

that hath a pleasant voice."
CHAP. X.]                                  SCIENTIFIC WORK.                                          299

Now it is good to learn wisdom wherever it is to be

found, but in teaching                        . it,    must be made light, wholesome,

and digestible, by being stripped of all vagueness and wordi-. it

ness, and refitted with illustrations and conceptions carefully                                      is
adapted to the hearers. Not but what the other method

pleasant to listen to, and not without profit (if taken with
salt) but there are good books, out of which you may preach
very bad sermons, with which your people may be as
I;
delighted as Mary Anne was with Faraday's lecture, of which
      is ;
she gave an account to Punch.

          find my principal work here                                                  teaching my men to
                                                       a
                                                                 is
avoid vague expressions, as " certain force," meaning un-

certain may instead of must; will le instead of is; propor-

tional instead of equal. .
     As to yourself, do not know whether college or parish
                                           I

work best for you to be set to.                                                 I  am not sorry about the

rich people. They require you as much as the poor. But

you must find out your own spirit, and what you were made

for, and not steer by men either towards one man or from

another.

Now sent you libellous description of our public
is
school here last letter. Last week was walking with thea
tune of the " Lorelei " running in my head, and        I
       I                                                 I                             set itself
into " kind of allegory." The words are very crude, but that                           it
             I
                                                                                                  :
             III I                                                              profess myself responsible

                                    a
                                         aa

                             I
the way they came together.

for most things say, but less for this than for most

                                           Alone on hillside of heather,        I
                                                 lay with dark thoughts in my mind,
                                                                                   it
                                           In the midst of the beautiful weather

                                                  was deaf, was dumb, was blind.

                                             knew not the glories around me,

                                                  thought of the world as seems,

                                           Till spirit of melody found me,

                                              And taught me in visions and dreams.

            For the sound of chorus of voices

                Came gathering up from below,
            And heard how all Nature rejoices,

               And moves with musical flow.
                                           I
                                                                        a
                                                                             a
300       JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                    [CHAP. X.

        strange ! we are lost in delusion,
        Our ways and doings are wrong,
     We are drowning in wilful confusion
         The notes of that wonderful song.

     But listen, what harmony holy
        Is mingling its notes with our own !

     The discord is vanishing slowly,
        And melts in that dominant tone.

     And they that have heard it can never
         Return to confusion again ;

     Their voices are music for ever,
        And join in the mystical strain.

     No mortal can utter the beauty
        That dwells in the song that they sing ;

     They move in the pathway of duty,
         They follow the steps of their King.

     1 would barter the world and its glory,
         The vision of joy to prolong,

     Or to hear and remember the story
         That lies in the heart of their song.

                                    To THE SAME.

                                           129 Union Street, 31st January 1858.

      Thank you for your letter, so kind and so speedy. Now

Ithere are two of us, and have that knowledge which is
Ibetter than all advice. Not that undervalue the advice at
Iall, only the sense of unity between us is the main thing,

whether we keep up correspondence or not. And know

that my friends are ipso facto your's, and your's mine, so that
we are a large and influential body. . . .

   IBut don't suppose that intend to make you my con-
Ifessor. It would not be just to you, for do not like being
Iconfessed to myself; and think every one should bear his

own burden, though willing to lighten that of others.
Besides, confession brings into set words and distinct out-
lines, doubtful suspicions and half-formed thoughts, which

would fade at once if they were not stirred up.
CHAP. X.]  SCIENTIFIC WORK.                   301

      To do the thing adequately, without extenuation, volun-
tary exaggeration, or colouring of any kind, is far beyond
human power. The consciousness of the presence of God
is the only guarantee for true self-knowledge. Everything
else is mere fiction, fancy portraiture, done to please one's
friends or self, or to exhibit one's moral discrimination at the
expense of character.

    IAnd now be assured that feel like Spenser's " Diamond,"

who had " Priamond's " spirit in him as well as his own.
There is another human aid that is with me. The memory
of my father is a great help to being practical and active.

I I IThe more think of him the better get on, and am the

less tempted to absurdity and eccentricity in thought.
     As for outward act, no one here seems to think me odd

Ior daft. Some did at Cambridge, but here have escaped.
IMy rule is to avoid the company of young men whom
Ido not respect, unless have the control of them.

   IKing's College has its Senior Wrangler this year.

announced it to my class yesterday morning. Lightfoot has
commissioned some more from me to be sent to Trinity.

           To E. B. LITCHFIELD, Esq.

                           129 Union Street,

                                                               Aberdeen, 7th February 1858.

   I IWhen last wrote was on my way here. Since then
I have been at work, Statics and Dynamics ; two days a week

being devoted to Principles of Mechanism, and afterwards to

Eriction, Elasticity and Strength of Materials, and also Clocks

and Watches, when we come to the pendulum. We have
Ijust begun hydrostatics.
                           have found a better text-book
Ifor hydrostatics than had thought for, the run of them are

so bad, both Cambridge and other ones, Galbraith and

Haugh ton's Manual of Hydrostatics (Longmans, 2s.) There
are also manuals of Mechanics and Optics of the same set.

There is no humbug in them, and many practical matters

are introduced instead of mere intricacies. The only defect

is a somewhat ostentatious resignation of the demonstrations
302                JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                   [CHAP. X.

of certain truths, and a leaning upon feigned experiments

Iinstead of them. But this is exactly the place where the

students trust most to the professor, so that care less about

Iit. shall adopt the Optics, which have no such defect, and

possibly the Mechanics, next year.

     My students of last year, to the number of about fourteen,

form a voluntary class, and continue their studies. We went

through. Newton i. iii., and took rough view of the Lunar
I                                        a
Theory, and of the present state of Astronomy. Then wea
        a
                          ishave taken up Magnetism and Electricity, static and current,

                Iand now we are at Electro-magnetism and Ampere's Laws.
                   I I I I a I ii.
intend to make Faraday's book the backbone of all the rest,

as he himself. the nucleus of everything electric since 1830.

So much for class work. Saturn's Eings are going on

still, but this month am clearing out some spare time to

work them in.      have got up model to show the motions

of ring, of satellites, very neat piece of work, by Eamage,
the maker of the " top."

For other things                         have not much time in winter for

improving my mind.                       have read Froude's History, Aurora

Leigh) and Hopkins's Essay on Geology, also Herschel's

collected Essays, which like much, also Lavater's life and

Physiognomy, which has introduced me to him pleasantly

though verbosely.                        like the man very much, quite apart

from his conclusions and dogmas. They are only results,

and far inferior to methods. But many of them are true                  if

properly understood and applied, and suppose the rest are
                                         a

                                          is I
worth respect as the statements of truth-telling man.

Well, work         good, and reading good, but friends are
is

     it

      I
                           is
                                      a
better.  have but finite number of friends, and they are
dropping off, one here, one there. A few live and flourish.

Let be long, and let us work while                it      day, for the night

                                                      is

coming, and work by day leads to rest by night.

                   To EEV. LEWIS CAMPBELL.

...                                                 129 Union Street,
                                         Aberdeen, 17th February 1858.

         have not been reading much of late.              have
         I
                                                  I
CHAP. X.]    MARRIAGE ENGAGEMENT.                           303

Ibeen hard at mathematics. In fact set myself a great

arithmetical job of calculating the tangential action of two

I Irings of satellites, and am near through with it now.

have got a very neat model of my theoretical ring, a credit
to Aberdeen workmen. Here is a diagram, but the thing is
complex and difficult to draw :

      Two wheels turning on parallel parts of a cranked axle ;
thirty-six little cranks of same length between corresponding
points of the circumferences ; each carries a little ivory
satellite. 1

                                 To Miss CAY.

DEAR AUNT           This  comes                           129 Union Street,
                                                                18th February 1858.

                                                  Ito tell you that am going

to have a wife.      to write out a catalogue of qualities, as
                     can tell you that we are quite necessary
   I am not going
I Iam not fit ; but

Ito one another, and understand each other better than most

couples have seen.

      Don't be afraid ; she is not mathematical ; but there
are other things besides that, and she certainly won't stop

the mathematics. The only one that can speak as an eye-

witness is Johnnie, and he only saw her when we were both

trying to act the indifferent. We have been trying it since,
but it would not do, and it was not good for either.

      So now you know who it even Katherine Mary Dewar
             I
                                             is,
(hitherto).  have heard Uncle Eobert speak (second-hand)
of her father, the Principal. Her mother
                                                  first-rate lady,
                                                  is
                                                      a

                                                            I is
...very quiet and discreet, but has stuff in her to go through
anything in the way of endurance.                 So there        the

state of the case.        settled the matter with her, and the
1I
                aI
rest of them are all conformable.

hope some day to make you better acquainted.                      can

hardly admit that Johnnie saw her at all, not as he will

when she appears in true light. . . . For the present you

         The sketch, which follows corresponds to the model which

preserved in the Cavendish Laboratory. See Part II.
                                                  ^

                                                                          is
304             JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.               [CHAP. X.

I Imust just take what say on trust. You know that am

not given to big words. So have faith and you shall

know.

   ... I don't write separately to Uncle Eobert, seeing

I Ihe is with you, and am very busy, and just now should
Ijust write the same thing over again, and have not a

copying press. So good-bye. Your affectionate nephew.

                To E. B. LITCHFIFLD, Esq.

                                                                       129 Union Street,
                                                                Aberdeen, 5th March 1858.

     IMy " lines " are so pleasant to me that think that every-

body ought to come to me to catch the infection of happiness.

IThis college work is what and my father looked forward
Ito for long, and find we were both quite right that it was
Ithe thing for me to do. And with respect to the particular

college, think we have more discipline and more liberty,

and therefore more power of useful work, than anywhere else.

It is a great thing to be the acknowledged " regent " of one's

class for a year, so as to have them to one's self except in

Imathematics and what additional classes they take. Then

the next year get those that choose to come, which makes

a select class for the higher branches. They have all great

Ipower of work.   have met with great kindness from all sects

     In Aberdeen

of people, and you now know of my greatest achievement in

the way of discovery, namely, the method of converting

friendship and esteem into something far better. We are
following up that discovery, and making more of it every day ;

getting deeper and deeper into the mysteries of personality,

so as to know that we ourselves are united, and not merely

attracted by qualities or virtues, either bodily or mental.

(Don't suppose    we talk   metaphysics.) . . .    of faith  "  must
     You will   easily see   that my " confession

be liable to the objection that Satan made against Job's

I Ipiety. One thing would have you know, that feel as free
Ifrom compulsion to any form of compromised faith as did
I Ibefore had any one to take care of, for think we both
CHAP. X.]  ABERDEEN.                       305

believe too much to be easily brought into bondage to any

set of opinions.

     With respect to the " material sciences," they appear to

me to be the appointed road to all scientific truth, whether
metaphysical, mental, or social, The knowledge which exists

on these subjects derives a great part of its value from ideas

suggested by analogies from the material sciences, and the

remaining part, though valuable and important to mankind, is

not scientific but aphoristic. The chief philosophical value of
physics is that it gives the mind something distinct to lay
hold of, which, if you don't, Nature at once tells you you are

wrong. Now, every stage of this conquest of truth leaves a

more or less presentable trace on the memory, so that

materials are furnished here more than anywhere else for
the investigation of the great question, " How does Knowledge

come?"

    I have observed that the practical cultivators of science

(e.g., Sir J. Herschel, Faraday, Ampere, Oersted, Newton,

Young), although differing excessively in turn of mind, have

all a distinctness and a freedom from the tyranny of words
in dealing with questions of Order, Law, etc., which pure

Ispeculators and literary men never attain.
      Now, am going to put down something on my own
authority, which you must not take for more than it is worth.

There are certain men who write books, who assume that

whatever things are orderly, certain, and capable of being-
accurately predicted by men of experience, belong to one

category ; and whatever things are the result of conscious

action, whatever are capricious, contingent, and cannot be

I Iforeseen, belong to another category.   have seen more

     All the time have lived and thought,

and more reason to disagree with this opinion, and to hold

that all want of order, caprice, and unaccountableness results

from interference with liberty, which would, if unimpeded,

Iresult in order, certainty, and trustworthiness (certainty of

success of predicting). Eemember do not say that caprice

Iand disorder are not the result of free will (so called),,

only say that there is a liberty which is not disorder ?
306         JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                                                 [CHAP. X.

and that this is by no means less free than the other, but

more.

     In the next place, there are various states of mind, and

schools of philosophy corresponding to various stages in the

evolution of the idea of liberty.

     In one phase, human actions are the resultant (by par"1'

of forces) of the various attractions of surrounding things,
modified in some degree by internal states, regarding which

all that is to be said is that they are subjectively capricious,
objectively the " EESULT OF LAW," that
     a                                                                           the wilfulness of

                   it
                       is it

                                  is

                                                              a

                                                            is
                                                                            is,
our wills feels to us like liberty, being in reality necessity.

     In another phase, the wilfulness seen to be anything

but free will, since  merely submission to the strongest

attraction, after the fashion of material things. So some say

that man's will the root of all evil in him, and that he

should mortify out till nothing of himself remains, and the

man and Ins selfishness disappear together. So said Gotama
Buddha (see Max Muller), and many Christians have said
and thought nearly the same thing.

      Nevertheless there another phase still, in which there
is
              a

                  is
                        a

                      I is

                                     it

                                                          a

                                  I
                                      I

                                                          it

                                                                           is
                                                                                      is
appears possibility of the exact contrary to the first state,
namely, an abandonment of wilfulness without extinction of
will, but rather by means of great development of will,
whereby, instead of being consciously free and really in sub-
jection to unknown laws, becomes consciously acting by

law, and really free from the interference of unrecognised

laws.

     There  screed of metaphysics.         don't suppose that

what you wanted.      have no nostrum that                                                exactly

what you want. Every man must brew his own, or at least

fill his own glass for himself, but greatly desire to hear

some more from you, just to get into rapport.

     As to the Roman Catholic question,                                          another piece

of the doctrine of Liberty. People get tired of being able to

do as they like, and having to choose their own steps, and so

they put themselves under holy men, who, no doubt, are

really wiser than themselves. But  it      not only wrong, but

                                       is

impossible, to transfer either will or responsibility to another;
CHAP. X.]  ABERDEEN.                                     307

and after the formulae have been gone through, the patient
has just as much responsibility as before, and feels it too.
But it is a sad thing for any one to lose sight of their work,
and to have to seek some conventional, arbitrary treadmill-

Ioccupation prescribed by sanitary jailors. . . .

     With respect to the class, send you the paper they did

Ilast week. Five floored it approximately, two first-rate.
got half-a-dozen correct answers to questions on the effects of
mixtures of ice and steam in various proportions, and on the
Ieffect of heating and cooling on the thrust of iron beams

(numerical). From the higher class have essay on Vision
(construction of eye, spectacles, stereoscopes,
work done is equivalent to the work spent.       etc.)  So the

           To REV. LEWIS CAMPBELL.

                            Aberdeen, 15th March 1858.

When we had done with the eclipse to-day, the next
calculation was about the conjunction. The rough approxi-
mations bring it out early in June. . .
IThe first part of May
                            will be busy at home. The
Isecond part may go to Cambridge, to London, to Brighton,
as may be devised. After which we concentrate our two
selves at Aberdeen by the principle of concerted tactics.
This done, we steal a march, and throw our forces into the
happy valley, which we shall occupy without fear, and we
only wait your signals to be ready to welcome reinforce-
ments from Brighton. . . . Good night. Your affectionate
friend-                                  J. C. MAXWELL.

 N.B. We   are going to do  optical      experiments together
summer.    am getting two   prisms,      and our eyes are so
Iin

good as to see the spot on the sun to-day without a telescope.

        To PKOF. J. C. MAXWELL FROM PEOF. FOEBES.

                                                               Edinburgh, 16th March 1858.

    I was much obliged to you for your letter, and the
Iannouncement of your marriage, which have not the smallest
308     JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.       [CHAP. X.

Idoubt will add to your happiness, while at the same time

do not fear its abstracting you from science.

     Your notice of Saturn will be very acceptable. But it

should not run to too great a length, as the 1 9th will probably

be our last meeting, and is always a crowded billet. Give me

an idea of the least time requisite to give an idea of your

subject ; and more particularly try to send me a piece of the

IMS., so that may legally hold it as a MS. delivered, and
Itake precedence of some trivial communications of which

stand rather in dread.        I suppose it is all right, but

    I duly received the Top.

my energies have been absorbed in Electrical experiments

I Imerely for lecture, and which have been very heavy upon

me. ought to have paid for the Top ere now, but will

soon.

     IWe saw the Eclipse very badly, and it seems that in
England it was no better.     had arranged to give a tele-
Rgraphic account to
                     Soc. last night, from no less than 3

points on the central line. . . .

        To EEV. LEWIS CAMPBELL.

                                   Glenlair, Springholm,
                                   'Dumfries, 28th April 1858.
     ... I Iwish you great joy, now and always !
                                                  hope to
Icertify myself ere long what sort of " friend's wife " am to
Ihave.
        have faith already, but sight is better, and you

will have some pleasure in getting my verdict, though you

Idon't need anything of the kind.
         have been very happy in observing the very admirable

Iframe of mind in which all my friends seem disposed to

regard my affairs, and yet would rather that their opinions

I Iand sentiments had a more distinct basis of observation.

But suppose they observe me, and see am "all right and

Ino mistake." . . .
          tell you this . . . because you are our friend for

better for worse.

   I shall bring you a small pen-wiper that Katherine made
Ifor you the last day was in Aberdeen. If you are careful
CHAP. X.]                    GLENLAIE.                                   309

in using it as it ought to be used, you will get rid of all the
" odium theologicum " and other bitter principles sometimes

...occurring in parsons' ink, and your heart will indite good

matter with the pen of a ready writer.
                                                       :;.
                     To C. MONRO, Esq.
        I                                               if

                           J.
     ...                                            Glenlair, 29th April 1858.
               displayed my model of Saturn's Eing at the Edin-

burgh Eoyal Society on the 19th. The anatomists seemed to

take most interest in the construction of it. We are going

to do some experiments on colour this summer, my prisms

turn out well.       have got beautiful set of slits made by
                   I

                                            a

Eamage, to let in the different pencils of light at the proper

places, and of the proper breadths.

                        To Miss K. M. DEWAK.

                                                                             2d May 1858.

      Now you must remember that all say about texts and
matters of that sort only sort of help to being together
when we read, for am not skilful to know what the
right meaning of anything so as to tell other people, only
have right to try to make out myself, and what say
to myself may say to you.
     a                                                      I is
                                                                I
        I
                 I is

                                      it a

                                   I

                     To THE SAME.

                                                       6th May 1858.

     Isaiah li. and Gal. v.                    suppose the leaven in v.  9
                   it
                                                                            is
                       is
     little bit  of
     plea that                 I
the                  Judaism that      they were going to adopt on
the                      " safer " to  do and believe too much than

too little, and yet these little things altered the character of

the whole of their religion by making          it      thing of labour

                                                    a

and wages, instead of an inward growth of faith working by

love, which purifies the heart now, and encourages us to

wait for the hope of righteousness. But still the desire of

the spirit contrary to the desire of the flesh, the one tend-
           is

ing towards God, and the other towards the elements of the

world, so that we are kept stretched as                were, and this
                                               is                        is

our training in this life. Our flesh               it
                                               God's making, who
310      JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. X.

made us part of His world ; but then He has given us the
power of coming nearer to Himself, and so we ought to use

the world and our bodies as means towards the knowledge

of Him, and stretch always as far as our state will permit
Iftowards Him.
                we do not, but wilfully seek back again

to the elements as the Israelites to Egypt, then we are not

like infants or even brutes, but far worse, as recoiling from
God and His blessedness. Here are manifest the works of

the flesh, which are not only not those of righteousness, but
opposed to them ; but the fruit of the spirit comes when, like
good trees, we stretch our best affections upwards till we see
the sun, and breathe the air and drink the rain, and receive

all free gifts, instead of sending our branches after our roots,

down among things that once had life but now are decaying,

and seeking there for nourishment that can only be had from

above.

     See the order of ripening of the fruit. Now, love brings

joy to ourselves, and this, peace with others, and this, long-
suffering of their attacks, for why should we be angry ?

Gentleness is a higher degree of this, being active. Good-

ness is used in a less general sense than we use it. It

seems something like "good nature," only better and more
manly, and refers to the good disposition of a man among
men. Faith is put in here as the result of good living ;
which is true, for it is nourished thereby. Then see what

comes of adding faith to a good disposition, meekness,
which we cannot afford to have without faith ; and lastly,

temperance or moderation, which is also founded on faith,

and is a virtue that can never be perfect till all the rest

are so.

                To THE SAME.

                         Milford, Lymington (Hants),
                                 9th May 1858.

     To-day we were called at seven ; were down soon there-

Iafter, and had everything leisurely and comfortably till ten,
when we went to school.  had a class of youths just be-

ginning to read, and some of them knew not what swine

were, still less what a herd was. At eleven to church
CHAP. X.]        MILFORD, HANTS.                  311

Lewis read prayers and lessons very well and distinctly,

and Chester preached on James i. 15. Sin when it is
finished bringeth forth death. He showed up sin as the
universal poison, and showed how it might be seen working-
death in several instances, and also in all, good and bad, in

this life, and then turned to the next, and finally indicated

the remedy, though not so clearly as Paul in Eom. viii. 2,

which he should have read.

     In the afternoon Chester read prayers and Lewis
preached on " Ye must be born again," showing how respect-

able a man it was addressed to, and how much he, and all

the Jews, and all the world, and ourselves, needed to be

born from above (for that is the most correct version of the
word translated again). Then he described the changes on
Ia man new-born, and his state and privileges.
                                                  think he

has got a good hold of the people, and will do them good

and great good.

                 To THE SAME.

                                  10th May 1858.

Eph. iii. 19. Paul can express no more, but read the

last two verses and you will see this is not the crown, but

only what can be asked or thought. What a field for ambi-

I
               is,

                           if
                                                if

                                                                             a
                                                                                                 is
tion there       for climbing up, or rather, being drawn up,

into Christ's love, and receiving into our little selves all the

fulness of God. Let us bless God even now for what He has

made us capable of, and try not to shut out His spirit from

working freely.

                 To THE SAME.

                                  13th May 1858.

have been reading again with you Eph. vi. Here

more about family relations. There are things which have

meanings so deep that we follow on to know them we
Ifshall be led into great mysteries of divinity.
                                                  we despise

these relations of marriage, of parents and children, of master

and servant, everything will go wrong, and there will be

confusion as bad as in Lear's case. But we reverence them,

we shall even see beyond their first aspect spiritual mean-

ing, for God speaks to us more plainly in these bonds of
312  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                           [CHAP. X.

our life than in anything that we can understand. So we
find a great deal of Divine Truth is spoken of in the Bible
with reference to these three relations and others.

     To THE SAME.

                                             16th May 1858.

     Phil. iii. There is great wisdom in v. 13. Never look

hack with complacency on anything done, or attained, or

possessed. See the description of those who mind earthly
things, and let us depart from their ways. Conversation in

v. 20 means going backwards and forwards, and refers to the

walking of the preceding verses. What a description of the
power of Christ in the last verse, over " all things," and our
vile bodies among the rest, and what a day it will be when

He has done all His work and is satisfied.

    I think the more we enter together into Christ's work
He will have the more room to work His work in us. For

He always desires us to be one that He may be one with us.

Our worship is social, and Christ will be wherever two or

I Ithree are gathered together in His name.
     have been vexed that  could not speak better to
     I. had a long walk with him, talking of what people
Ihave believed, and what was necessary to be believed.

hope we may come to understand each other, but more that
I Ihe may come to the clear light.
                           wish could speak to
Ihim wise words. He is so anxious to hear, and to speak,

and then the words are all wind after all.

To PEOF. J. C. MAXWELL FROM VERNON LUSHINGTON, Esq.

                           Ockham, 31st May 1858.

Next Wednesday is your second of June, after which we

shall no longer be able to think of you as one of ourselves

  Ithe youthful wanderers and seekers of the earth. So

how can better employ the end of this Sunday evening

than by bidding you Farewell and God speed ? . . .
I IWhen Wednesday comes
                           hope shall think of you.
I like thinking of you, what you were, what you are, and
what you may be. All happiness be with you and yours !
CHAP. X.]  GLENLAIH, ETC.                                   313

                      TO C. J. MONRO, Esq.

                                                         Glenlair, 24th July 1858.

      . . . We are no great students at present, preferring
various passive enjoyments, resulting from the elemental

Iinfluences of sun, wind, and streams. This week have

begun to make a small hole into Saturn, who has slept on
his voluminous ring for months.

                               To MRS. MAXWELL.

                                                                             16ft, September 1859.

      Mrs. Sabine learnt mathematics of her husband after she
was married, so she was not married for it. Murchison
knew no geology when he was married, but his wife did a
little ; and there was a fall of a cliff in the morning early,
and her maid told 'her of so she was for up so Murchi-
son got up too, and there were the great bones of an Icthyo-
saurus in the broken cliff, and he was interested and took to
geology. Before that he was an idle young officer.

                               " was for up," i.e. wished to get up.
           1

                             it,
                                                        ;l
            314  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                   [CHAP. XL

                 CHAPTEE XL

            KING'S COLLEGE, LONDON, 1860 TO 1865        GLENLAIK,
                              1860 TO 1870 JET. 29-39.

            FROM this point onward the interest of Maxwell's

            life (save things " where with the stranger inter-
            meddles not ") is chiefly concentrated in his scientific
            career. As some account of his labours in science will

            be given in the second portion of this book, what re-

            mains of the present narrative is comparatively brief.

1860-1865.       The work at King's College was more exacting
ML 29-34. than that in Aberdeen.
                                  There were nine months of

            lecturing in the year, and evening lectures to artisans,

            etc., were recognised as a part of the Professor's
            regular duties. Maxwell retained the post until the

            spring of 1865, when he was succeeded by Professor

            W. Gr, Adams, but continued lecturing to the working

            men during the following winter.

                 In June 1860 Maxwell attended the British

            Association's meeting at Oxford, where he exhibited

            his box for mixing the colours of the spectrum. He

            also presented to Section A a most important paper

            on Bernoulli's Theory of Gases ; a theory which sup-

            poses that a gas consists of a number of independent

            particles moving about among one another without
CHAP. XI.]  KING'S COLLEGE, LONDON.  315

mutual interference, except when they come into

collision. Maxwell showed that the apparent vis-

cosity of gases, their low conductivity for heat, and

Graham's laws of diffusion, could be satisfactorily

explained by this theory, and gave reasons for be-
lieving that in air at ordinary temperature each particle

experiences on an average more than 8,000,000,000

collisions per second. It is probable that the con-

templation of the "flight of brick-bats" (his own
vivid phrase for the constitution of Saturn's rings) led
him on to his far-reaching investigations in this field
of molecular physics.

     On the 17th of May 1861 he delivered his first
lecture before the Eoyal Institution. The subject was
" On the Theory of the three Primary Colours."

    All this while Maxwell was quietly and securely lay-

ing the foundations, deep and wide, of his great work on
Electricity and Magnetism, but he had not the leisure
that was requisite for bringing it to completion.

     The period of his King's College Professorship
was far, however, from being scientifically unfruitful.

The colour-box was perfected, and many series of
observations were made with it. Mrs. Maxwell's

observations were found to have a special value.

Through a striking discrepancy between her readings
and C. H. Cay's, Maxwell discovered that the blind-
ness of the Foramen Centrale to blue light, which
was strongly marked in his own dark eyes, was either
altogether absent from hers, or present in a very low

degree. The comparison of J. C. M.'s (J/s) eyes, and
Mrs. M.'s (K/s) is referred to in Part II.
316              JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XL

     The experimental measurements by which the

present standard of electrical resistance (the Ohm)

was first determined, were made at King's College by

a sub-committee of the B.A., consisting of Maxwell,

Balfour Stewart, and Fleeming Jenkin, in 1862-63, in

accordance with a method proposed by Sir Wm.

Thomson. A further experimental measurement was

made next year by Maxwell, Fleeming Jenkin, and

Charles Hockin (Fellow of St. John's). The import-
ance of the work may be estimated by the fact that

the system of units then determined by the B.A.

Committee was, in the main, adopted by the Electrical

Congress which met last year (1881) in Paris, and an
International Commission has been appointed by the

European Governments to make a redetermination of

the standard of resistance first measured by the B.A.

Committee. Maxwell's papers on this subject, with

those of his fellow- workers, were republished in 1873

in a volume edited by Fleeming Jenkin. 1 Many are
the references to successful or fruitless " spins " in the

home letters of this period. The following quotation

will suffice :

                 28th January 1864.

IWe are going to have a spin with Balfour Stewart to-
morrow.  hope we shall have no accidents, for it puts off

time so when anything works wrong, and we cannot at first

find out the reason, or when a string breaks, and the whole

spin has to begin again. . . . However, we hope to bring

out our standards by September, and Becker 2 makes them

up excellently.

1 Reports of the Committee on Electrical Standards, appointed by the

British Association for the advancement of Science. Spon, London and
New York, 1873.  2 Of Messrs. Elliott Brothers.
CHAP. XL]  SCIENTIFIC WORK.  317

     A mass of correspondence, containing numerous
suggestions made by Maxwell from day to day in

1863-4, has been preserved by Professor Jenkin. Two
of the least technical passages will be found amongst
the letters in this chapter (pp. 337, 340).

      Another very important experimental investigation
conducted by Maxwell about this period was the
determination of the ratio of the electromagnetic and
electrostatic units of electricity, for the purpose of
comparing this quantity with the velocity of light.
As this investigation will be again referred to in Part

II., it is only necessary to say here that the experiment

amounts to a comparison between the attractions of two
electric currents flowing in coils of wire, and the attrac-
tion or repulsion between two metal plates which have
each received a charge of electricity. Maxwell had
pointed out that, in accordance with his theory, the
ratio of the units should be equal to the velocity of
light, and the value obtained by him was intermediate

between the extreme values obtained for that velocity
by previous observers. The experiment was the out-
come of his theory of the constitution of the space in

the neighbourhood of magnetic and electric currents,
by which he accounted for all the then known

phenomena of magnetism and electricity, and which

he published in a semi-popular form in the Philo-

sophical Magazine in. 1861 and 1862.
     During most of the King's College time Maxwell

resided at 8 Palace Gardens Terrace, Kensington, where
he carried on many of his experiments in a large garret
318  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XI.

which ran the whole length of the house. When ex-
perimenting at the window with the colour-box (which
was painted black, and nearly eight feet long), he
excited the wonder of his neighbours, who thought him
mad to spend so many hours in staring into a coffin.
This was also the scene of his well-known experiments

on the viscosity of gases at different pressures and
temperatures. For some days a large fire was kept up

in the room, though it was in the midst of very hot

weather. Kettles were kept on the fire, and large

quantities of steam allowed to flow into the room.
Mrs. Maxwell acted as stoker, which was very ex-

hausting work when maintained for several consecu-
tive hours. After this the room was kept cool, for

subsequent experiments, by the employment of a con-
siderable amount of ice.

      During Maxwell's residence in London his brother-
in-law, the Rev. Donald Dewar, came and stayed in his
house in order to undergo a painful operation at the
 hands of Sir James Ferguson. Maxwell gave up the
 ground floor of his house to Mr. Dewar and his nurse.
 He himself, meanwhile, used to take his meals in a very
 small back room, where frequently he breakfasted (on
 porridge) on his knees, because there was no room for

 another chair at the table. Maxwell acted frequently
 in the capacity of nurse to Mr. Dewar, who would

 always look out anxiously for his return from college,
 and whose face would light up with a smile of plea-
 sure and relief when he saw him coming, because he
  said he knew he should be comfortable when Maxwell

  returned.
CHAP. XL]  KING'S COLLEGE, LONDON.  319

     One pleasant incident of his stay in London was
the improvement of his acquaintance with Faraday,
with whom he seems to have dined on the occasion of

his lecture before the Royal Institution in 1861.
     On one occasion he was wedged in a crowd at-

tempting to escape from the lecture theatre of the
Royal Institution, when he was perceived by Faraday,

who, alluding to Maxwell's work among the molecules,
accosted him in this wise " Ho, Maxwell, cannot

you get out ? If any man can find his way through

a crowd it should be you."
     He also renewed his personal intercourse with

Litchfield, Droop, and other Cambridge friends.
     His habit at this time was to do his scientific

work chiefly in the mornings, unless when entertaining

friends, when he would give up his days to them and

take hours for work out of the night. In the afternoons
he would ride with Mrs. Maxwell. She had been

recommended horse exercise in 1860, when the pony
" Charlie," called after Charles Hope Cay, was bought
at the Rood fair. He was a high-bred, spirited, light
bay Galloway, with arched neck and flowing tail.
Maxwell himself broke him in, riding side-saddle,
with a piece of carpet to take the place of a habit.
This pony was a great favourite until the end in 1879.

     About this time (between 1860 and 1865) the
endowment of Corsock Church was completed, and the
Manse built. Maxwell gave largely to both objects,
which were promoted mainly by his zeal and energy.

     At the beginning and at the close of the King's

College period Maxwell suffered from two severe
            320             JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XL

            illnesses, both of a dangerously infectious nature, and

            in both of them he was nursed by Mrs. Maxwell. In

            September 1860 he had an attack of smallpox at
            Glenlair, which he was supposed to have caught at the
            fair, where " Charlie " was bought. During this illness
            his wife was left quite alone with him the servants
            only coming to the door of the sick-room. He has
            been heard to say that by her assiduous nursing on
            this occasion she saved his life.

                 The second illness was in September 1865, also at

            Glenlair. Maxwell had been riding a strange horse,
            and got a scratch on the head from a bough of a tree ;
            this was followed by an attack of erysipelas, which
            brought him very low. Mrs. Maxwell was again his
            nurse, and to listen, as he insisted on doing, to her
            quiet reading of their usual portion of Scripture every
            evening, was the utmost mental effort which he could

            bear.

1866-1870.       The years  which followed the   resignation of his
            post at King's  College were spent,  for the most part,
ML 35-39.

            at Glenlair, the house being at this time enlarged

            in general accordance with his father's plan. And

            Maxwell took advantage of this retirement to em-

            body some of the results of his investigations in

            substantive books. The great work on Electricity

            and Magnetism, although not published till 1873, was

            now taking definite shape, and the treatise on Heat,

            which appeared in 1870, had been undertaken as a

            by-work during the same period.

                 His scientific and other correspondence also took
CHAP. XL]  HOME OCCUPATIONS.                                                      321

up a good deal of energy. Some measure of it isA
afforded by the fact that a "pillar "-box was let into
the rough stone wall on the roadside, across the Urr,it,
for the sole use of Glenlair House. Maxwell would
                                                                               a
himself carry the letters to and from this rustic post-
office in all weathers, at the same time giving the

dogs a run.
      Both now and afterwards, his favourite exercise

   as that in which his wife could most readily share
   was riding, in which he showed great skill. Mr.
Fergusson remembers him in 1874, on his new black
horse, " Dizzy," which had been the despair of previous
owners, "riding the ring," for the amusement of the
children at Kilquhanity, throwing up his whip and

catching leaping over bars, etc.
          considerable portion of the evening would often

be devoted to Chaucer, Spenser, Milton, or play of
Shakespeare, which he would read aloud to Mrs.

Maxwell.

     On Sundays, after returning from the kirk, he
would bury himself in the works of the old divines.
For in theology, as in literature, while reckoning
frankly with all phases, his sympathies went largely
with the past. Not that he would have checked the

real progress of thought on the subject of religion, but
he did not share the sanguine hopes of some who
have sought to hasten these " slow -paced " changes
nor did he believe in progress by ignoring differences,
or by merging the sharp outlines of traditional sys-
tems in the haze of " common Christianity." He
was one of those in whom physical studies seem to
           a

                                                                                                 ;
322          JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XI.

have the effect of leading the mind to dwell on the

permanent aspects of thought as well as of things,
thus reinforcing the instincts of conservatism. No

mind ever delighted more in speculation, and yet

none was ever more jealous of the practical applica-

tion or the popular dissemination of what appeared to

him as crude and half-baked theories about the highest

subjects. He preferred resting on the great thoughts

of other ages, though no man knew better wherein

they (and scientific theories likewise) fell short of
certainty ; and while he was anything rather than a

formalist or a dogmatist, and still clung to the belief

that love remains while knowledge vanishes away, he

was the enemy of indefiniteness and indifferentism, as

well as of a style of preaching which, as he used to

say, " dings ye wi' mere morality." His theological
attitude, which it would be rash to develop further

here, is indicated to some extent in his letter to Bishop

Ellicott, and in his reply to the Secretary of the

Victoria Institute, both of which will be found in

Chapter XII (pp. 393, 404).

     But he was far, indeed, from judging men by their
"Iopinions.
             have no nose for heresy," he used to

say. His sympathy pierced beneath the outer shell

of circumstance and association, and he hardly ever

failed to discover what was best and strongest in those

with whom he had to do.

     His kindly relations with his neighbours and with

their children may be passed without further notice

after what has been said above. But it may be men-

tioned that he used occasionally to visit any sick
CHAP. XL]                HOME OCCUPATIONS.  323

person in the village, and read and pray with them
in cases where such ministrations were welcomed.

      One who visited at Glenlair between 1865 and

1869 was particularly struck with the manner in which
the daily prayers were conducted by the master of the
household. The prayer, which seemed extempore, was
most impressive and full of meaning. 1

    It is right also to record briefly his continued

intercourse with his cousins of the Cay family. Mr.
William Dyce Cay, who had now entered on his pro-
fession as a civil engineer, was employed by him to
build the bridge over the Urr, and has a vivid recol-
lection of their intercourse, both then (1861-2) and in

      1 The following fragments have been found amongst his papers :
" Almighty God, who hast created man in Thine own image, and made

him a living soul that he might seek after Thee and have dominion

over Thy creatures, teach us to study the works of Thy hands that we

may subdue the earth to our use, and strengthen our reason for Thy

service ; and so to receive Thy blessed Word, that we may believe on

Him whom Thou hast sent to give us the knowledge of salvation and

the remission of our sins. All which we ask in the name of the same

Jesus Christ our Lord."
       " Lord, our Lord, how excellent is Thy name in all the earth,

who hast set Thy glory above the heavens, and out of the mouths of

babes and sucklings hast perfected praise. When we consider Thy

heavens, the work of Thy fingers, the moon and the stars which Thou

hast ordained, teach us to know that Thou art mindful of us, and

visitest us, making us rulers over the works of Thy hands, showing us

the wisdom of Thy laws, and crowning us with honour and glory in

our earthly life ; and looking higher than the heavens, may we see

Jesus, made a little lower than the angels for the suffering of death,

crowned with glory and honour, that He, by the grace of God, should

taste death for every man.  Lord, fulfil Thy promise, and put all

things in subjection under His feet. Let sin be rooted out of the

earth, and let the wicked be no more. Bless Thou the Lord, my

soul, praise the Lord."
324  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XI

    former years. In particular he remembers how, on

     one occasion, Maxwell spent the whole time during a

    walk of several miles over the hill from Glenlair to
    Parton, " giving one example after another to explain
    by illustration the principle of virtual velocities." . . .

   I" The feeling had," says Mr. Cay, " was that before
   I got to the bottom of one example he had rushed off

    to another."

         And the reader will find in the correspondence

     two of Maxwell's letters to my friend Charles Hope
    Cay, and in another letter a few words of bright de-
    scription of him. He died in 1869, at the early age of

     twenty-eight, the most devoted of teachers, one of the

   purest-hearted and most amiable of men. If he could

     have listened to his cousin's gentle warnings against
    excessive zeal, perhaps his services to Clifton College,

    if less vividly remembered, might have been continued

    longer. But who knows ? " They whom the gods
     love die young."

           Maxwell's retirement was not by any means un-
    broken. There was a visit to London in the spring of
     every year. And in the spring and early summer of
35. 1867 he made a tour in Italy with Mrs. Maxwell.

     They had the misfortune to be stopped for quarantine

     at Marseilles, and his remarkable power of physical
     endurance and of ministration were felt by all who
     shared in the mishap. True to the associations of his

      early days (see above, pp. 28, 121), he became the

     general water-carrier, and in other ways contributed
     greatly to the alleviation of discomforts that were by
     no means light.
CHAP. XL]  ITALY, CAMBRIDGE.  325

    IWe met accidentally at Florence, and remember

his mentioning two things as having particularly
struck him amongst the innumerable objects of
interest at Eome. He had looked at the dome of St.

Peter's with an eye of sympathetic genius, 1 and his
ear for melody had been satisfied by "the Pope's
band." He acquired Italian with great rapidity, and
amused himself with noticing the different phonetic
values of the letters in Italian and English. 2 One of
his chief objects in learning the language was to
be able to converse with Professor Matteucci, whose
bust now stands in the Campo Santo at Pisa. During
the same tour he took special pains to improve his
acquaintance with French and German. The only
language he had any difficulty in mastering was Dutch.

     In the years 1866, 1867, 1869, and 1870, he was
either Moderator or Examiner in the Mathematical

Tripos at Cambridge, where his influence was more
and more felt. His work on these occasions was,

indeed, a principal factor in the movement, to be

hereafter described, which led ultimately to important
changes in the Examination system ; to the creation
of the Cavendish Laboratory ; and to the foundation
of the Chair of Experimental Physics.

     His paper on the Viscosity of Gases, printed in
the Phil. Trans, for 1866, had been delivered by him
as the Bakerian Lecture for that year.

      1 The tone in which he spoke of this brought home to me, more

Ithan anything have seen in books, the joy of Michael Angelo in

etherealising the work of Brunelleschi.
      2 On learning from our teacher, Sign. Briganti, the pronunciation

of suolo, he said, "That is the English for rondinella"
326  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                            [CHAP. XI.

     He also attended several meetings of the British

Association, and, in 1870, at the Liverpool meeting,

was President of Section A (Mathematics and Physics).

His Presidential Address was on the relation of

Mathematics and Physics to each other a theme

suggested by Professor Sylvester, who had been
president of the same section in the previous year.
The opening passage, in which he alludes to other

recent scientific addresses, is characteristic, and may

be quoted here :

     I have endeavoured to follow Mr. Spottiswoode, as with

far-reaching vision he distinguishes the systems of science

Iinto which phenomena, our knowledge of which is still in the
nebulous stage, are growing.  have been carried, by the

penetrating insight and forcible expression of Dr. Tyndall,

into that sanctuary of minuteness and of power, where mole-

cules obey the laws of their existence, clash together in fierce

Icollision, or grapple in yet more fierce embrace, building up
in secret the forms of visible things.  have been guided by

Professor Sylvester towards those serene heights

     " Where never creeps a cloud or moves a wind,
       Nor ever falls the least white star of snow,
       Nor ever lowest roll of thunder moans,
       Nor sound of human sorrow mounts, to mar
       Their sacred everlasting calm."

But who will lead me into that still more hidden and

dimmer region where Thought weds Fact, where the mental
operation of the mathematician and the physical action of
the molecules are seen in their true relation ? Does not the
way to it pass through the very den of the metaphysician,
strewed with the remains of former explorers and abhorred
by every man of science ? . . .

     Two important papers read by Maxwell at the
CHAP. XI.]           ST. ANDREWS.                                                                                327

same meeting were that " On Hills and Dales," to
which reference will be found in the correspondence
(pp. 382, 383), and that " On Colour Vision at different

Points of the Ketina."

The Cambridge examinations were the only cause

which separated him for more than a day or two from

Mrs. Maxwell. When most pressed with the load of

papers to be read, he would write to her daily

sometimes twice a day in letters full of " enfantill-
ages" as in his boyish endeavours to amuse his father,

telling her of everything, however minute, which, if

she had seen  ; it,  would have detained her eye, small

                                             ;
social phenomena, grotesque or graceful (including

the dress of lady friends), together with the lighter

aspects of the examinations College customs, such as
the " grace-cup " his dealings with his co-examiners,

and marks of honour to himself which he knew would

please her, though they were indifferent to him. And

sometimes he falls into the deeper vein, which was

never long absent from his communion with her,

commenting on the portion of Scripture which he

knew that she was reading, and passing on to general

meditations on life and duty.

In November 1868 his old teacher, James D.

Forbes, had resigned the principalship of the United

College in the University of St. Andrew's, and an effort
was made by several of the professors to induce Max-
1

        is
                    0.

                 I
                                                                                                              a
well to stand for the vacant post, which was in the gift

of the Crown, and had been held by Brewster and

      It right that  should add that the suggestion did not proceed

from me. L.
328  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.               [CHAP. XI.

Forbes successively. He was touched by the kind-
ness, and travelled a whole day from Galloway to
confer with us, but, on mature consideration, re-

linquished the idea.

     LETTERS, 1860 TO 1870.

     To KEV. LEWIS CAMPBELL.

     Marischal College,

     ... I Aberdeen, 5th January 1860.
                 have been publishing my views about Elastic
Spheres in the Phil. Mag. for Jany., and am going to go on with
I Iit as get the prop ns* written out.
                                        have also sent my
Iexperiments on Colours to the Eoyal Society of London, so
Ihave two sets of irons in the fire, besides class work.

hope you get on with Plato, and that your pupils are all
Theaetetuses, and that wisdom soaks like oil into their

inwards. There is a man here who is striving after a

general theory of things, but he has great difficulty in so

churning his thoughts as to coagulate and solidify the vague
and nebulous notions which wander in his head. He has

been applying to me very steadily whenever he can pounce

I I Ion me, and have prescribed for him as best could, and

hope his abstract of his general theory of things will be

palatable to the readers of the British Ass. ^Reports for 1859.

                                    To HIS WIFE.

                                                  Edinburgh, 13th April 1860.

      Now let us read (2 Cor.) chapter xii., about the organisation
of the Church, and the different gifts of different Christians,
and the reason of these differences that Christ's body may

be more complete in all its parts. If we felt more distinctly

our union to Christ, we would know our position as members
of His body, and work more willingly and intelligently
along with all the rest in promoting the health and growth
of the body, by the use of every power which the spirit has
distributed to us.
CHAP. XL]    LETTERS.                             329

                                                                  14th April 1860.

      Let us read about charity, that love which is so perfect
that it remains when that which is in part shall be done
away. May God purify our love, and make it fit for eter-
nity, by grafting upon it the love of Himself, that so both
the human root and the engrafted branches and the divine
fruit may be holy to Him !

             FROM C. J. MONRO, Esq.

                       Hadley, Barnet, N.

                               23d October 1861.

I IThank you much for the papers. That about vortices
had skimmed already in the magazine.         shall now be

able to do more than skim it. The coincidence between

the observed velocity of light and your calculated velocity

I Iof a tranverse vibration in your medium seems a brilliant
result. But  must say think a few such results are

wanted before you can get people to think that, every time
an electric current is produced, a little file of particles is

squeezed along between rows of wheels. But the instances

Iof bodily transfer of matter in the phenomena of galvanism

look like it already, and admit that the possibility of

convincing the public is not the question.

To H. E. DROOP, Esq. (of the Equity Bar).

                        Glenlair, Dalbeattie, N.B., 28th December 1861.

I enclose a short statement of the scheme of endowing
the chapel which was built near us in 1838 for this district,
Ifwhich is very far from any parish church.
                                             we can raise

1000, there is a fund already raised which will contribute

2000, so as to give a salary of 120 to the minister per-

manently, and as the people are too poor to support the

minister themselves, we hope to make the chapel independent

of chance contributions in this way. Great part of the

funds for building the church were subscribed in London by

all kinds of people who were friends of an English gentleman

who then had property here ; but we have no longer any

such means of drawing on the metropolis.
330      JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.            [CHAP. XL

    If you can put us in the way of diminishing the deficit
Iwe shall be grateful, and will see that the money goes to

the fund, and that the names are duly entered, however

... Ismall the contributions.
               have nothing to do in King's College till Jany.
20, so we came here to rusticate. We have clear hard frost

without snow, and all the people are having curling-

matches on the ice, so that all day you hear the curling-

stones on the lochs in every direction for miles, for the

large expanse of ice vibrating in a regular manner makes a

Inoise which, though not particularly loud on the spot, is very
little diminished by distance.       am trying to form an

exact mathematical expression for all that is known about

electro-magnetism without the aid of hypothesis, and also

what variations of Ampere's formula are possible, without

contradicting his expressions. All that we know is about

the action of closed currents that is, currents through closed

curves. Now, if you make a hypothesis (1) about the mutual

action of the elements of two currents, and find it agree
with experiment on closed circuits, it is not proved,

for

    If you make another hypothesis (2) which would give,

no action between an element and a closed circuit, you may

Imake a combination of (1) and (2) which will give the

same result as (1). So am investigating the most general
hypothesis about the mutual action of elements, which

fulfils the condition that the action between an element

and a closed circuit is null. This is the case if the action

between two elements can be reduced to forces between the

extremities of those elements depending only on the distance
-and + or according as they act between similar or
Ifopposite ends of the elements.
                                     the force is an attraction

     = < (r) SB* (cos w + 2 cos cos 0')

where o> is the angle between s and  the distance of and
s'
                           Q'
                                                             s

                                        /, sr',
                                                                                                                    s
and and  the angles and              the elements, make

with r, then the condition of no action will be fulfilled.
CHAP. XL]  AMPERE'S FORMULA.                331

                        To THE SAME.

                                                    8 Palace Gardens Terrace, W.,
                                                     24th January 1862.

I. . . When wrote to you about closed currents, it was

partly to arrange my own thoughts by imagining myself

speaking to you. Ampere's formula containing n and k

Iis the most general expression for an attractive or repulsive

force in the line joining the elements ; and now find that if

you take the most general expression consistent with sym-

metry for an action transverse to that line, the resulting

expression for the action of a closed current on an element

gives a force not perpendicular to that element. Now,

experiment 3d (Ampere) shows that the force on a movable

Ielement is perp. to the directions of the current, so that

see Ampere is right.

      But the best way of stating the effects is with reference
to " lines of magnetic force." Calculate the magnetic force

in any plane, arising from every element of the circuit, and

from every other magnetising agent, then the force on an

element is in the line perp. to the plane of the element and

of the lines of force.
IBut shall look up Cellerier and Plann, and the long
Iarticle in Karsten's Cyclopaedia.     want to see if there

is any evidence from the mathematical expressions as to

whether element acts on element, or whether a current first

produces a certain effect in the surrounding field, which

afterwards acts on any other current.

Perhaps there may be no mathematical reasons in favour

of one hypothesis rather than the another.

As a fact, the effect on a current at a given place depends

solely on the direction and magnitude of the magnetic force

at that point, whether the magnetic force arises from currents

or from magnets. So that the theory of the effect taking

place through the intervention of a medium is consistent

Iwith fact, and (to me) appears the simplest in expression ;

but must prove either that the direct action theory is
completely identical in its results, or that in some conceiv-

able case they may be different. My theory of the rotation
332  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                    [CHAP. xi.

Iof the plane of polarised light by magnetism is coming out
in the Phil. Mag.  shall send you a copy.

                   To THE SAME.

                                   8 Palace Gardens Terrace,
                   Kensington, London, W., 28th January 1862.

    ISome time ago, when investigating Bernoulli's theory

of gases, was surprised to find that the internal friction

of a gas (if it depends on the collision of particles) should

be independent of the density.

     Stokes has been examining Graham's experiments on

the rate of flow of gases through fine tubes, and he finds

that the friction, if independent of density, accounts for
Graham's results, but, if taken proportional to density, differs

from those results very much. This seems rather a curious

result, and an additional phenomenon, explained by the
" collision of particles " theory of gases.
                                             Still one

phenomenon goes against that theory the relation between

specific heat at constant pressure and at constant volume,

which is in air = 1'408, while it ought to be 1*333.

     My brother-in-law, who is still with us, is getting better,

and had his first walk on crutches to-day across the room.

                   To C. J. MONRO, Esq.

                              8 Palace Gardens Terrace,

                   London W., 18th February 1862.

                              r.. (Seed. 3d March.)
     I got your letter in Scotland, whither we had gone
Ifor the Christmas holidays.
                              have been brewing Platonic
Isuds, but failed, owing suppose to a too low temperature.
I had not read Plateau's recipe then. Some of the

Ibubbles on the surface lasted a fortnight in the air, but
they were scummy and scaly and inelastic.    shall take

more care next time. Elliot of the Strand (30) is going to
Iproduce colour-tops, with papers from De La Eue, and direc-

tions for use by me ; and so shall be put in competition
with the brass Blondin and the Top on the top of the Top.
CHAP. XI.]              COLOURS.                                                 333

I. . . With regard to Britomart's nurse                                      have not Spenser
Ihere, but think Spenser was not a magician himself, and

got all his black art out of romances and not out of the pro-

fessional treatises, the notions to be brought out were: 1st,

The unweaving any web in which B. had been caught ; 2d,
Doing so in witch-like fashion ; 3d, Not like a wicked witch,

but like a well-intentioned nurse, unused to the art, and there-

fore blunderingly. She believes in the number three and in

contrariety, and therefore says everything thrice and does

everything thrice, saying inversions of sentences, and doing

reversions of her revolutions, which are described in similar

language. The revolutions begin by + 3 (2?r) against the

visible motion of the sun, then by a revolution                                  6 TT she

returns all contrary and unweaves the first. Then she goes

round       GTT, to make the final result contrary to the natural
I
      -f-I

                    it
revolution, and to make complete triad. Withershins is,
                        a

believe, equivalent to wider die Sonne in High Dutch,

which am not aware      is     modern or ancient idiom in that
                            a

Iflanguage, but may be one in cognate language.                                  the
                               a

" phamplets " have not turned up in Madeira yet, let me
know, that may " replace" them.
I
       is, I

                                 a
                                                                      l
       suppose in your equations, when the numbers do not

amount to unity, Black has been present- ^                                   ^^
                                                                             k

                                                                              +
841 Brunsw/G + '159 W= '200 V + '423 U 'S'T'T Black.

That          green little palish and dark mauve, your

last equation by the young eyes. It                                      is  something like  Gr a

colour-blind eqn- but all those know say 100 Brunswick
G
                                      ,
                            I
= 100 Vermillion, so that this person sees the green

darker than the Vermillion, or in other words sees much

more of the second side of the equation than colour-blind                    a

person would. But in twilight TJ comes out strong, while

does not so that think the apparent equality arises from

suppression of all colours but blue (in U and W) in the

twilight, so that you may write
       ;

               I

       841 Black '159 W = -577 Black -423 U.
              a is
                         +

                                                             3

                                                                        +
       There  no use going to the rd ' place of decimals, unless
you spend     good while on each observation, and have first-
334  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                      [CHAP. XI.

rate eyes. But if you can get observations to be con-

sistent to the 3 rd* place of decimals, glory therein, and let me

know what the human eye can do.
     Donkin gave me tea in Oxford, July 1, 1860.
     I find that my belief in the reality of State affairs is no
Igreater in London than in Aberdeen, though can see the clock
If Iat Westminster on a clear day.
                                    went and saw the parks

Iof artillery at Woolwich, and the Consols going up and down
in the city, and the Tuscarora and Mr. Mason.     would

know what like they were, but otherwise a printed statement

is more easily appropriated than experience is acquired by

Ibeing near where things are being transacted.
         am getting a large box made for mixture of colours.

A beam of sunlight is to be divided into colours by a prism,

certain colours selected by a screen with slits. These

gathered by a lens, and restored to the form of a beam by

Ianother prism, and then viewed by the eye directly.
Iexpect great difficulties in getting everything right adjusted,

but when that is done shall be able to vary the intensity

of the colours to a great extent, and to have them far purer

than by any arrangement in which white light is allowed to

Ifall on the final prism.
          am also planning an instrument . for measuring

electrical effects through different media, and comparing

those media with air. A and B are two equal metal discs,

capable of motion towards each other by fine screws ; D is

a metal disc suspended between them by a spring. C ; E is
a piece of glass, sulphur, vulcanite, gutta-percha, etc. A

- Ifand B are then connected with a source of+ electricity,
and D with electricity.  everything was symmetrical, D

would be attracted both ways, and would be in unstable

equilibrium, but this is rendered stable by the elasticity of

the spring C. To find the effect of the plate E, you work

A further or nearer till there is no motion of D consequent
on electrification. Then the plate of air between A and D

is electrically equivalent to the two plates of air and one of
glass (say) between D and B, whence we deduce the coeff*-

for E.
CHAP. XI.]  CONSERVATION OF ENERGY.  335

                          To EEV. LEWIS CAMPBELL.

                                                                8 Palace Gardens Terrace,

                                               Kensington, W., 21st April 1862.

    IIt is now a long time since wrote half a letter to you,
Ibut have never since had time to write or to find the scrap.
I suppose, as it was more than a good intention, but less than

a perfect act, it may be regarded as destined to paper purga-
tory. This is the season of work to you, when folks visit

I Ishrines in April and May, but get holiday this week.

have been putting together a large optical box, 1 feet long,
containing two prisms of bisulphuret of carbon, the largest
yet made in London, five lenses and two mirrors, and a set of

movable slits. Everything requires to be adjusted over and

Iover again if one thing is not quite right placed, so have

plenty of trial work to do before it is perfect, but the

Icolours are most splendid.
         think you asked me once about Helmholtz and his

philosophy. He is not a philosopher in the exclusive sense,
as Kant, Hegel, Mansel are philosophers, but one who pro-

secutes physics and physiology, and acquires therein not
only skill in discovering any desideratum, but wisdom to
know what are the desiderata, e.g., he was one of the first,
and is one of the most active, preachers of the doctrine that
since all kinds of energy are convertible, the first aim of
science at this time should be to ascertain m what way
particular forms of energy can be converted into each other,
and what are the equivalent quantities of the two forms of

energy.

      The notion is as old as Descartes (if not Solomon), and

one statement of it was familiar to Leibnitz. It was wholly

unknown to Comte, but all sorts of people have worked at it
of late, Joule and Thomson for heat and electricals, Andrews
for chemical combinations, Dr. E. Smith for human food and
labour. We can now assert that the power of our bodies is
generated in the muscles, and is not conveyed to them by the
nerves, but produced during the transformation of substances
in the muscle, which are supplied fresh by the blood.

      We can also form a rough estimate of the efficiency of
336               JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.             [CHAP. XL

a man as a mere machine, and find that neither a perfect

heat engine nor an electric engine could produce so much
work and waste so little in heat. We therefore save our

pains in investigating any theories of animal power based on

heat and electricity. We see also that the soul is not the
Ifdirect moving force of the body.
                                    it were, it would only

last till it had done a certain amount of work, like the
spring of a watch, which works till it is run down. The

soul is not the mere mover. Food is the mover, and

perishes in the using, which the soul does not. There is

action and reaction between body and soul, but it is not of

a kind in which energy passes from the one to the other,

as when a man pulls a trigger it is the gunpowder that

projects the bullet, or when a pointsman shunts a train it is

the rails that bear the thrust. But the constitution of our

nature is not explained by finding out what it is not. It is

well that it will go, and that we remain in possession, though

we do not understand it.

     Hr. Clausius of Zurich, one of the heat philosophers, has

Ibeen working at the theory of gases being little bodies flying

about, and has found some cases in which he and don't

Itally, so am working it out again. Several experimental

results have turned up lately, rather confirmatory than

Iotherwise of that theory.                      I find that the
         hope you enjoy the absence of pupils.

division of them into smaller classes is a great help to me

and to them; but the total oblivion of them for definite

intervals is a necessary condition of doing them justice at

the proper time.

                         To FLEEMING JENKIN, Esq. 1

                                                                                 27th Aug. 1863.

      ., . . To compare electromagnetic with electrostatic
units :

      1st, Weber's method. Find the capacity of a condenser
in electrostatic measure (meters).

     1 Now Professor of Engineering in Edinburgh.
CHAP. XI.]       ELECTRICAL STANDARDS, ETC.      337

Determine its potential when charged, and measure the

charge of discharge through a galvanometer.

      2d, Thomson's. Find the electromotive force of a

battery by electromagnetic methods, and then weigh the

attraction of two surfaces connected with the two poles.
      3d, (Not tried, but talked of by Jenkin). Find the

resistance of a very bad conductor in both systems

     (1) By comparison with (4th June),
      (2) By the log. decrement of charge per second.

     All the methods require a properly graduated series

of steps. The 1st and 2d determine V, a velocity =

310,740,000 meters per second.

     The 3d method determines V2.

The first method requires a condenser of large capacity,

and the measurement of this capacity and that of the dis-

I Icharge by a galvanometer.                     would use a
         think this method looks the best ; but

much larger condenser than Weber, and determine its capa-

city by more steps.
      The chief difficulty of Thomson's method is the measure-

Iment of a very small force and a very small distance.

think these difficulties may be overcome by making the

force act on a comparatively stiff spring and magnifying

optically the deflection.

      On the third method we require a very large condenser
indeed, also a series of resistances in steps between 4th June

and that of the insulating substance of the condenser, and a

galvanometer (or electrometer) to measure discharge (or

tension). . . .

                 To C. H. CAY, Esq.

                              8 Palace Gardens Terrace,
                                 18th November 1863.

IWe hope to hear how you are. A little literature helps
to chase away mathematics from the mind.         have read

Paracelsus in parts, but concluded that there was a great deal

of poetry in it ; but Mr. Browning has written much better

poems with half the quantity of poetry at his disposal.

                           z
338               JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.           [CHAP. XL

Have you seen Pessimus, a Prose Poem in Paradox, from

Oxford, and Sketch from Cambridge by a Don who imagines
Ithat mathematical men are safer not to talk shop than
classical.  know several men who see all nature in

Isymbols, and express themselves conformably whether in
Quintics or Quantics, Invariants or Congruents.  send you

the electric scheme.

                      To HIS WIFE.

                                         22d June 1864.

      May the Lord preserve you from all evil, and cause all
the evil that assaults you to work out His own purposes,

that the life of Jesus may be made manifest in you, and
may you see the eternal weight of glory behind the momen-

tary lightness of affliction, and so get your eyes off things
seen and temporal, and be refreshed with the things eternal !

Now love is an eternal thing, and love between father and

son or husband and wife is not temporal if it be the right
sort, for if the love of Christ and the Church be a reason for
loving one another, and if the one be taken as an image of
the other, then, if the mind of Christ be in us, it will pro-
duce this love as part of its complete nature, and it cannot

be that the love which is first made holy, as being a reflec-

tion of part of the glory of Christ, can be any way lessened

or taken away by a more complete transformation into the

Iimage of the Lord.                      I think the descrip-
         have been back at 1 Cor. xiii.

tion of charity or divine love is another loadstone for our

life to show us that this is one thing which is not in
parts, but perfect in its own nature, and so it shall never

be done away. It is nothing negative, but a well-defined,

living, almost acting picture of goodness ; that kind of it
which is human, but also divine. Eead along with it 1
John iv., from verse 7 to end; or, if you like, the whole

epistle of John and Mark xii. 28.

Think       what           To THE SAME.           23d June 1864.
                  God has determined     to do to all those who
CHAP. XL]  MEDITATIONS.                       339

submit themselves to His righteousness and are willing to
receive His gift. They are to be conformed to the image of
His Son, and when that is fulfilled, and God sees that they

are conformed to the image of Christ, there can be no more
condemnation, for this is the praise which God Himself gives,
whose judgment is just. So we ought always to hope in
Christ, for as sure as we receive Him now, so sure will we

be made conformable to His image. Let us begin by taking

no thought about worldly cares, and setting our minds on the
righteousness of God and His kingdom, and then we shall

have far clearer views about the worldly cares themselves,

and we shall be continually enabled to fight them under
Him who has overcome the world.

           To THE SAME.

                         26th June 1864.

     Note in (2 Cor.) ver. 10 that the judgment is according

to what we have done, so that if we are to be counted

righteous, we must really get righteousness and do it. Note
also that we. are to receive the things done in the body, not

rewards or punishments merely, but the things themselves
are to be brought back to us, and we must meet them in the

spirit of Christ, who bore our sins and abolished them, or

Ielse we must be overwhelmed altogether.      The church
      . , . have come from Mr. Baptist Noel.

was full to standing, and the whole service was as plain as

large print. The exposition was the Parable of Talents, and
the sermon was on John iii. 16. The sermon was the text writ

large, nothing ingenious or amusing, and hardly any attempt
at instruction, but plain and very serious exhortation from a
man who evidently believes neither more nor less than what

he says.

           To THE SAME.

                                                                  28th June 1864.

I can always have you with me in my mind why

should we not have our Lord always before us in our minds,

for we have His life and character and mind far more clearly
Ifdescribed than we can know any one here ?
                                              we had seen
340           JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.            [CHAP. XI.

Him in the flesh we should not have known Him any better,
perhaps not so well. Pray to Him for a constant sight of
Him, for He is man that we may be able to look to Him,
and God, so that He can create us anew in His own

image.

              To C. HOCKIN, Esq.

     ... I Glenlair, Dalbeattie, September 7th 1864.           I
                 have been doing several electrical problems.
Ihave got a theory of " electric absorption," i.e. residual

charge, etc., and very much want determinations of the

specific induction, electric resistance, and absorption of good

dielectrics, such as glass, shell-lac, gutta-percha, ebonite,

Isulphur, etc.
         have also cleared the electromagnetic theory of light

from all unwarrantable assumption, so that we may safely
determine the velocity of light by measuring the attraction
between bodies kept at a given difference of potential, the
value of which is known in electromagnetic measure.

    I hope there will be resistance coils at the British

Association.

              To PROFESSOR LEWIS CAMPBELL. 1

              8 Palace Gardens Terrace,

              London, TF., 22d November 1864.

     IIt was very kind of you to think of me at this time, and
write to me.  shall always remember your mother's kind-

Iness to me, beginning more than twenty-three years ago, and

how she made me the same as you two when came to see

Iyou. To you her memory is what you can share with none,

so can say no more except that you will continue to find

that to have had a mother so devoted to her duty gives you
a consciousness of your own obligations which will be

strengthened whenever you think of her.

     1 Mrs. Morrieson died on the 17th of November 1864.
CHAP. XL]     LETTERS FROM GLENLAIR.                      341

              To C. H. CAY, Esq.

              Glenlair, 5ih January 1865.

    IWe are sorry to hear you cannot come and see us, but

you seem better by your letter, and hope you will be able for

your travels, and be better able for your work afterwards, and

not take it too severely, and avoid merimnosity and taking over

too much thought, which greatly diminishes the efficiency of

young teachers. We have been here since 22d ult, and are

in the process of dining the valley in appropriate batches.

We have had very rough weather this week, which, com-

bined with the dining, has prevented our usual airings. The

Iordinary outing is to the Brig of Urr, Katherine on Charlie

and on Darling. Charlie has got a fine band on his fore-

head, with his name in blue and white beads.

The Manse of Corsock is now finished ; it is near the

I Iriver, not far from the deep pool where we used to bathe.
       set Prof. W. Thomson a prop, which     had been

working with for a long time. He sent me 18 pages of

letter of suggestions about none of which would work but

on Jan in the railway from Largs, he got the way to
       is 3,
                                       a it,

                                                it
                                                                                                                                               ;
                                                                                               it,
which      all right; so we are jolly, having stormed the

citadel, when we only hoped to sap by approximations.

The prop, was to draw set of lines like this

so that the ultimate reticulations shall all be squares.

The solution  exact, but rather stiff. Now have
              is
                                                 c

                                             I

                                                                                             a
342            JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                 [CHAP. XI.

disc A hung by a wire D, between two discs B, C, the

interval being occupied by air, hydrogen, carbonic acid,

etc., the friction of which gradually brings A to rest. In

Iorder to calculate the thickdom or viscosity of the gas,

Irequire to solve the problem above mentioned, which is now

done, and have the apparatus now ready to begin. We

are also intent on electrical measurements, and are getting up

apparatus, and have made sets of wires of alloy of platinum

and silver, which are to be sent all abroad as standards of
Iresistance.
               have also a paper afloat, with an electro-
Imagnetic theory of light, which, till am convinced to the
Icontrary,
            l  hold to be great guns.    she is the principal  patient
       Spice   is becoming first-rate :

under the ophthalmoscope, and turns her eyes at command, so

as to show the tapetum, the optic nerve, or any required

part. Dr. Bowman, the great oculist, came to see the sight,

and when we were out of town he came again and brought

Bonders of Utrecht with him to visit Spice.

                To H. K. DROOP, Esq.

                              Glenlair, Dalbeattie, 19th July 1865.

   IThere are so many different forms in which Societies

may be cast, that should like very much to hear some-
thing of what those who have been thinking about it pro-

pose as the plan of it.

     There is the association for publishing each other's pro-

ductions ; for delivering lectures for the good of the public

and the support of the Society ; for keeping a reading room

or club, frequented by men of a particular turn ; for dining

Itogether once a month, etc.
     suppose W           's object is to increase the happiness

of men in London who cultivate physical sciences, by their

meeting together to read papers and discuss them, the pub-

lication of these papers being only one, and not the chief
end of the Society, which fulfils its main purpose in the act

of meeting and enjoying itself.

               1 The Scotch terrier of the period.
CHAP. XL]       LETTERS FROM GLENLAIR.                                            343

      The Eoyal Society of Edinburgh used to be a very
sociable body, but it had several advantages. Most of the

fellows lived within a mile of the Society's rooms. They
did not need to disturb their dinner arrangements in order

to attend.

Many of them were good speakers as well as sensible

men, whose mode of considering a subject was worth hearing,

even if not correct.

      The subjects were not limited to mathematics and physics,
but included geology, physiology, and occasionally antiquities

and even literary subjects. Biography of deceased fellows
is still a subject of papers. Now those who cultivate the

mathematical and physical sciences are sometimes unable to

discuss a paper, because they would require to keep it some

                a

                                                             it,
days by them to form an opinion on                                and physical men

can get up much better discussion about armour plates or
the theory of glaciers than about the conduction of heat or

capillary attraction.

The only man know who can make everything the
                aI
subject of discussion Dr. Tyndall. Secure his attendanceis

                           I
                                              a
and that of somebody to differ from him, and you are all

right for meeting.

    If we can take the field with
aI                                               plan in our head,I               dare
             a
say we could find good many men who would co-operate.
      We ride every day, sometimes both morning and evening,

and so we consume the roads.          have made 68 problems,

all stiff ones, not counting riders.

am now getting the general equations for the motion

of gas considered as an assemblage of molecules flying

about with great velocity.  I find they must repel as inverse

fifth power of distance.

                             To C. H. CAY, Esq.

                                                            Gknlair, 14th October 1865.

    ... hope you keep your conscience in good order, and

do not bestow more labour on erroneous papers than useful
to the youth who wrote it. Always set him to look for the
mistake, he prefers that to starting fresh, for to find your
if I
                                                                              is
344  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.           [CHAP. XL

own mistake may sometimes be profitable, but to seek for

another man's mistake is weariness to the flesh.

      There are three ways of learning props. the heart, the
head, and the fingers ; of these the fingers is the thing for
examinations, but it requires constant practice. Neverthe-

less the fingers have a fully better retention of methods than
the heart has. The head method requires about a mustard
seed of thought, which, of course, is expensive, but then it
takes away all anxiety. The heart method is full of anxiety,
but dispenses with the thought, and the finger method

requires great labour and constant practice, but dispenses

with thought and anxiety together.

      We have had very fine weather since you went away,

Ibut was laid up for more than three weeks with erysipelas
Iall over my head, and got very shaky on my pins. But
Ihave been out for a fortnight, and riding regularly as of old,

which is good for Katherine after the nursing, and eat
about double what any man in Galloway does, and know
nothing of it in half an hour ; but my legs are absorbing the
beef as fast as it is administered.

     To THE EEV. C. B. TAYLER.

     8 Palace Gardens Terrace, W.,

                                    2d February 1866.
     I was very glad to get your kind letter, and to be assured
I Ithat you still remembered me.
                                    thought of you when

was in Cambridge, and made up my mind to write to you

and hear of you and Mrs. Tayler, and your nephew George.

IA nephew of yours was for a short time in my class in King's

Coll., and asked him about you, but he had not seen you
Ilately. Is George still in Hull ?
      You ask for my history since  wrote to you before my

marriage. We remained in Aberdeen till 1860, when the

Iunion or fusion of the Colleges took place, and went to
I IKing's Coll., London, where taught till last Easter, when

was succeeded by W. G. Adams, brother of the astronomer.

I have now my time fully occupied with experiments and
Ispeculations of a physical kind, which could not undertake
CHAP. XI.]   OTLEY AND ST. ANDREWS.                                                                            345

Ias long as had public duties. These are the chronological
Idata. It is 13 years nearly since was with you, and you
I Icarried me about when
                                          could not move myself, but

Iremember everything about you and Otley much better than
most things before and after that time.                                                                        got advantage

from your nursing when my father was ill, and many other

Ifthings have since brought you and Mrs. Tayler to mind.

you and Mrs. Tayler are to be in London during the spring,

we shall be exceedingly glad to see you here, or if you ever

go to Scotland in summer or autumn, we hope you will try
and stay with us some time. My wife knows you quite

             is,

                        I

                                                  it

                                                                             a
well, that as well as do, all but what can only be got

by seeing and hearing directly, and                                                                            would do us both

great good to see you, and open up our minds little.

Many people's minds seem to be shut up with solemn

charms, so that though they seem Christians, and know what

they mean to speak about, they can say nothing. At Cam-

bridge heard several sermons from excellent texts, but all
is
   a

    I

                              it

                                                      a

                                                                                                            1
either on other subjects or else right against the text. There

Mr. Offord in this street, Baptist who knows his Bible,

and preaches as near as he can, and does what he can to

let the statements in the Bible be understood by his hearers.

We generally go to him when in London, though we believe

ourselves baptized already.

      Pray let me hear from you occasionally. We shall be
here till the end of March, and after that address Glenlair,

Dalbeattie, N.B., which                   my permanent address, and
            I                                                                                                  is
                                      is
sure at all times to find me.

Mrs. Maxwell joins me in kind regards to you and Mrs.

Tayler, and  remain your aift. friend,

                                       J. CLERK MAXWELL.

                      To PROFESSOR LEWIS CAMPBELL.1I

                                               Glenlair, Dalbeattie, 3d November 1868.

         have given considerable thought to the subject of the

        Whilst in London, Mr. and Mrs. Maxwell occasionally attended
Nonconformist services, partly led, perhaps, by recollections of the simple
Presbyterian worship, to which Mrs. Maxwell had been accustomed.
346        JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                    [CHAP. XL

candidature, and have come to the decision not to stand.

The warm interest which you and other professors have

taken in the matter has gratified me very much, and the

idea of following Principal Forbes had also a great effect on

Imy feelings, as well as the prospect of residing among

friends; but still feel that my proper path does not lie in
that direction. Your afft. friend,

                                             J. CLERK MAXWELL.

           To C. J. MONRO, Esq.

                   Glenlair, Dalbeattie, 6th July 1870.

     My question to the Mathematical Society bore fruit in
...various forms.  It would give my mind too great a
Iwrench just now to go into elliptic integrals, but will
Ido so when come to revise about circular conductors.
... I can cut the subject short with an easy conscience,
Ifor have no scruple about steering clear of tables of double

entry, especially when, in all really useful cases, convergent

series may be used with less trouble, and without any

knowledge of elliptic integrals. On this subject see a' short

Ipaper on Fluid Displacement in next part of the Math.

Soc. Trans., where give a picture of the stream lines, and

the distortion of a transverse line as water flows past a

cylinder.

      Mr. W. Benson, architect, 147 Albany Street, Eegent
Park, N.W., told me that you had been writing to Nature,

and that yours was the only rational statement in a

Imultitudinous correspondence on colours. Mr. Benson con-

siders that Aristotle and have correct views about primary

colours. He has written a book, with coloured pictures, on

the science of colour, and he shows how to mix colours by
means of a prism. He wants to publish an elementary
book with easy experiments, but gets small encouragement,
being supposed an heretic. No other architect in the

IArchitect's Society believes him. This is interesting to me,
as showing the chromatic condition of architects.  made a

Igreat colour-box in 1862, and worked it in London in '62
and '64.   have about 200 equations each year, which are
CHAP. XL]            COLOURS AGAIN.                       347

Ireduced but not published.  have set it up here this year,
Iand have just got it in working order.
                                            expect to get
Isome more material, and work up the whole together. In
particular,    want to find any change or evidence of

Iconstancy in the eyes of myself and wife during eight
                                        it
                                                                 it,
years.       can exhibit the yellow spot to all who have

and all have except Col. Strange, F.K.S., my late father-
               it

in-law, and my wife, whether theybe Negroes, Jews, Parsees,

Armenians, Eussians, Italians, Germans, Frenchmen, Poles,

etc. Professor Pole, for instance, has      as strong as me,

though he    J. is colour-blind; Mathison, also colour-blind,

                 it
being fair, had less strongly marked.

One Miiller in Pogg. Ann. for March and April
           J.

18*70, examines compound colours, and finds the violet

without any tendency to red, or the red to blue. He also

selects typical green out of the spectrum.
        a
348  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XIL

                   CHAPTEE XII.

                        CAMBRIDGE 1871 TO 1879.

THE Chair of Experimental Physics in the University
of Cambridge was founded by a Grace of the Senate
on the 9th of February 1871.

     In October 1870 the Duke of Devonshire, who
was Chancellor of the University, had signified his
desire to build and furnish a Physical Laboratory for
Cambridge. In acting as a member of the Eoyal

Commission on Scientific Education, he had perceived

how useful such an institution might be made. It

was in connection with the acceptance of this munifi-
cent offer that the new professorship was established
by the Senate.

      The question, who should be the first professor ?

was for some time attended with anxiety. It was

understood that Sir William Thomson had declined
to stand, and it was thought uncertain whether Clerk
Maxwell could be persuaded to leave the retirement
of his country-seat. After some hesitation, arising
chiefly from genuine diffidence, he was induced to
 become a candidate, on the understanding that he

might retire at the end of a year, if he wished to do

 so. His candidature was announced on the 24th of
CHAP. XII.]    THE NEW PROFESSORSHIP.               349

February. 1 There was no opposition, and he was

appointed on the 8th of March.
     The following letters indicate the part taken by

various persons in bringing about this result :

      FROM THE HON. J. "W. STRUTT (Lord Eayleigh).

                                                 Cambridge, 14th February 1871.

I IWhen came here last Friday found every one talking

about the new professorship, and hoping that you would

come. Thomson, it seems, has definitely declined. . . .
There is no one here in the least fit for the post. What is
wanted by most who know anything about it is not so much
a lecturer as a mathematician who has actual experience in

experimenting, and who might direct the energies of the

younger Fellows and bachelors into a proper channel.

There must be many who would be willing to work under a

competent man, and who, while learning themselves, would
... Imaterially assist him.
                             hope you may be induced to
Icome ; if not, don't know who it is to be. Do not trouble
Ito answer me about this, as believe others have written to

you about it.

FROM THE KEY. E. W. BLORE, M.A. (now Vice-Master
                                 of Trinity).

                             14th February 1871.

      Many residents of influence are desirous that you should
occupy the post, hoping that in your hands this University

Iwould hold a leading place in this department. It has,

Ibelieve, been ascertained that Sir W. Thomson would not
accept the professorship.    mention this lest you should

wish to avoid the possibility of coming into the field against

him.

   I1 On 23d February, Professor Stokes (who had been urgent in

pressing Maxwell to stand) wrote to him : " am glad you have
decided to come forward."
350      JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XII.

     Maxwell's usual modesty is apparent in the draft
of his reply to this letter :

         Glenlair, Dalbeattie, 15th February 1871.
     IMy DEAR BLORE Though
                            feel much interest in the
Iproposed Chair of Experimental Physics, had no intention
I Iof applying for it when got your letter, and have none
I Inow, unless come to see that can do some good by it.
     ... I am sorry Sir W. Thomson has declined to stand.
He has had practical experience in teaching experimental

I Iwork, and his experimental corps have turned out very good
work.    have no experience of this kind, and have seen

very little of the somewhat similar arrangements of a class

of real practical chemistry. The class of Physical Investiga-
tions, which might be undertaken with the help of men of

Cambridge education, and which would be creditable to the
University, demand, in general, a considerable amount of
dull labour which may or may not be attractive to the

pupils.

     In the Grace of Senate of 9th February, it had
been enacted that it should be " the principal duty of

the professor to teach and illustrate the laws of Heat,

Electricity, and Magnetism ; to apply himself to the

advancement of the knowledge of such subjects; and
to promote their study in the University."

     For some time after his appointment, Maxwell's
principal work was that of designing and superin-
tending the erection of the Cavendish Laboratory.

     He inspected the Physical Laboratories of Sir
William Thomson at Glasgow and of Professor
Clifton at Oxford, in order to embody in the new
structure the best features of both of these institu-
tions. But many of the most important arrangements
CHAP. XII.]  CAVENDISH LABOKATORY.  351

were of his own invention. An account of the Labora-
tory itself will be found in Nature (vol. x. p. 139) ;
it is sufficient here to say that it would be difficult to

imagine a building better adapted to its purpose, or
one in the construction of which more provision should

be made for possible requirements. In no case was

convenience sacrificed to architectural effect, but in

both respects the building is a decided success. The
architect was Mr. W. M. Fawcett of Cambridge, who

appears to have fully appreciated and thoroughly
carried out all Professor Maxwell's suggestions. The
contract was given to Mr. Loveday of Kibworth, his

tender being recommended by the report of the

Syndicate appointed to superintend the building,
dated 1st March 1872.

     The work of arranging and furnishing the Caven-

dish Laboratory occupied a considerable time. It was

not completed until the spring of 1874, when the prac-
tical work of experimenting commenced, and on the
16th of June in that year, the Chancellor formally
presented his gift to the University. Sir Charles Lyell
and the French astronomer Leverrier were among
those who visited the Laboratory and received the
honorary degree of LL.D. from the University on
that occasion.

     The following draft of a letter from Maxwell to
the Vice-Chancellor in the previous year affords an
interesting illustration of the thorough and business-
like manner in which he had addressed himself to

these preliminary labours.
352  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XII.

                 To THE VICE-CHANCELLOR, CAMBRIDGE.

                              (Draft of a Letter?)

                                                          Glenlair, 5th July 1873.

    I enclose a provisional list of fixtures and apparatus
Irequired for the Laboratory.

     At present am not able to estimate the prices of many

of the articles.
      Some of them are in the market, and have simply to be

ordered ; others require to be constructed specially for the

Laboratory.

    I have begun with a list arranged according to the

places and rooms in the Laboratory, but, of course, all small
things must be kept in cases, either in the apparatus room,
or in the special rooms.

      The special duty of the professor of experimental
physics is to teach the sciences of heat and electricity, and
also to encourage physical research. The Laboratory must
therefore contain apparatus for the illustration of heat and
electricity, and also for whatever physical research seems
most important or most promising.

    IThe special researches connected with heat which

think most deserving of our efforts at the present time are
those relating to the elasticity of bodies, and in general
those which throw light on their molecular constitution ;
and the most important electrical research is the determina-
tion of the magnitude of certain electric quantities, and their
relations to each other.

    IThese are the principles on which have been planning

the arrangement of the Laboratory. But if in the course of

years the course of scientific research should be deflected, the
plans of work must vary too, and the rooms must be allotted

Idifferently.
         agree with you that the income of the Museums must

Ibe largely increased in order to meet the demands of this

and other new buildings, and am glad that the University
is able to increase it.

     It is impossible to procure many of the instruments, as
CHAP. XII.]  CAVENDISH LABORATORY.                 353

they are not kept in stock, and have to be made to order.
Some of the most important will require a considerable
amount of supervision during their construction, for their
whole value depends on their fulfilling conditions which can
as yet be determined only by trial, so that it may be some

time before everything is in working order.

Even in 1874, however, there were still manifold

desiderata, and the Duke expressed his wish to furnish

the Laboratory completely with the necessary appara-
tus. To carry out this wish was again a work of

time, for the Professor would never order an important

instrument until he was satisfied that its design and

construction were the best that could be obtained. In

his annual report to the University in 1877 Professor

Maxwell announced that the Chancellor had now
" completed his gift to the University, by furnishing

the Cavendish Laboratory with apparatus suited to
                                  "
the present  state  of  science      but  at  the  same time
                                 ;

he wrote to the Vice-Chancellor stating that he should

reserve to himself the privilege of presenting to the

Laboratory such apparatus as the advancement of

science might render it desirable for the University to

possess. And during the short remainder of his

tenure of the professorship he expended many hun-

dreds of pounds in this manner. And already, in the

spring of 1874, he had presented to the Laboratory

all the apparatus in his own possession. The apparatus

provided by the British Association for their Com-

mittee on Electrical Standards (see p. 316), was also
deposited in the Laboratory, in accordance with a

resolution passed at the Edinburgh Meeting of 1871

                                                 2A
354  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XII.

   the apparatus remaining the property of the Asso-
ciation, and subject to the control of the Committee.

     While the Laboratory was thus gradually made
available, the other work of the professorship went on
uninterruptedly from the first. Maxwell gave annual
courses of lectures on the subjects prescribed in his
commission, 1 commencing with October 1871, when
he delivered his inaugural lecture. This and the
lecture "On Colour Vision," given at the Eoyal In-
stitution shortly after his appointment in the preceding
spring, are perhaps the happiest of his literary efforts.
Philosophic grasp, scientific clearness, and poetic
imagination could hardly be more successfully com-

bined.

      The Cambridge lecture (October 1871) sets forth
in luminous outline the meaning and tendency of the
moment in the evolution of the University of Cam-
bridge, which was marked by the institution of the

      1 Throughout the tenure of his Cambridge Chair Maxwell annually
delivered a course of lectures on Heat and the Constitution of Bodies
during the October Term ; on Electricity in the Lent Term ; and on
Electro-Magnetism in the Easter Term. The character of these lectures
very much resembled that of the early chapters in the Elementary
Treatise on Electricity, which he wrote before taking the Cavendish
papers in hand, and which was published in a fragmentary form by
the Delegates of the Clarendon Press in October 1881. During the
first four or five years that Maxwell lectured in Cambridge, candi-
dates for the Ordinary or Poll Degree were compelled to attend pro-
fessors' lectures, and not unfrequently they would appear at the
Cavendish Laboratory. Maxwell's lectures were the delight of those
who could follow him in his brilliant expositions and rapid changes of
thought.
CHAP. XII.]  EXPERIMENTAL PHYSICS.  355

course of Experimental Physics, and the erection of
the Devonshire Laboratory.

      The following passage is especially characteristic :

      Science appears to us with a very different aspect after

we have found out that it is not in lecture-rooms only, and

by means of the electric light projected on a screen, that we
may witness physical phenomena, but that we may find
illustrations of the highest doctrines of science in games and
gymnastics, in travelling by land and by water, in storms of
the air and of the sea, and wherever there is matter in

motion.

      This habit of recognising principles amid the endless
variety of their action can never degrade our sense of the
sublimity of nature, or mar our enjoyment of its beauty.
On the contrary, it tends to rescue our scientific ideas from
that vague condition in which we too often leave them,

buried among the other products of a lazy credulity, and to
raise them into their proper position among the doctrines in
which our faith is so assured that we are ready at all times

to act on them. Experiments of illustration may be of
very different kinds. Some may be adaptations of the

commonest operations of ordinary life ; others may be care-
fully arranged exhibitions of some phenomenon which occurs
only under peculiar conditions. They all, however, agree in
this, that their aim is to present some phenomenon to the
senses of the student in such a way that he may associate

with it some appropriate scientific idea. When he has
grasped this idea, the experiment which illustrates it has

served its purpose.

     In an experiment of research, on the other hand, this is

not the principal aim. . . . Experiments of this class those
in which measurement of some kind is involved are the

proper work of a physical laboratory. In every experiment

we have first to make our senses familiar with the pheno-

menon ; but we must not stop here, we must find out which

of its features are capable of measurement, and what mea-

surements are required in order to make a complete specifi-
356  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XII.

cation of the phenomenon. We must, then, make these

measurements, and deduce from them the result which we

require to find.
      This characteristic of modern experiments that they

consist principally of measurements is so prominent that
the opinion seems to have got abroad that, in a few years,
all the great physical constants will have been approximately
estimated, and that the only occupation which will then be
left to men of science will be to carry these measurements
to another place of decimals.

    If this is really the state of things to which we are

approaching, our Laboratory may perhaps become celebrated
as a place of conscientious labour and consummate skill ;
but it will be out of place in the University, and ought
rather to be classed with the other great workshops of our

country, where equal ability is directed to more useful ends.
      But we have no right to think thus of the unsearchable

riches of creation, or of the untried fertility of those fresh
minds into which these riches will continually be poured.
. . . The history of science shows that even during that
phase of her progress in which she devotes herself to improv-
ing the accuracy of the numerical measurement of quantities
with which she has long been familiar, she is preparing the
materials for the subjugation of new regions, which would

have remained unknown if she had been contented with the

rough methods of her early pioneers.

     The movement which was now to receive so great
an impulse may be roughly dated from Sir William
Thomson's first appearance as a Public Examiner in
Cambridge ; and Maxwell's own influence, as Ex-

aminer and Moderator, had been mainly instrumental
in promoting it. The nature of the change has been
described as follows by one whose University experi-
ence reaches back into the previous time :

     The style of mathematics which was popular in Cam-
CHAP. XII.]   PHYSICS AT CAMBRIDGE.     357

bridge for some time before was, to say the least, one-sided,

and one-sided in a somewhat unproductive direction. There

were many complaints that Cambridge was behind the rest

of the scientific world, and that, whereas the students of so

many other Universities were introduced to the splendid

discoveries of such subjects as Electricity and Heat, the

Wranglers of Cambridge spent their time upon mathematical

trifles and problems, so-called, barren alike of practical

results and scientific interest.   Maxwell's questions (as

Moderator in 1866) infused fresh life into the Cambridge
Tripos, and, therefore, into the University studies, by the

number of original ideas and new lines of thought opened

up by them, thus preparing for the change of system in

1873, when so many interesting subjects were added to the

Examination.

     Sir William Thomson gives the following important
testimony to the same effect :

                                   The University, Glasgow,
                                     21st January 1882.

      The influence of Maxwell at Cambridge had undoubtedly
a great effect in directing mathematical studies into more

fruitful channels than those in which they had been running

for many years. His published scientific papers and books,

his action as an examiner at Cambridge, and his professorial

lectures, all contributed to this effect ; but above all, his
work in planning and carrying out the arrangements of the

              is                   indeed, nothing short of
                              is,
Cavendish Laboratory. There             it

revival of Physical Science at Cambridge within the lastis a

fifteen years, and this largely due to Maxwell's influence.

a    Evidence might easily be multiplied, but
enough to quote the weighty words of Lord Bayleigh
at recent public meeting at Cambridge in support:
of the proposed Devonshire Memorial

     It was no little thing to have had Professor Maxwell so
358  JAMES CLEEK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XII.

closely connected with Cambridge, for by his genius effects
were produced which could hardly have been produced in

any other way. Before coming there to occupy the position

he then held, he (Lord Eayleigh) had not given any particu-
lar attention to electricity, but he found Cambridge to be so

saturated with the subject that he quickly came to the con-
clusion that it would be best to make it his particular study.

All this was owing to the influence of Maxwell. 1

     While speaking of his work in lecturing, it may be
well briefly to advert to the famous " Discourse on
Molecules," delivered before the British Association at
Bradford in September 1873, which has been more

often quoted than, perhaps, any other of his writings.
This address was extremely rich in scientific matter,
but its chief interest lay in the concluding paragraphs,
which may be said to indicate more clearly than any
other of Maxwell's writings the position of his mind
towards certain doctrines maintained by scientific

men:

     In the heavens we discover by their light, and by

their light alone, stars so distant from each other that no
material thing can ever have passed from one to another ;

      1 Professor Westcott's utterance on the same occasion, though less

immediately relevant, ought not to be omitted : " It was impossible

to think of him whom they had so lately lost, to whom first the charge
of the Cavendish Laboratory had been committed, Prof. Clerk Max-
well, and to recollect his genius and spirit, his subtle and profound
thought, his tender and humble reverence, without being sure that that
close connection between Physics and Theology which was consecrated
by the past was still a living reality among them. That was an omen
for the future. He felt, as probably all present felt, that he owed a
deep debt of gratitude to him, both for his researches, and for the
pregnant words in which he gathered up their lessons."
CHAP. XII.]         MOLECULES.                               359

and yet this light, which is to us the sole evidence of the

existence of these distant worlds, tells us also that each of

them is built up of molecules of the same kinds as those

which we find on earth. A molecule of hydrogen, for

example, whether in Sirius or in Arcturus, executes its

vibrations in precisely the same time.

      Each molecule therefore throughout the universe bears
impressed upon it the stamp of a metric system as distinctly

as does the metre of the Archives at Paris, or the double

royal cubit of the temple of Karnac.

    No theory of evolution can be formed to account for the

similarity of molecules, for evolution necessarily implies con-

tinuous change, and the molecule is incapable of growth or
decay, of generation or destruction.

      None of the processes of Nature, since the time when
Nature began, have produced the slightest difference in the
properties of any molecule. We are therefore unable to

ascribe either the existence of the molecules or the identity
of their properties to any of the causes which we call natural.

      On the other hand, the exact equality of each molecule
to all others of the same kind gives as Sir John Herschel
                                      it,

                                                   a
has well said, the essential character of             manufactured

article, and precludes the idea of its being eternal and self-

existent.

      Thus we have been led, along strictly scientific path,a
very near to the point at which Science must stop, not

that Science debarred from studying the internal mechan-
    a
              is
ism of molecule which she cannot take to pieces, any more

than from investigating an organism which she cannot put
together. But in tracing back the history of matter, Science

is  arrested when she assures herself, on the one hand, that

the molecule has been made, and, on the other, that has
                                                      it it
not been made by any of the processes we call natural.

    Science incompetent to reason upon the creation ofis

matter itself out of nothing. We have reached the utmost

limits of our thinking faculties when we have admitted that

because matter cannot be eternal and self-existent         must

have been created.
360  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XII.

    It is only when we contemplate, not matter in itself,

but the form in which it actually exists, that our mind finds
something on which it can lay hold.

      That matter, as such, should have certain fundamental
properties, that it should exist in space and be capable of
motion, that its motion should be persistent, and so on, -are
truths which may, for anything we know, be of the kind
which metaphysicians call necessary. We may use our
knowledge of such truths for purposes of deduction, but we
have no data for speculating as to their origin.

      But that there should be exactly so much matter and no
more in every molecule of hydrogen is a fact of a very
different order. We have here a particular distribution of
matter a collocation to use the expression of Dr. Chalmers,
of things which we have no difficulty in imagining to have

been arranged otherwise.
      The form and dimensions of the orbits of the planets,

for instance, are not determined by any law of nature, but
depend upon a particular collocation of matter. The same
is the case with respect to the size of the earth, from which
the standard of what is called the metrical system has been
derived. But these astronomical and terrestrial magnitudes
are far inferior in scientific importance to that most funda-
mental of all standards which forms the base of the mole-

cular system. Natural causes, as we know, are at work,

which tend to modify, if they do not at length destroy, all

the arrangements and dimensions of the earth and the whole
solar system. But though in the course of ages catastrophes
have occurred and may yet occur in the heavens, though

ancient systems may be dissolved and new systems evolved
out of their ruins, the molecules out of which these systems
are built the foundation-stones of the material universe

remain unbroken and unworn. They continue this day as
they were created perfect in number and measure and

weight ; and from the ineffaceable characters impressed on

them we may learn that those aspirations after accuracy in
measurement, and justice in action, which we reckon among

our noblest attributes as men, are ours because they are
CHAP. XII.]  TELEPHONE.  361

essential constituents of the image of Him who in the
beginning created, not only the heaven and the earth, but
the materials of which heaven and earth consist.

     In 1875 he read before the Chemical Society a
paper " On the Dynamical Evidence of the Molecular

Constitution of Bodies."
     The lecture on Thermodynamics at the Loan

Exhibition of Scientific Apparatus in London in 1876
(to which he had contributed his real-image Stereo-
scope, etc.), was illustrated by his own model of the

Thermodynamic Surface. 1
      The last of his public lectures was the Eede

Lecture " On the Telephone," delivered at Cambridge
in 1878, and illustrated with the aid of Mr. Gower's

Telephonic Harp.
     After pointing out the extreme simplicity as well

as the absolute novelty of the invention, lie made it

the text of a discourse which is remarkable both for

suggestiveness and discursiveness.

    I shall . . . consider the telephone as a material symbol

of the widely separated departments of human knowledge, the
cultivation of which has led, by as many converging paths,
to the invention of this instrument by Professor Graham
Bell.

    ... In a University we are especially bound to recognise

not only the unity of Science itself, but the communion of

    1 See Part II. In the official handbook to the collection, the

articles entitled " General considerations respecting Scientific Appar-
atus " and " Molecular Physics," were written by Professor Maxwell.

When her Majesty the Queen visited the collection Professor Maxwell,
at the invitation of the Lords of the Committee of Council on Educa-
tion, attended as the representative of Molecular Physics.
362        JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XII.

the workers of Science. We are too apt to suppose that we

are congregated here merely to be within reach of certain

appliances of study, such as museums and laboratories,

Ilibraries and lectures, so that each of us may study what he
prefers.   suppose that when the bees crowd round the

flowers it is for the sake of the honey that they do so,

never thinking that it is the dust which they are carrying

from flower to flower which is to render possible a more

splendid array of flowers and a busier crowd of bees in the

years to come.

      We cannot therefore do better than improve the shin-
ing hour in helping forward the cross-fertilisation of the

Sciences.

      One great beauty of Professor Bell's invention is that
the instruments at the two ends of the line are precisely

alike. . . . The perfect symmetry of the whole apparatus
the wire in the middle, the two telephones at the ends of

the wire, and the two gossips at the ends of the telephones,
may be very fascinating to a mere mathematician, but it

would not satisfy the evolutionist of the Spenserian

type, who would consider anything with both ends alike,
such as the Amphisbsena, or Mr. Bright's terrier, or Mr.

Bell's telephone, to be an organism of a very low type, which

must have its functions differentiated before any satisfactory

integration can take place.

      Accordingly many attempts have been made, by differ-
entiating the function of the transmitter from that of the

receiver, to overcome the principal limitation of the power
of the telephone. As long as the human voice is the sole
motive power of the apparatus, it is manifest that what is

heard at one end must be fainter than what is spoken at the

other. But if the vibration set up at one end is used no

longer as the source of energy, but merely as a means of

modulating the strength of a current supplied by a voltaic
battery, then there will be no necessary limitation of the

intensity of the resulting sound, so that what is whispered
to the transmitter may be proclaimed ore rotundo by the

receiver.
CHAP. XII.]        THEORY OF SOUND.                     363

     He then briefly referred to Edison's loud-speaking
telephone, and went on to exhibit and explain the
microphone of Professor Hughes.

I have said the telephone is an instance of the benefit

...to be derived from the cross -fertilisation of the sciences.
. . . Professor Graham Bell                is the son of a very

remarkable man, Alexander Melville Bell, author of a

book called Visible Speech, and of other works relating to

pronunciation. In fact his whole life has been employed in

teaching people to speak. He brought the art to such per-
fection that, though a Scotchman, he taught himself in six

Imonths to speak English, and regret extremely that when
I Ihad the opportunity in Edinburgh did not take lessons

from him. 1 Mr. Melville Bell has made a complete

analysis and classification of all the sounds capable of being

uttered by the human voice, from the Zulu clicks to cough-
ing and sneezing; and he has embodied his results in a

system of symbols, the elements of which are not taken from

any existing alphabet, but are founded on the different con-

figurations of the organs of speech.
      . . . Helmholtz, by a series of daring strides, has effected a

passage for himself over that untrodden wild between acous-

tics and music that Serbonian bog where whole armies of

scientific musicians and musical men of science have sunk

without filling it up.
     We may not be able even yet to plant our feet in his

tracks and follow him right across that would require the

seven league boots of the German Colossus ; but to help us in

Cambridge we have the Board of Musical Studies vindicating
for music its ancient place in a liberal education. On the

physical side we have Lord Eayleigh laying our foundation

deep and strong in his Theory of Sound. On the aesthetic

1 Maxwell had profited not a little by his own studies in this

direction.    But  the Gallowegian tones   are hard to  modify, and even in
his verse                                               recall to those who
            such   rhymes as " hasn't " =  " pleasant"

knew him his peculiar mode of speech.
364  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XII

side we have the University Musical Society doing the
practical work, and, in the space between, those conferences
of Mr. Sedley Taylor, where the wail of the Siren draws
musician and mathematician together down into the depths
of their sensational being, and where the gorgeous hues of the
Phoneidoscope are seen to seethe and twine and coil like
the

                     Dragon boughts and elvish emblemings

on the gates of that city, where

                 An ye heard a music, like enow
                   They are building still, seeing the city is built
                   To music, therefore never built at all
                   And therefore built for ever.

The special educational value of this combined study of
music and acoustics is that more than almost any other
study it involves a continual appeal to what we must observe
for ourselves.

      The facts are things which must be felt ; they cannot be
learned from any description of them.

     All this has been said more than 200 years ago by one

of our own prophets, William Harvey of Gonville and
Caius College : " For whosoever they be that read authors,
and do not, by the aid of their own senses, abstract true
representations of the things themselves (comprehended
in the author's expressions) they do not represent true ideas,
but deceitful idols and phantasmas ; by which means they
frame to themselves certaine shadows and chimseras, and all
their theory and contemplation (which they call science)
represents nothing but waking men's dreams and sick men's

 phrensies."

      After the opening of the Cavendish Laboratory in

 1874, the most continuous, as well as the most import-
 ant, work of the Chair was the superintendence of
 various courses of experiments, undertaken by young

 aspirants for scientific distinction. With character-
CHAP. XII.]  OHM'S LAW.  365

istic loyalty and humility, Maxwell seems often to
have taken more pride in their researches than in his
own. To enumerate the men who were thus favoured

would be to name many who are now amongst the

most efficient teachers of science in the United King-
dom. But there can be nothing invidious in making
particular mention of those who are named by Maxwell
himself in his correspondence, although the omission
of other names may be accidental. Besides Mr. W.
Garnett, who was his demonstrator in the Laboratory
from first to last, he refers with especial satisfaction to
the work of Mr. George Chrystal, now Professor of
Mathematics in Edinburgh, and to that of Mr. W. D.

Niven.

     Mr. Chrystal was encouraged by him to undertake
a series of experiments for verifying Ohm's Law re-
specting the relation between the current and the
electro-motive force in a wire, on which some doubt

had been thrown by Weber's theories, and, in an oppo-
site direction, by a series of experiments reported to
the British Association by Dr. Schuster in 1874.

     In consequence of these doubts a committee was

appointed by the British Association consisting of Pro-
fessor Maxwell, Professor Everitt, and Dr. Schuster,

and the report of this committee was presented to the
Association at their annual meeting in Glasgow in
1876. The report consists mainly of an account of

two experimental investigations planned by Professor
Maxwell and carried out in the Cavendish Laboratory
by Mr. Chrystal. To this report Mr. Chrystal added
a brief account of his experiments on the unilateral
         366  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XII.

         and bilateral deflection of a galvanometer, affording a
         possible explanation of Dr. Schuster's result. The
         investigation proved that when a unit current passes
         through a conductor of a square centimetre section,

         its resistance does not differ from its value for in-

         definitely small currents by 0*000,000,001 per cent.

1873-9.        The scene of these congenial labours was sur-
         rounded with manifold associations, which his love

         for Cambridge intensified. He had pleasant inter-
         course with many persons there, and after a while
         resumed the habit of occasional essay writing. Under

         the name of Ernus (or pic-nic) a club of older

         men was formed, differing little apparently from the
         "Apostles," except in the greater seriousness of the

         discussions. Dr. Lightfoot (now Bishop of Durham)
         and Professors Hort and Westcott were members of

         this little circle of congenial spirits. Maxwell's

         contributions, containing his matured thoughts on
         various speculative questions; will be found in Chapter

         XIII. It may be remarked generally that the most

         marked feature of his later life was an ever-increasing
         soberness of spirit, and a deepening inward repose,
         which took nothing from the brightness of his com-,

         panionship, but rather kept fresh the inexhaustible

         springs of cheerfulness and humorous mirth in him.
         The beginnings of such " life in earnest " may be
         traced far back, but are most obviously perceptible
         in his third year at Cambridge (1853), 1 in the summer

              How readily his thoughts took a serious turn, even in the earlier
CHAP. XII.]        PERSONAL TRAITS.                               367

of 1856, after his father's death, and in the crisis of

his life at Aberdeen (1857-8).
     This graver tone by no means checked the play-

ful impulses that burst forth from time to time in

sparkling jeux d'esprits. It rather fledged his arrows,

while it loaded them, giving them a steadier aim,

so that his lightest effusions carried an unsuspected

weight of meaning. His wit was never more brilliant,

more incisive, or             may be added) more perfectly
                   (it

                                                           a
good-humoured, than in the verses on Professor Cay-
ley's portrait, and the " Notes of the President's

Address." He found time also to indulge his old

taste for reading and writing in cypher, and thus, on

one occasion, considerably disconcerted contributor

to the second column of the Times.

His outward appearance in these later years has

been well described by one who saw him first in

1866 :-

A man of middle height, with frame strongly knit, and

undergraduate days, may be seen in letter (not given above) of
                                     a                                       ^.
26th March 1852                         a                                ;
                                                                                        2
     " A. was sent for by telegraph to his sister                                             Q.
             is                              is     he found her past re-

                   :                             :

                          is
covery, and she since dead. The family large, and till now was

entire, so that the grief great and new.
     " The attributes of man, as one of family, seem to be more highly

developed in large families. The pronoun we acquires peculiar
                                             is                a
                                                '
significance. The family man has an idea of living home, to which
                                                   aa
he can in imagination retreat, and which gives him steadiness and'
                                                            a

force not his own. He         is  one member of naturally constituted

society he has protected his juniors and been protected by his seniors
;

and now he has the consciousness that he but one of the arrows in

the quiver of the Mighty, and that   it      the interest of others as well
                                         is

as his own that he should succeed."
368  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XII.

a certain spring and elasticity in his gait ; dressed for com-
fortable ease rather than elegance ; a face expressive at once
of sagacity and good humour, but overlaid with a deep shade
of thoughtfulness ; features boldly but pleasingly marked;
eyes dark and glowing ; hair and beard perfectly black, and
forming a strong contrast to the pallor of his complexion.
. . . He might have been taken, by a careless observer, for
a country gentleman, or rather, to be more accurate, for a

north country laird. A keener eye would have seen, how-

ever, that the man must be a student of some sort, and one

of more than ordinary intelligence.

     In later years his hair had turned to iron gray, but

until a few years before his death he retained his elasticity
of step.

      The picture of Maxwell, as he appeared in 1866, be-
came afterwards perfectly familiar to residents in Cambridge.
They will remember his thoughtful face as he walked in the
street, revolving some of the many problems that engaged

him, Toby lagging behind, till his master would suddenly
turn, as if starting from a reverie, and begin calling the

dog.

     The same authority continues

      . . . He had a strong sense of humour, and a keen
relish for witty or jocose repartee, but rarely betrayed en-

joyment by outright laughter. The outward sign and con-
spicuous manifestation of his enjoyment was a peculiar
twinkle and brightness of the eyes. There was, indeed,
nothing explosive in his mental composition, and as his
mirth was never boisterous, so neither was he fretful or
irascible. Of a serenely placid temper, genial and temperate
in his enjoyments, and infinitely patient when others would
have been vexed or annoyed, he at all times opposed a solid
calm of nature to the vicissitudes of life.

     In performing his private experiments at the laboratory,

Maxwell was very neat-handed and expeditious. When
working thus, or when thinking out a problem, he had a habit
of whistling, not loudly, but in a half-subdued manner, no
CHAP. XII.]           PERSONAL TRAITS.              369

...particular tune discernible, but a sort of running accompani-
ment to his inward thoughts.  He could carry the full

strength of his mental faculties rapidly from one subject to

another, and could pursue his studies under distractions

which most students would find intolerable, such as a loud

conversation in the room where he was at work. On these

occasions he used, in a manner, to take his dog into his con-

fidence, and would say softly, "Tobi, Tobi," at intervals, and

after thinking  and working for a time, would       at last say (for
                must be so : Plato (i.e. Plateau),  thou reasonest
example), " It

well." He would then join in the conversation.

. . . His acquaintance with the literature of his own

country, and especially with English poetry, was remarkable

alike for its extent, its exactness, and the wide range of his

sympathies. His critical taste, founded as it was on his

native sagacity, and a keen appreciation of literary beauty,
was so true and discriminating that his judgment was, in

...such matters, quite as valuable as on mathematical writings.
       As he read with great rapidity, and had a retentive
memory, his mind was stored with many a choice fragment

which had caught his fancy. He was fond of reading aloud

at home from his favourite authors, particularly from Shak-

speare, and of repeating such passages as gave him the

greatest pleasure. 1

     Maxwell was rarely seen walking without a dog
accompanying him, and, when visiting the Laboratory
for a short time, Toby or Coonie, or both, would always

attend him. Toby (II. or III.) came to Cambridge with

Professor Maxwell in 1871, and was thoroughly con-
versant with the details of the Laboratory and some of

      1 There was found amongst his papers a scrap on which he had
written, in pencil, the whole of Shelley's " Ode to the West Wind," in
all probability from memory, and as a distraction from anxiety or from
severer study. His note-books, one of which he always carried with
him, are full of the most miscellaneous jottings, plans of works, solu-
tions of problems, extracts in prose and verse, etc.

                                                       2B
370  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XII.

its apparatus. He always betrayed signs of uneasiness
when he heard electric sparks, but when summoned
to his post he would sit down between his master's
feet and allow the electrophorus to be excited upon
his back, growling all the time in a peculiar manner,
as though to relieve his mind, but not evidencing any
signs of real discomfort. On one occasion Toby sat
quietly on an insulating support, and allowed himself
to be rubbed with a cat's skin, when it was found that

the dog became positively electrified, contrary to the
general belief that a cat's skin is positive to every-
thing; whereupon Professor Maxwell remarked that

" a live dog is better than a dead lion." It remains

for a future physicist to determine the electric rela-
tions of a live cat and dog.

      One great charm of Maxwell's society was his
readiness to converse on almost any topic with those
whom he was accustomed to meet, although he always
showed a certain degree of shyness when introduced
to strangers. He would never tire of talking with
boyish glee about the d 1 on two sticks and similar
topics, and no one ever conversed with him for five

minutes without having some perfectly new ideas set
before him ; sometimes so startling as to utterly
confound the listener, but always such as to well
repay a thoughtful examination. Men have often
asked, after listening to a conversation on some
scientific question, whether Maxwell were in earnest
or joking. 1 The charm of his conversation rendered it

     1 For an instance of humorous mystification, see the letter to Mr.
Garnett of 4th January 1877.
CHAP. XII.]  HOME INTERESTS.  371

very difficult to carry on any independent work when
he was present, but his suggestions for future work
far more than compensated for the time thus spent.

      On one occasion, after removing a large amount of
calcareous deposit which had accumulated in a curiously

oolitic form in a boiler, Maxwell sent it to the Pro-

fessor of Geology with a request that he would identify
the formation. This he did at once, vindicating his

science from the aspersion which his brother professor
would playfully have cast on it.

     Maxwell still found occasional recreation in riding
at Cambridge as well as more frequently at Glenlair,
where he resided as much as he could consistently
with his professional duties. 1 He always arranged to
leave Cambridge at the end of the Easter term in time
to officiate at the midsummer communion in the kirk
at Parton, where he was an elder. His liberality in

his own neighbourhood was very great. Besides
the endowment of the church, and building of the
manse at Corsock, he had planned a large contribu-
tion to the cause of primary education. When the
School Board was instituted in the district, Maxwell

was very anxious to keep up the school established

in the reign of George III. at Merkland, in the imme-

diate neighbourhood of the village of Kirkpatrick-
Durham, in addition to the Board school at Corsock,

five miles away. When this offer was refused, he set

apart a site and had plans made for a school to be

     1 He kept up the old habit of regulating the clocks at Glenlair by
the sun, which, when on the meridian, threw the shadow of a stick
upon a notch cut in the stone outside the door.
372  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XII.

erected and supported at his own expense upon his
estate, but failing health prevented the accomplish-

ment of his purpose.
      The last few years of Maxwell's life were saddened

by the serious and protracted illness of Mrs. Maxwell.
Notwithstanding the inexhaustible freshness of his
spirit, his work could not but be somewhat modified
by a cause so grave. He was an excellent sick-nurse,
and we have already seen how he attended upon
Pomeroy when attacked with fever in college, how he
devoted himself to his father during his illness, and
how he cared for his brother-in-law when in London.

On one occasion during Mrs. Maxwell's illness he did
not sleep in a bed for three weeks, but conducted his

lectures and other work at the Laboratory as usual.
While attending on his wife he would continue working
at his manuscripts, or would arrange a series of experi-
ments to be carried out by one of the workers at the
Cavendish Laboratory ; but the time which he could
personally devote to his own experiments was very
limited. The same cause prevented his attendance at
meetings in London and at the British Association,
for which, however, he retained his affection. His

wonderful devotion to his wife, and the almost

mystical manner in which he regarded the marriage
tie, are sufficiently apparent from his letters.

     The meeting of the British Association, held at
Belfast in 1874 when Professor Tyndall was President,
was the last which Maxwell attended. Before Sec-

tion A he read a note " On the Application of Kirch-

hoff's Eules for Electric Circuits to the Solution of
CHAP. XII.]            WORK AT CAMBRIDGE.                 373

a Geometrical          Problem   "  but  his  attendance  at this

                                ;

meeting will be remembered chiefly on account of

his paraphrase of the President's address, which was

published in Blackwood's Magazine, and, together with
the late Mr. Shilleto's Greek translation of will be

found reprinted in Part III. His verses on the Ked

Lions, social club consisting of members of the
a                                                it,
        p. a
                                                                a
Association, were also written at this meeting.

     In university politics Maxwell was regarded as

Conservative, and, as such, in November 1876, he

was elected member of the Council of the Senate of

the University. His views respecting various ques-

tions of university reform are sufficiently indicated

by his letters, especially those addressed to Mr.

Monro (see 269). He was also member of thea
Mathematical Studies and Examinations Syndicate,a

which was appointed on 17th May 1877, and which

sat every week during term for whole year for the

purpose of reorganising the Mathematical Tripos.

     In 1873 and 1874 Professor Maxwell was one of

the examiners for the Natural Sciences Tripos, and in
1873 he was the first "Additional Examiner" in the

Mathematical Tripos under the new regulations which
then came into force. This was the fifth time that he

had examined in the Mathematical Tripos in the

course of seven years. He was president of the

Cambridge Philosophical Society during the session

1876-7.
1
                1

                    a
An account of the last years of Maxwell's life would not be com-

plete without          reference to his acquaintance with Professor H. A.

Rowland, formerly of Troy, and now of the Johns Hopkins University,
374          JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                                 [CHAP. XII.

     Besides many contributions to Nature and other
similar publications during his residence in Cambridge,
Maxwell wrote several articles for the Ninth Edition

of the Encyclopedia Britannica. The last scientific
paper he ever wrote was the very brief article on
Harmonic Analysis, the proof of which was sent for

correction when its author was too weak to read it.

     Although the publication of the Treatise on Heat
and of the Electricity and Magnetism falls within this

period, they were mainly written during the time of his
retirement at Grlenlair. The " small book on a great
subject," entitled Matter and Motion, was merely the
concise expression of his most habitual thoughts.
But his chief literary work during the last seven
years of his life was the editing of the Electrical

Researches of the Hon. Henry Cavendish, F.R.S.
    Henry Cavendish was son of Lord Charles Cavendish

Baltimore. Professor Rowland visited Maxwell more than once, and on

these occasions much time was spent in comparing notes on electrical

questions. Some instruments which Professor Rowland designed were

not only identical with Maxwell's in the relative dimensions of the

several parts, but their absolute dimensions also were very nearly the

same. After Maxwell's death Professor Rowland pointed out some

sources of error in the experimental determination of the Ohm as

carried out at King's College, and in the recent redetermination made

by Lord Rayleigh in the Cavendish Laboratory these sources of error

have been removed. Maxwell's opinion of Professor Rowland was

very  high,  and he frequently alludes  to him in his correspondence, and
more   than                             that doughty knight," appears in
              once " Rowland of Troy,

his verses, where, as the American investigator in a certain branch of

magnetic science studied here by Professor Oliver Lodge and Mr.
Oliver Heaviside, he is in one place referred to as " One Rowland
Ifor two Olivers."
                    well remember the interest with which Maxwell
                                                                  of " Greek
looked forward to Mr. Rowland's   first visit,  and the  meeting
and Trojan " on that occasion at  Glenlair.
CHAP. XII.]  LITERARY LABOURS.  375

and great uncle to the present Duke of Devonshire.

He published only two papers relating to electricity

" An Attempt to Explain some of the Phenomena of
Electricity by means of an Elastic Fluid" (Phil. Trans.

1771) and "An Account of some Attempts to Imitate

the Effects of the Torpedo by Electricity" (Phil. Trans.
1776). He had prepared, however, some twenty
packets of manuscript on Mathematical and Experi-

mental Electricity. These, after his death, were placed
by the then Earl of Burlington, now Duke of Devon-
shire, in the hands of the late Sir William Snow Harris,

who appears to have made an abstract of them, with
a commentary of great value on their contents. Of
this abstract and commentary Professor Maxwell was
unable to gain possession, but the Cavendish Manu-
scripts were placed in his hands by the Duke of
Devonshire in 1874. The manner in which the con-

tents of these manuscripts were investigated by
Professor Maxwell, and the series of experiments he
conducted in order to test Cavendish's results, will be

referred to in Part II. The final proof-sheets were

returned to press during the summer of 1879, and
the book was published in October of the same year.
The letters on this subject, which will be found below,

are types of very many that were written by Maxwell
respecting the Cavendish papers.

     The title of the book as published in October 1879

(one thick volume, 8vo) is An Account of the Elec-
trical Researches of the Honourable Henry Cavendish,

F.R.S., between 1771 and 1781. Few or none could

have performed that task as he has performed it.
3*76  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XII.

And yet some may wish that these precious years
had been given rather to the unimpeded prosecution

of his own original researches. 1

     At my last meeting with him, it was in his house
at Cambridge, in the year 1877, in the midst of
some discursive talk, he took the MS. of this book out
of a cabinet, and began showing it to me and dis-
coursing about it in the old eager, playful, affectionate
way, just as with the magic discs in boyhood, or the

register of the colour-box observations at a later time,

in the little study at Glenlair. " And what," I said,

"I" of your own investigations in various ways ?"

have to give up so many things," he answered, with a

Isad look, which till then had never seen in his eyes.

Even before this, as it now appears, he had felt the
first symptoms of the inexorable malady, which in

the spring of 1879 assumed a dangerous aspect, and
killed him in the autumn of that year.

                LETTERS, 1871 TO 1879 MT. 39-48.

                    FROM C. J. MONRO, Esq.

                                                          Hadley, Barnet, 3d March 1871.

    The Hon. J. W. Strutt, son of Lord Kayleigh, and

senior wrangler in 1865, has been meddling with your

Icolours, and has given occasion also to me to do so again.
   send a selection of Natures containing him and me, and
my old contributions of last year, which, or one of which,
you say met Mr. Benson's approval. Strutt's last letter
ends with a sentence which obliged me to write to him

     1 An unfinished fragment of a new work on Electricity, in which
he treads more closely than ever in the steps of Faraday, has been
edited since his death by Mr. Garnett and published in 1881.
CHAP. XII.]                 CORRESPONDENCE.                                        377

Ipersonally ; and could not help saying, with regard to the

sentence which begins                       it,      264, that thought you would
                                                 p.        I

object to inferences founded on comparison by contrast, and

that the proper way was to compare by matching recognised

browns with compound.
a

            Ia
Listing's paper, mentioned in                        it, p.I102, was to me rather

paradox,           had got to regard the subdivisions of the

colour-scale which are assumed in language, as something so
Ifarbitrary.
                   you cared to see                           have that number of
                   think he would hardly agree with your J.
Poggendorff                                                   ly
          I
             ;I                                                            J.
Miiller.     wish you or Benson could eradicate the insane

trick of reasoning about colours as identified                             their names.

People seem to think that blue                       I     blue, and one blue as
                                                       I is
good as another. Benson's book have seen (since heard
                                                                           I

...of from you), but not read.                             His way of mixing by
                                                                 wish, with your new
means of prism very happy.
it

           a
                        is

set up box, you would just put the prism observations into

relation with the disk ones. It would be very easy. White

we have got; and            it  would only be strictly necessary to

determine two other standard colours, such as vermilion or

emerald, by reference to the spectrum primaries. You don't
say whether your dwellers in Mesopotamia and elsewhere
agree on the whole better or worse than " " and " K,"
I

                                                                        a

                              J
who, suppose, agree for better and for worse. To judge

by their case, the discrepancy would be little diminished

by taking as units of colour co-ordinates for any given pair

of eyes, not the intensities of the primaries as they appear
in the spectrum, but their intensities as they appear in the

combination which to that pair of eyes makes (say) white.

This amounts to transforming from trilinear to Hamilton's

anharmonic co-ordinates with white for the fourth point,
in the language of " scientific metaphor." On the other

hand, ought not all your co-ordinates                         to be        cooked  by
  - **,,. ,

multiplying
             b, y  d. scale, page                    68 _
          .
                                                     ?
                         d
                            wave-length
                                         .

                      I
You know where                              learnt scientific metaphor.       have
                                                                           I
                                                                                I
read the address in Section A more than once with much

pleasure, and, hope, profit in proportion. The pleasure,
             I
378  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                     [CHAP. XII.

Iconfess, was with me, as found it was with Litchfield,

partly that of recognising an old well-remembered style, and

...reflecting that here at least was something which might be
" thought to be beyond the reach of change."  By the

way, Boole is "one of the profoundest mathematicians of

our time;" but how about "thinkers"? Certainly his ex-

Ipositions of the principle of a piece of mathematics are

beautiful up to and, don't doubt, beyond my appreciating.

But that last chapter of the Laws, etc., from which you

quote, with Empedocles and Pseudo-Origen and the rest of

them, always seems to me to render a sound as of a largish

internal cavity ; and the whole book, taken together with

Ihis E.S.E. paper on testimony and least squares, presents,
Ithink, too many instances of a particular class of fallacy
Iknow am speaking blasphemies, but there would be a
Istrike among the postmen if put in all the necessary

qualifications too many instances to be got over, not in

absolute number if they were of different kinds, for anybody

may make mistakes, but too many of one kind. The kind

Iis insufficient interpretation) i.e. letting your equations lead
you by the nose. The most serious example,    maintain

it is an example, is his insisting that his theory of logic is

not founded on quantity, so that it furnishes (he holds) an

independent foundation for probabilities, independent of the

usual quantitative foundation. That this is a fallacy, and

that in particular it is an example of the fallacy of insuffi-

cient interpretation, is evident surely when you find that,

even in the higher case of " secondary " propositions, the

elective symbols represent in his own opinion quantities of

I I" time " after all. With regard to the sentence you quote,
   am always suspicious of any inclination may feel to find

Ia question too easy ; and, independently of that, your quot-

ing it is itself a staggerer. But the difficulty confess

Idoes strike me as a rather artificial one. There is nothing,

scarcely, in which think Mill is so right and the Hamilton-

ians so wrong as that question about logic being the laws of

thought. Hamilton says as tliought, Mill says as valid, and
so does Boole and so do you ; but if Mill is right, where is
CHAP. XII.]           COLOUR ONCE MORE.                       379

the difficulty? Why should the conditions of thinking
correctly be inviolable in the sense of not preventing you
from thinking incorrectly, provided they are inviolable in
the sense of ensuring that you take the consequences if you
do ? The laws of projection in geometry are inviolable, but
nobody ever thought it a paradox that it is possible for a
picture to be out of drawing in spite of them, nor is it a
paradox that in unfamiliar classes of cases a rigorously

Iaccurate piece of perspective looks out of drawing. Perhaps

you meant, for suppose the report in Nature is incomplete,
that it was a difficulty to say in what sense mathematical

propositions could be said to be certain, considering that one

may make mistakes about them. Perhaps something else,

which for the above reason or others, is hidden from me.

   ... IBy the way, hope it is true that you are to pro-

Ifess experimental physics at Cambridge, or what hope

comes to the same thing, that you are a candidate.

                      To C. J. MONRO, Esq.

                                         Glenlair, Dalbeattie, 15th March 1871.

I have been so busy writing a sermon on Colour, and

ITyndalising my imagination up to the lecture point, that
along with other business  have had no leisure to write

Ito any one.
          think a good deal may be learned from the names

Iof colours, not about colours, of course, but about names ;

and think it is remarkable that the rhematic instinct

has been so much more active, at least in modern times, on.is (A,  ?9
the less refrangible side of primary green = 510 10~
                                                    is
inches).                                                   X

am not up in ancient colours, but my recollection of
I
the interpretations of the lexicographers           of considerable
         of
confusion of hues between red and yellow, and rather more
                   a
discrimination on the blue side. Qu. If this        true, has

the red sensation become better developed since those days

Benson has new book, Chapman  &             Hall, 1871, called

Manual Colour.
380        JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.               [CHAP. XII.

   I think it is a great improvement on the Quarto, both in
Isize and quality. It is the size of this paper write on.

   I have not asked you if you wish to go to sermon on
IColour, for do not think the R I. 1 a good place to go to
Iof nights, even for strong men.
                                  have, however, some tickets

to spare.

     The peculiarity of our space is that of its three dimen-

sions none is before or after another. As is x, so is y

and so is z.

    If you have 4 dimensions this becomes a puzzle, for

first, if three of them are in our space, then which three ?

Also, if we lived in space of m dimensions, but were only

capable of thinking n of them, then 1st, Which nt 2d, If

so, things would happen requiring the rest to explain them,

Iand so we should either be stultified or made wiser.
          am quite sure that the kind of continuity which

has four dimensions all co-equal is not to be discovered by

merely generalising Cartesian space equations. (I don't mean

by Cartesian space that which Spinoza worked from Exten-

Ision the one essential property of matter, and Quiet the best
glue to stick bodies together).   think it was Jacob Steiner

who considered the final cause of space to be the suggestion

Iof new forms of continuity.

         hope you will continue to trail clouds of glory after

I Iyou, and tropical air, and be as it were a climate to yourself.
am glad to see you occasionally in Nature.    shall be in

London for a few days next week, address Athenaeum

Club.                                         It settles

    I think Strutt on sky-blue is very good.

Clausius's vesicular theory,

     " for, putting all his words together,   Mat. Prior.
       'tis 3 blue beans in 1 blue bladder."

      The Exp. Phys. at Cambridge is not built yet, but we
are going to try.

           1 Royal Institution.
CHAP. XII.]   CORRESPONDENCE.                 381

      The desideratum is to set a Don and a Freshman to
observe and register (say) the vibrations of a magnet
together, or the Don to turn a winch, and the Freshman to

observe and govern him.

              FROM PROFESSOR TYNDALL.

...MY DEAR MAXWELL Why                        Monday.

Irapidly.                      did you run away so

              wished to shake your hand before parting.

Yours ever,                    JOHN TYNDALL.

              To MRS. MAXWELL.

                                                      20th March 1871.

There are two parties about the professorship. One

Iwants popular lectures, and the other cares more for experi-
mental work.  think there should be a gradation popular

lectures and rough experiments for the masses ; real experi-

ments for real students ; and laborious experiments for first-

rate men like Trotter and Stuart and Strutt.

              FROM C. J. MONRO, Esq.

... I Hadley, 21st March 1871.
                 never observed before that ancient colour-
nomenclature was more discriminate than ours for the
more " violently " refracted tints as compared with the
Iless ; but
              think there must be something in it. But
I have always suspected that they referred colour to a

positively distinct set of co-ordinates from ours. Gladstone

says something of this sort in Homer ; who put it into his

I Ihead can't think ; if he made it out for himself should

be very sorry to agree with a man who does not believe in

spectrum analysis, and does believe that Leto is the Virgin

Mary. Such queer applications of words of colour one does
find. You know the " pale "
well, that is ^Xo>/>o5, which  horse of the  Apocalypse (vi. 8) ;
                               is usually "  green," you know.
General Daumas says the        Arabs call    " vert " what the
French call " louvet " in horses ; and louvet, in Littre, " Se

dit, chez le cheval, d'une robe caracte'risee par la presence de
382                  JAMES CLEKK MAXWELL.       [CHAP. XII.

la nuance jaune et du noir, qui lui donne une certaine

ressemblance avec le poll du loup. . . . Substantivement," he
continues, " Le louvet n'est, a proprement parler, qu'un

isabelle charbonne." The Arabic for green, and (I have no

doubt) the word Daumas speaks of, is akhdar, kh as ch in
Scotch, and the dot marking a modification which, it hap-

pens, is imitated by interpolating an L in Spanish and

Portuguese; so ^X&>/>09 may have been supposed to have
something to do with the Semitic word. However, accord-
Iing to dictionaries, " the three greens " in Arabic are " gold,
wine, and meat," which beats the green horse.   suppose
the Eevisionists will leave " pale," and certainly ^Xcopov 8eo9

is the Homeric for a blue funk. But x\cop6<;, and akhdar,

too, are certainly the colour of chlorophyll, and Daumas's

remark is a note on a line in a translation from a poet,
which runs " Ces chevaux verts comme le roseau qui croit au

I Ibord des fleuves."                           should like to
          am glad you are going to preach, and

sit under you, but as you assume, it would not do. Thanks

all the same.

                     To MRS. MAXWELL.

                                                          Athenaum, 22d March 1871.

     I also got a first-rate letter from Monro about colour,

and the Arab words for it (I suppose he studied them
"ingrAelegne."ria).     They call          of
                     The " pale "  horses  in  a smutty yellow colour
                                    horse      Revelation is generally

transcribed green elsewhere, the word being applied to grass,

etc. But the three green things in the Arabic dictionary
are " gold, wine, and meat," which is a very hard saying.

                    FROM C. J. MONRO, Esq.

                                               Hadley, Barnet, 10th September 1871.

  ... Of your own things, the Classification of Quantities

Iand the Hills and Dales, are all have read to much purpose.
INor them either, you may say, if go on to ask why you

say that " in the pure theory of surfaces there is no method
of determining a line of water-shed or water-course, except
CHAP. XII.] " ELECTRICITY AND MAGNETISM.                        383

as therein is excepted, that is in page 6 ?     Why does not
this determine them ? to wit

(\/ddx-z/\i 2  -f-  /dz\ 2  maximum,     f 2 max. for a shed.
                    1\dy/)
                                      \, z nu.n. for a course.

Or if this does determine them, how does it resolve itself

Iinto "first finding," etc.?                      You see he
          am glad you like Strutt on sky-blue.

Isees his way now to a new theory of double refraction.

Looking at your old letter again, don't quite see the force

of either of your objections to space of more than three

dimensions. First, you ask if we can think some of the

dimensions and not others, then which ? Surely one might

answer, that depends depends namely on your circum-

stances on circumstances which in your circumstances you

Icannot expect to judge of.
      " can easily believe," as Darwin would say, that before

we were tidal ascidians we were a slimy sheet of cells float-
ing on the surface of the sea. Well, in those days, the

missing dimension, and the two forthcoming ones respect-
ively, kept changing with the rotation of the earth, we now
know how, but could not guess then. So, now, the missing

dimension or dimensions, if any, might be determined by

circumstances which we could not tell unless we knew all

about the said dimension or dimensions.

                    To PROFESSOR LEWIS CAMPBELL.

                                                Glenlair, Dalbeattie, 19th October 1872.

    I. . . Lectures begin 24th. Laboratory rising, hear, but
I have no place to erect my chair, but move about like the

cuckoo, depositing my notions in the chemical lecture-room

1st term; in the Botanical in Lent, and in Comparative

IAnatomy in Easter.
         am continually engaged in stirring up the Clarendon

Press, but they have been tolerably regular for two months.
I find nine sheets in thirteen weeks is their average. Tait
Igives me great help in detecting absurdities.
                                                  am getting

converted to Quaternions, and have put some in my book, in
384  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.        [CHAP. XII.

Ia heretical form, however, for as the Greek alphabet was

used up, have used German capitals from 51 to 3 to stand
for Vectors, and, of course, V occurs continually. This letter

is called " Nabla," l and the investigation a Nablody. You
will be glad to hear that the theory of gases is being experi-
mented on by Profs. Loschmidt and Stefan of Vienna, and
that the conductivity of air and hydrogen are within 2 per

cent of the value calculated from my experiments on friction
of gases, though the diffusion of one gas into another is " in
erglanzender ubereinstimmung mit d -schen Theorie"

     To PROFESSOR W. G. ADAMS.

                                 Natural Science Tripos ,

                                 3d December 1873.
     I got Professor             Icircular some time ago.
                      Guthrie's                            do

not approve of the plan of a physical society considered as

an instrument for the improvement of natural knowledge.

If it is to publish papers on physical subjects which

Iwould not find their place in the transactions of existing

societies, or in scientific journals, think the progress to-

wards dissolution will be very rapid. But if there is suffi-

cient liveliness and leisure among persons interested in

experiments to maintain a series of stated meetings to show

Iexperiments, and talk about them as some of the Ray Club

do here, then wish them all joy ; only the manners and
customs of London, and the distances at which people live

from any convenient centre, are very much against the

vitality of such sociability.

      To make the meeting a dinner supplies that solid ground

to which the formers of societies must trust if they would
build for aye. A dinner has the advantage over mere

scientific communications, that it can always be had when

certain conditions are satisfied, and that no one can doubt

its existence. On the other hand, it completely excludes
any scientific matter which cannot be expressed in the form

of conversation with your two chance neighbours, or else by

     1 The name of an Assyrian harp of the shape v .
CHAP. XII.]  CORRESPONDENCE.  385

a formal speech, on your legs ; and during its whole con-
tinuance it reduces the Society to the form of a closed curve,
the elements of which are incapable of changing their relative

position.

      For the evolution of science by societies the main re-
quisite is the perfect freedom of communication between each
member and any one of the others who may act as a reagent.

      The gaseous condition is exemplified in the soiree, where
the members rush about confusedly, and the only communi-
cation is during a collision, which in some instances may be
prolonged by button-holing.

      The opposite condition, the crystalline, is shown in the
lecture, where the members sit in rows, while science flows
in an uninterrupted stream from a source which we take as
the origin. This is radiation of science.

      Conduction takes place along the series of members
seated round a dinner table, and fixed there for several hours,
with flowers in the middle to prevent any cross currents.

      The condition most favourable to life is an intermediate
plastic or colloidal condition, where the order of business is

(1) Greetings and confused talk; (2) A short communica-

tion from one who has something to say and to show ; (3)
Remarks on the communication addressed to the Chair, in-
troducing matters irrelevant to the communication but
interesting to the members ; (4) This lets each member see
who is interested in his special hobby, and who is likely to
help him ; and leads to (5) Confused conversation and

Iexamination of objects on the table.
         have not indicated how this programme is to be com-

bined with eating. It is more easily carried out in a small

town than in London, and more easily in Faraday's young

days (see his life by B. Jones) than now. It might answer

in some London district where there happen to be several
clubbable senior men who could attract the juniors from a

distance.
                      To PROFESSOR LEWIS CAMPBELL.

                                            Glenlair, Dalbeattie, 3d April 1873.

      The roof of the Devonshire Laboratory is being put on,
                                                 2c
386  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                         [CHAP. XII.

and we hope to have some floors in by May, and the con-
tractors cleared out by October. We are busy electing

School Boards here. The religious difficulty is unknown

here. The chief party is that which insists on keeping down

the rates ; no other platform will do. All candidates must

show the retrenchment ticket.

     The Cambridge Philosophical Society have been enter-

tained by Mr. Paley on Solar Myths, Odusseus as the Setting

ISun, etc. Your Trachiniae is rather in that style, but

think Middlemarch is not a ' mere unconscious myth, as

the Odyssey was to its author, but an elaborately conscious

one, in which all the characters are intended to be astro-

nomical or meteorological.

     Eosamond is evidently the Dawn. By her fascinations

she draws up into her embrace the rising sun, represented
as the Healer from one point of view, and the Opener of

Mysteries from another; his name, Lyd Gate, being com-

pounded of two nouns, both of which signify something

which opens, as the eye -lids of the morn, and the gates
of day. But as the sun-god ascends, the same clouds which

emblazoned his rising, absorb all his beams, and put a stop

to the early promise of enlightenment, so that he, the

ascending sun, disappears from the heavens. But the Eosa

Munda of the dawn (see Vision of Sin) reappears as
the Eosa Mundi in the evening, along with her daughters ?
and $ , in the chariot of the setting sun, who is also a healer,

but not an enlightener.
      Dorothea, on the other hand, the goddess of gifts, repre-

sents the other half of the revolution.  She is at first

attracted by and united to the fading glories of the days that

are no more, but after passing, as the title of the last book

expressly tells us, "from sunset to sunrise," we find her

in union with the pioneer of the coming age, the editor.
     Her sister Celia, the Hollow One, represents the vault of

the midnight sky, and the nothingness of things.

     There is no need to refer to Nicolas Bulstrode, who

evidently represents the Mithraic mystery, or to the kindly
family of Garth, representing the work of nature under the
CHAP. XII.]                      CORRESPONDENCE.                                        387

rays of the sun, or to the various clergymen                              and doctors,
who are all planets. The whole thing and                                   intended to
be, solar myth from beginning to end.
is

  Ia

               it

                      is
                                                                            is,
                                                                                is

                                                                                    is
                                 To MRS. MAXWELL.

                                                                          December 1873.

        am always with you in spirit, but there One who

nearer to you and to me than we ever can be to each

other, and              only through Him and in Him that we can

ever really get to know each other. Let us try to realise
the great mystery in Ephesians v., and then we shall be in

our right position with respect to the world outside, the men

and women whom Christ came to save from their sins.

                        To PROFESSOR LEWIS CAMPBELL.

                                                                   11 Scroope Terrace,
                                                        Cambridge, 26th February 1874.

      Jackson has sent me MS. of yours about the mechanism1?                                it ,
of the heavens. After the interpretation of el\\ofj,evr]v
about which Greek appears to meet Greek as to whetheris?a

expresses motion or only configuration, the main point seems
to be, What the motion and function of rbv Bia Trai/ro?
              is

7TO\OV  is 1

(a) Is in one piece with the sphere of the stars or
(/3) with that of the sun or (7)is it it                fixed in the earth              ??
                                                        is

                                                          it

                                                                       a
It evidently good stout axle, not mere geometrical
                              a

line, and has some stiff work to do.

What this work

If the earth fixed, and the great shaft has its bearings

ain hole in the earth, then she (the earth) may, in virtue of

her dignity and office, cause the axle to revolve, carrying

with the stars according to a, or the sun according to
   it                                                                                       /?.

Thus the earth may be the cause of the motion of the Same

without moving herself, as spinster                     is                the cause of the
                                                     a

whirling of the spindle, though she does not herself pirouette.

   Or we may suppose the earth to act as one who twirls

See the Cambridge Journal Philology, vol. v., No. 10, pp. 206, foil.
1

                                                 of
388            JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.             [CHAP. XII.

an expanded umbrella over his head about its stick as
an axis, the holes in the same representing the stars. The

objection to this view (which seems to me to be Jowett's) is

that in stating the relation between the earth and the axis, the

earth is said to be related to the axis (packed or whirling as

Ithe case may be), and not the axis to the earth. Now,

suppose that without all contradiction the less is related to

the better. Here the earth is like a ball of clay packed

round a graft on the branch of a tree, rather than like a field

in which, by means of a rotatory boring tool, men bore for

water.

     But the business of the earth is not so much to keep the

stars in motion as to effect the changes of night and day.
This she may do either by rotating herself from W. to E.,

or by controlling the motion of the sun, by the help of the

great shaft.

     Now, if you always observe at the same time of night (a

common practice), ^you find the eastern stars higher every

day, and the western lower. All have the same motion,

which carries them round from E. to W. in a year.

     Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn, in spite of their wanderings
go on the whole in the same direction, but slower. Venus

and Mercury oscillate about the sun, and the moon goes the
opposite way from W. to E.

     That this way of viewing the matter was really prevalent

at one time is plain, from the expression the rising of such
a star to denote not a time of night but a time of year. It

means either (1) the day when the star rises, just before it is
lost in the brightness of the sun who follows or (2) the
               is               just becomes visible
                  is

                                        it

                                                    if it,
day when the star rising, when

after sunset.

     Virgil, who speaks of stars rising, evidently had no

practical knowledge of what he meant. Plato, he some-

times gets hazy, far clearer than Virgil. Grote would

place him far below Mr. Jellinger Symons, who denied the
rotation of the moon, because Grote makes Plato say that

both the heavens and the earth rotate both in the same

direction, and with the same angular velocity.
CHAP. XII.]  CAVENDISH PAPERS.                            389

    I Ithink understand you to make Plato make the earth

sit still and preside over the heavenly motions, and so become

the artificer of day and night, like a policeman who swings
his bull's-eye round to his back. But his words are capable
of being used by the movers of the earth, as Milton says,

             If earth, industrious of herself, fetch day

             Travelling east.

I Ihope you will let me know whether have not misunder-
Istood both you, Plato, and the Truth.
                                        have never thanked
Iyou for your (Edipus, etc., which have enjoyed. But at
Ipresent am all day at the Laboratory, which is emerging

from chaos, but is not yet cleared of gas-men, who are the

laziest and most permanent of all the gods who have been

hatched under heaven. 1

Mrs. Maxwell joins me in kind regards to Mrs. Campbell

and yourself. Your afft. friend.

                           To W. GARNETT, Esq.

   ... Glenlair, 8th July 1874.
             In the MS. he [Cavendish] appears to be familiar

with the theory of divided currents, and also of conductors
in series, but some reference to his printed paper [on the
Torpedo] is required to throw light on what he says. He
made a most extensive series of experiments on the conduc-
tivity of saline solutions in tubes compared with wires of

different metals, and it seems as if more marks were wanted
for him if he cut out G-. S. Ohm long before constant
currents were invented. His measurements of capacity will

give us some work at the Cavendish Lab., before we work
up to the point where he left it. His only defect is not
having Thomson's electrometer. He found out inductive
capacity of glass, resin, wax, etc.

     1 Alluding to the passage of Plato's Timceus, p. 40, which had given
rise to the previous discussion.
          390  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.          [CHAP. XII.

               To PROFESSOR LEWIS CAMPBELL.

                          Gknlair, Dalbeattie, 26th September 1874.

JBt. 43.       Yours of the 29th instant is to hand. Whether your

          devotion to Michael Angelo has urged you to anticipate his

          day, or whether Time gallops with those who sit to view

          Necessity, with her weary pund o' tow massed round her
          rock, being all the remains of the stane o' lint with which

          she was originally endowed, those who may be set to con-

          Istrue this sentence will be apt to lose much time.

               With regard to atoms, am preparing a hash of them

          for Baynes of the Britannica. The easiest way of showing

          what atoms can't do is to get some sort of notion of what
          Ifthey can do.
                          atoms are finite in number, each of them

          being of a certain weight, then it becomes impossible that the

          germ from which a man is developed should contain (actually,

          of course, not potentially, for potentiality is nonsense in

          materialism unless it is expressed as configuration and

          motion) gemmules of everything which the man is to inherit,
          and by which he is differentiated from other animals and men,

          his father's temper, his mother's memory, his grandfather's

          way of blowing his nose, his arboreal ancestor's arrangement of

          hair on his arms, and his more remote littoral ancestor's

          devotion to the tide-swaying moon. Francis Galton, whose

          mission it seems to be to ride other men's hobbies to death,

          has invented the felicitous expression " structureless germs."

          Now, if a germ, or anything else, contains in itself a power
          of development into some distinct thing, and if this power is

          purely physical, arising from the configuration and motion of
          parts of the germ, it is nonsense to call it structureless

          because the microscope does not show the structure ; the

          germ of a rat must contain more separable parts and organs

          than there are drops in the sea. But if we are sure that

          there are not more than a few million molecules in each
          is
                  a
                                                                                              a is

                                                                                                     it,
          molecule being composed of component molecules, identical
          with those of carbon, oxygen, nitrogen, hydrogen, etc., there

          no room left for the sort of structure which required

          for pangenesis on purely physical principles. Again, suppose
          that great many individual atoms take part in disturb-
CHAP. XII.]  CORRESPONDENCE.                        391

ance in my brain, to whom does this signify anything ? As

for the atoms, they have "been in far worse rows before they

became naturalised in my brain, but they forget the days
before, etc. 1 At any rate the atoms are a very tough lot, and

can stand a great deal of knocking about, and it is strange

to find a' number of them combining to form a man of

feeling.
In your letter you apply the word imponderable to a
molecule. Don't do that again. It may also be worth
Ifknowing that the aether cannot be molecular.
                                                    it were, it

would be a gas, and a pint of it would have the same pro-

perties as regards heat, etc., as a pint of air, except that

it would not be so heavy.

    IUnder what form (right or light) can an atom be

imagined ? Bezonian ! speak or die ! Now must go to

post with two dogs in the rain. Your aift. friend,

             To THE SAME.

                              11 Scroope Terrace,

                            Cambridge, 4th March 1876.
IAias arrived here about a week ago.
                                        read him with            JEt. 44.
Ipleasure. He recalled the year 1851, when
                                                    got him

up. The outline of the play seems very bare and unpromis-

ing compared with some others, but this is relieved by other
features which are not in the " argument," as e.g. the loyalty

of the chorus and of Tecmessa to Aias under all circum-

stances (for the chorus in general veers about, and backs
occasionally, according as the wind blows or the cat jumps).

This contrasts favourably with the character of Athena, who

is but so so, only not so comic as the Atreidae.

    IBut why do Ulysses and Aias not name each other in

the same language ? suppose the last syllable of Odysseus,

pronounced Anglice", is somewhat unpleasant in verse, and

Ajax, though familiarised by Pope, has lost the interjectional

sound of your hero's name.

             1 Tennyson's In Memoriam.
392                 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XII.

     ITwo Aberdonians, Chrystal and Mollison, are working at
the Cavendish Laboratory.  think Chrystal's work is of a

kind not comparable with that done in "a third-class German

university," which was the charitable hope of Nature as

to what we might aspire to in ten years' time. He has

worked steadily at the testing of Ohm's Law since October,

and Ohm has come out triumphant, though in some experi-

ments the wire was kept bright red-hot by the current.

Your afft. friend.

FROM THE EIGHT EEV. C. J. ELLICOTT, D.I)., Lord Bishop

                        of Gloucester and Bristol.

                           Palace, Gloucester, 21st Nov. 1876.

I MY DEAR SIR Will you kindly pardon a great liberty ?

  have quoted in a forthcoming charge a remarkable expres-

sion of yours that atoms are "manufactured articles."

ICould you in your kindness give me the proper title and
reference to the paper and the page ?     am now, alas, far

from libraries, and have, in matters scientific especially, to

ask the aid of others. Will you excuse me asking this

further question ?

     Are you, as a scientific man, able to accept the statement

that is often made on the theological side, viz. that the

creation of the sun posterior to light involves no serious

difficulty, the creation of light being the establishment of

the primal vibrations, generally ; the creation of the sun,
the primal formation of an origin, whence vibrations would

be propagated earthward ?

   IMy own mind, far from a scientific one, is not clear

on this point. surmise, then, that the scientific mind might

not only not be clear as to the explanation, but equitably

Ibound to say that it was no explanation at all. Excuse

the trouble am giving you, for the truth's sake, and believe

me, very faithfully yours,

                           J.C. GLOUCESTER AND BRISTOL.

     Maxwell replied as follows by return of post :
CHAP. XIL]  "MANUFACTURED ARTICLES/'  393

                         11 Scroope Terrace, Cambridge,
                                             Nov. 1876.

     MY LORD BISHOP      The comparison of atoms or of mole-
                         articles," was originally made by Sir
cules to " manufactured  his "Preliminary Discourse on the

J. F. D. Herschel in

Study of Natural Philosophy," Art. 28, p. 38 (ed. 1851,

Longmans).

   I Isend you by book post several papers in which have

directed attention to certain kinds of equality among all

molecules of the same substance, and to the bearing of this

fact on speculations as to their origin.
      The comparison to " manufactured articles " was criticised

(I think in a letter to Nature) by Mr. C. J. Monro [Nature,

x. 481, 15th October 18*74], and the latter part of the
Encyc. Brit., Article "Atom," is intended to meet this criti-

cism, which points out that in some cases the uniformity

among manufactured articles is evidence of want of power in

Ithe manufacturer to adapt each article to its special use.
      What thought of was not so much that uniformity of
result which is due to uniformity in the process of for-

mation, as a uniformity intended and accomplished by the

same wisdom and power of which uniformity, accuracy,

symmetry, consistency, and continuity of plan are as im-

portant attributes as the contrivance of the special utility

of each individual thing.
   With respect to your second question, there is a state-

ment printed in most commentaries that the fact of light

being created before the sun is in striking agreement with

Ithe last results of science (I quote from memory).
         have often wished to ascertain the date of the original

appearance of this statement, as this would be the only
way of finding what " last result of science " it referred to.

It is certainly older than the time when any notions of the

undulatory theory became prevalent among men of science

or commentators.

    If it were necessary to provide an interpretation of the

text in accordance with the science of 1876 (which may
not agree with that of 1896), it would be very tempting to
394             JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.            [CHAP. XII.

say that the light of the first day means the all-embracing

aether, the vehicle of radiation, and not actual light, whether

Ifrom the sun or from any other source. But cannot sup-

pose that this was the very idea meant to be conveyed by the

original author of the book to those for whom he was

writing. He tells us of a previous darkness. Both light

and darkness imply a being who can see if there is light,
but not if it is dark, and the words are always understood

so. That light and darkness are terms relative to the

creature only is recognised in Ps. cxxxix. 12.

     As a mere matter of conjectural cosmogony, however,

we naturally suppose those things most primeval which we

find least subject to change.

     Now the aether or material substance which fills all the

interspace between world and world, without a gap or flaw

of x^Voiy inch anywhere, and which probably penetrates

through all grosser matters, is the largest, most uniform and

apparently most permanent object we know, and we are

therefore inclined to suppose that it existed before the

formation of the systems of gross matter which now exist

within just as we suppose the sea older than the in-
dividual fishes in it.
a

   I it,
     But should be very sorry an interpretation founded
                               if
                                       if
on most conjectural scientific hypothesis were to get

fastened to the text in Genesis, even by so doing got
                                                it
rid of the old statement of the commentators which has long
                                                       is
ceased to be intelligible. The rate of change of scientific

hypothesis  is  naturally much more rapid than that of

Biblical interpretations, so that           an interpretation
                     I
founded on such an hypothesis,     may help to keep the
                                   it
                                     if

                                          it
hypothesis above ground long after            ought to be buried

and forgotten.         think that each individual man

     At the same time

should do all he can to impress his own mind with the

extent, the order, and the unity of the universe, and should

carry these ideas with him as he reads such passages as the

1st Chap, of the Ep. to Colossians (see Lightfoot on Colos-p.
sians, 182), just as enlarged conceptions of the extent
CHAP. XII.]        CORRESPONDENCE.                                     395

and unity of the world of life may be of service to us in

reading Psalm viii. ; Heb.       it ii.      etc. Believe me, yours faith-
                                       I I 6,
fully,                                         J.  CLERK MAXWELL.

        FROM THE BISHOP OF GLOUCESTER AND BRISTOL.

                                               Palace, Gloucester,

                                                   24th Nov. 1876.

DEAR PROFESSOR CLERK MAXWELL Allow me not to

lose post in thanking you most warmly for your most
kind letter and for the packet of pamphlets, for which
a                                                                   Ia
        a                                                               if I

               I
hardly know how enough to express my gratitude. They

are exactly what needed, yet fear may be taking from
                                             I
your stock more than ought to take.             I IIhave already read
                       I
good deal of the Encyc. Brit, article on atoms so pray,
                            it,                       ;I
you are short of copies, don't hesitate to drop me line.

The paper on attraction was also most welcome.                         am

ashamed to own (for bishops should not enter into these
pleasures) that have of late been speculating good deal
it                                                      it a

  I                                                         a
              a
             is I
on the physical explanation of gravitation.                  seem to feel

must be in the Ether, and yet how, see not. In the

case of body near the earth, can conceive vast amount

of elastic ether behind          and possibly urging on, while         a

small quantity under it, being excluded by the earth.

        seem also to see how this might be applied to the case

of the heavy bodies that fell nearer to the steep side of Sche-

hallion than they ought to have done by calculation; but

then, when attempt to go farther, find the theory break
        I

down.

     It seems to me that we want for several things, e.g.

light, the conception of an ether-beach all round the visible

universe from which waves might be reflexively started, and
at which the particles might be more closely packed but
                                                                    ;

then again see not what                  is  that keeps up the beach.
        I
          I
      But am really ashamed of troubling you, scientific     a

man, with such wanderings. It will only show that your

kindness thoroughly appreciated.
        is

I         cordially agree with you as to the light question.
Theologians are great deal too fond of using up the last
             a
396             JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                 [CHAP. XII,

scientific hypothesis they can get hold of. The Christian

IKnowledge Society are publishing my charge. When it is

published shall ask you to do me the favour to accept a

Icopy. You will then see that the best note in the little
volume is due to your kindness and aid.       remain, with

all good wishes, and sincere thanks, very faithfully yours,

                           C. J.- GLOUCESTER AND BRISTOL.

    (P.S.) If you are in London in the spring and near the

IAthenaeum, do me the kindness of looking in on me, as
Ishall be very glad to make -your personal acquaintance.

am commonly in town regularly after Easter.

                To PROFESSOR LEWIS CAMPBELL.

     ... I Glenlair, Dalbeattie, Christmas 1876.

45. hope that when this severe weather is past you
     will be able to derive benefit from a moderate use of Plato

and Sophocles.

      We intended to have gone round by Edinburgh, to pay
Aunt Jane a visit ; but we both had such bad colds that we

came home to nurse them, and are now snowed up, and

enjoying the artificial heat of coals, peats, and sticks

judiciously intermingled.

The demonstrator at the Cavendish Laboratory has been

Iout of sorts all this term, and has had to go home about a
month ago, so we have not been in full force there.  hope

he will be well in February, to absorb the energy of the new

B.A.'s set free from the Tripos and its attendant anxieties.
     As we get richer in apparatus, mathematical lectures

Igive way to experimental, and the black board to the lamp
and scale.      have had a pupil quite innocent of mathe-

matics who has learned to measure focal lengths of lenses,

and has found the electro-motive force from the water-pipes

to the gas-pipes, and from either set of pipes to the lightning-

Iconductor.
         have been making a mechanical model of an induction

Icoil, in which the primary and secondary currents are repre-

sented by the motion of wheels, and in which can symbolise
CHAP. XII.]  HISTORY OF DYNAMICS.                            397

all the effects of putting in more or less of the iron core, or

Imore or less resistance and Leyden jars in either circuit.

        have also been making a clay model of Prof. W. Gibb's

thermodynamic surface, representing the relations of the solid

liquid and gaseous states, and the different paths by which a
body may get from the one to the other. Your afft. friend,

                                          J. CLERK MAXWELL.

                              To W. GARNETT, Esq. 1

                                                           Gkrilair, 4th January 1877.

      By all means take the Groves and coils for your lecture.
Are you aware that the electric flash is entirely due to the
resinous particles of electricity ? This is well known on the
stage, where they blow the particles through a tube over a
candle to make stage lightning. The vitreous electricity has
nothing to do with as you may prove by using pounded

glass.
a
                   it,

                             a
In letter to Mr. Garnett, dated Glenlair, 9th

July 1877, Professor Maxwell gave the following

suggestions respecting projected article on Dynamics,

and the letter, like those which follow         it,          good
                                                    : is

                                                          a
illustration of the help he was constantly rendering to

his students and others who asked his advice

think        pity that the old historical word Dynamics
1. I

              it

                       a

                   I
should, for mere considerations of time, be split up into
Kinematics, Kinetics, and Statics. With respect to the

divisions of the subject, think they fall thus  :

Early attempts at founding the science, ancient

Kinematics (mechanical description of curves, etc.) generally
correct.

Ancient Statics. Archimedes.

Modem Dynamics. Galileo, first founder. Descartes,

good up to Kinematics and Statics, failed in

Kinetics.

             1            See p. 370.
398                 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.       [CHAP. XIL

                                       Promoters
                  WREN, WALLIS, HUYGHENS, HOOKE.
     Laws of collision established, and motion in a circle.

                           NEWTON.

      Three laws of motion. Form suggested by the laws of
Descartes. Meaning established by Newton's own copious
and complete examples of using them.

      Second statement of Newton's third Law.
     My notions on the three laws are in " Matter and
Motion."

                                        NEWTONIANS.

 Cambridge School.              Popularisers.     Scotch School.

Eoger Cotes.               D. Gregory.         Colin Maclaurin. 1
Eobert Smith, etc.         Desaguliers.        James Gregory.
Attwood.                   Mme. du Chatelet
Whewell.                                       J. Playfair.
                             and Voltaire.
                                               Ivory.

     Leibnitz and the Vis Viva Controversy.
      Methods of dealing with connected systems.
      Example of correct methods by Newton and others
before D'Alembert.

     D'Alembert's enunciation. Its historical importance.
      Euler. The Bernoullis, etc. Laplace, the flower of
this stage of development.
     Lagrange and Virtual Velocity.
      This is the germ of the method of energy which was
fully developed in mathematical form in the Mecanique

Ancdytigue, but very little appreciated outside the inner

circle of mathematicians till the physical theory of energy

became generally known.
      Mathematical development of higher dynamics. (See

Cayley's Brit. Ass. fieport, 1857 and 1862 ? specially
Hamilton and Jacobi.

      Effect of T and T' since 1867.

                       jn

     1  Introduces  M  X-ar-t~*- =  etc.  See Maclaurin's Fluxions,
CHAP. XII.]    CORRESPONDENCE.                399

KirchofFs notions in beginning of Vorlesungen (not

Iequal to Lagrange, but worth noticing).      and definition of
          also think that Clausius' equation
" Virial " is important.

The dynamics of other varieties of space than our own

requires very brief notice indeed.  Yours truly,

                                     J. CLERK MAXWELL.

               TO W. GrARNETT, Esq.

               Glenlair, Dalbeattie, 24th July 1877.

. . . There is a great slur over the word mechanics since

a few poets and biologists have misused it. Pratt thought

it a fine word.

    IThe result of motion without reference to time call

Displacement. Kinematics must involve the idea of time if

it treats of continuous displacements, velocities, and accelera-

tions, though it does not contain within itself materials for

comparing different intervals of time. For this we must go

to the science which deals with matter ; call it Kinetics,

IDynamics, or Mechanics.
      But consider that Statics also deserves a place on the

Isame level as Kinematics, as it deals with the equivalence
of different systems of forces. But           do not agree

with Whewell that Statics is more elementary than Kine-

matics. . . .

               To THE SAME.

                                                 Glenlair, lltfi August 1877.

     Your experiments on electrified paraffin oil are excellent,

and may lead to increase of knowledge.

    If the fluid dielectric and also the air are perfect

insulators, nothing can get electrified, but the equation at the

surface, instead of being P = P , will be

                                                       dV
(excluding capillary action) where dv is the resultant
400                 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.          [CHAP. XII.

electric force normal to the surface and just outside it.
This causes the surface to rise wherever the normal force is
great, or close to the electrodes.

     The science of displacements is in Euc. I. 4, etc., and

wherever one figure is placed upon another. It belongs to

the method of contemplating the relations of two figures

which may be supposed to co-exist, though we may also
suppose that they are copies of the same figure in different

positions.

     But just as we assume that distance is a continuous

quantity capable of measurement, though all our attempts at
measurement are made with instruments made of non-rigid

and discontinuous matter, so we may assume that time is

a continuously flowing quantity capable of measurement,

though we have not yet found out any accurate method of

comparing distant intervals of time.

     Now Kinematics requires no more than this notion of
                                                  If we
time, as the common independent variable t.
suppose that r is that (unknown) which flows uniformly,
then for kinematical purposes it is enough that t is a func-

tion of T ; but when we come to Kinetics proper we must have

cPt         small.
    2 very
GUT

     Have you read Julius in Nature, about the beginning of

June ? [14th June].
      The most constant things we know are the properties of

bodies. For instance, water in equilibrium with ice and

vapour gives us a good deal.

     I. A unit of density (not the orthodox one) L = D.
    II. A unit of pressure
                              (too small  for practical  use)
^LT2 = P
     III. A unit of time (namely, the time of revolution of

a satellite just grazing a sphere of water) = T.  of each other
       These three quantities being independent

give M, L, and T.
CHAP. XII.]                        CAVENDISH PAPERS.                      401

     p

          gives a (velocity) 2 which could also be got from the

p

     of the vapour (a different one).

      Then this gives also a standard temperature ; all that
we want is to get pure water.

                                      To THE SAME.

    I have                                               Glenlair, 23d August 1877.

electrolytes.  been copying Cavendish on the resistance of

                If there is any one who would try a few of
them roughly in the U tube, it might be interesting to com-

pare with Cavendish's results. For weak solutions Kohl-

rausch may be referred to.

                             Sea Salt (Chloride of Sodium?)

                             Experiments in January 1781.

              Watered to     3'78        Resistance.              Resistance
                 1 of Salt.                                  X quantity of Salt.
                                               1
Saturated sol.                                                     -602
                                        1-91                       -500
                             12         3-97                       -475
                                        8-8                        -416
                             30       15-75                        -352
                                      93-02                        -345
                               70     18-23
                             143

                             1000

               20,000

Salt in 20,000 conducts about 7 times better than dis-

tilled water.

Salt in 69 of water conducts 1*97 times better at

105 F. than at               58J.     is  in Cambridge,  could  you  ask  him

    If Professor             Liveing

to put me in the way of finding the best book on chemistry

for the year 1777, so as to obtain the equivalents and the

names of salts used by Cavendish ?

      The numbers in the first columns are the quantities
which were equivalent to the " acid " in solution of 1 of salt

in 2 9 of water.

                                          2D
         402               JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                                                       [CHAP. XII.

               3 '2 Sal Sylvii (potassium chloride).
                2*3 Sal Amm. (ammonium chloride).

              14-10 Calc. S.S.A.
                           (?)

                             if

                                   (1 3, (?)
                                          is

                                                   3
                                                    '7

                                                     8)
           I     2-21 Calcined Glauber's Salt (sodium sulphate).
                3  '17 Quadrangular Nitre (sodium nitrate).

                 5-19 SaltD.

              The solutions were 10, 12.

                 am going to try this Troy or Apothecaries' weight.

              Saturated solution               in                                            of common salt has

         437,000 the resistance of iron wire. New distilled water

         has more resistance than distilled water kept year.                                       a

             All these results and many more were got by comparison

         of the strength of shocks taken through Cavendish's body.

           think this series of experiments                                                  the most wonderful of
     is I                  is

                               it

                                     is
                                                            is
         them all, and well worth verification.

              Cavendish    the first verifier of Ohm's Law, for he

         finds by successive series of experiments that the resistance

           as the following power of the velocity, 1'08, 1*03, '980,
                                               as the first power. All this by the
     and concludes that

     physiological galvanometer.

           . . . Can you solve the equation

              dx\dy        dxdy                        _                                     dxdy

                  =A .                         dy dx
                         2
                       ay
                              is
                                   a

                                                                                          2
                           solution. Find the general ditto.

                         To PKOFESSOK, LEWIS CAMPBELL.

                                                                11 Scroope Terrace,

                                                      Cambridge, 5th January 1878.

           It more than                        month that                                    have had your letter
46.  is                                                  it I
         a
                                                              is
                is         am glad you like Chrystal. His departure

                 is I
                                            a
     lying by me.

           great loss to the laboratory, as                                                  difficult to find any

     one to take up heavy work. W. D. Mven (brother of the
                           going in for heavy piece of work on
     competitor)                               I
                                                   a
     conduction of heat in gases.                   am no judge of Greek plays,
CHAP. XII.]  CAVENDISH PAPERS.  403

Ibut think that your success in choruses is fully equal to

that in dialogue, considering the greater difficulty, not only
in the interpretation, but in guessing the kind of effect,

musical, rhythmical, rhetorical, poetical, and pictorial, which
was aimed at in the delivery of the chorus.

      We have all been conversing on the telephone. Garnett
recognised the voice of a man who called by chance. But
the phonograph will preserve to posterity the voices of our
best speakers and singers. See Nature of Jan. 3d.

                           To W. GARNETT, Esq.

                                                             Glenlair, 20th September 1878.

      . . . Cavendish would speak of the pressure of a voltaic
battery (only he hadn't one), but we require to be educated
up to his mark.

              To THE LIBRARIAN OF THE EOYAL SOCIETY.

                                               Glenlair, Datteattie, 23d June 1879.

    IDEAR SIR Your information about FF.RS. has been

so useful to me that now ask about Dr. G. Knight, F.E.S.,
librarian to the British Museum.

I (1.) Is his name Gowan, Gowen, Gowin, or Godwin, for
   find all four spellings current ?
      (2.) Who is the author of the paper in Phil. Trans, for
1776 (near the end of the vol.) describing his great maga-
zines of magnets ?

      (3.) Are the magazines [sketch shown] mounted like
great guns still in the possession of the E.S. ?

      (4.) Is the portrait of Gowin Knight, by Benjamin

IWilson, F.RS., among the pictures of the K.S. ?
          have got from the Meteorological Office some Cavendish
MSS. on Magnetism which prompt these enquiries and also
this

      When the E. S. was at Crane Court had it a garden
adjoining ? Also, where was Crane Court ?

      Henry Cavendish and his father Lord Charles worked
together at observations of the variation compass and dipping
404  JAMES CLEEK MAXWELL.                       [CHAP. XII.

needle in the E. S. room and garden. Are the variation com-

pass and dipping needle still in the E. S. collection ?

     Cavendish wrote out directions for using the dipping

Ineedle for Captain Pickersgill, Captain Bayley, Dalrymple.
      Dalrymple, find from Poggendorff, was hydrographer

to the H.E.I. C. If Cavendish apportioned his instructions

according to the capacity of the recipients, then their capaci-

ties would be in descending order, Dalrymple, Pickersgill,

Bayley. Were any of these F.E.S. ?

     Also, was John Walsh, F.E.S., also M.P. ?

   IDo not answer any of these questions which would

involve trouble, but have not here any means of answering

them except by the aid of those who are among the records

I Iof the past. None of the questions are of vital importance,

because can leave out any statements have made which

are doubtful. Yours very truly,     J. CLERK MAXWELL.

     Professor Maxwell was frequently invited to join
the Victoria Institute, and in March 1875 he received

a letter from the secretary conveying the special
invitation of the President and Council to join the

Society, " among whose members are his Grace the

Archbishop of Canterbury, and other prelates and
leading ministers, several professors of Oxford and
Cambridge and other universities, and many literary
and scientific men." The following is all that has
been found of a rough draft of his reply :

    ISIR do not think it my duty to become a candidate

for admission into the Victoria Institute. Among the objects

I Iof the Society are some of which think very highly.

think men of science as well as other men need to learn

Ifrom Christ, and think Christians whose minds are scientific

are bound to study science that their view of the glory of
CHAP. XII.]  VICTORIA INSTITUTE.                  405

IGod may be as extensive as their being is capable of. But
   think that the results which each man arrives at in his

attempts to harmonise his science with his Christianity

ought not to be regarded as having any significance except

to the man himself, and to him only for a time, and should

not receive the stamp of a society. For it is of the nature

of science, especially of those branches of science which are

spreading into unknown regions to be continually  [here
the MS. ends].
406  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XIII.

                   CHAPTEK XIII.

              ILLNESS AND DEATH 1879 JET. 47, 48.

AFTER his recovery from the attack of erysipelas at
Glenlair in 1865, Maxwell's health appears to have
been fairly good until the spring of 1877. He then
began to be troubled with dyspeptic symptoms,
especially with a painful choking sensation after
taking meat. He consulted no one for about two
years. But one day in 1877, on coming into the
Laboratory after his luncheon, he dissolved a crystal
of carbonate of soda in a small beaker of water, and

drank it off. A little while after this he said he had

found how to manage so as to avoid pain. The
trouble proved obstinate, however, and at last, on

the 21st of April 1879, he mentioned it when writing
to Dr. Paget about Mrs. Maxwell.

     By this time his friends at Cambridge had begun
to observe a change in his appearance, and some
failure of the old superabundant energy. They
missed the elasticity of step, and the well-known
sparkle in his eye. During the Easter Term of 1879
he attended the Laboratory daily, but only stayed a

very short time. At the end of the term he remarked

that he had been unable to do much more than to
CHAP. XIII.]  ILLNESS AND DEATH.  407

give his lectures. And before leaving Cambridge for
the vacation, he was more than once very seriously
unwell.

    In June he returned, as usual, to Glenlair. His

letters continued to be marked by humorous cheerful-
ness, and, as was always the case, contained informa-
tion about everything and everybody except himself.
He was still unwearied in his exertions for those to

whom his services could be of use. But some casual

remarks gave cause for apprehension that he was not
gaining strength, and after he had been in Scotland

for a few weeks he wrote that " he felt like a child, as

for some time he had been allowed no food but milk."

By and by the reports were more encouraging, and
in September, according to appointment, Mr. and
Mrs. Garnett were received at Glenlair. On Maxwell's

coming out of the house to welcome them, Mr. Garnett
saw a great change in him, and was for the first time

seriously alarmed.

     In the evening, however, the master of the house

conducted family worship as usual for the assembled
household. And the days passed much in the same
kindly fashion as of old, linking the present to the
past in " natural piety." There were the drawings of
the oval curves of 1846 ; the family scrap-book, with
Mrs. Blackburn's water - colour sketches from the

earliest time ; the Glenlair autograph book (see above,
p. 16) ; the bagpipes which saved the life of Captain
Clerk in the Hooghly ; and a host of other treasures
which Maxwell took delight in showing. He led his
guests down to the river, and accompanied them a
408  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XIII.

little way along its wooded banks, pointing out where
the stepping-stones used to be, where he bathed when
a boy, and where the exploit of tub -navigation had
been performed. This was the longest walk he had
taken for some time. He was unable to drive with
them in the afternoon, because he could not bear the

shaking of the carriage.
     On the 2d of October 1879, in the midst of great

weakness and of great pain, he was told by the late
Dr. Sanders of Edinburgh, who had been summoned
to Glenlair, that he had not a month to live. From

that moment he had only one anxiety, the same which
had for so long been his chief care to provide for
her comfort, whom he now saw that he must leave

behind.

     He returned to Cambridge ; but he was so weak as
to be hardly able to walk from the train to a carriage.
Under the diligent care of Dr. Paget his most pain-
ful symptoms were considerably relieved, and his
friends began to entertain fond hopes of his recovery.
But his strength gradually failed, and at length it was
evident to all that the disease could not be stayed.

     During the last few weeks his sufferings were very
great, but he seldom mentioned them; and, apart
from his anxiety for others, his mind was absolutely
calm. The one thought which weighed upon him,
and to which he constantly referred, was for the
future welfare and comfort of Mrs. Maxwell. During
the whole period of their married life (twenty-one
years) his ever-present watchfulness and sympathy
had supported her even in the smallest domestic
CHAP. XIII.]  LAST ILLNESS.                              409

concerns ; his knowledge, his constructiveness, his dex-
terity of hand, had been ever ready to minister to her
slightest need, and now, unable to nurse him as of
old, she seemed more than ever dependent on his care.

To the last, he regularly gave the orders that were
necessary for her comfort, and endeavoured to see that

they were carried out.
     When too weak to dwell on those scientific in-

quiries which had been the work of his life, his
mind continued active about many of his favourite
studies. He remarked one day that he had been

wondering why the lines in Shakespeare's Merchant of
Venice, about the harmony that is in mortal souls
(repeating the whole passage) should have been put in
the mouth of such a frivolous person as Lorenzo. At

another time, when continuous conversation had be-

come impossible, and he had been lying for some time
with closed eyes, he looked up and repeated the verse,
" Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above,"

etc., and then added "Do you know that that is a

hexameter ? Tracra Soo-t? ayaOrj Kal Trdv Scbpyfjia reXetoz/.

I wonder who composed it 1 " He frequently quoted

Eichard Baxter's hymn

              " Lord, it belongs not to my care,

                  IWhether die or live ;

                To love and serve Thee is my share,
                    And that Thy grace must give," etc.

      On the Saturday preceding his death he received

the Sacrament of the Lord's Supper from Dr. Guille-
mard, and it was while Dr. G. was putting on his
410  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XIII.

surplice that Maxwell repeated to him George Her-
bert's lines on the priest's vestments, entitled Aaron. 1
Maxwell's mind and memory remained perfectly clear

to the very last.
     The fortitude with which he bore his sufferings,

and the calm self-possession with which he met his
end, impressed those most who watched him most

                             1 AARON.

     Holiness on the head,
        Light and perfections on the breast,

     Harmonious bells below, raising the dead
        To lead them unto life and rest :
         Thus are true Aarons drest.

     Profaneness in my head,
         Defects and darkness in my breast,

     A noise of passions ringing me for dead

       IUnto a place where is no rest :

         Poor priest, thus am drest.

     IOnly another head
            have, another heart and breast,
     Another music, making live, not dead,

       IWithout whom could have no rest :
       IIn Him am well drest.

     Christ is my only head,
         My alone only heart and breast,

     IMy only music, striking me e'en dead ;
        That to the old man may rest,
        And be in him new drest.

     So holy in my head,
         Perfect and light in my dear breast,

     IMy doctrine tuned by Christ (who is not dead,
         But lives in me while do rest),
         Come, people ; Aaron's drest.
CHAP, xiii.]  DR. FACET'S STATEMENT.  411

narrowly, and had the best reason to know the

acuteness of his sufferings.

The end may best be told by those who were
Inearest to him at the time.
                              have been favoured

with the following communications : (1) From Dr.

Paget ; (2) from the Eev. Dr. Guillemard ; and (3)
from his cousin, Mr. Colin Mackenzie, who acted the

part of a brother at the last, as he had done many a

time before.

                           (1.) Dr. Paget' s Statement.

      In April 1879 he began to be troubled with some

difficulty in swallowing the first significant symptom of
the disease which was to prove fatal. The summer he

spent at Glenlair. At the end of July he consulted Prof.

Sanders and Prof. Spence of Edinburgh, and while at Glen-
lair was attended by Dr. Lorraine of Castle-Douglas. But
he grew worse, and at the end of September Prof. Sanders
was summoned to him from Edinburgh. He was then
suffering from attacks of violent pain, had become dropsical,

and his strength was rapidly failing. At Glenlair he was
seven miles from Dr. Lorraine. It was therefore decided to
remove him to Edinburgh or Cambridge. He chose Cam-

bridge, and arrived there on October 8, accompanied by Mrs.
Maxwell, and attended during the journey by Dr. Kichard

Lorraine.

     In Cambridge his more severe sufferings were gradually
in great measure relieved, but the disease continued its pro-
gress. It was the disease of which his mother had died

at the same age.

     As he had been in health, so was he in sickness and in
face of death. The calmness of his mind was never once
disturbed. His sufferings were acute for some days after
his return to Cambridge, and, even after their mitigation,
were still of a kind to try severely any ordinary patience
and fortitude. But they were never spoken of by him in a
412  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XIII.

complaining tone. In the midst of them his thoughts and

consideration were rather for others than for himself.
      Neither did the approach of death disturb his habitual

composure. Before leaving Glenlair he had learnt from
Prof. Sanders that he had not more than about a month

to live. A few days before his death he asked me (Dr.

Paget) how much longer he could last. The inquiry was
made with the most perfect calmness. He wished to live
until the expected arrival from Edinburgh of his friend and
relative Mr. Colin Mackenzie. His only anxiety seemed to

be about his wife, whose health had for a few years been
delicate, and had recently become worse. He had been
to her for some time the most tender and assiduous of

nurses. An hour only before his death, when, through

extreme bodily weakness, his voice was reduced to a whisper
so feeble that it could be heard only when the ear was held

close to his mouth, the words whispered to Dr. Paget related
not to himself but to Mrs. Maxwell.

      His intellect also remained clear and apparently unim-
paired to the last. While his bodily strength was ebbing
away to death, his mind never once wandered or wavered,
but remained clear to the very end. No man ever met

death more consciously or more calmly. 1
      On November 5 he gently passed away.

    1 Dr. J. W. Lorraine of Castle-Douglas, in a letter addressed to Dr.

Paget, and dated 5th October 1879, remarks as follows concerning his

I Ipatient : " must say he is one of the best men have ever met, and

a greater merit than his scientific attainments is his being, so far as

human judgment can discern, a most perfect example of a Christian

gentleman." This remark, Dr. Paget observes, " is a very unusual one
in a letter from one physician to another." Dr. Paget also says in
writing to Mr. Garnett : " There is a deep interest in the fact of

how such a man as Maxwell met the trials of sickness, and the

approach of death. They are severe tests of amiability and unselfish-

ness, and of the genuineness of religious convictions. It is some-

thing to say of a man that his unselfishness and composure remained

undisturbed, and it is interesting physiologically and psychologically,
that in the very extremity of bodily weakness, when the nourishment
CHAP. XIIL]  OCTOBER, 1879.                413

      Dr. Paget's report of Maxwell's composure through-
out his illness is very strikingly confirmed by his letter
to that physician, dated October 3, which is too con-
fidential to be inserted here, but consists of a simple

unadorned description of the facts of the case, and a

request for aid which he knew would be forthcoming.

A stranger, in reading that letter, would never divine,
and indeed might find it hard to believe, that on the

previous day (Oct. 2) the writer had been told by
medical authority that he had only a month to live.

Yet such is the fact. The words "for I am really very

helpless," however touching as a description of his
condition, are merely the statement of a reason why
some one should be got " officially to help " Maxwell
himself, but really and chiefly to do for Mrs. Maxwell
what he had done so long as he had any strength in

him. Students of history may perhaps recall Nicias's

letter to the Athenians: "You should also send

Ia general to succeed me, for have a disease, and

cannot remain ; " 1 but the words of the unfortunate

Igeneral, " claim your indulgence/' 2 though dignified

enough, are more than Maxwell would have written.

      (2.) The following letter, addressed to me by the

Eev. Dr. Guillemard, of the Little Trinity Church,

Cambridge, may be left to speak for itself :

of the brain must have become so reduced, the mind remained per-

fectly clear." Dr. Lorraine's remark on Maxwell's personal character

expresses the feelings of all, nurses included, that were about Maxwell

in his last illness.              2 Ibid.
                  i Thuc. 7, 15.
414     JA.MES CLERK MAXWELL.           [CHAP. XIII.

                              Cambridge, 19th May 1881.

     IMY DEAR SIR  shall disappoint you very much in
Imy reminiscences of Maxwell.
                               never was an INTIMATE

FRIEND of his, though we were always on the very best terms,

and met not unfrequently, and he was most constant and

assiduous in his attendance at church, and interested in all

I Ichurch matters.                                      was
      But knew very little about his inner self before

summoned to his dying bed ; and he had been brought very

low physically, before his return to Cambridge, and was un-

Iequal to much continuous thought or conversation.      He

welcomed me warmly whenever             visited him, joined

Ifervently in all acts of prayer, listened with a most intel-

ligent interest to all read, either out of the Bible (which he
knew well-nigh by heart) or out of any of our great devotional
writers in prose or poetry ; was especially fond of any new
hymns, and frequently capped such by reciting from his

wonderful memory some parallel passages of his favourite

old authors, specially George Herbert.

     His faith in the grand cardinal verities was firm, simple,

and full ; and he avowed it humbly but unhesitatingly, with

Ithe deepest gratitude for the revelation of the truth in
Jesus.  do not think he had any doubts or difficulties to

cloud his clear mind or shake his peace.
     He was calmly and serenely resigned to the will of God,

and bowed in meek acquiescence before what he believed to

be the Word of God.

    I never saw a sign of impatience or fretfulness under all

his long suffering, or heard an approach to a murmur. His

one and only care was for his wife. It was a grand sight to

see him day by day girding himself calmly and resolutely for

Ithe last struggle, and he passed through it undismayed.
Iwish had preserved any of his last words : they have passed

away from my shallow memory.  Yours very truly,
                                  W. H. GUILLEMARD.

    I am also permitted to insert the following more

circumstantial account, which was written by Dr.
CHAP. XIIL] DR. GUILLEMARD'S ACCOUNT.                415

Guillemard to the Kev. Isaac Bowman, Vicar of
South Creake, Fakenham, Norfolk, on the 9th of
December 1879, within five weeks after Maxwell's

death :

He suffered exquisite pain, hardly able to lie still for

a minute together, sleepless, and with no appetite for the

food which he so required.

He understood his position from the first ; knew what

it all meant, and calmly girded himself for the awful struggle.

He welcomed me at once as visiting him, not only as a friend,

but as the Parish Priest come to assist him and to minister to

him, and spoke of our relations with a grave, simple cheerful-

ness. You know the lightheartedness of the man in ordinary
times ; and really it abode on him throughout ; he was never

downcast or overburdened, and yet he was the humblest and

most diffident of men, with the deepest sense of his own

unworthiness, of his many short-comings, of his neglected
Iopportunities. " But he loved much, and love had cast out
fear."  used to go to him nearly every day of the five or six

weeks he was here, to read and pray with him. He pre-

ferred the prayers of the Church, and asked for them, and

by the wonderful power of his memory knew them all by

Iheart ; but he gladly joined in other devotions, and took

special delight in sacred poetry, of which generally read

him two or three short pieces.
     He knew all our best writers in that line thoroughly :

Milton, Keble, Newman, Wesley, George Herbert the latter

his chief favourite ; and he repeated to me the morning
after an unusually bad night, the five stanzas of " Aaron "
without a mistake. His knowledge of the Bible was re-

markable, and he constantly asked for his most deeply-

prized passages. Four days before he was removed from us

he received the Holy Communion at my hands, with holy,

reverent, fervid devotion, and said what strength it gave him.
I saw him only once again; he was too weak and rest-
Iless

from
and     exhausted for    much    intercourse ;  but  as rose
 my     knees he said :           dear friend,  you  have been
                           " My
416                JAMES CLEKK MAXWELL.     [CHAP. XIII.

a true under shepherd to me : read me, before you go, the
beautiful prayer out of the Burial Service, ' Suffer me not
at my last hour ' " and his grasp of my hand, as we parted,

Itold me all he felt.
          had known but little of his inner self before his

illness ; he was singularly reticent ; and though we occasion-

ally discussed a text critically, we rarely got upon doctrine,
or anything that touched upon the spiritual life. He was a
constant regular attendant at church, and seldom, if ever, failed
to join in our monthly late celebration of Holy Communion,
and he was a generous contributor to all our parish chari-
table institutions. But his illness drew out the whole heart

and soul and spirit of the man : his firm and undoubting
faith in the Incarnation and all its results ; in the full
sufficing of the Atonement ; in the work of the Holy Spirit.
He had gauged and fathomed all the schemes and systems
of philosophy, and had found them utterly empty and un-
satisfying " unworkable " was his own word about them
and he turned with simple faith to the Gospel of the Saviour.

     (3.) Mr. Colin Mackenzie, who is by this time well
known to the reader, was present at the last. He

says :

     A few minutes before his death, Professor Clerk Max-

well was being held up in bed, struggling for breath, when
he said slowly and distinctly, " God help me ! God help my
      "
Iwife    he  then  turned  to me  (Mr.  Mackenzie) and said,
     !                                   He next said, " Lay

" Colin, you are strong, lift me up ;"

me down lower, for am very low myself, and it suits me to

lie low." After this he . breathed deeply and slowly, and,

with a long look at his wife, passed away.

     (4.) Another friend who saw him in his last illness,
the Eev. Professor Hort, has summed up his recollec-

tions of Maxwell, especially of the graver side of his
character, in the following letter :
CHAP. XIII.] PROFESSOR HORT's RECOLLECTIONS.    417

FROM PROF. F. J. A. HORT TO PROF. L. CAMPBELL.

   IIt is with extreme regret that      Feb. 4, 1882.
Ito comply with your request that
                                    find myself powerless
                                      should contribute to

your Memoir of Professor Maxwell a sketch of his position
                                        A competent and
in reference to theology and religion.

faithful account of Maxwell's inner thoughts during man-

hood would for several reasons have been of the highest

interest. But his habitual reticence as to all that moved

him deeply, and my own bad memory, have together left me

without the materials needed for a task in itself most attract-

ive. Though the impression of rare greatness which he

Ileft upon me in the first days of our acquaintance became

stronger and stronger to the end, have little to offer but a

Ifew vague and scattered reminiscences. Such as they are,
   am thankful to be allowed to send them.
     My earlier recollections of Maxwell are chiefly associated

with a small society at Cambridge to which we both belonged,

which used to meet on Saturday evenings for the discussion

of literary and speculative questions. The aversion to

rhetoric which he found traditional among its members was

much to his taste, and he always took an animated and

interested part in the conversations. Unfortunately his love

of speaking in- parables, combined with a certain obscurity
of intonation, rendered it often difficult to seize his meaning ;

but bright and penetrating little sayings, usually whimsical
in form, and sometimes accompanied by strange gestures,

recurred almost unfailingly at no distant intervals. Whether

the tone of his mind was much affected by his participation

I Iin our discussions it is difficult to say. During the time

that knew him can recall no perceptible signs of change

other than quiet growth, and suspect that he attained too

early and too stable a maturity to receive easily a new direc-

tion from any kind of intercourse with his University con-
temporaries. But it is likely enough that his mind was at

least invigorated and consolidated by an influence which

others have found reason to count among the strongest and

also on the whole most salutary that they have known.

2E
418  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                      [CHAP. XIII.

The same may probably be said of the influence of Mr.

IMaurice's writings, which certainly occupied Maxwell at

this time. To what extent he was affected by them do

not know ; but the tone in which he used to speak of Mr.

Maurice leads me to think that they must have at least given

him considerable aid in the adjustment and clearing up of

his own beliefs on the highest subjects.

    IMy intercourse with Maxwell dropped when we both

left Cambridge. When returned in 1872, after an absence

of fifteen years, he had lately been installed at the new
ICavendish Laboratory, and had the happiness of looking
Iforward to a renewal of friendship with him.
                                               found him,

as was natural, a graver man than of old; but as warm of

Iheart and fresh in mind as ever. Owing to accidental cir-

cumstances on both sides, we met seldomer than had hoped,

though certainly there was no diminution of cordiality on the
part of either. Strangely enough, it was again to the meet-

Iings of a small society, in purpose not unlike the former,

that owe most of my impressions of Maxwell in these later

years. Though he was often unable to attend its meetings,

and could rarely stay for more than an hour, he seemed to

find much satisfaction in thus joining in the discussion of

speculative questions with a few friends, chiefly middle-aged

men, representing among them great diversity of studies,

and no less diversity of opinion. The old peculiarities of

his manner of speaking remained virtually unchanged. It

was still no easy matter to read the course of his thoughts

through the humorous veil which they wove for themselves ;
and still the obscurity would now and then be lit up by

some radiant explosion.

Perhaps the most noteworthy of Maxwell's characteristics

was his absolute independence of mind, an independence

unsullied by conceit or consciousness. Preserved by his

simplicity and humility from any fondness for barren para-

dox, he endeavoured always to see things with his own eyes,

without regard to the points of view assumed on one side or

Ianother in

free from "
      ordinary controversy :  in a word,  he was more
     notionalism " than any   one whom     have known.
CHAP. XIII.] PROFESSOR HORT'S RECOLLECTIONS.         419

IThe testimony of his unshaken faith to Christian truth was,
  venture to think, of exceptional value on account of his

freedom from the mental dualism often found in distinguished
                                                     It
men who are absorbed chiefly in physical inquiries.

would have been alien to his whole nature to seclude any

province of his beliefs from the free exercise of whatever
faculties he possessed ; and in his eyes every subject had its
affinities with the rest of the universal truth. His strong

sense of the vastness of the world not now accessible to

human powers, and of the partial nature of all human modes

of apprehension, seemed to enlarge for him the domain of
reasonable belief. Thus in later years it was a favourite

thought of his that the relation of parts to wholes pervades

the invisible no less than the visible world, and that be-

neath the individuality which accompanies our personal life

there lies hidden a deeper community of being as well as of
feeling and action. But no one could be less of a dreamer,

or less capable of putting either fancies or wishes in the

place of sober reality. In mind, as in speech, his veracity was

thorough and resolute : he carried into every thought a

perfect fidelity to the divine proverb which hung beside yet
more sacred verses on the wall of his private room, " The

Ilip of truth shall be established for ever."
      During Maxwell's last illness had the privilege of

Ienjoying two conversations with him ; and not long after-

wards put on paper a short and desultory record of some

of his words. These notes contain nothing that might not

Iwith propriety be brought under other eyes, and therefore

venture to quote them here. Most of what passed on these
two occasions presented nothing worthy of remark, unless it

be the cheerful naturalness with which Maxwell spoke on all
the varied topics that happened to come up before us. His

thoughts had evidently been mainly taking a retrospective

direction; and every interest of life seemed to be hallowed

and brightened by the probable nearness of the Divine sum-

mons to a new form of existence.

He told me briefly the story of his illness ; how he had

been ailing all the year, but had gone northward after
420  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.              [CHAP. XIII.

Easter. Term without apprehending anything worse than

transient ill -health. He had taken with him Professor

Clifford's Lectures and Essays which he had been asked to

review. He had read them with close attention for the

purpose, and had then, at some time in the summer, prepared

to write his criticism. It was a difficult and delicate task,

he said, for " there were many things in the book that wanted

trouncing, and yet the trouncing had to be done with

extreme care and gentleness, Clifford was such a nice fellow."

As soon as he tried to begin, his brain refused its office, and

he found himself incapable of composition ; and then he

Iknew that his illness had become serious.
       Something, forget what, led the conversation to the

perilousness of strong religious excitement in early youth, on

account of the spiritual exhaustion and permanent religious

insensibility that are apt to follow the dying-out of the

original fervour, and that derive a plausible justification

from the premature and fallacious experience. He spoke

with thankfulness of his own escape from a similar danger.
" The ferment," he said, " about the Free Church movement

had one very bad effect. Quite young people were carried
away by it ; and when the natural reaction came, they

ceased to think about religious matters at all, and became

Iunable to receive fresh impressions. My father was so

much afraid of this, that he placed me where should be

under the influence of Dean Ramsay, knowing him to be a

good and sensible man.              This added much to his

      " My father was an advocate.

usefulness in the country. He was always fond of inventing

plans for country houses ; his note-books shew that he did
this as early as when he was twelve years old. He wanted

to build his house on a scale suited to what he thought he
would require as sheriff, and had so built a small part of it

when he died. We afterwards completed
     it                                as far as pos-

                     ;a

                  I
                                it,
sible according to his idea, but on much smaller scale.
He had wished me to be an advocate but never attended

law classes, as by that time had already become apparent
that my tastes lay in another direction. Moreover, he looked
CHAP. XIII.]   IMPRESSION AT CAMBRIDGE.          421

Iup greatly to James Forbes, and desired that    should

be like him. My father died before my marriage, and

Ibefore had been actually elected Professor at Aberdeen.

He had been greatly interested in the sending in of offers of

Iapplication. He much wished me to have a Scottish Pro-

fessorship, that might have the long vacation free for living

at home.

I " My interest is always in things rather than in persons.
   cannot help thinking about the immediate circumstances

which have brought a thing to pass, rather than about any
will setting them in motion. What is done by what is

               iIs,
                           I
called myself       feel, done by something greater than my-

self in me. My interest in things has always made me

care much more for theology than for anthropology states
                                                 a;
of the will only puzzle me.                                    a
                              cannot ascribe so much to

depraved will as some people do, though do to certain
                              ;

                                   I
extent believe in it. Much wrong-doing seems to be no

more than not doing the right thing and that finite beings

should fail in that does not seem to need the supposition of

depraved will." On my saying that, though the immedi-
a

    I
                 a

                  I
                          I:
ate cause of the miseries of the world  is  oftener folly than

wickedness, yet men's folly can frequently be traced back to

past misdoing on their part, he warmly assented, and then
added in different strain " They were foolish because they

did not ask for wisdom, not, of course, absolute wisdom,

but the wisdom needed for the moment.            have been
      " have been thinking how very gently
                                        is a

                                              I
always dealt with.  have never had violent shove in all

my life.                                    like David to serve
      " The only desire which can have

my own generation by the will of God, and then fall asleep."

     The unexampled impression which his death pro-
duced at Cambridge was due to other causes besides
his scientific eminence. Those who lived so near to
him, though they saw little of him, could not fail to
have some feeling of the man. Some rumours of his
422  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.    [CHAP. XIII.

wonderful peacefulness in suffering had gone far
enough to touch many hearts. And it was a deep
and widely-spread emotion which found a voice that
Sunday in St. Mary's Church, through the mouth of
one who had known him when both were scholars of

Trinity the Eev. Dr. Butler, the distinguished head-
master of Harrow School :

     It is a solemn thing even the least thoughtful is

touched by it when a great intellect passes away into the

Isilence, and we see it no more. Such a loss, such a void, is

present, feel certain, to many here to-day. It is not often,

even in this great home of thought and knowledge, that so

bright a light is extinguished as that which is now mourned

by many illustrious mourners, here chiefly, but also far
I Ibeyond this place.        say in all
     shall be believed when
Isimplicity that wish it had fallen to some more competent

Itongue to put into words those feelings of reverent affection

which are, am persuaded, uppermost in many hearts on
this Sunday. My poor words shall be few, but believe me

they come from the heart. You know, brethren, with what

an eager pride we follow the fortunes of those whom we

have loved and reverenced in our undergraduate days. We

may see them but seldom, few letters may pass between us,

Ibut their names are never common names. They never

become to us only what other men are. When came up

to Trinity twenty-eight years ago, James Clerk Maxwell was

Ijust beginning his second year. His position among us

speak in the presence of many who remember that time was

unique. He was the one acknowledged man of genius

among the undergraduates. We understood even then that,

though barely of age, he was in his own line of inquiry not

a beginner, but a master. His name was already a familiar

name to men of science. If he lived, it was certain that he

was one of that small but sacred band to whom it would be

given to enlarge the bounds of human knowledge. It was

a position which might have turned the head of a smaller
CHAP. XIII.]             FUNERAL SERMON.             423

man ; but the friend of whom we were all so proud, and
who seemed, as it were, to link us thus early with the great

outside world of the pioneers of knowledge, had one of those

rich and lavish natures which no prosperity can impoverish,
Iand which make faith in goodness easy for others.
                                                     have

often thought that those who never knew the grand old

Adam Sedgwick and the then young and ever youthful

Clerk Maxwell, had yet to learn the largeness and ful-

ness of the moulds in which some choice natures are framed.

Of the scientific greatness of our friend we were most of us

unable to judge ; but any one could see and admire the boy-

like glee, the joyous invention, the wide reading, the eager
thirst for truth, the subtle thought, the perfect temper, the

unfailing reverence, the singular absence of any taint of the

breath of worldliness in any of its thousand forms.

      Brethren, you may know such men now among your
college friends, though there can be but few in any year, or

indeed in any century, that possess the rare genius of the
Ifman whom we deplore.   it be so, then, if you will accept

Ithe counsel of a stranger, thank God for His gift. Believe

me when tell you that a few such blessings will come to

you in later life. There are blessings that come once in a

lifetime. One of these is the reverence with which we look

up to greatness and goodness in a college friend above us,

beyond us, far out of our mental or moral grasp, but still
one of us, near to us, our own. You know in part, at least,

how in this case the promise of youth was more than

Ifulfilled, and how the man who, but a fortnight ago, was the

ornament of the University, and shall be wrong in say-
ing it ? almost the discoverer of a new world of knowledge,

was even more loved than he was admired, retaining after

twenty years of fame that mirth, that simplicity, that child-

like delight in all that is fresh and wonderful, which we

rejoice to think of as some of the surest accompaniment of

true scientific genius.

You know, also, that he was a devout as well as
Ithoughtful Christian.
                         do not note this in the triumphant
Ispirit of a controversialist.
                                will not for a moment assume
424  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                     [CHAP. XIII.

Ithat there is any natural opposition between -scientific
genius and simple Christian faith.  will not compare him

with others who have had the genius without the faith.

Christianity, though she thankfully welcomes and deeply

prizes them, does not need now, any more than when

St. Paul first preached the Cross at Corinth, the speculations
If Iof the subtle or the wisdom of the wise.
                                              wished to show
Imen, especially young men, the living force of the Gospel,

would take them not so much to a learned and devout

Christian man, to whom all stores of knowledge were

familiar, but to some country village, where for fifty years

there had been devout traditions and devout practice.

There they would see the gospel lived out ; truths, which

other men spoke of, seen and known ; a spirit not of this

Iworld visibly, hourly present; citizenship in heaven daily

assumed, and daily realised. Such characters believe to

be the most convincing preachers to those who ask whether

IEevelation is a fable, and God an unknowable. Yes, in

most cases, not, admit in all, simple faith, even peradven-

ture more than devout genius, is mighty for removing

doubts and implanting fresh conviction.  But having said

this, we may well give thanks to God that our friend was

what he was, a firm Christian believer, and that his power-

ful mind, after ranging at will through the illimitable spaces
of Creation, and almost handling what he called "the

foundation stones of the material universe," found its true

rest and happiness in the love and the mercy of Him whom
the humblest Christian calls his Father. Of such a man it

may be truly said that he had his citizenship in heaven, and

that he looked for, as a Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ,

through whom the unnumbered worlds were made, and in

the likeness of whose image our new and spiritual body
will be fashioned.

     There was a preliminary funeral ceremony in
Trinity College Chapel, where the first part of the
Burial Service was read, in the presence of all the

leading members of the University. The body was
CHAP. XIII.]  CONCLUDING REMARKS.  425

then taken home to Glenlair, and buried in Parton

Churchyard, the funeral being attended by numbers
of his countrymen from far and near.

    IIn these reminiscences have purposely abstained

as much as possible from comment. But in conclud-

Iing this portion of the present work, may be per-

mitted to record a very few general observations or

impressions.

      The leading note of Maxwell's character is a grand
simplicity. But in attempting to analyse it we find
a complex of qualities which exist separately in
smaller men. Extraordinary gentleness is combined
with keen penetration, wonderful activity with a no
less wonderful repose, personal humility and modesty
with intellectual scorn. His deep reserve in common
intercourse was commensurate with the fulness of his

occasional outpourings to those he loved. His tender-
ness for all living things was deep and instinctive ;
from earliest childhood he could not hurt a fly. Not

less instinctive was the sense of equality amongst all
human beings, which underlay the plainness of his
address. But, on the other hand, his respect for the
actual order of the world and for the wisdom of the

past, was at least as steadfast as his faith in progress.
While fearless in speculation, he was strongly con-
servative in practice.

     In his intellectual faculties there was also a
balance of powers which are often opposed. His

imagination was in the highest sense concrete, grasp-
ing the actual reality, and not only the relations
426  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.            [CHAP. XIII.

of things. No one was ever more impatient of mere
abstractions. 1 Yet few have had so firm a hold upon

ideas. Once more, while he was continually striving

to reduce to greater definiteness men's conceptions of
leading physical laws, he seemed habitually to live in

a sort of mystical communion with the infinite.

     His aunt, Mrs. Wedderburn, who had had the care

of him during so much of his early life, said on the
occasion of his marriage, " James has lived hitherto at

the gate of heaven."

     Mr. Colin Mackenzie has repeated to me two

sayings of his during those last days, which may be
Irepeated here " Old chap,
                                     have read up many

queer religions : there is nothing like the old thing

after all;" and "I have looked into most philoso-
Iphical systems, and have seen that none will work

without a God."

     Maxwell's humour, which with many passed for

mere eccentricity, and to some was the characteristic

by which he was chiefly known, at least in earlier life,
may be passed over lightly here. With strangers it

was sometimes the veil of a sensitiveness which but

for this would have made him the victim of his

immediate surroundings. In confidential intercourse
it was a perpetual fund of delight, the vehicle of his

exuberant fancy, as it glanced in all directions from

the immediate topic of discourse.

    It was his way of acknowledging " the grotesque

view " 2 of everything. Like other humourists whom

     He was particularly indignant at the confusion by some would-

be philosophers of facts with laws.  2 P. 262.
CHAP. XIII.]  CONCLUSION.                   427

I have known, he was never tired of a joke which had

once tickled him ; only, if retained in employment, it

must always be tricked out with some new livery, and
have some fresh turn given to it. As late as the

summer of 1879, in writing to Professor Baynes about

an article on Chemistry for the Encyclopedia Bri-

tannica, he repeated in some new way the well-worn

jest about "an Analyser or a Charlatan." Even on

his deathbed at Cambridge, in familiar converse with

his cousin and friend, Mr. Colin Mackenzie, he still
used the old quaint familiar speech : " No, not that
                                         "
phial ! the little red-headed  chap !

Nor is it necessary to dwell on the rare freshness

of feeling which he carried into middle life. The

reader of his correspondence at any period must feel
involuntarily that he had "the dew of his youth."

    In thinking of him in college days, I used often

to associate him in my own mind with Socrates.

IThere is one point in the resemblance which had not

then realised, the "Socratic strength" of Antisthenes

his extraordinary power of moral and physical

endurance. Once at Cambridge, when his wife was

lying ill in her room, and a terrier, who had already

shown " a wild trick of his ancestors," was watching

beside the bed, Maxwell happened to go in for the

purpose of moving her. The dog sprang at him and

fastened on his nose. In order not to disturb Mrs.

Maxwell, he went out quietly, holding his arm beneath

the creature, which was still hanging to his face.

    IWhat had struck me, suppose, in making the

above comparison, was the eager spirit of inquiry
428        JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XIII.

Ibeneath the ironical shell.  might have added the

union of speculation with mysticism, and of conser-

vatism with progressive thought. But in one essen-

tial point, the dialectical cross -questioning method,

the analogy fails. For Maxwell had not spent his
youth in the Athenian agora, but in the solitudes of

Galloway, where he had interrogated Nature more

than Man.

w(SiotphIhn.thhe2is4e3acroBline)vre"rGswraeetienoktn'otnhheitnhmkeeiigrrsh,st e"vreawrtahhleorw/'abyessa,cyoswmiPpthlaaorteuodt,

caring whether they took us with them, or left us

behind."   The necessity of utterance was often

stronger with him than the endeavour to make him-

self understood, and he would pour out his ideas

in simple affectionateness to those who. could not

follow them. His thoughts were often tentative,

but his expression of them was always dogmatic,

even in the negative formula "No one knows what is

meant by " so and so.

     His indirect, allusive way of speaking was not,

however, wilfully assumed, but was the result of

idiosyncrasy and early habit ; and it disappeared

utterly in the presence of any great occasion a great

joy, a great sorrow, or a great duty. Then his speech

resolved itself into statements of fact, brief and

unemotional, but absolutely simple and direct. And,

latterly at all events, such were generally the charac-

teristics of his style in writing. I have been told by

Mr. Huddlestone, a late Fellow of King's College,

Cambridge, that when consulted about a lightning
CHAP. XIII.]  CONCLUSION.  429

conductor for King's College Chapel (a building which
he greatly loved) Maxwell called and made a verbal
explanation which was unintelligible, but in going
away he fortunately left a written statement, and this

was perfectly clear.
     The Galloway boy was in many ways the father of

the Cambridge man ; and even the " ploys " of his
childhood contained a germ of his life-work. Indeed,
it may be said that with him, despite the popular
adage, ," Work when you work," etc., play was always
passing into work and work into play. In twirling

his magic discs, his mind was already busied about
the cause of optical phenomena. He plied the devil-
on-two-sticks with the same eager industry, and with
the same simple enjoyment, with which he afterwards
spun his dynamical top. And amidst his profoundest
investigations, whether about the Eings of Saturn
or the Lines of Force, or the molecular structure of

material things, the playful spirit of his boyhood was
ever ready to break forth. Meanwhile, alike beneath

the grave and sparkling mood, a spirit of deep PIETY
pervaded all he did, whether in the most private rela-
tions of life, or in his position as an appointed teacher
and investigator, or in his philosophic contemplation
 of the universe. There is no attribute from which

 the thought of him is more inseparable.
      He had keen sympathy with ideal aspirations,

 together with an occasional sense of their fruitless-
 ness. " It's no use thinking of the chap ye might
 have been." When, in their early married life, Mrs.
 Maxwell was oppressed with a sense of failure in her
430     JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAR XIII.

first attempts at Cottage-visiting, he made her sit

down while he read to her Milton's sonnet ending
with the line, " They also serve, who only stand and

wait."

     He appears in early days to have been conscious

of some superficial weaknesses, of a certain excitability
of temperament, leading to " preconscious states " and

preventing him from at once setting himself right in

new surroundings; also of the equal danger of shrinking

into himself, and "mystifying" those about him. This

difficulty, and many others "within and without,"

he overcame. But it would be too much to say of
him that " his affections never swayed more than his

reason," or that he obtained as firm a foothold in

practical life as he had by birthright in the region of

scientific thought. This great mass of mind was so

delicately hung as to be guided sometimes by a silken

thread. Few men, if any, would venture to argue or

remonstrate with Maxwell when he had decided on a

course of action in the council-chamber of his own

breast. But he could not consciously hurt any

creature, nor permit the possibility of causing pain

to those he loved. Nor was his power over others

always adequate to the keenness of his perceptions.
For while his penetration often reached the secrets of

the heart, his generosity sometimes overlooked the

most obvious characteristics  especially in the shape

of mean or vulgar motives.
     His liberality, in every sense of the word, was

absolute. People have been disposed to criticise

the plainness of his entertainments, without knowing
CHAP. XIII.]  CONCLUSION.  431

that while this was a matter of taste, the difference

between the plain and the luxurious table was
uniformly dispensed in charity. He has also been
supposed by some who think that science should
disown religion, to have been intolerant as well as

orthodox. The contrary was true. And in par-

ticular, the mutual admiration and regard for one
another of two such men as Maxwell and Clifford,

notwithstanding their profound divergence of opinion
on subjects of human interest, deserves to be quoted
as an honourable exception to the narrow exclusive-
ness which has been too prevalent alike in the

Christian and the anti-Christian world. 1

     He never sought for fame, but with sacred devo-
tion continued in mature life the labours which had
been his spontaneous delight in boyhood. Yet, con-
sidering the high region in which he worked, he
received a large measure of recognition even in his
lifetime. The Rumford Medal, conferred in 1860, was
the first of a long list of honours, which up to his
last year continued to accumulate from all parts of the
civilised world. 2 And some of those who had an eye

I1 About the year 1860  remember discussing with him J.

Macleod Campbell's book on the Atonement, which had lately

I Iappeared. He made some criticisms, which have forgotten, but

remember the emphatic tone in which he said, " We want light."

    2 In 1870 Maxwell received the honorary degree of LL.D. in the
University of Edinburgh; on llth November 1874 he was elected

Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and

Sciences of Boston ; on 15th October 1875, Member of the American

Philosophical Society of Philadelphia ; on 4th December 1875, Corre-

sponding Member of the Eoyal Society of Sciences of Gottingen ; on
21st June 1876 he received the honorary degree of D.C.L. at Oxford ;
432      JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.                                                         [CHAP. XIII.

for genius, though their intellectual interests lay
in different spheres from his, could not forbear their

testimony. Out of many such expressions it is enough
to have selected one. Mr. Frederick Pollock in his

work on Spinoza, having occasion to refer to Maxwell's

views on matter and space, adds the following note

    115):-
(p.

     a :I

                                   is

                                                    a

                                                                                 is
     Clerk Maxwell was living when these lines were

written  cannot let them pass through the press without

adding word of tribute to man of profound and original

genius, too early lost to England and to Science.

     Great as was the range and depth of Maxwell's

powers, that which  still more remarkable                                             the

unity of his nature and of his life. This unity came

not from circumstance, for there were breaks in his

outward career, but from the native strength of the

spirit that was in him. In the eyes of those who knew
him best, the whole man gained in beauty year by
year. As son, friend, lover, husband in science, in
society, in religion whether buried in retirement or
immersed in business he absolutely single-hearted.
     is

                                     ;

                                         is

                                                                                   ;
This true of his mental as well as of his emotional

being, for indeed they were inseparably blended.
And the fixity of his devotion both to persons and

on 5th December 1876 he was elected Honorary Member of the New

York Academy of Science on 27th April 1877, Member of the Koyal

Academy of Science of Amsterdam on 18th August 1877, Foreign
Corresponding Member in the Mathematico-Natural-Science Class of
the Imperial Academy of Sciences of Vienna and in the spring of

1878 he received the Volta Medal and degree of Doctor of Physical

Science honoris causd in the University of Pavia.
                    ;
                                             ;
                                                                      ;
CHAP. XIII.]  CONCLUSION.                      433

ideas was compatible with all but universal sym-
pathies and the most fearless openness of thought.
There are no " water-tight compartments," 1 there is
no " tabooed ground ; " 2 in spite of much natural
reserve, he never really lost his predilection for " a
thorough draft." 3 That marvellous interpenetration
of scientific industry, philosophic insight, poetic feel-

ing and imagination, and overflowing humour, was

closely related to the profound sincerity which, after
all is said, is the truest sign alike of his genius and
of his inmost nature, and is most apt to make his
life instructive beyond the limits of the scientific
world. He would not wish to be set up as an autho-

rity on subjects (such as historical criticism) which,

however interesting to him, he had not had leisure
to study exhaustively. But our age has much to learn
from his example. And in his life, regarded as a
whole, there is a depth of goodness which can be but
faintly indicated in his biography.

              1 P. 205.      2 P. 179.

3 See the Occasional Poem on St. David's Day.

                         2F
          434  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.       [CHAP. XIV.

               CHAPTEE XIV.

               LAST ESSAYS AT CAMBRIDGE.

          AFTER Maxwell's return to Cambridge in 1871, several
          of those who had been "Apostles" together in 1853-7,
          revived the habit of meeting together for the discus-
          sion of speculative questions. This club of elder men

          (avSp&v 7rp(TJ3vTpa)v ercupia), which included such men
          as Dr. Lightfoot, now Bishop of Durham, and Pro-

          fessors Hort and Westcott, was christened Ernus (see

          p. 366), and three of Maxwell's contributions, dated by

          himself, have been preserved. It seems advisable to

          print these entire, although not even chips from his

          workshop, but rather sparks from the whetstone of
          his mind, since what he thought worthy of detaining
          the attention of such listeners in those ripe years

          cannot fail to be of interest to many readers.

               I.

JRt. 41.  Does the progress of Physical Science tend to give any advan-
                  tage to the opinion of Necessity (or Determinism) over
                 that of the Contingency of Events and the Freedom of the
                 Will?
                                                               llth February 1873.

                The general character and tendency of human thought is
          a topic the interest of which is not confined to professional
          philosophers. Though every one of us must, each for him-
CHAP. XIV.]           LAST ESSAYS.                                435

self, accept some sort of a philosophy, good or bad, and

though the whole virtue of this philosophy depends on it
being our own, yet none of us thinks it out entirely for him-

self. It is essential to our comfort that we should know

whether we are going with the general stream of human

thought or against  it,and           should turn out that the
                         a

                             if
                                 it
general stream flows in direction different from the current

of our private thought, though we may endeavour to explain

as the result of wide-spread aberration of intellect, we
it                  a
     it
                           if
            is
would be more satisfied we could obtain some evidence

that            not ourselves who are going astray.

      In such an enquiry we need some fiducial point or

standard of reference, by which we may ascertain the direc-

tion in which we are drifting. The books written by men

of former ages who thought about the same questions would

be of great use,    were not that we are apt to derive wrong
                  if                                     a
                                                               a
                     it              we approach them by course of

                            if
impression from them

reading unknown to those for whom they were written.

      There are certain questions, however, which form the

pieces de resistance of philosophy, on which men of all ages

have exhausted their arguments, and which are perfectly

certain to furnish matter of debate to generations to come,

and which may therefore serve to show how we are drifting.

At certain epoch of our adolescence those of us who are good
a

                       it

                                 is
for anything begin to get anxious about these questions, and

unless the cares of this world utterly choke our metaphysical

anxieties, we become developed into advocates of necessity or

of free-will. What                   which determines for us which side

we shall take must for the purpose of this essay be regarded

as contingent. According to Mr. F. Galton,               derived from
                                     a
structureless elements in our parents, which were probablyis

never developed in their earthly existence, and which mayit
have been handed down to them, still in the latent state,
                                                     is
through untold generations. Much might be said in favour

of such congenital bias towards particular scheme of
      aa
philosophy; at the same time we must acknowledge that

much of man's mental history depends upon events occur-
ring after his birth in time, and that he on the whole more
436  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.             [CHAP. XIV.

likely to espouse doctrines which harmonise with the par-

ticular set of ideas to which he is induced, by the process of

education, to confine his attention.  What will be the

probable effect if these ideas happen mainly to be those of

modern physical science ?

     The intimate connexion between physical and meta-

physical science is indicated even by their names. What

are the chief requisites of a physical laboratory ? Facilities

for measuring space, time, and mass. What is the occupa-

tion of a metaphysician ? Speculating on the modes of

difference of co-existent things, on invariable sequences,

and on the existence of matter.

      He is nothing but a physicist disarmed of all his
weapons, a disembodied spirit trying to measure distances in

terms of his own cubit, to form a chronology in which inter-

vals of time are measured by the number of thoughts which

they include, and to evolve a standard pound out of his own

self-consciousness. Taking metaphysicians singly, we find

again that as is their physics, so is their metaphysics.
Descartes, with his perfect insight into geometrical truth,
and his wonderful ingenuity in the imagination of mechanical

contrivances, was far behind the other great men of his time

with respect to the conception of matter as a receptacle of
momentum and energy. His doctrine of the collision of

bodies is ludicrously absurd. He admits, indeed, that the

facts are against him, but explains them as the result either
of the want of perfect hardness in the bodies, or of the
action of the surrounding air. His inability to form that

notion which we now call force is exemplified in his ex-

planation of the hardness of bodies as the result of the

quiescence of their parts.
      " Neque profecto ullum glutinum possumus excogitare,

quod particulas durorum corporum firmius inter se conjungat,

quam ipsarum quies." Princip., Pars II. LV.

      Descartes, in fact, was a firm believer that matter has
but one essential property, namely extension, and his in-
fluence in preserving this pernicious heresy in existence

extends even to very recent times. Spinoza's idea of matter,
CHAP. XIV.]  SCIENCE AND FREE WILL.  437

as lie receives it from the authorities, is exactly that of

Descartes ; and if he has added to it another essential

function, namely thought, the new ingredient does not inter-
fere with the old, and certainly does not bring the matter of
Descartes into closer resemblance with that of Newton.

      The influence of the physical ideas of Newton on philoso-

phical thought deserves a careful study. It may be traced

in a very direct way through Maclaurin and the Stewarts to
the Scotch School, the members of which had all listened to

the popular expositions of the Newtonian Philosophy in their

respective colleges. In England, Boyle and Locke reflect

Newtonian ideas with tolerable distinctness, though both

have ideas of their own. Berkeley, on the other hand,
though he is a master of the language of his time, is quite
impervious to its ideas. Samuel Clarke is perhaps one of the
best examples of the influence of Newton ; while Eoger Cotes,
in spite of his clever exposition of Newton's doctrines, must
be condemned as one of the earliest heretics bred in the

bosom of Newtonianism.

     It is absolutely manifest from these and other instances

that any development of physical science is likely to pro-
duce some modification of the methods and ideas of philoso-
phers, provided that the physical ideas are expounded in such

a way that the philosophers can understand them.
      The principal developments of physical ideas in modern

times have been

       1st. The idea of matter as the receptacle of momentum
and energy. This we may attribute to Galileo and some of

his contemporaries. This idea is fully expressed by Newton,
under the form of Laws of Motion.

       2d. The discussion of the relation between the fact of

gravitation and the maxim that matter cannot act where it

is not.

      3d. The discoveries in Physical Optics, at the beginning
of this century. These have produced much less effect out-

side the scientific world than might be expected. There are

two reasons for this. In the first place it is difficult, especi-

ally in these days of the separation of technical from popular
438            JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.             [CHAP. XIV.

knowledge, to expound physical optics to persons not pro-

fessedly mathematicians. The second reason  is      that
                                                   is,

                                                             it

                                                                      is
extremely easy to show such persons the phenomena, which

are very beautiful in themselves, and this  often accepted
as instruction in physical optics.

     4th. The development of the doctrine of the Conservation

of Energy. This has produced far greater effect on the
                         a

thinking world outside that of technical thermodynamics.

     As the doctrine of the conservation of matter gave                                    a

definiteness to statements regarding the immateriality of

the soul, so the doctrine of the conservation of energy, when

applied to living beings, leads to the conclusion that the

soul of an animal not, like the mainspring of watch, the
               is                               a
                      a                              is
motive power of the body, but that its function                                        rather

that of steersman of vessel, not to produce, but to regu-
     it
late and direct the animal powers.
         is a
      5th. The discoveries in Electricity and Magnetism labour

under the same disadvantages as those in Light. It diffi-
                                                                                       is

cult to present the ideas in an adequate manner to laymen,

and easy to show them wonderful experiments.

     6th. On the other hand, recent developments of Mole-

cular Science seem likely to have powerful effect on the
                                    a
                                          is

                                                              is
world of thought. The doctrine that visible bodies appar-

ently at rest are made up of parts, each of which moving

with the velocity of cannon ball, and yet never departing
               a

to visible extent from its mean place, sufficiently startling
a

     I
to attract the attention of an unprofessional man.

     But think the most important effect of molecular

science on our way of thinking will be that forces on our
                                            it

attention the distinction between two kinds of knowledge,

which we may call for convenience the Dynamical and

Statistical.

     The statistical method of investigating social questions

has Laplace for its most scientific and Buckle for its most

popular expounder. Persons are grouped according to some

characteristic, and the number of persons forming the group

     set down under that characteristic. This                                          the raw
is
                                                                                   is

material from which the statist endeavours to deduce general
                                                       OF THE
                                      'UNIFIES
CHAP. XIV.]   SCIENCE AND FREE WILL.  V /T-  , 439
                                                                  v^;  XT'  '
                                             3/H"Y
                                                                  V

theorems in sociology. Other students of human nature

proceed on a different plan. They observe individual men,

ascertain their history, analyse their motives, and compare
their expectation of what they will do with their actual con-

duct. This may be called the dynamical method of study

as applied to man. However imperfect the dynamical study
of man may be in practice, it evidently is the only perfect
method in principle, and its shortcomings arise from the

limitation of our powers rather than from a faulty method of
Ifprocedure.
              we betake ourselves to the statistical method,

we do so confessing that we are unable to follow the details

of each individual case, and expecting that the effects of
widespread causes, though very different in each individual,
will produce an average result on the whole nation, from a

study of which we may estimate the character and propensi-

ties of an imaginary being called the Mean Man.

     Now, if the molecular theory of the constitution of bodies

is true, all our knowledge of matter is of the statistical kind.

A constituent molecule of a body has properties very different

from those of the body to which it belongs. Besides its
immutability and other recondite properties, it has a velocity

which is different from that which we attribute to the body

as a whole.

The smallest portion of a body which we can discern

consists of a vast number of such molecules, and all that we

can learn about this group of molecules is statistical infor-

mation. We can determine the motion of the centre of

gravity of the group, but not that of any one of its members

for the time being, and these members themselves are
continually passing from one group to another in a manner

confessedly beyond our power of tracing them.
     Hence those uniformities which we observe in our

experiments with quantities of matter containing millions
of millions of molecules are uniformities of the same kind

as those explained by Laplace and wondered at by Buckle,

arising from the slumping together of multitudes of cases,

each of which is by no means uniform with the others.

The discussion of statistical matter is within the province
440  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XIV-

of human reason, and valid consequences may be deduced
from it by legitimate methods ; but there are certain peculi-
arities in the very form of the results which indicate that

they belong to a different department of knowledge from the
domain of exact science. They are not symmetrical func-

tions of the time. It makes all the difference in the world

whether we suppose the inquiry to be historical or prophet-
ical whether our object is to deduce the past state or the

future state of things from the known present state. In

astronomy, the two problems differ only in the sign of t, the
time ; in the theory of the diffusion of matter, heat, or

motion, the prophetical problem is always capable of solu-
tion ; but the historical one, except in singular cases, is in-

soluble. There may be other cases in which the past, but

not the future, may be deducible from the present. Perhaps
the process by which we remember past events, by submitting
our memory to analysis, may be a case of this kind.

      Much light may be thrown on some of these questions by
the consideration of stability and instability. When the state
of things is such that an infinitely small variation of the pre-
sent state will alter only by an infinitely small quantity the

state at some future time, the condition of the system, whether

at rest or in motion, is said to be stable ; but when an in-

finitely small variation in the present state may bring about
a finite difference in the state of the system in a finite time,

the condition of the system is said to be unstable.

     It is manifest that the existence of unstable conditions
renders impossible the prediction of future events, if our

knowledge of the present state is only approximate, and not

accurate.

     It has been well pointed out by Professor Balfour Stewart

that physical stability is the characteristic of those systems
from the contemplation of which determinists draw their
arguments, and physical stability that of those living bodies,
and moral instability that of those developable souls, which
furnish to consciousness the conviction of free will.

     Having thus pointed out some of the relations of physical
CHAP. XIV.]             SCIENCE AND FREE WILL.                        441

science to the question, we are the better prepared to inquire

Iwhat is meant by determination and what by free will.

     No one, suppose, would assign to free will a more than

infinitesimal range. No leopard can change his spots, nor

it,                                                      or, as some say, willing
                                      is

                                                    it,
can any one by merely wishing

   introduce discontinuity into his course of existence. Our

free will at the best like that of Lucretius's atoms,

which at quite uncertain times and places deviate in an

uncertain manner from their course. In the course of this

our mortal life we more or less frequently find ourselves on

   physical or moral watershed, where an imperceptible devia-
a
        is
tion sufficient to determine into which of two valleys we
shall descend. The doctrine of free will asserts that in some

such cases the Ego alone                    the determining cause. The
                           is
                                        is
doctrine of Determinism asserts that in every case, without

exception, the result determined by the previous conditions

of the subject, whether bodily or mental, and that Ego
                                                                      ?
mistaken in supposing himself in any way the cause of the
                                                                                        a is
actual result, as both what he              is  pleased to call decisions

and the resultant action are corresponding events due to

the same fixed laws. Now, when we speak of causes and

effects, we always imply some person who knows the causes

and deduces the effects. Who                    is       this person  Is he
                                                    a
man, or he the Deityis     ?      to say, person who can make
                is
    If he man, that           is

observations with certain finite degree of accuracy, we have
                        a

seen that   it      is  only in certain cases that he can predict

results with even approximate correctness.

    If he the Deity, object to any argument founded on
            is

                      I

a  supposed acquaintance with the conditions of Divine fore-

knowledge.

      The subject of the essay the relation to determinism,is
not of theology, metaphysics, or mathematics, but of physical
science, the science which depends for its material on the
observation and measurement of visible things, but which
aims at the development of doctrines whose consistency with
each other shall be apparent to our reason.
442  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XIV.

    It is a metaphysical doctrine that from the same ante-

cedents follow the same consequents. No one can gainsay
this. But it is not of much use in a world like this, in

which the same antecedents never again concur, and nothing
ever happens twice. Indeed, for aught we know, one of the
antecedents might be the precise date and place of the event,
in which case experience would go for nothing. The meta-
physical axiom would be of use only to a being possessed of
the knowledge of contingent events, scientia simplicis intelli-
gentice, a degree of knowledge to which mere omniscience of

all facts, scientia visionis, is but ignorance.

      The physical axiom which has a somewhat similar
aspect is "That from like antecedents follow like conse-

quents." But here we have passed from sameness to likeness,

Ifrom absolute accuracy to a more or less rough approximation.

There are certain classes of phenomena, as have said, in

which a small error in the data only introduces a small error
in the result. Such are, among others, the larger phenomena

of the Solar System, and those in which the more elementary
laws in Dynamics contribute the greater part of the result.

The course of events in these cases is stable.

       There are other classes of phenomena which are more
complicated, and in which cases of instability may occur, the

number of such cases increasing, in an exceedingly rapid
manner, as the number of variables increases. Thus, to take

a case from a branch of science which comes next to

astronomy itself as a manifestation of order : In the refrac-

tion of light, the direction of the refracted ray depends on

that of the incident ray, so that in general, if the one direc-
tion be slightly altered, the other also will be slightly altered.
In doubly refracting media there are two refracting rays, but
it is true of each of them that like causes produce like effects.
But if the direction of the ray within a biaxal crystal is

 nearly but not exactly coincident with that of the ray-axis of
the crystal, a small change in direction will produce a great
 change in the direction of the emergent ray. Of course, this
 arises from a singularity in the properties of the ray-axis, and
 there are only two ray-axes among the infinite number of
CHAP. XIV.]  SCIENCE AND FREE WILL.                           443

possible directions of lines in the crystal ; but it is to be ex-

pected that in phenomena of higher complexity there will be

a far greater number of singularities, near which the axiom

about like causes producing like effects ceases to be true.

Thus the conditions under which gun-cotton explodes are

far from being well known ; but the aim of chemists is not
so much to predict the time at which gun-cotton will go off

of itself, as to find a kind of gun-cotton which, when placed
in certain circumstances, has never yet exploded, and this

even when slight irregularities both in the manufacture and

in the storage are taken account of by trying numerous and

long continued experiments.                                   the

     In all such cases there is one common circumstance,

system has a quantity of potential energy, which is capable of

being transformed into motion, but which cannot begin to be

so transformed till the system has reached a certain configura-

tion, to attain which requires an expenditure of work, which
in certain cases may be infinitesimally small, and in general

bears no definite proportion to the energy developed in con-
sequence thereof. For example, the rock loosed by frost and

balanced on a singular point of the mountain-side, the little

spark which kindles the great forest, the little word which

sets the world a fighting, the little scruple which prevents
a man from doing his will, the little spore which blights all

the potatoes, the little gemmule which makes us philosophers

or idiots. Every existence above a certain rank has its

singular points : the higher the rank, the more of them. At

these points, influences whose physical magnitude is too

small to be taken account of by a finite being, may produce

results of the greatest importance. All great results pro-

duced by human endeavour depend on taking advantage of

these singular states when they occur.

             There is a tide in the affairs of men
             Which, taken at the flood, leads on to fortune.

The man of tact says "the right word at the right
time," and, " a word spoken in due season how good is it ! "
The man of no tact is like vinegar upon nitre when
444  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.          [CHAP. XIV.

he sings his songs to a heavy heart. The ill-timed

admonition hardens the heart, and the good resolution, taken

when it is sure to be broken, becomes macadamised into

pavement for the abyss.

     It appears then that in our own nature there are more

singular points, where prediction, except from absolutely
perfect data, and guided by the omniscience of contingency,
becomes impossible, than there are in any lower organisation.
But singular points are by their very nature isolated, and
form no appreciable fraction of the continuous course of our

existence. Hence predictions of human conduct may be
made in many cases. First, with respect to those who have
no character at all, especially when considered in crowds,
after the statistical method. Second, with respect to in-
dividuals of confirmed character, with respect to actions
of the kind for which their character is confirmed.

     If, therefore, those cultivators of physical science from

whom the intelligent public deduce their conception of the
physicist, and whose style is recognised as marking with a
scientific stamp the doctrines they promulgate, are led in pur-
suit of the arcana of science to the study of the singularities

and instabilities, rather than the continuities and stabilities

of things, the promotion of natural knowledge may tend to
remove that prejudice in favour of determinism which seems
to arise from assuming that the physical science of the
future is a mere magnified image of that of the past.

                          II.

     ON MODIFIED ASPECTS OF PAIN.

                               31st October 1876.

     We often make sensation in general the subject of dis-

cussion, but it does not appear that we think much about
Ifparticular sensations.
                          we did, we should have had more

names for them. Most of the words which seem at first

sight to be names of sensations are really used as names
of objects which we suppose to be associated with the sensa-

tion, and to be indicated by it. All such words as hot and
CHAP. XIV.]      ASPECTS OF PAIN.        445

cold, flat and sharp, green, bright, bitter, frouzy, and so on,it,
though they may sometimes excite in a very sympathetic mind
a faint image of some actual sensation, call up much more

vividly the idea of some external object or phenomenon.
Language, in fact, has become far more an instrument for con-
veying information and for recording facts than for awaken-
ing sympathy; and even thought, in articulately speaking
men, is occupied rather in methodising our perceptions than
in chewing the cud of our sensations.

      Of the few words which we have left to distinguish

states of feeling, most of the better sort, such as pleasure,
joy, happiness, are remarkably vague, so that the only
available part of the vocabulary of sensations consists of the

names of pains.

       Such words as toothache, headache, heartache, certainly
fulfil the condition of suggesting, at least to non- medical
persons, a state of feeling rather than an objective phe-

nomenon.
      Now, whatever we may think, each for ourselves, at the

time when we feel a pain or an ache, about consciousness or

subjectivity, we are compelled, when we have to speak about
     or even to think about to view from the outside, and

to adopt the objective method of treatment.
a it,                                    it
                                             it
              a                                    it

                                                                              a is
   A pain, then, in sentient being other than ourselves
                 a
   condition which that being ordinarily endeavours to puta

stop to, and the recurrence of which     tries to prevent;

just as pleasurable sensation one which endeavours tois

prolong, and afterwards to reproduce.

   The psychologist has therefore to study pleasures and

pains in their effects on    a       sentient being, just as the

naturalist studies forces in their effects on the motion ofit a

a  material system. The motion of the material system

would go on in determinate manner though no forces were
in action. The actions of living being, when not in state
                                         it

                                                 a
                                                           a
of conscious effort, and often, indeed, even when supposes

itself to be exercising what would call its will, go on in

manner determined by habits established by long custom,
446  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XIV.

and transmitted from generation to generation, though
varying slightly from individual to individual.

      According to the simplest form of the Evolution theory,
those individuals, tribes, or species, which have habits un-
favourable to their success in the battle of life, die out, and

help to improve the average quality of the remainder. This
good old rule, however, this simple plan, though it might
suffice for beings of great fecundity, would involve a great
waste of life among higher and less prolific forms. Hence

if any of these should come to have tastes and feelings, and
if these should happen to be such as to repel them from per-

nicious courses and attract them into salutary ones, this
would give them an advantage in the struggle for existence.

Of course, there would be an equal chance that the tastes
and feelings, when first developed, would be in favour of

courses leading to destruction ; but the individuals possessed
by these tastes and feelings would be all the quicker exter-

minated for the good that is to say, the more vigorous

continuation of the species.

      The susceptibility to pleasure and pain must therefore

be regarded as permitting a certain mitigation of the first
covenant of the evolutionists, " This do and live ; " the

original severity of which was all the greater since the word
" this " could be interpreted only by observing what actions

were not followed by death.
      By pursuing what we feel to be pleasant, and avoiding

what we feel to be painful, we are following a course which
was probably followed by many of our ancestors, and of
which we know at least this much that it did not bring

them to such speedy destruction as to prevent them from leav-
ing us as their descendants ; and this is more than we can say

for any absolutely new rule of life struck out by ourselves.
      But it must be confessed that the monitions of pleasure

and pain are not held in such high esteem by all men, as the
view which we have just taken would seem to warrant.
For though here and there we may find an isolated teacher
who has inculcated the cultivation of all forms of pleasurable
sensation, and the elimination of whatever is disagreeable,
CHAP. XIV.]  ASPECTS OF PAIN.  447

yet there has never been a state of society in which it has

not been reckoned more honourable

                     To scorn delights and live laborious days,

than to run after pleasure and to shrink from pain.
      And this brings me to the main point for our considera-

tion. Why is it that in all times and countries the endur-
ance of pain has been looked upon with great respect, and
has been considered necessary, salutary, honourable, or meri-
torious ? There is no difficulty, of course, about those cases
in which a person undertakes some enterprise, good in itself,
and in pursuance of this enterprise meets with various forms
of suffering. These are only instances of the general maxim
to despise evils of a lower order when they stand in the
way of some good of a higher order.

      The ability to endure suffering while engaged in a good
work being recognised as a species of excellence, it is only
natural that this kind of ability should become the subject
of special cultivation. The aspirant to this form of virtue,
therefore, voluntarily submits himself to suffering, not for
the sake of any visible benefit to himself and others to be
obtained by enduring that particular pain, but for the sake

of discipline.

      The aim of discipline is that he himself, and still more
that others, may have confidence that he is able to endure
suffering in a good cause, because he has already endured
suffering merely to justify this confidence.

      Practices of this kind have in some countries been developed
to an extravagant degree, and may have given rise to various
abnormal sentiments and maxims ; but in the principle of
educational discipline there is nothing but the soundest
wisdom, for the only way in which an individual can

acquire confidence that he can perform a given act when he

wishes to do so is by previous practice ; and when it is

necessary for the public good that there should be a body of
men, of each of whom we can be sure that he will act in a par-
ticular manner when the occasion for it arrives, it is absolutely
necessary that they should be drilled to an exercise as like as
448      JAMES CLEKK MAXWELL.     [CHAP. XIV.

possible to the action which is expected of them. But in all
this the inconvenience or suffering which has to be endured

is by no means regarded as good in itself. It is treated

as a necessary concomitant of the act to be performed, just
as muscular effort, which may sometimes arise to the in-
tensity of a pain, is a necessary concomitant of an athletic
exercise in which we may find pleasure.

      Indeed the pleasurable or painful character of an elementary

sensation or thought cannot be determined without taking

into account all its surroundings. A sensation or a thought

when separated from its surroundings may be disagreeable

or painful; but when it occurs as a part of an act of perception,
we may not recognize it as painful.

       There may even be a pleasurable complex emotion into
which the painful elementary sensation enters as an essential

ingredient, so that if on any occasion the painful sensation

is deficient, we feel that the pleasurable emotion is thereby

marred and rendered incomplete.

     IThere is another class of cases, however, in which the pain
itself is the essential element.  mean penal suffering. The

aim of punishment, when not vindictive, is to prevent the

repetition of certain acts by associating with them penal

consequences.

      The painful consequences of an act may be associated
with it by the way of natural consequence, or through the

medium of some external punishing authority, or by the

determination of the actor to punish himself.
      When painful effects follow an act by way of natural

consequence, they are not generally called punishment,
because we do not attribute to nature any intention of punish-

ing the particular act. But there can be no better instances
of the conditions of efficacious punishment than those in
which an act is so immediately and so certainly followed by
a painful sensation, that the sensation becomes inseparably

associated with the act, as in the case in which we touch

red-hot iron. In such cases the act is hardly ever re-

peated.
CHAP. XIV.]      ASPECTS OF PAIN.                            449

      When the connection between the act and the sensation

is not so immediate, but has to be traced through the action
of a voluntary punisher, as when an act of a boy or a dog is
followed by an unpleasant skin-sensation inflicted by the master,
the efficacy of the punishment still depends in a great degree
on its promptness and certainty, for these are the conditions
under which a permanent association can be effected between

the act and the sensation.

Let us now consider the feelings with which punish-

ment may be regarded by the recipient.

There may be beings in whom the feeling is simple

pure repugnance. There is a beast called the Tasmanian

Devil, which is said to fight against any odds, however over-

powering, as long as any of him can stick together. There

is no hope of taming or subduing such a beast by force, and

it is probable that he will soon become extinct.

But in the case of less indomitable beings, punishment

may soon assume a less hateful aspect.

     For even if it is not efficacious in changing the habits,

as soon as it is recognised as a certain consequence of trans-

gression, the execution of the punishment may be welcomed

a
                            is

                                   it
                                                 it,
as a relief from the expectation of and the culprit may

have satisfaction in getting  over, as an honest man has

when he pays his debts.

If, however, he          really cured of the habit, he may

look on the punishment as an operation by which he has

not only paid in full for his past transgression, but has been

free from the danger of falling into future transgressions.

Lastly, his moral perceptions have been so far im-
             if

proved that he recognises that the action for which he was

punished was really bad, he will sympathise more with the

punisher than with his former self, and will admit not only

the justice of his punishment as being according to law, but

the justice of the law according to which he was punished.

We come next to those cases in which there                            no
                         2
                              G

                                                           is
                                                                  is
external punisher, but in which grief or sorrow awakened

within ourselves on account of what we have done.
450  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XIV.

      Here, again, the effect may be very different according
to the mode in which the sensation of grief is applied, and

the result is rendered complicated on account of the identity
between the punisher and the punished.

      The legitimate application of the emotion of grief is of
course to the wrong act, so as to associate the act and all
that belongs to it with this painful emotion, and so diminish

the tendency to repeat the act.
      But the association may not be strong enough, or the

emotion of grief may altogether miss its mark, and may

concentrate attention on itself, and so become transformed

into self-pity, a very complex emotion, in which the sweet
is so mingled with the bitter, that its ultimate effect on our

conduct becomes very uncertain ; the most probable result,

however, being that on future occasions what should have
been contrition passes still more easily into self-pity, and
the whole performance assumes the character of a graceful
play of feelings which we enjoy rather than suffer.

      But though such perversions of feeling may occur, there
is no doubt that men do make successful use of self-inflicted

discipline as a means of influencing their own conduct. The
lower degrees of such discipline are put in practice when-
ever we have to change our habits in the most minute
particular. Without it we could not improve our pro-

nunciation or our handwriting.

      The great difficulty, however, in providing for the
punishment being applied in the right quarter, when the
punisher is identical with the punished person, has led to
the adoption of various imperfect solutions of the problem of
penance, in some of which the discipline is inflicted by the
arms on some other part of the body, and in others hunger
is brought into play by abstaining from food. But in no
sacrament is the intention of the administrator of such vital
importance as in self-penance. Spenser tells us how the
Red-Cross Knight underwent discipline under the directions
of Patience.

              But yet the cause and root of all his ill,

                     Inward corruption and infected sin,
CHAP. XIV.]  ASPECTS OF PAIN.                     451

Not purged nor healed, behind remained still,
   And fest'ring sore, did ranckle yet within,

Close creeping 'twixt the marrow and the skin ;
   Which to extirpe, he laid him privily
   Down in a darksome lowly place far in,

Whereas he meant his corrosives to apply,
And with streight diet tame his stubborn malady.

             In ashes and sackcloth he did array
                   His daintie corse, proud humours to abate

              And dieted with fasting every day

                     The swelling of his wounds to mitigate ;
               And made him pray both early and eke late.
               And ever as superfluous flesh did rot,

                   Amendment ready still at hand did wayt,
             To pluck it out with pincers fiery whott
               That soon in him was left no one corrupted iott.

     Here we see the advantage of allegory. In real life the

poor man, instead of having Patience and Amendment as his
good friends standing by his side, would have to conjure them
up inside of him, and to apply the pincers with his own
hand. But setting allegory aside, we can find here no exalta-
tion of pain in itself. The pain is a necessary concomitant
of the extirpation of evil habits from a conscious being.
Amendment is the aim and end of the discipline, and the
sole reason that he has to heat his pincers fiery whott is that
the evil which he has to extirpe has crept close betwixt the
marrow and the skin, and requires the actual cautery to

prevent its creeping further.

      Again, in the Collect for the first Sunday in Lent, we
pray for " grace to use such abstinence," that, our flesh being-
subdued to the spirit, we may ever obey " the godly motions "
of Christ. Abstinence is to be used only as a help towards

the subjugation of our lower nature, and the opening up of

Iour higher nature to divine influence.
          have said nothing of the aspect of penal suffering as
a satisfaction either of justice from the point of view of a
ruler, or of vengeance from the point of view of an aggrieved

person.
452           JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.      [CHAP. XIV.

     INor have attempted to discuss the process by which

the suffering, real or apparent, of one may be a direct source

Iof pleasure to another who has cultivated the spirit of

cruelty. For cannot think that pure cruelty, as distinct

from combativeness, anger and love of power, is anything

but a morbid growth of feeling, subject, of course, to the

general laws of the growth of feeling, whatever they may be,

but no more to be regarded as a subject for our discussion

here than those forms of perverted feeling which induce

dogs to gnaw off* their own toes, or devotees to hold their

arms above their heads till they can no longer bring them

down again.   Ill

              (PSYCHOPHYSIK.)           5th February 1878. "

     Whence came we ? whither are we going ? and what

should we do now ? are three questions of some celebrity.

We have come from somewhere between this and Orion ; we

are going at  kilometres per second towards Hercules ;

and we must therefore observe stars in a direction at right

angles to our path ; are the answers suggested twenty-five
years ago. It seems to me that a change has come over the
Iquestions, so that they now read, What used to believe
Iabout myself ? what is it likely shall have to believe about
Imyself ? and what should believe about myself now ?
     I Iused to believe myself to be the Conscious Ego.
                                                         am
Itold shall have soon to believe myself to be a congeries of
Iplastidule souls, and that must at once study psychophysik

Iin order to obtain a true knowledge of myself.
          propose, therefore, to talk of the Conscious Ego, of

Plastidule souls, and of Psychophysik.

      (1.) What is your name ? is a still more celebrated ques-
tion. The suggested answer, N". or M., recalls to the mathema-

tician ideas and operations of the most heterogeneous kind.

Let us consider some of them. The instructors of my youth

would have expected me to answer My name is the Con-

scious Ego, one and indivisible, the Subject, in relation to

whom all other beings, material, human, or divine, are
CHAP. XIV.]    PSYCHOPHYSIK.                  453

mere Objects. Whether the being of such Objects can be

maintained or upheld apart from my continuous perception

of them is the great question of Metaphysic.

      Though nothing can rise to the dignity even of an

IObject, except in so far as it is perceived by me, regard

certain Objects as nearer in rank to me, the Subject, than

others, because it is through them that other Objects are
Iperceived. Indeed,
                     often catch myself, when thinking
Iabout my body or my mind, supposing that am thinking

about myself.

There are other objects within the sphere of our percep-

tions which resemble our bodies, though they are not ours.

The actions of these objects are so far like our own that we

not only attribute to these objects the power of thinking, but

also the consciousness of knowing, feeling, desiring and

willing. In short, we suppose that each of these objects,

when he asserts himself to be the Conscious Ego, means

what we do when we make a similar statement.
      The late Professor Eerrier, in his " Metaphysic," makes

great use of this Alter Ego, and for his own purposes he
treats him as a true Ego, whereas in Metaphysic he can

never be more than an Object. This, however, is only a

confusion of persons, not an actual division of the substance

of the Ego. Our business to-night lies in the abysmal

depths of Personality, and relates to the Unity of the Ego.

     A great deal of what has been written on this subject

relates to the continuity of the Ego in space and time, or in

what corresponds in metaphysic to the space and time of
physic. And first of Space. Has the Ego anything corre-
sponding to Extension ? Has he parts ? and, if so, are these

parts separable in fact or even in idea ?

     It has been maintained that he has no parts ; that his

state of consciousness at any instant is an inseparable whole,

comparable, in respect of extension, to a mathematical point.is,

I IAccording to this view, when think see an extensive
Iprospect all at once before me, am in reality either actually

rolling my eye in an unconscious frenzy, or without any
bodily motion I, that the perceptive Ego, am attending
454  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XIV.

first to one minimum visibile, and then to another, so that

what is presented to me is like the idea which a blind man
forms of the shape of an object by stroking it with the end
of his stick. The evidence relates only to the position of
points in the line traced by the end of his stick, but he fills
in the rest of the surface in accordance with his notions of

continuity and probability.

      There is no department of psychophysik which has been
so successfully studied as that which relates to vision. When

we keep not only our eyes, but our attention, fixed on one

small object, the field of conscious vision seems to contract, till
only that object remains visible, and even it seems about to

disappear. It generally happens, however, that the feeling of

uneasiness which grows upon us causes at last a slight dis-
placement of the eye, when suddenly a large extent of the
field starts into visibility, and the edges of objects, especially
those normal to the line of displacement, become obtrusively
prominent. This experiment seems at first sight to indicate
that the central spot of the retina has some exclusive privi-
lege in the economy of vision. What it really shows is that
changes in the mode of excitation are essential to perfect
vision, and that vision cannot be maintained under an abso-

lute sameness of excitation. On the other hand, by means
of the instantaneous light of a single electric spark, we may
read a whole sentence of print. Here we know that though
the illumination lasts only for a few millionths of a second,

the image on the retina lasts for a time amply sufficient for

an expert reader to go over it letter by letter, and even to
detect misprints. This experiment suggests certain specula-
tions about memory, a faculty which is often supposed to
be essential to the continuity of the Ego in time.

    When men wish to have things remembered, they set up

monuments, and write inscriptions and books, they draw
pictures and take photographs, in order that these material
things may help them, in time to come, to call up the
thought of that which they were intended to commemorate.

   In our own bodies we have records of past events. Old
CHAP. XIV.]  PSYCHOPHYSIK.                  455

wounds may remind us of impressions made years ago, and

ocular spectra remind us of impressions made seconds ago.
Even in quiet meditation we sometimes find the ideas of
visible objects accompanied with sensations hardly less vivid
than those produced by real objects, and the memory of
spoken words passes in a continuous manner, as the condi-

tion of our nerves becomes more exalted, first into a silent

straining of the organs of speech, and then into an audible

voice.

Beginners in music may practise on a dumb piano, and

there is a silent process by which we may improve our pro-

nunciation of foreign words.

We can thus trace a continuous series of the instruments

of memory, beginning at the tables of stone and going on to

the tables of the heart ; and we are tempted to ask whether

all memorials are not of the same kind a physical impres-

sion on a material system.

The last American invention of the past year is Edison's

Talking Phonograph. This instrument has an ear of its own,

into which you may say your lesson, and a mouth of its

own, which at any future time is ready to repeat that lesson.

The memory of this machine consists of tinfoil thin

enough to be impressionable by the metal style which is set
in motion by the voice, and yet thick enough to be retentive

of these impressions, and at a proper time to communicate a

corresponding motion to the style of the talking part of the

machine.

Such is the heart of this instrument, by which it gets its

speeches. Are our own hearts essentially different ? We

know what damage can be done to our memory by physical

disturbances. We find ourselves quite unable to recall

what we had often perused and reperused on the pages of

memory. The page is lost out of our consciousness. Time
goes on, and some day we find that the page with all that it
contained has been restored to its place. Where was that

page when it was out of our consciousness ? Not surely in
the Ego, unless there be an unconscious Ego. It must be
Ifout of the Ego, and therefore an Object.
                                            this be so, it is
456  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XIV.

of no great consequence to the dignity of the Ego, whether

this particular object is purely spiritual or has a material
substratum, just as history is history, whether or not it has

a material substratum of paper and ink.

     Memory is sometimes spoken of as if it were essential

I Ito individuality. When wish to convince myself that
Iam the same person as a certain baby, may do so by

Iremembering as my own certain acts done by that baby.

It may happen, however, that cannot ascertain whether

my present memory of these acts is due entirely to the
direct^impression made by these acts on me, or whether it
is not mainly due to. the frequent repetition of the story of
these acts, as told to me afterwards by older persons.

    IBut even if were to find my memory to be all wrong,
Iand that am not that baby but a changeling, this would
Inot touch my conviction that who now am, am one.

      The phenomenon of double consciousness, though not

common, seems to be well established. A person has a
double series of alternate states. In one the memory, edu-

cation, accomplishments, and temper, are quite different from

what they are in the other.

       Instances have even been adduced of a man believing

himself to be two or even three different individuals at the

same time. But when we come to examine any particular
case, we find that the man has nothing more than an errone-

ous opinion that he is entitled to the position and rights of
the King, or of some other person, as well as his own, so
that even in his own imagination he is no more than a person

who holds several different offices at the same time.

      (2.) The theory of Plastidule souls has been hinted at by
several persons of whom Dr. Tyndall has spoken loudest.

A much clearer utterance is that of Professor von Nageli, of

Munich, in an address delivered at the Munich meeting of
the German Association in 1877.

      Du Bois Eeymond, in an address to the same body at
Leipzig in 1872, had asserted

      " That in the first trace of pleasure which was felt by
one of the simplest beings in the beginning of animal life
CHAP. XIV.]     PSYCHOPHYSIK.                     457

upon our earth, an insuperable limit was marked; while

upwards from this to the most elevated mental activity, and

downwards from the vital force of the organic to the simple

physical force, he nowhere finds another limit."

To this Professor Nageli replies
" Experience shows that from the clearest consciousness

of the thinker downwards, through the more imperfect con-

sciousness of the child, to the unconsciousness of the embryo,

and to the insensibility of the human ovum, or through

the more imperfect consciousness of undeveloped human

races and of higher animals to the unconsciousness of lower
animals and of sensitive plants, and to the insensibility of

all other plants, there exists a continuous gradation without

definable limit, and that the same gradation continues from

the life of the animal ovum and the vegetable cell down-

wards, through organised elementary and more or less lifeless

forms (parts of the cell), to crystals and chemical molecules."

Professor von Nageli accepts the fact of sensation, appe-

tency, and thought in the higher forms of life ; but instead
of trying to resolve it into a mechanical process, he levels up

the discontinuity of the chain of being by attributing sensa-

tion not only to all organisms, but also to all cells, molecules,

and atoms. This is what he says

     " Now, if the molecules possess anything which is ever

a if,
                                       ;
                      it
                                  is if
                                         it
                                                                                           ;
                                                    it if if
                                                                                   is
                                                                                            ; it,
so distantly related to sensation, and we cannot doubt

since each one feels the presence, the certain condition, the

peculiar forces of the other, and, accordingly, has the

inclination to move, and under circumstances really begins

to move becomes alive as  were moreover, since such

molecules are the elements which cause pleasure and pain

therefore, the molecules feel something that related to

sensation, then this must be pleasure,  they can respond

to attraction and repulsion, i.e. follow their inclination or

disinclination  must be displeasure     they are forced to

execute some opposite movement, and     must be neither

pleasure nor displeasure they remain at rest."

      Professor von Nageli what Professor Huxley would call

mere biologist, or he would have known that the molecules,
458               JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XIV.

like the planets, move along like blessed gods. They cannot
be disturbed from the path of their choice by the action of
any forces, for they have a constant and perpetual will to
render to every force precisely the amount of deflexion which
is due to it. They must therefore enjoy a perpetuity of the

highest and most unmixed pleasure, even when, as Professor

Nageli says, they are the cause of pain to us.

     To attribute life, sensation, and thought to objects in

which these attributes are not established by sufficient

evidence is nothing more than the good old figure of

Personification.

    If certain bodies, like the sun and stars, move in a
regular manner which we can predict, we may, if it pleases

us, suppose that then: nature is like that of the just man
Ifwhom nothing can turn from the path of rectitude.
                                                                                           the

motion of other bodies is less simple, so that we cannot

account for       it,

                       a
                                                        is

                                                                                       is
                  we may suppose their nature to be tainted

with that capriciousness which we observe in our fellow-men,
and of which we are occasionally conscious in ourselves.

     But the study of nature has always tended to show that

what we formerly attributed to the caprice of bodies only

an instance of regularity which unbroken, but which

cannot be traced by us till we acquire the requisite skill.

      But granting that the mental powers of atoms may be,
for anything we know, of the very highest order, what step
have we made towards linking our own mental powers with

those of lower orders of being
                       a?
                                                  is
                                                                               a
      (3.) Let us suppose that thinking man built up of
number of thinking atoms. Have the thoughts of the man

any relation to the thoughts of atoms or of one or more of

them              Those who try to account by means of atoms for
a
mental processes do so not by the thoughts of the atoms,
               ?
but by their motions.

                Hobbes, in the frontispiece of his Zeviathan, shows us

monster like the wicker images of our British antecessors

stuffed with men, and the whole method of his book                                         is
CHAP. XIV.]                         .     459

                 PSYCHOPHYSIK.

founded on an analogy between the body politic and the

individual man.

      Herbert Spencer has pushed the analogy both upwards
and downwards as far as it will go, and further than it can

go on all fours. He shows us how a society is an organism,
and how an organism is a society, how the lower forms of

societies and organisms consist of a multitude of homogeneous

parts, the functions of which are imperfectly differentiated,

so that each can at a pinch undertake the office of. any

other ; whereas the parts of higher forms of organisms and

societies are exceedingly heterogeneous, and discharge more

perfectly differentiated functions.    Hence to the lower

forms a breaking up may be a multiplication of the species,

whereas to the higher forms it is death.
In a society, as in an organism, both the working and
the thinking will be better done if undertaken by different

members, provided that the thinking members can guide the

working members, while the working members support the

thinking members, the workers retaining just enough intel-

ligence to enable them to receive the guidance, and the

thinkers retaining just enough working power to enable

them to appropriate the pabulum presented to them by the

workers.

Hence in the more highly developed systems the

guiding powers may be concentrated into a smaller por-

tion of the whole system, and may exercise a more un-

disputed power of guiding the rest, till in the highest

organism we arrive at what is called Personal Government,

and the organism may bear without abuse the grand old

name of Individual. This result is brought about by all the

members except one bartering their right of guiding them-

selves for the privilege of being guided, and so delegating to

the one ruling member the functions of government. When

the human society has lapsed into the condition of personal

government, the consciousness of the head of the state may

be expressed by him in the phrase, " L'etat c'est moi ; " but

though the other members of the society may delegate to

the head all their political powers, they cannot delegate their
460          JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.           [CHAP. XIV.

sensations or any other fact of consciousness, for these
are the incommunicable attributes of that Ego to whom they

belong.

     I Ihave now to confess that up to the present moment
Ihave remained in ignorance of how came to be, or, in the
ISpencerian language, how consciousness must arise,
                                                            was

dimly aware that somewhere in the vast System of Philosophy

Ithis question had been settled, because the Evolutionists are

all so calm about it ; but in a hasty search for it never

Isuspected in how quiet and unostentatious a manner the
origin of myself would be accounted for.    am indebted to

Mr. Kirkman for pointing it out in his Philosophy without

Assumptions. Here it is with Mr. Kirkman's comment.

Principles of Psychology, 179, p. 403 : "These separate
impressions are received by the senses by different parts of
Ifthe body.
             they go no further than the places at which

they are received, they are useless. Or if only some of them

are brought into relation with one another, they are useless.

That an effectual adjustment may be made, they must all be

brought into relation with one another. But this implies

some centre of communication common to them all, through

which they severally pass ; and, as they cannot pass through
it simultaneously, they must pass through it in succession.

So that as the external phenomena responded to become

greater in number and more complicated in kind, the variety

and rapidity of the changes to which this common centre

of communication is subject must increase   there must

result an unbroken series of these changes  there must

arise a consciousness."                              ?      and
      On this Kirkman remarks : " He knew he could do       The
                                                       it,
he did it! " What was the evolution of light to this

next Longinus will put that in before yevecrOa) </>w? KOI
eyevero <?.

     The opinions about my origin are as various as those

about my nature. Canon Liddon tells me that                 was
                                            II
created out of nothing in the year 1831, though cannot
CHAP. XIV.]  PSYCHOPHYSIK.                           461

make out from what he says on what day of that year the

event took place, or why my parents and not some one else

Ifound me under a gooseberry bush ; or, indeed, why should

have any part or lot in family matters, from Adam's first

Isin down to my father's last name.    am developed from

     Mr. Francis Galton tells me that

structureless germs contributed not only by my two parents
but by their remotest ancestors centuries ago. My exist-
ence, therefore, does not begin abruptly, but tails off as an

exponential function of t does for negative values of that

variable. My local existence, however, though at present

confined within the periphractic region of my skin, was in

former times discontinuous as regards space, being carried

about by two, four, or more, distinct human beings.

Dr. Julius Mtiller tells me that by an analysis of my
Iconscience shall come to a very different result, namely,
Ithat
       existed (if, indeed, the fact can be expressed by a

Ipast tense and not a pure aorist), in an extra-temporal state,

and that in that state freely determined myself to choose

evil rather than good.

    IHe does not say can remember this transaction. The
Iconviction am to acquire of it is not to be an experimental

or empirical consciousness, but a speculative or philosophical

knowledge.
      Since, according to Miiller's theory, this extra-temporal

decision is perfectly free, and since it would be difficult to
predicate freedom of a choice which is invariably on one side,
he is obliged to assert that in the extra-temporal state some
of our species must have chosen the better part. But he has
also to maintain that all of us who are born into this world

by ordinary generation have already chosen the worse part.

       Hence, though he does not say so, he makes the extra-
temporal fall a condition of our being born into this world.
Whether those of us who make the better choice are born

into some other world, or whether, so long as they remain
unfallen, they continue in the extra-temporal state a state

certainly not higher but rather more undeveloped than that
of time Mliller does not say.
462  JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.  [CHAP. XIV.

     Dr. John Henry Newman has shown us how the doctrine
of post-baptismal sin became developed into the discovery of

Purgatory with all its geographical details. It would seem
as if the doctrine of original sin, in the hands of speculative

theologians, might open up to our view a far more trans-
cendental region, compared with which the stairs and terraces
and fires of purgatory are as familiar as those of our own

hearths and homes.

     As to my present state, Du Bois Reymond tells me that
not only my bodily but a large part of my mental functions are
performed by the motion of atoms under fixed laws, and his
result is that the finite mind, as it has developed itself
through the animal world up to man, is a double one, on

the one side the acting, inventing, unconscious, material
mind, which puts the muscles into motion and determines
the world's history : this is nothing else but the mechanics of
atoms, and is subject to the causal law ; and on the other

side the inactive, contemplative, remembering, fancying, con-
scious, immaterial mind, which feels pleasure and pain, love
and hate : this one lies outside of the mechanics of matter

and cares nothing for cause and effect.

      Dr. Drysdale tells me that not only my thinking powers

I Ibut my feelings are functions of the material organism, and

that myself am such a function. He admits that am
not material no function can be material, for matter is a

substance, and a function is not a being at all. Dr. Drysdale,
as a Christian materialist, follows his master Fletcher, who

says

      " As often as it shall be said that mind or the faculty of
thinking is a property of living matter, that it is born with
the body, is developed with the body, decays with the body,
and dies with the body, it is to be understood of the mind
only, not the soul. The soul is something not material
indeed, but substantial a divine gift to the highest alone
of God's creatures, responsible for all the actions of mind,
but as totally distinct from it as one thing can be from

another, or rather as something is from nothing."

      Dr. Drysdale, however, in order to save the dynamical
CHAP. XIV.]             PSYCHOPHYSIK.                         463

theory of life and mind, says that this soul or spirit

must either, if now existing, be a passive spectator of the

action of the living being connected with  it,
                                                        is
                                              or else that

he has no existence during this present life, but             to be

constituted by divine act after the death of the living
I
   I

            it

                   is

               Ia
                   I

                          I
being.                  cannot identify this soul with myself,

     In either case,

for know that exist now, and that act, and that what
                                   I

do may be right or wrong, and that whether right or

wrong,       my act, which cannot repudiate.

In this search for information about myself from

eminent thinkers of different types, seem to have learnt
             is
                           a

                         I;
                                it I

                                                     is

                                                          it
one lesson, that all science and philosophy and every form of

human speech about objects capable of being perceived

by the speaker and the hearer and that when our thought

pretends to deal with the Subject      really only dealing

with an Object under    false name. The only proposition
about the Subject, namely, " am," cannot be used in the

same sense by any two of us, and, therefore,                  can never

become science at all.

                      END OF PART  I.
                PAET II.

                CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.

       " He was one of those who took more delight in the contemplation
 of truth than in the praise of having discovered it."

                                                 PLAYF AIR'S Memoirs of Dr. Hutton.

AT the close of the memoir published in the Proceedings
of the Royal Society, Mr. W. D. Mven, referring to Maxwell's

scientific work, says :

     It is seldom that the faculties of invention and exposition,

the attachment to physical science, and capability of developing
it mathematically, have been found existing in one mind to the

same degree. It would, however, require powers somewhat akin

to Maxwell's own, to describe the more delicate features of the
works resulting from this combination, every one of which is
stamped with the subtle but unmistakable impress of genius.

     It will probably be many years before an approximate
estimate can be formed of the value of Maxwell's work. In

the following pages no attempt has been made to give more
than a brief account of a few of his principal contributions
to science. The chief subjects referred to have, for conveni-
ence, been arranged in the following order :

      1. Experiments on Colour Vision and other contribu-
tions to Optics.

      2. Investigations respecting Elastic Solids.
      3. Pure Geometry.
       4. Mechanics.
       5. Saturn's Eings.

                                                      2H
466 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

      6. Faraday's Lines of Force, and Maxwell's Theory of
the Electro-magnetic Field, including the Electro-magnetic
Theory of Light and other investigations in Electricity.

      7. Molecular Physics.

      1. The subject of colour- vision attracted Clerk Maxwell's

attention at an early period. In dealing with phenomena
of this class, we must remember that it is necessary to dis-

tinguish between the sensation itself and its physical cause,

or between the subjective and objective aspects of the same

phenomenon. Thus a pure musical tone consists of a regular
succession of similar vibrations, and two tones may differ in

the extent of these vibrations, and in the number which

take place in a second. Corresponding to these physical

differences, are experienced differences in the intensity

or loudness, and the pitch of the note. Light, like sound,

consists objectively of certain periodic disturbances or vibra-

tions of a medium, but differs from sound in the character

of the motion, the nature of the medium which transmits
                                           a
                                                        a
                                                                   it,
and the number of vibrations which take place in second.

The simplest kind of light consists, like      pure tone in

sound, of regular succession of similar vibrations, the
aa
     aextent of which determines the intensity of the light, while

their rapidity corresponds to the colour sensation produced.

The constitution of ordinary white light much more com-
                             a is
plicated. Newton allowed  a          abeam of sunlight to pass

through prism, and then to fall upon screen, when, in-

stead of white patch of light, he obtained spectrum, or

continuous band of colour, varying from crimson through

scarlet, orange, yellow, green, blue, to violet. Rays corre-
sponding to this infinite variety of colour must, therefore,

exist together in white solar light, and these rays differ
physically from one another in the rapidity of the vibrations

of which they consist the deep crimson corresponding to
a

                                    ;
                                                                                                                                             <y
less than 400,000,000,000,000 vibrations per second, and

the extreme violet to more than 700,000,000,000,000, the

length of wave in air being, in the first case, about ^--gyjj<j

of an inch, and, in the second case, about -^  of an inch.
          CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.  467

      But white light is not necessarily of so complex a nature
as sunlight ; thus it may consist of a mixture of red, green,

and blue lights simply, or of yellow and blue, or greenish-

yellow and violet, or of other mixtures of two or more kinds

of light, each in itself homogeneous. When this is the case,
the constitution of the light is revealed when it is allowed
to pass through a prism, for it is then separated into its

simple constituents which, on emerging from the prism,

pursue different paths. Similarly, various kinds of homo-

geneous light may be matched by means of a mixture of

lights of other colours appropriately chosen. Thus orange

light of a particular hue may be the homogeneous light
of the spectrum, or it may be a mixture of red and yellow

or of red and green lights, which is chromatically identical
with the homogeneous orange, but optically different, inas-

much as the mixture can be resolved into its constituents

by means of a prism, while the homogeneous orange light

may be passed through any number of prisms and yet retain

its perfect homogeneity.

These results were accounted for by Thomas Young (1801),

on the suppositiqn that there are three separate sensations

which are excited to different degrees the proportion in
which each is excited depending on the nature of the light.
He was of opinion that these three sensations were red,

green, and violet, and that all other hues were compound

colours,  though they might      correspond to a simple kind of
light.    " The quality' of any  colour depends, according to this

theory, on the ratio of the intensities of the three sensations
which it excites, and its brightness depends on the sum of

these three intensities."

      Young's colour diagram was a triangle, at the angular
points of which he placed the three colours corresponding,
according to his theory, with the primary sensations ; along
the sides of the triangle were placed the colours formed by
mixing these two and two together, while within the triangle

were to be found the colours resulting from mixtures of all
three in different proportions. The position of each colour

was determined by finding the centre of gravity, of two or
468 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

three heavy particles placed at the angular points of the
triangle, the weight of each particle being proportional to the
quantity of the corresponding light employed in the mixture.

      Although the light of the spectrum which corresponds
to any particular spectral colour is simple in its constitution,
consisting of a definite number of waves per second, and
ordinary white light is a combination of an infinite number
of such rays, varying in rapidity of vibration from the

extreme red to the extreme violet, yet the mechanism of
vision appears to be of a threefold character, so organised
that light of each particular wave-length affects in different

proportions the three colour senses, the hue depending on
the relative amounts to which they are severally excited,

as explained by Young. An analogy may help to make
this distinction clearer ; thus, it has been customary to speak
of the heating power, the illuminating power, and the photo-
graphic power, of any particular kind of light ; and in the
solar spectrum formed by a glass prism the greatest heating
power is possessed by the ultra red rays, the greatest
illuminating power ( judged by normal eyes) by the greenish
yellow rays, and the greatest photographic power (in relation
to silver salts) by the ultra-violet rays ; but we do not
thereby imply that there are three separate classes of rays
in solar light, consisting respectively of heating rays, illumi-
nating rays, and chemical rays : we simply mean that any
particular homogeneous ray possesses each of these three

powers to a certain extent. Similarly any ray of the spec-
trum may be capable of stimulating each of three independ-
ent colour sensations, but it does not follow that it consists
physically of three different kinds of light.

     In the Philosophical Magazine for 1852 there is an

account of an experiment by Helmholtz, which consisted in

mixing the colours of the spectrum by forming two spectra

from slits at right angles to each other. It is obvious that
if the breadth of each spectrum be equal to its length, every

pair of colours in the whole spectrum will in this way be
superposed. In Helmholtz's experiment it appeared that a
mixture of yellow and indigo produced white.
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.  469

      Maxwell's first published experiments on the mixture of
coloured lights, executed while he was a B.A. at Cambridge,
had reference to the mixtures of coloured lights obtained

from coloured papers. One of the best accounts of these
experiments will be found in the paper read before the
Koyal Society of Edinburgh by Clerk Maxwell on 19th
March 1855. The instrument first employed was a top,

constructed by Maxwell himself; but he afterwards had tops

                                                                    Fig. 1.

made by Mr. Bryson of Edinburgh. The coloured papers
were cut into circular discs, with a small hole in the centre
to admit the spindle of the top, and were slit along a radius
from the circumference to the central hole. By this means
two or more discs could be placed together, and by turning
one relatively to the others, more or less of any particular
470 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

disc could be made visible from above. The top consisted

of a disc of metal, covered with white paper and mounted on

a suitable spindle, the circumference of which was divided

into 100 equal parts. Two sizes of discs were employed ;

the larger discs having been adjusted as required, were

placed on the graduated plate, and the smaller discs above

them. The plate then presented an appearance similar to
that sketched in the adjoining figure. The employment

of the apparatus depends on the fact, observed by Hartley

the psychologist, that visual impressions remain for some

time on the retina even after the source of light has been

removed. Thus, suppose that the larger discs are respect-

ively red, green, and blue, and suppose that we look at the
Ifmiddle of the red sector and then spin the top.
                                                   the

spinning is sufficiently rapid the impression produced by the
red light will not have diminished sensibly before the green

paper takes the place of the red, and the green light pro-

duces its effect on the same portion of the retina, and this

again is followed by blue before either the red or the green

sensations have sensibly diminished, and then the whole

process is repeated many times in a second. The impressions

due to the three coloured lights are therefore blended on the
retina, and it can be shown experimentally that the tint
observed is the same as when the three kinds of light in

the same relative proportions are allowed to fall simultan-

eously upon the eye. The colour top, therefore, enables us

to mix together, in any definite proportions, which can be
changed at will, the lights from differently coloured papers,

and to observe the effect produced by the mixing.

Suppose that the colours of the larger discs are red,

green, and blue, and that these are arranged so that the

coloured lights may be mixed in the proportions necessary

to form white light. Then the colour of the ring exhibited

by the larger discs when the top revolves can differ from
that of white paper only in respect of illumination. If,

therefore, we can diminish the apparent brightness of the

central circle at will, we may produce a complete match.
This may be effected by combining a black disc, which
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                                   471

emits very little light indeed, with the white disc, so that the

amount of light received from the central circle is approxi-

mately proportional to the angle of the white sector. On

spinning the top, the central circle appears of a neutral gray,

which is the same as a dull white, and the darkness of

the gray increases with the amount of the black sector intro-

duced. If, now, the outer circle appears yellow compared

with the central gray when the top is spinning, it is found

that, by increasing the amount of blue and diminishing the

red and green, the circles may be matched in hue. Similarly,

if it appears too green we must diminish the green and in-
crease the red and blue, while if it appears purple we must

increase the amount of green. After a little experience it

is easy to recognise the character of the change required.

Now, suppose that we have three and only three colour

sensations, and that, for the sake of argument, these

correspond respectively to red, green, and blue. Then if

two colours contain the same amount of red, the same

amount of green, and the same amount of blue, they must

be in every respect identical. There are, therefore, three

conditions to satisfy in order that two colours may match.

But in the case of the top, two other conditions must be

also fulfilled, for the portions of the smaller discs employed

must exactly fill up the circle, and the same must be true

of the larger discs. Hence there are in all five conditions

to be fulfilled in order to make a colour match, and in

general five discs will have to be employed and matched,
                                         If there had
two against three or three against two.

been four primary colour sensations, we should have re-

quired in general to employ six discs to ensure a match,

and so on for any other number. Maxwell showed that

with a normal eye a match could always be obtained with

five discs, but that with a colour-blind person a match

could always be obtained with four discs, thus demonstrating

that the normal eye possesses three independent colour sensa-

tions, while the eye of the colour-blind possesses only two.

This conclusion will appear more evident from the experiments

with the colour box, which will be described presently.
472 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

      The result of each experiment was first expressed by an
equation in which the colours in the outer circle, with their
respective quantities as coefficients, appeared on the left of
the equation, and those in the inner circle on the right side.

Thus, employing V for vermilion, U for ultramarine, and EG-

for emerald green, SW for snow-white, and Bk for black, the

equation

means that a sector of vermilion occupying 37 divisions of
the outer circle, combined with a sector of ultramarine
occupying 27 divisions, and a sector of emerald green
occupying 36 divisions, produced, on spinning, a colour which
matched that obtained by a sector of white paper occupying
28 divisons, and a sector of black occupying 72 divisions.
The sum of the coefficients on each side of the equation is

of course 1.
      The mode of conducting an experiment is best described

in Maxwell's own words :

     As an example of the method of experimenting, let us endea-
vour to form a neutral gray by a combination of vermilion, ultra-
marine, and emerald green. The most perfect results -are ob-
tained by two persons acting in concert, when the operator
arranges the colours and spins the top, leaving the eye of the
observer free from the distracting effect of the bright colours of
the papers when at rest.

     After placing discs of these three colours on the circular
plate of the top, and smaller discs of white and black above
them, the operator must spin the top and demand the opinion of
the observer respecting the relation of the outer ring to the inner
circle. He will be told that the outer circle is too red, too blue,
or too green, as the case may be, and that the inner one is too
light or too dark as compared with the outer. The arrange-
ments must then be changed so as to render the outer and inner
circles more nearly alike. Sometimes the observer will see the
inner circle tinted with the complementary colour of the outer
one. In this case the observer must interpret the observation
with respect to the outer circle, as the inner circle contains only
black and white.

     By a little experience the operator will learn how to put his
questions, and how to interpret their answers. The observer
ESITY
DIAGRAM SHEWING THE RELATIONS OF LIGHT
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                               473

should not look at the coloured papers, nor be told the propor-
tions of the colours during the experiments. When these ad-
justments have been properly made, the resultant tints of the

outer and inner circles ought to be perfectly indistinguishable
when the top has a sufficient velocity of rotation. The number
of divisions occupied by the different colours must then be read
off on the edge of the plate, and registered in the form of an
equation. Thus in the preceding experiment we have vermilion,
ultramarine, and emerald green outside, and black and white
inside. The numbers, as given by an experiment on the 6th

March 1855, in daylight without sun, are
                   37V + -27U + -36EG = -28SW + '72Bk.

In a similar way matches were obtained in which the

resulting tint was a decided colour and not a neutral gray.

Tims on the 5th of March 1855 a match was obtained as

follows                                             tint in
               39PC + -21U + -40Bk = -59V + -41EG,

where PC represents pale chrome. The resulting

this case is an impure yellow.

Mixtures which appear to make perfect matches by

one kind of light are far from matching one another when

viewed by a different light. Thus, C representing carmine,

the following match was obtained by daylight, viz.

             44C + -22U + -34EG = -iTSW+'SSBk ;

while by gaslight the match was

which shows that the yellowing effect of the gaslight tells

more on the white than on the combination of colours."

Maxwell, following Young, represented the results of his

experiments graphically by means of a triangle, at the

angular points of which he placed the three colours which

he believed to most nearly correspond with the primary

sensations. (See Plate          The colours he selected for
a
    is

        I.)
                          it
these positions were vermilion, ultramarine, and emerald

green, of such strength that, when mixed in equal propor-

tions, they produced neutral gray which therefore appeared

at the centre of the triangle. In the paper published in the

Edinburgh Transactions the reason alleged for selecting green

in preference to yellow the fact that was found possible
474 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

to produce a distinct yellow from a mixture of emerald green
and vermilion, but impossible to produce a green from a
mixture of blue and yellow. Any colour which can be
produced by a mixture of all the three primary tints will
lie within the triangle ; but a colour which must be mixed
with one of the primary tints in order to match a mixture
of the other two will lie without the triangle. Thus the
pale chrome referred to above must be mixed with blue in
order to match a mixture of red and green, and it must
therefore be placed in such a position that the centre of
gravity of the yellow and blue taken in proper proportions
may be on the line joining the red and green, and may
divide this line in the inverse ratio of the amounts of red

and green respectively required. A copy of Maxwell's dia-

gram, showing the chromatic relations of coloured papers,

is given in the accompanying plate (Plate II.) The original

is in the Cavendish Laboratory.
      As above mentioned, Maxwell found that in the case of

colour-blind persons only four discs (including black) were
required instead of five to ensure a match. The following

is an example of a colour-blind equation:

where G-, B, and K represent green, blue, and red respect-

ively. To a normal eye the outer circle represented by the

left-hand side of the equation appears of a dark blue green,
but to the colour blind this matches the full red of the

smaller circle.

By comparing different colour matches, it is possible to

determine the position on the colour diagram of the tint

corresponding to the missing sensation in the colour-blind.

Thus, if two colours appear to a colour-blind person to

match, they can only differ in their effect upon a normal

eye by the degree in which they excite the sensation which
is missing in the colour-blind, and they must therefore lie

upon a line passing through the position of this missing sen-

sation. By determining two such lines, the position of the
pure sensation is located. A line drawn through this point

and the position of white  to colour-blind person,
                           is,
                                     a
                                                                                   a
                         DIAGRAM ILLUSTRATING           Fiat* n
THE CHROMATIC RELATIONS OF COLOURED
                                               PAPERS.

(/M
               CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                                   475

             neutral line for its whole length (see Plate II.) The posi-

             tion corresponding to the pure sensation which is missing

             in the colour-blind is near the red, but outside the triangle,

             and hence corresponds to a purer red than any in the solar \1

             spectrum (see p. 480).                                              }(
                   The colour-blind generally class all tints as yellows or
                                                                                     J|||
             blues. According to Maxwell's theory, their sensations cor-

             respond to green and blue but the reason why they regard
                                  ;
             yellow as brighter than green lies in the fact that although ,
                                      a
             to the normal eye the sensation of yellowa is     combination
                                                            a

             of the sensations of red and green, yet yellows are so much

             brighter than greens that light from them generally excites         /,
             the green sensation more powerfully than that from green

             objects themselves, and hence yellows are more conspicuous
             than greens to the colour-blind, but only in virtue of the

             green they contain.

             To enable colour-blind persons to distinguish between

             red and green, Maxwell had pair of spectacles constructed,

             one eye-glass of which was red and the other green, so that

             the object appeared differently to the two eyes. These

             spectacles cause objects to appear to possess metallic lustre
                                                        a
             on account of the different ways in which they are presentedis a

             to the eyes. To the colour-blind red object would appear

             brighter when seen through the red glass, while green

             object would appear brighter through the green glass.

             There are colour-blind persons whose vision                   very

             different from that described by Maxwell in his early

             papers, but to these we shall again refer presently

it (p.            482)..                                                   a

    is            It would occupy too much space to describe the differ-
           is
             ent methods adopted by Maxwell for the purpose of mixing
             light of different colours, but his colour box demands

             special notice, both on account of the perfection with which
                    adapted to the object in view and the extreme beauty

             of its arrangement. The first two boxes constructed were of
             inconveniently large dimensions. The form we shall de-
             scribe that finally adopted, and the shell, as well as the

             principal optical apparatus of the box, are still at the
476 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.
Cavendish Laboratory. The description is taken from Max-
well's paper in the Phil. Trans, for 1860.

                                                                    Fig. 2.

     Fig. 2 represents the instrument. At A B is placed the
apparatus represented in Fig. 3, in which A' B' represents a

rectangular frame of brass, having a rectangular aperture of

6x1 inches. On this frame are placed six brass sliders,
X Y Z. Each of these carries a knife-edge of brass in the

plane of the surface of the frame.           At e, M' and M

     At E (Fig. 2) is a fine vertical slit.

are three plane mirrors, each inclined at 45 to the sides of

the box. P P7 are two prisms (angles 45), and S is a

Ifconcave silvered glass of radius, 34 inches.

         light enter the box at E, it will be reflected at e, and

a portion of the pencil, after passing through the prisms, will

be reflected from S, and after again traversing the prisms

will form a spectrum at A B.

      The six   Ymovable knife edges above referred to form

three slits, X      Z, which may be so adjusted as to coincide
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.  477

with any three portions of the pure spectrum formed by

light from E. The intervals between the sliders are closed
with hinged shutters, which allow the sliders to move with-

out letting light pass between them.

      The inner edge of the brass frame is graduated to

twentieths of an inch, so that the position of any slit can be

read off. The breadth of the slit is ascertained by means

of a wedge-shaped piece of metal, 6 inches long, and taper-

ing to a point from a breadth of half an inch. This is
gently inserted into each slit, and the breadth is determined
by the distance to which it enters, the divisions on the
wedge corresponding to the 200th of an inch difference in
breadth, so that the unit of breadth is "005 inch. The

gauge is balanced on one finger, and inserted into the slit

till the pressure just causes it to slide on the finger. This
(on the same principle as in Whitworth's Millionth Mea-

surer) ensures uniformity in the pressure in different
measurements.

      Now suppose light to enter at E, and to be refracted by

the two prisms P and P', and after reflection at S, to again
pass through the prisms. A pure spectrum, showing Fraun-
hofer's lines, is formed at A B, but only that part is allowed

to pass which falls on the three slits X Y Z. The rest is

stopped by the shutters. Suppose that the portion falling

on X belongs to the red part of the spectrum : then, of the

white light entering at E, only the red will come through

the slit X. If we were to admit red light at X, it would

be refracted to E by the principle in optics that the course
of any ray may be reversed. If, instead of red light we
were to admit white light at_X, still only red light would

come to E, for all other light would be refracted more or

less than the red, and would not reach the slit at E.

Applying the eye at the slit E, we should see the prism P

uniformly illuminated with red light of the kind correspond-

ing to the part of the spectrum which falls on the slit X

when white light is admitted at E.

     Let the slit Y correspond to another portion of the

spectrum, say the green : then, if white light be admitted at
478 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

Y, the prism, as seen by an eye at E, will be uniformly
illuminated with green light ; and if white light be admitted

at X and Y simultaneously, the colour seen at E will be a

compound of red and green, the proportions depending on

the breadth of the slits and the intensity of the light which

enters them. The third slit Z enables us to add a third

colour, and thus to combine any three kinds of light in any

given proportions, so that an eye at E shall see the face of
the prism at P uniformly illuminated with the colour result-

ing from the combination of the three. The position of

these three rays in the spectrum is found by admitting the

light at E, and comparing the position of the slits with the

position of the principal fixed lines.

     At the same time, another portion of the light from the

source (generally a sheet of white paper) enters the instru-
ment at BC, is reflected at the mirror M, passes through
the lens L, is reflected at the mirror M', passes close to the

edge of the prism P, and is reflected along with the coloured

light at e, to the eye-slit at E.

     In this way the compound colour is compared with a

constant white light in optical juxtaposition with it. The

mirror M is made of silvered glass, that at M' is made of

glass roughened and blackened at the back, to reduce the

intensity of the constant light to a convenient value for the

experiments. By adjusting the slits properly the two

portions of the field may be made equal both in colour and

brightness, so that the edge of the prism becomes almost

invisible. When light enters at E, the instrument gives a

spectrum in which Fraunhofer's lines are very distinct, and

the length of the spectrum between Fraunhofer's lines A and
H is 3 '6 inches. The outside measure of the box is 3 feet

6 inches, by 11 inches, by 4 inches, and it can be carried

about, and set up in any position, without readjustment.

    In making an observation the centres of the slits X Y

Z are placed opposite the divisions of the scale corresponding

to the colours to be mixed, the breadth of each slit being

varied till the resultant light cannot be distinguished from
Ifthe white light reflected from M and M'.
                                            the mixture
         CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                    479

differs from the standard white light only by being too

bright or too dull, all the slits X Y Z must be opened or

closed in the same proportion. The result of any observa-
tion is expressed by an equation in which each particular

colour employed is represented by the corresponding division
of the scale placed in brackets, while the breadth of the slit
is written as the coefficient of this colour. Thus, the

equation

               18-5 (24) + 27 (44) + 37 (68) =W
means that the breadth of the slit X was 18*5, as measured

by the wedge, while its centre   was at  the division (24) of
the scale; that the breadths of          Z were 27 and 37,
                                 Y and

and their positions (44) and (68); and that the illumina-
tion produced by these slits was exactly equal, in the

estimation of the observer, to the constant white W.

In the first instance, recorded in the paper above referred

to, the observations were made by Professor Maxwell himself

(J), and by Mrs. Maxwell (K). Professor Maxwell's com-

plexion was dark and his hair black ; Mrs. Maxwell was

extremely fair. The observations of each exhibited very

small errors from the mean, far less than would have been

expected, but there was always a difference apparent between

the two observers, and this always in the same direction.

A difference of this character was found by Maxwell to be

general between dark and fair persons, especially when the

light fell on the centre of the retina (the fovea centralis
or macula lutea). To this point reference will again be

made.

By considering the errors in the several observations

between the standard colours, Maxwell showed that greater

accuracy is attainable in the case of red light than in that

of green or blue, and that variations in colour are more

easily detected than variations in brightness.

One result of the observations is especially worthy of
         It follows from a comparison of the equations
notice.

obtained in the several parts of the spectrum that any tint

in the spectrum lying between the divisions (24) and (46)
of the scale could be exactly imitated by mixing in proper
480 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

proportions the red of (24) and the green of (46), while

every tint lying between (48) and (64) could be produced
by a proper mixture of the green of (48) and the blue of
(64). Hence if a colour diagram be -constructed as explained
on page 473, the whole of the spectrum between the red of
(24) and the green of (46) will lie in a straight line, form-
ing one side of the triangle, while that lying between (48)
and (64) forms another side (the included angle being not

quite closed). It was also found that the violet beyond

(68) lay very nearly on the line joining (68) and (24), so
that the spectrum exhibited in this diagram "forms two

sides of a triangle, with doubtful fragments of the third
side." Thus " all the colours of the spectrum may be com-

pounded of those which lie at the angles of this triangle."

A diminished copy of one of Maxwell's lecture diagrams,

painted with his own hand and deduced         (it  is  believed)

from experiments with the colour top, given in Plate        I.
                                       is                       1

By studying Plate  I.,    will be seen that mixture
                      it                           is
                                                     aa
of yellow and blue lights produces varying shades of dirty

yellow and^pinK, as the relative amount of blue increased,

and by properly selecting the yellow and blue neutral

gray (or white) may be obtained.
      The (pink tint produced by mixing blue and yellow

lights had feen previously noticed by Helmholtz and others.

The well-known fact that an admixture of blue and yellow

pigments produces generally green was explained by Helm-
                   .
holtz on other grounds. Suppose, for instance, that we are
                          a
provided with properly chosen blue and yellow glasses let-:. .
                                                       a

                                                                  :

                                                                    a
sunlight shine through the blue glass and fall upon screen,

and allow second beam of sunlight, after reflection at
1

             a
mirror, to pass through the yellow glass and fall on the same
Ifportion of the screen as the blue light.
                                              the two colours

         The following table gives the position on the scale and wave
length in Fraunhofer's measure of the colours selected as standards
                                                            :

R ScarletG      .  .- '                Scale  Wave length.
                .
    Green       .                   .  24        2328
                   .                             1914
BBlue                                  46f
                                                 1717
                                       641
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.  481

are properly selected, the illuminated portion of the screen
will appear white or pink. Now place the pieces of glass

together, so that the same light passes through both, and the

light transmitted will be green. This is explained if we

examine with the prism the light transmitted by each glass.
That which has passed through the blue glass will show, in
addition to blue light, a certain amount of violet and green,

while that which has passed through the yellow glass will

comprehend, in addition to yellow light, a certain quantity
of orange (perhaps red) and green. Now the only light
capable of passing through loth glasses is green, and this,
therefore, is the colour observed on looking through the two

together. Similarly, when blue and yellow pigments are
ground together, the light penetrates a little way into
the substance of the pigment, is reflected, and emerges,
some of its constituents being absorbed by one pigment
and some by the other, and the only light which both
pigments transmit is green, which is consequently the
colour of the emergent light, and therefore the hue of

the mixture.

      The set of colour equations given above, and the dia-
gram of colours there described, were obtained from the

observations of Mrs. Maxwell (K). The diagram obtained
from Professor Maxwell's (J's) own observations was slightly
different, as before mentioned. 1 The chief differences were

that (J) saw more green in the orange and yellow portions

of the spectrum than (K), so that in the diagram obtained

from his observations these colours appeared nearer the

green than in the other, while the colours between green

and blue appeared more blue to (J) than to (K), and were

therefore placed higher up in his diagram. Thus, when the
instrument was adjusted to suit (K), one of the selected

colours being (32), (36), or (40), then (J) saw the mixture
too green ; but if (48), (52), (56), or (60) were the selected
colour when adjusted for (K), it appeared too blue to (J),

" showing that there was a real difference in the eyes of

1 Part I. p. 315
        2I
482 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

these two individuals, producing constant and measurable

differences in the apparent colour of objects."

   With those colour-blind persons whom Maxwell first ex-

amined only two slits were required to produce a colour

chromatically identical with white ; while the spectrum, a
little on the red side of the line F, appeared to be identical
with white. " From this point to the more refrangible end
the spectrum appears to them ' blue.' The colours on the

less refrangible side appear all of the same quality, but of

different degrees   of brightness  ; and when    any of      them are
made sufficiently     bright they  are called '  yellow.'    " Thus

a colour-blind or dichromic person, in speaking of red, green,

orange, and brown, refers to different degrees of brightness

or purity of a single colour, and not to different colours.

This colour he calls yellow.

"     Of the three   standard colours   the red appears to    them
   yellow," but so  feeble that there  is not enough in the  whole

red division of the spectrum to form an equivalent to make up
             white. The green at E appears                   " yellow,"
fthe standardat from F towards G appears a       agoogdood"  blue."

and the blue

       It was for these researches that Maxwell received the

    Eumford Medal of the Eoyal Society in 1860.
          The only cases of colour-blindness which Maxwell met

    with in the course of his earlier experiments were those of
    persons blind to red rays. This, however, is not the only
    kind of colour-blindness known. Some appear to be de-
    ficient in the blue (or violet) sensation. To these persons
    bright yellow appears white, and the neutral line is a line
    drawn through the yellow and the point corresponding to

   the pure blue (or violet) sensation. In a valuable paper

    published in the Proceedings of the Royal Society, vol. xxxi.
    p. 302, M. Frithiof Holmgren, Professor of Physiology in
    the University of Upsala, gave an account of a case of red
x blindness, and a case of violet-blindness in each of which

    only one eye was really colour-blind, the vision of the other
    being nearly normal. This peculiarity enabled the observer
    to compare the experience of colours gained through one eye
                CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                  483

with that gained by the other, and thus to state in the

language of those possessing normal vision, how colours

really appear to the colour-blind.        His results agree in

their general character with Maxwell's, but Holmgren

(with many others) makes the third sensation correspond
to violet instead of blue, while, according to him, the

violet -blind class colours as red and yeitow" instead of

red and green.

Though the largest and most important, Maxwell's theory

of compound colours was by no means his only, or even his

earliest, contribution to Optics. While a bachelor-scholar at

Trinity, at the request of Messrs. Macmillan he wrote a con-

siderable portion of a text-book on geometrical optics. The

work was never finished, but the MS. is still extant. The

mode of treating the subject, as stated by Professor Maxwell

in one of his letters to his father, 1 is decidedly novel, and

calculated to bring down a storm of abuse upon the author.

He starts by postulating the possibility of obtaining perfect

images, and then investigates the laws of reflection and

refraction necessary for this.

Perhaps the most remarkable of Maxwell's contributions

to Optics was his identification of the velocity of light

with the ratio of two quantities, each of which is capable

of being measured electrically; but this subject will be

again referred to in describing his electrical researches.
A paper on a general theory of optical instruments was

published by Maxwell in the Quarterly Journal of Mathe-
matics in 1858, and another on the same subject in the

Proceedings of the Cambridge Philosophical Society, 1866.
A paper on the best mode of projecting a spectrum on a

screen appeared in the Proceedings of the Royal Society of
Edinburgh in 1869. We may also refer to the papers on
" The Focal Lines of a refracted Pencil," in the Proceedings of

the Mathematical Society of London for 1871-3' on a" Bow
seen on the surface of    ice," in
Society of Edinburgh for  1872;     the   Proceedings  of  the Royal
                                    on "  The Spectra  of  Polarised

                1 See Part I. p. 217.
484 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

Light," the subject which had interested him so much in

                                     84), in the Transactions
                                   for 1872; and on " Double
       a

              of
                            I.,

                                      p.

                                                                            of
                                                                                       of
1847     (see Part                                                 the Eoyal
              Edinburgh                                           Eefraction
Society

in Viscous Fluid in Motion," in the Proceedings                                            the

Royal Society for 1873, and the Ann. de Phys. and Chimie,

1874.

       Among the many optical contrivances designed by

Professor Maxwell, we ought not to omit to mention the

real-image stereoscope. This instrument, in which ordinary
stereoscopic slides are employed, consists essentially of two

convex lenses of short focal length, say inches, placed side
         a
                                   is

                                              a
                                                          4
by side in wooden frame at distance from the pictures,

equal to twice their focal length, while the distance between

the centres of the lenses half the distance between the

centres of the pictures. The result of .this arrangement                                   is

that real images of the two pictures of the same size as the

pictures themselves, formed one by one lens, and the other

by the other, are superposed on the axis of the instru-

ment at distance in front of the lenses equal to twice their
         a
focal length, thatis               as far in front of the lenses as the pic-
                          it, is,
tures are behind them. The double, or stereographic image

so 'formed viewed through large lens at suitable dis-
                                   a                         a
                                                               a
                                                    *
tance in front of the observer standing at distance of

three or four feet. Many persons who cannot appreciate

the ordinary box stereoscopes obtain very satisfactory effects

with this instrument.

       Professor Maxwell prepared large number of stereo-
                                   a

scope slides of geometrical figures. Among them may be
mentioned the surface of centres of an ellipsoid, lines of

curvature on an ellipsoid, and on elliptic and hyperbolic

paraboloids, the parabolic cyclide, the horned cyclide, and
the spindle cyclide, twisted cubic with three asymptotes,
Gordian knot, etc. The wood blocks from which these
         1

                            a
                                                                        is
                                                                                    a

                                                                                                       a
slides were printed are now in the Cavendish Laboratory.

       Another extremely pretty optical toy of his construction,

at present in the possession of Mrs. Maxwell,                     Zoetrope,

         Including the present Lord Bishop of Durham.
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.  485

or " Wheel of Life." In the ordinary instrument, on looking

through the slits in the revolving cylinder the figures are
seen moving on the opposite side of the cylinder. Maxwell
inserted concave lenses in place of the slits, the lenses being

of such focal length that the virtual image of the object at

the opposite extremity of the diameter of the cylinder was

formed on the axis of the cylinder, and consequently appeared
stationary as the cylinder revolved. 1

     In ordinary light the vibrations take place in all direc-
tions at right angles to that in which the light is being
transmitted. A beam of ordinary light is therefore sym-
metrical on all sides. But it is possible in various ways to
confine all the vibrations to one plane. Thus, if a ray be

reflected from the surface of polished glass at a particular
angle, all the vibrations take place in one plane, and it is

generally believed that this plane is parallel to the surface

of the glass, and therefore perpendicular to the plane of
incidence. Since all the vibrations are now taking place in
one plane, the beam of light has acquired, as it were, sides

or poles, and is said to be plane polarised. There are other

contrivances by which the movements may be made all to

take place in regular succession in a circle about the direc-

tion of the ray as axis, and the light is then said to be

circularly polarised. This may be effected by passing a

beam of plane polarised light through a sheet of mica (or
some other crystals) of a particular thickness.

      The velocity with which waves are transmitted through

a substance depends not only on the density but on the
elasticity of the substance in the direction in which the

vibrations take place. Now, many crystals have different
elasticities in different directions, and a similar condition

may be induced by mechanical means in other bodies. In

such substances the velocity of light depends on the direc-

tion in which the vibrations take place ; and, generally, if
a beam of ordinary light fall upon such a crystal it will be
separated into two, one of which will consist of vibrations in

1 See Part I. p. 37.
486 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

the direction in which the elasticity is greatest (of all the
directions which it can select), and the other in that in

which the elasticity is least. These rays, being transmitted

with different velocities, will be differently refracted, and part

company in the crystal ; and since in each ray the vibrations
are in one direction only, each ray will be plane polarised,

the vibrations taking place in the two rays in planes per-

pendicular to one another.

     A Nicol's prism consists of a long prism of Iceland spar

cut into two along a diagonal plane, the segments being

cemented together again by Canada balsam. The effect of

the balsam is to reflect one of the polarised rays out at the

side of the prism while it allows the other to pass through.
Consequently, if common light fall on a Mcol's prism, only

half of it will pass through, and this will be plane-polarised
Ifin a particular plane.
                          another prism be placed in the

path of the ray and be situated similarly to the first, the

light will pass through                  be turned around its
   a                      but
     is

                         it,

                             if

                                      it
                                                  it
axis through right angle, the light falling on corresponds

to that which reflected out of the prism by the balsam,

and no light passes through the second prism. Under these

circumstances the Mcols are said to be crossed. Such an

arrangement of two Mcol's prisms or any equivalent arrange-

ment which may be made with glass reflectors or crystals of

tourmaline, constitutes polariscope the first Nicol called
   a
            a

                                        ;

                                                     is

                                                 it

                                                               is
the polariser, the second the analyser.

Fresnel first pointed out that by mechanical stress

possible to impart to glass property analogous to that of

doubly refracting crystals, making its elasticity (for light)
different in different directions. Sir David Brewster showed

that piece of glass heated and then suddenly cooled, i.e.
a

unanneale^, "possesses similar properties.   aIf        be placed

                                                    it
between the polariser and analyser of polariscope and

examined by white light, gorgeous display of colour     is
   is

           a
observed. The reason that the plane-polarised light from

the polariser on entering the glass      is  generally split into

two rays vibrating in planes at right angles to one another,
and these pass through the glass with different velocities.
UNIVERSITY
                                                       Plate 111

          CHROMATIC EFFECTS OF
A PENTAGON OF UNANNEALEO GLASS

             IN POLARIZED LIGHT.

               ISOCHROMATIC LINES

                                      IN A

     TRIANGLE OF UNANNEALEO GLASS.
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                           487

When they reach the analyser only that component of each

set of vibrations can pass through which takes place in the

plane corresponding to transmission through the analyser.

Then it may happen that the two rays of light of one par-

ticular colour are so vibrating that the waves interfere and
destroy one another, so that this colour is completely absent

in the transmitted light while other colours are partially

destroyed. The result is that the combination of colours

which passes through produces a particular tint, and this
will be different according to the obliquity of the ray, the
thickness of the glass, and the amount of strain it has ex-

perienced, for on the latter depends the difference of velocity

of the two rays, and consequently the particular colour de-

stroyed in the case of glass of a given thickness.

      Maxwell's first serious experiments on light appear to
have had their origin in his visit to Mr. Wm. Nicol in

April 1847. After this visit he constructed a polari-

scope of cardboard, employing blackened glass mirrors as

polariser and analyser. This was supplied with lenses

for use when a conical beam of polarised light was required.

The lenses were mounted in cardboard frames. A very

similar instrument constructed by him shortly afterwards,

but of wood instead of cardboard, together with the lenses

mounted as before on cards, is still preserved in the

Cavendish Laboratory.  Maxwell, after returning from

Mr. Mcol's, prepared some samples of unannealed glass

by heating pieces of thick plate glass to redness and

allowing them to cool rapidly. By means of a camera

lucida adapted to the cardboard polariscope he observed

and faithfully copied in water-colours some of the chromatic

effects exhibited by these plates of glass, showing the

manner in which the glass was strained by the rapid cooling.

Some of these figures are shown in Plate III., and will

be again referred to. 1 As mentioned in the previous part

      1 Maxwell had a great faculty for designing, and would frequently
amuse himself by making curious patterns for wool-work. His designs
are remarkable for the harmony of the colouring. Sometimes they
488 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

of this work, of these water-colour drawings he sent some
to Nicol, who presented him in return with a pair of Mcol

prisms of his own construction, which are now, with the

original colour -top, polariscope, specimens of unannealed
glass, etc., in the Cavendish Laboratory. His experiments

on the passage of light through solids exposed to strain

suggested to Maxwell the employment of polarised light as

an analyser of the strains in the different portions of an

elastic solid when   exposed   to mechanical stress,   and  led to
the production of   the paper  on " Elastic Solids "  read  before

the Eoyal Society of Edinburgh in February 1850; but

before giving an account of this paper we must mention

another investigation connected with the physiology of

vision.

There are some persons who, when they look at a point

in the sky distant 90 from the sun, at once observe two

conspicuous yellow brushes with their axis in a plane passing

through the sun, while the space between exhibits the com-

plementary violet colour. This phenomenon was first

noticed by Haidinger in 1844, and is known as Haidinger's

Brushes. The appearance is only transitory, and disappears

in a very short time if the eye be kept directed to the same

point in the heavens. The same appearance is produced
whenever " plane-polarised " light enters the eye ; as, for ex-

ample, when light is reflected from a polished surface of glass

at a particular angle. But there are some persons, on the other

hand, who are apparently incapable of seeing Haidinger's
Brushes, or only see them with difficulty. Generally it is

persons of a dark complexion who see Haidinger's Brushes

more readily than others, and in such persons the yellow spot

appears to be peculiarly insensitive to blue light. A paper

on this subject was read before the mathematical and physical

section of the British Association by Professor Maxwell in

1866 (Report, Part II.) He found that on looking through

represented natural objects. A kettle-holder which used to hang by

the fireside was a representation of a square of unannealed glass when
placed between two crossed Nicol prisms.
                 CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                                                                 489

a solution of chrome alum, the centre of the field of view

appears distinctly pink and much paler than the rest of

the solution on account of this peculiarity of the foramen

centmle. The effect decreases if the observer continue to

look. Maxwell's attention was first called to this peculiarity

of his own eye by noticing a black band in the blue portion

of the spectrum whenever he directed his eye straight to

that portion. The band never appeared in any other part

of the spectrum, but followed the eye up and down the

spectrum in the blue, vanishing as soon as the optic axis

passed out of the blue into other colours.

       The following account of Maxwell's explanation of

Haidinger's Brushes, and the personal reminiscences which

accompany   it,   have been kindly contributed by Professor

William Swan     :

My earliest noteworthy recollection of Clerk Maxwell dates
                         British
from    1850, when the            Association was in Edinburgh, and
its "                    to meet  in the natural philosophy class-room
       Section A " used
of the University. That year communications were made by Sir

David Brewster and Professor Stokes on the remarkable pheno-

menon  of  "viHsiaoindindgiescr'osveBrerdushbeys."HaidOinnegerdayinwh1e8n44,   and since
known                                                                         paper had
       as
it

                  iIf

                                                                                     ;

                                          I
                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                    a
been read, which,        remember rightly, was Brewster's, young

man rose to speak. This was Clerk Maxwell. His utterance

then, most likely, would be somewhat spasmodic in character, as

continued to be in later times, his words coming: in sudden

gushes with notable pauses between and can well remember

the half-puzzled, half-anxious, and perhaps somewhat incredulous

air, with which the president and officers of the section, along
                               members who had chosen " the chief
with   the more   conspicuous  audience, at first gazed on the raw-
       " facing  the general
seats

looking young man who, in broken accents, was addressing them.
For time was disposed to set down his apparent embarrass-
a

      aI

                    it

                             I

                                                                           ;
                                                                                        is
ment to bashfulness; and such,    daresay, was the general

impression. Bashful, very likely, in some degree he was. But,

at all events, he manfully stuck to his text nor did he sit down

before he had gained the respectful attention of his hearers, and

had succeeded, as seemed, in saying all he meant to say.

My only tolerably distinct further recollection                                             that he

handed in small piece of apparatus which he had made by

cementing together on glass sectors of sheet gutta-percha, these
490 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

being so cut out of the sheet and put together that its fibrous
structure, due to rolling in the process of manufacture, should
Iradiate, at least approximately, from a central point. This arrange-

ment, as understood at the time, in polarised light, reproduced, or

Irather simulated, Haidinger's phenomenon. But after an interval

of thirty years must speak with caution. Brewster (British
Atoss"ocpioaltaiorinsingRepsotrrtu,ctu1r8e50)e, xisatisncgribeind   Haidinger's phenomenon
                                                                   the cornea and crystalline

lens,  as  well as in  ;th"ewhtiislseueSstokwehsicphrolvieed       in front of  the  sensitive
layer      the retina                                              that, when   the  variously
       of

coloured rays of the prismatic spectrum were admitted separately

ibsneiteloint.ythoeAf ethyfeee,wiFnoyretahamerseblnlauteeCr,eraniyntsrahlaeilsontpeoapcLeoiruglhd"tOHnoafidtiDhneigffeeUrrn'esenqtBurauCslohloeSsuenrssbie-"

(Brit. Assoc. Report, 1856), Clerk Maxwell says that, on looking
through a prism at a long vertical slit he saw an elongated dark

spot running up and down the spectrum, but refusing to pass out

of the  blue into the other  colours.  "  This appearance,                      he concludes,
is due  to the " Foramen     centrale     of Soemmering ;                        and he adds

that when a Nicol's prism is employed the brushes of Haidinger

are well seen in connection ivith the spot. The appearance of a

dark spot on a blue ground only, Maxwell then, or at least

afterwards, believed to be due to the yellow pigment of the

macula lutea, of which the fovea centralis, as its name imports,

is the middle portion, and, as is well known, the place of most

distinct vision, having a special selective absorption for the blue
rays. His notable discovery that Haidinger's Brushes were only

to be seen in connection with the shadow of the yellow spot

thus pointed conclusively to the spot itself as the seat of the

phenomenon ; or, as he himself puts                                makes evident the fact
           a
                   ;

                           I
                                                          it,

                                                                   it

                                                                                                  a
that the brushes are the spot analysed by polarised light.

Having thus, to his own satisfaction, localised the polarising

structure concerned in the production of Haidinger's phenomenon,
he seems to have rested, for am not aware that he ever wrote

again on the subject. No such writing at least appears in the

Royal Society catalogue of scientific memoirs. Possibly he hoped
that some day he might himself examine the actual structure of
the yellow spot or he may have waited for the result of such

examination by other hands than his own. Helmholtz, who cites

Maxwell's paper of 1856, attributes the phenomenon of the

brushes to radiating fibrous structure, which,                                  seems, has

actually now been ascertained to exist in the fovea centralis,

which he assumes to be feebly polarising, and to possess special

selective absorbing power for the blue rays. (Helmholtz,
                                                           Plate IV .

                    DIAGRAM SHEWING THE
COLOURS EXHIBITED BY A PLATE OF GELATINE

             WHEN EXPOSED TO A TORS10NAL SHEAR.
                     CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                                           491

Optique Physiologique, 1867, pp. 548-554.) All Maxwell's con-

clusions regarding Haidinger's Brushes, seem thus to be definitely
                                         WILLIAM SWAN,
verified.

                          Ardchapel, Helensburgh, 2d April 1882.

     2. In the paper read before the Eoyal Society of Edin-

burgh on Feb. 18, 1850, Maxwell describes the mathematical
results of the application of Stokes's theory of elasticity to a
number of cases of the deformation of elastic solids, which

results, when possible, he tested experimentally by subject-

ing the strained solid to analysis by polarised light. The
first, and perhaps the most interesting, example given in this
paper, refers " to the case of a hollow cylinder, of which the
outer surface is fixed, while the inner surface is made to
turn through a small angle." The conclusions derived we
give in Maxwell's own words :

     Therefore, if the solid be viewed by polarised light (trans-

mitted parallel to the axis), the difference of retardation of the
oppositely polarised rays at any point in the solid will be in-

versely proportional to the square of the distance from the axis
of the cylinder, and the planes of polarisation of these rays will

be inclined 45 to the radius at that point.

The general appearance                 a therefore, system of coloured
                                          is,
rings, arranged oppositely to the rings in uniaxal crystals, the
                                                is
tints ascending in the scale as they approach the centre, and thea

distance between the rings decreasing towards the centre. The   a

whole system              crossed by two dark bands inclined 45 to the             ;
       is
                      is                                                             is
plane of primitive polarisation, when the plane of the analysing

plate      perpendicular to that of the first polarising plate (see

Plate  IV.)      of  isinglass  poured,  when hot, between  two concentric
       jelly
    A

cylinders, forms, when cold, convenient solid for this experi-

ment and the diameters of the rings may be varied at pleasure
is
by changing the force of torsion applied to the interior cylinder.
           ;
By continuing the force of torsion while the jelly alloweda

to dry, hard plate of isinglass          obtained, which still acts in

the same way on polarised light, even when the force of torsion

removed.

 It seems that this action cannot be accounted for by sup-

posing the interior parts kept in state of constraint by the
exterior parts, as in unannealed and heated glass for the optical
492 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

properties of the plate of isinglass are such as would indicate a   a
strain pressing in every part of the plate in the direction of the          is,
original strain, so that the strain on one part of the plate cannot
be maintained by an opposite strain on another part.

      Two other uncrystallised substances have the power of re-
taining the polarising structure developed by compression. The
first is a mixture of wax and resin, pressed into a thin plate
between two plates of glass, as described by Sir David Brewster

in the Philosophical Transactions for 1815 and 1850.
      When a compressed plate of this substance is examined with

polarised light, it is observed to have no action on light at a per-
pendicular incidence ; but when inclined it shows the segments
of coloured rings. This property does not belong to the plate as

a whole, but is possessed by every part of it. It therefore,

similar to plate cut from uniaxal crystal perpendicular to the

axis.

         find that its action on light like that of positive crystal,

while that of plate of isinglass, similarly treated, would be
I
             a
                      a

                                                 a
                                                       is

The other substance which possesses similar properties                           is

gutta-percha. This substance in its ordinary state, when cold,
not transparent even in thin films; but
it is                                                               if       thin film be
                                it
                                                                          a
                                       it

                                                           a
                                                             is is
drawn out gradually, may be extended to more than double
Itits length.
               then possesses powerful double refraction, which

retains so strongly that has been used^for polarising light.
As one of its refractive indices                                    nearly the same as that of

Canada balsam, while the other very different, the common

surface of the gutta-percha and Canada balsam will transmit one

set of rays much more readily than the other, so that film of ex-
                                                                             a

tended gutta-percha placed between two layers of Canada balsam,

acts like plate of nitre treated in the same way. That these
a
     a
films are in state of constraint may be proved by heating them

slightly when they recover their original dimensions.

Some pieces of gutta-percha mounted in this way by

Professor Maxwell are still preserved in the Cavendish

Laboratory as are also the original plates of isinglass above
;

             a
referred to. The interior cylinder employed for twisting

these plates was cork, and in one of the plates two

corks were placed with their circumferences about                                in.

apart, and were twisted equally in the same direction. The
                                 described as case XIII. in the
result of this operation  is is

paper in question, and           determined geometrically by the
CONTKIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.  493

superposition of the two conditions of strain due to the two

twists independently.  The isochromatic curves thus ob-

tained are represented in Tig. 4, which is taken from that

                                                                     Fig. 4.

in the Edinburgh Transactions. The points B1? B2, corre-

spond to no retardation. These curves completely agree
with those obtained when the plate of isinglass is examined
with circularly polarised light. The advantage of employing
circularly polarised light lies in the fact that whatever may
be the direction of the lines of stress in the isinglass the
two component rays into which the light may be supposed
separated on entering the medium are of equal intensity, and
the colour therefore depends only on the state of strain and
not on the position of the plane of primitive polarisation.

      The last example of stress in an elastic solid is that of
a triangle of unannealed glass, in which " the lines of equal
intensity of the action on light are seen without interruption
by using circularly polarised light." They are represented in

Plate III. In Figs. 5 and 6 A, BBB, DDD, are the neutral

points, or points of no action on light, and CCC, EEE, are
494 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.
the points where the action is greatest ; and the intensity of
the action at any other point is determined by its position
with respect to the isochromatic curves.

     " The direction of the principal axes of pressure at any point
is found by transmitting plane polarised light, and analysing
it in the plane perpendicular to that of polarisation. The light
is then restored in every part of the triangle, except in those
points at which one of the principal axes is parallel to the plane

of polarisation. A dark band formed of all these points is seen,

which shifts its position as the triangle is turned round in its

                                                                     Fig. 5.

own plane. Fig. 5 represents these curves for every fifteenth
 degree of inclination. They correspond to the lines of equal varia-
 tion of the needle in a magnetic chart.

       " From these curves others may be formed which shall indicate,
 by their own direction, the direction of the principal axes at any
 point. These curves of direction of compression and dilatation are
 represented in Fig. 6 ; the curves whose direction corresponds
 to that of compression, are concave toward the centre of the
 triangle, and intersect at right angles the curves of dilatation."
          CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                            495

    The figures on Plate III. are copies of water-colour

sketches made by Professor Maxwell in the very early
periods of these investigations, and show the isochromatic
lines in unannealed glass in the case of a pentagon and a

triangle.

The remainder of the paper on elastic solids is taken up

with a discussion of a number of examples of great import-

ance to the engineer, such as the flexure of beams, the

torsion of cylinders, and the like. To these engineering

problems   Maxwell again   returned    many years  later, and  his
paper "   On Reciprocal   Figures,   Frames, and   Diagrams     of

Force," read before the Royal Society of Edinburgh, *7th

February 1870, received the award of the Keith Medal.

The Theory of Oersted's Piezometer, given in the paper of

1850, however, of great scientific value. In Maxwell
is,
                                                  a

                                                           it
points out that the behaviour of vessel exposed to equal

pressures within and without depends only on its cubic

compressibility, while the relation between the cubic com-

pressibility and the rigidity in solids, so far from being con-
496 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

stant, as Poisson supposed, may be almost any whatever,
cork having great rigidity in comparison with its power to
resist compression, while caoutchouc, on the other hand, has
extremely little.

      3. While a bachelor-scholar of Trinity College, on March

13, 1854, Clerk Maxwell read a paper before the Cambridge
Philosophical Society " On the Transformation of Surfaces

by Bending." This paper, which embodies a great deal of

thought, and indicates that its author possessed an exten-

sive acquaintance with the geometrical works of Gauss,

Monge, Liouville, and others, is of more interest to the pure

mathematician than to the general reader, but in connection
with it we may mention a surface which was prepared for Pro-

fessor Maxwell many years afterwards, and coated by his own

hands, as described below, and now preserved in the Caven-
Ifdish Laboratory.
                    a heavy uniform string be suspended

from two points, and allowed to hang freely, it assumes the
Ifform of a curve called a catenary.
                                                  a board be cut out in

this shape, and the string be stretched around its edge, then
cut at the lowest point and one-half of the string unwrapped

so as always to be kept stretched, and therefore the free por-

tion of the string a tangent to the board at the point where

it leaves    the extremity of the string will describe curve
         a                                          a
             a it,                                the curve traced by particleaa

                 it

                                       a

                                    a it

                                              is
called tractory, because

lying on rough horizontal plane, when the end of string

attached to         describes straight line on the plane, the

particle starting from point outside the straight line. As

we go farther along the curve traced by the particle, we

of course continually approach the straight line described

by the end of the string, but never reach it. This straight
           the " asymptote " of the tractory, and
line  a is                                            also the
If" directrix " of the catenary above referred to. 'isit is
                                                      the trac-
                                                                     is
tory be made to revolve about ' its asymptote         will trace

out surface which has the peculiarity that the intrinsic

curvature           the same at every point of the surface and

negative, the two principal radii of curvature being opposite
in direction and inversely proportional the one to the
          CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                 497

Ifother.  a flexible surface be constructed so as to fit a

portion of the surface of the solid, thus forming a coat,
it will be found to fit equally well at every part of the sur-

face/ and it may be inverted or turned through any angle
whatever, and it will continue to fit every portion of the

solid equally well. By weaving together curved strips of

parchment paper and pasting them, Professor Maxwell con-

structed a coat which fitted every portion of the solid, how-
ever it might be placed upon it.

Maxwell's fondness for geometry has already been

alluded to more than once, and not unfrequently he would

take up geometrical questions of a very generalised character.

A simple and very good illustration of some of his investiga-

tions in this department is to be found in a paper " On
Hills and Dales," published in the Philosophical Magazine

for December 1870. In this paper, having described the

general character of contour-lines, or the lines in which the

surface of the earth is cut by level surfaces, Maxwell pro-
ceeds to show * that the number of summits, or regions of

elevation reduced to points, exceeds by one the number of

passes, a pass being the point where two regions of elevation

unite. Similarly, the number of Bottoms, or regions of

depression, exceeds by one the number of Bars, a Bar being

the boundary between two regions of depression. Lines of

slope are defined as lines everywhere perpendicular to the

contour lines. By following lines of slope we generally

reach a Summit or a Bottom, but we may reach a Pass or
Bar. "Districts whose lines of slope run to the same

bottom are called Basins or Dales. Those whose lines of

slope come from the same summit may be called, for want

of a better name, Hills." ''Dales are divided from each
other by Watersheds, and Hills by Watercourses." " Lines

of Watershed are the only lines of slope which do not reach

a bottom, and lines of Watercourse are the only lines of

slope, which do not reach a summit." These extracts indi-

1 After Listing.  Gensur raumlicher complexe, etc.  Gottingen

Nachrichten, 1861. Also Cay ley.

                  2K
498 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

cate Maxwell's anxiety that definite meanings should be
assigned to all scientific terms, and that they should be used

only in the senses so defined. A further illustration of this

trait in his character is found in his paper " On the Mathe-
matical Classification of Physical Quantities," published in
The Proceedings of the London Mathematical Society, vol. iii.
No. 34. We give one other example, taken from Matter
and Motion, a little work published by the S. P. C. K.,
and a model of scientific accuracy and philosophic thought.
" When the simultaneous values of a quantity for different

bodies or places are equal, the quantity is said to be
uniformly distributed in space." "When the successive

values of a quantity for successive instants of time are

equal, the quantity is said to be constant" Such examples
might be multiplied almost indefinitely from Maxwell's
published writings. The more elementary the work the
greater need did he see for exactness in definitions and
accuracy in the use of words ; and perhaps no one has done
more than Maxwell in giving accuracy to the expression of
scientific thought. His influence in this respect has especi-
ally been felt by all who have attended the Physical School
in Cambridge. On one occasion he remarked, in his halfr

humorous way, that spheres are inclusive figures but circles
are exclusive : people are always trying to get into other
circles, but to do so they must get out of their own spheres.

      4. The keystone as well as the foundation of physical
science is dynamics a subject to which Maxwell was
greatly attracted in early days, and to which, even in
its most elementary principles, he constantly reverted
in after life. We have already referred to his Dyna-
mical Theory of the Electromagnetic field ; the sections of
his Treatise on Electricity and Magnetism, which are devoted
to dynamical principles and the general equations of motion,
form a most valuable compendium of dynamics ; while for
those who require less strong meat, his treatment of the sub-
ject in the Theory of Heat leaves little to be desired ; and
last, but not least, under the comprehensive title of Matter
and Motion, we have a treatise on dynamics written for
       CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                                                                 499

children in the higher grade schools, so simple that the

most casual reader will think that he understands                                                while
it

    is

                                                       it :

                                                                      is
                                                                                          it,

                                                                                                     is
the admiration of professed mathematicians, and by no

means easy reading for those who expect, or have gained,

high places in the mathematical tripos but as the book

well within the reach of every reader,  unnecessary here

to attempt any detailed account of it.

But Maxwell's investigations in dynamics were not con-

fined to paper. Of the problems suggested to him by the

devil on two sticks we have no" account. During his resi-

dence in Cambridge he endeavoured to investigate the pro-

cess by which cat enabled invariably to alight on her
     a
         is

         Ia

                  aa
                            is

                                                     a
                                                       a

                                          I
                                                  I

                                                     I:
feet. The mode of conducting the experiments and the

impression they left on the mind of the College will appear

from the following extract from letter written to Mrs.

Maxwell, from Trinity, on January 3d, 1870, when Professor

Maxwell was examining for the Mathematical Tripos

There  tradition in Trinity that when was here dis-

covered method of throwing cat so as not to light on its

feet, and that used to throw cats out of windows.  had to

explain that the proper object of research was to find how quick

the cat would turn round, and that the proper method was to let

the cat drop on table or bed from about two inches, and that

even then the cat lights on her feet.

      The " Dynamical Top," which was invented by Maxwell

to illustrate dynamical propositions, technically so-called,
was, in its final form, constructed of brass by Mr. Eamage of

Aberdeen. It was this top which Maxwell brought with him

to Cambridge when he came up for his M.A. degree in the
summer of 1857, and exhibited to tea-party in his room in
the evening. His friends left spinning, and next morning

Maxwell, noticing one of them coming across the court, leapt

out of bed, started the top, and retired between the sheets.

It needless to say that the spinning power of the top

commanded as great respect as its power of illustrating
Poinsot's Theorie Nouvelle de la Rotation des Corps.

     In the work just referred to, Poinsot shows that body
is

                                      it

                                                           a
                                                                                              a
500 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

supported at its centre of gravity and rotating freely about
it will move in the same manner as an ellipsoid whose centre

is fixed, but which rolls in such a way as always to rest

against a fixed plane (the invariable plane), which
                                         is                                      of
                                                                is,
course, tangent plane at the point of contact. The line
a
               is
from the centre to the point of contact  the axis about

which the body at the instant rotating, and this line will,

unless the plane touch the ellipsoid at the extremity of one

of the principal axes, move both in space and in the body.

The curve which the extremity of the axis of .rotation de-

scribes on the invariable plane called herpolhode, while
                              is
that which                                    a
                                                                            is
it                   describes on the surface of the ellipsoid

    if
            aa
                 it
Ifcalled polhode.       at any instant the axis of rotation be

very near either to the greatest or least axis of the ellipsoid,
   will always remain very near that axis, and the polhode

will be small closed curve and the rotation will be stable
                        a
                              a
                                                         a
                                                                                      a;
but the axis of rotation be near to the mean axis of the

ellipsoid, the polhode will be very large curve, the axis of
rotation will in time deviate very widely from its original

position in the body, and the motion will be unstable.

Maxwell's top consisted of brass bell, long screw

passing through the top of the bell and terminating in
steel point " finished without emery and afterwards hardened,"

serving as the axle. The point rested in an agate cup on

the top of pillar. A heavy nut could be screwed up and
a

down on the axle for coarse adjustments, and the axle could

be screwed through the top of the bell, to bring the point
to coincide with the centre of gravity of the mass. The

moments of inertia could be altered by means of the nut

above referred to, and by nine screws with massive milled

heads, six of which screwed horizontally into the rim of the

bell, while three were arranged symmetrically around the top

of the rim, and admitted of vertical motion. By means of
                        is
                                   a

                                         a
                                                             a

                                                                              a
these screws the axle could be made the axis of greatest,
least, or mean moment of inertia, or not principal axis at

all. The axle terminated in   point, by which coloured
disc could be fixed upon it.  " The best arrangement, for

general observations.,  to have the disc of card divided into
         CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                                     501

four quadrants, coloured with vermilion, chrome yellow,

emerald green, and ultramarine. These are bright colours,

and if the vermilion is good they combine into a grayish tint
when the revolution is about the axle, and burst into bril-
liant colours when the axis is disturbed. It is useful to

have some concentric circles, drawn with ink, over the colours,

and about twelve radii drawn in strong pencil lines. It is

easy to distinguish the ink from the pencil lines, as they
cross the invariable axis, by their want of lustre. In this

way the path of the invariable axis may be identified with

great accuracy, and compared with theory." If the top

revolve about its axle, the whole disc will appear gray, but
when the axle moves, the quadrants in which the " invariable

axis" lies will be indicated by a circle of the corresponding

colour appearing in full purity. Whenever the invariable
line crosses an ink or pencil line, a dark ink dot or lustrous

pencil dot will appear at the centre of the circle, and when
it passes into another quadrant the circle will contract, then
change its colour, and expand again. The use of the nine
screws is thus indicated by Professor Maxwell : " There

must be three adjustments to regulate the position of the

centre of gravity, three for the magnitude of the moments of

inertia, and three for the directions of the principal axes

nine independent adjustments, which may be distributed as

we please among the screws of the instrument." A full

       5.                                                              together with
          a

             of
                                               of

                                                                  it,
account of the top and the mode of using                                              ;a

note on the rotation of the earth, will be found in the Trans-

actions  the Eoyal Society             Edinburgh, vol. xxi., from

which the above quotations have been taken.

         In 1610 Galileo turning his telescope to Saturn, ob-

served projection on each side of the planet, which led him to
conclude that " Saturn consists of three stars in contact with

one another." In 1659 Huyghens discovered the true nature

of these appendages, which, by their continually varying

forms, had puzzled previous astronomers, and concluded that
Saturn girded with thin flat ring inclined to the ecliptic

its external diameter being about 2J times that of the
         is
                                    a
502 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

planet itself. In 1665 William Bell observed a dark line
running round the northern surface of the ring. In 16*75

Cassini noticed the same on the other surface, and con-
cluded that the ring consists of two concentric rings, of
which the inner is the brighter. Hadley observed the
shadow of the planet thrown upon the surface of the ring,
and the shadow of the ring on the planet, and showed

that Saturn rotates in the same plane with the rings. In

1714 Moradi observed a want of symmetry in the ring on
opposite sides of the planet, and found that when it 'had
disappeared on the eastern side it was still visible on the
western, but he did not discover the cause of the phenomena.
The observations of Sir William Herschel, published in 1790,
corroborated the opinion of Cassini respecting the division.
By observing certain spots on the surface of the planet,
Herschel found that it rotated on its axis in 10 hours
29 minutes 16*8 seconds in the same direction as the rota-

tion of the earth. In 1789, as the earth passed through

the plane of Saturn's ring, Herschel noticed some bright
spots on the edge of the ring which were carried almost to
the end of the diameter, and appeared to rotate about
Saturn in about 10 hours 32^- minutes.

       The observations of the present century show that the
outer of the two bright rings is permanently divided into
two concentric rings by a very narrow gap, and when their
plane is inclined to the line of sight at a considerable angle,
so that the rings are widely open, a series of dark elliptic
curves near the extremities of the major axis of the elliptic
projection indicates that each ring is still further broken up
into a number of thin concentric rings, the gaps between
them being apparently filled by the edges of the inner
rings except near the extremity of the major axis of the

projections.

     In 1850 a dark ring encircling Saturn within the other

two rings was discovered independently by three astronomers
in England and America. The distance between the outer
edge of the dark ring and the inner edge of the adjoining
bright ring appeared to vary between narrow limits, the
               CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.          503

rings sometimes appearing to be in contact. This innermost

ring is transparent, so that the edge of the planet can be

it                                seen in all positions without
      it,
                    it

                              is
seen through   and as

distortion seems that the ring cannot consist of trans-
                                                  is
parent gas or liquid. The rings appear to be much thicker          a

near the planet than at their outer edges. A comparison of                   is a

measurements of the diameters of the rings at different

times seems to indicate rapid change in their breadths, the
;
circumference of the outer ring extending outwards, while the
 is
inner bright ring appears to be approaching the planet, so
            1
that the whole breadth of the ring system increasing. At
          is
                            a
least this the conclusion to which Struve arrived from

comparison of his measurements with those of Huyghens

and Herschel.  According to Hind the exterior diameter of

the outer ring about 170,000 miles, its interior diameter

150,000 the exterior diameter of the inner bright ring

14*7,000 miles, its interior diameter 114,000 miles; and

the equatorial diameter of the planet 75,500 miles; but, as

above stated, the breadth of the rings appears to be increas-

ing. Sir John Herschel was of opinion that the thickness

of the rings did not exceed 100 miles, and Bessel calculated

that their mass, as determined by the disturbance they pro-

duced in one of Saturn's satellites, did not exceed XTTB"^f
the mass of the planet.

    If Saturn's rings were solid and at rest, but of course

subject to the attraction of the planet, the stress upon them

would be such that we can conceive of no material capable

of sustaining it. Maxwell remarked that iron would not

only be plastic but semi-fluid under such stresses. By

allowing the rings to rotate, the attraction of the planet

might expend itself in producing the necessary acceleration

towards the centre, or, as        generally stated, might be
1

   is
                         a
                                            ; is

                                           if
balanced by the centrifugal force, and the stress might be

thus relieved to great extent but the rings rotated with

the velocity proper to the interior of the inner ring, the rest

        The evidence of this supposed change in the configuration of the
rings far from conclusive.
504 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

would tend to fly off into space, while if they rotated with

the velocity proper to the exterior of the outer ring, the inner

portions would tend to fall towards the planet ; and even if

they rotated with the velocity proper to any intermediate

portion of the system, the parts beyond would tend to fly

outwards, and the parts within would tend to fall towards

the planet, unless this tendency were compensated by the

attraction of the ring itself. But there is another objection

to the hypothesis of the rings being uniform solids, viz. the
Ifinstability of the motion.
                              the motion of the ring were

slightly disturbed, as is always the case, it would not return

to its original orbit, but its deviation would increase until

it came in contact with the planet itself.

      Laplace was the first to investigate the conditions of

stability of Saturn's ring system. He concluded that if the

rings are solid, they must consist of a great number of very

small concentric rings, each rotating independently with its

proper velocity about the planet. The velocity calculated

by Laplace for the circumference of the outer ring agreed
with that determined, as above mentioned, by Herschel.

Laplace avoided the difficulty of the instability of the rings

above alluded to by supposing that they were not homogene-

ous, but that their centres of gravity were at some distance

from their geometrical centres. Laplace also showed that,

for the attraction of the ring to neutralise its tendency to

split up, it is necessary that its density should be  that of
                                                      : -J-
the planet. In 1851 Professor Pierce showed that the                    a

number of rings in the system must be very much greater

than Laplace had supposed. This was the position of the

question when was taken up by Maxwell.
      On March 23d, 1855, the Examiners announced the
it

                                      a
subject for the Adams Prize in the following terms

The University having accepted fund raised by several
members of St. John's College, for the purpose of founding

prize to be called the Adams Prize, for the best essay on some
subject of pure mathematics, astronomy, or other branch of
natural philosophy, the prize to be given once in two years, and
to be open the competition
                            all persons who have at any time been
a to
                          of

                                                :
admitted to degree in this University
                CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.       505

      The Examiners give notice, that the following is the subject
for the prize to be adjudged in 1857 :

**              The Motions of Saturn's Rings.
   #
      The Problem  may be  treated  on the supposition that

the system of Kings is exactly, or very approximately, concentric

with Saturn, and symmetrically disposed about the plane of his

equator, and different hypotheses may be made respecting the

physical constitution of the Rings. It may be supposed (1) that

they are rigid ; (2) that they are fluid, or in part aeriform ; (3)
that they consist of masses of matter not mutually coherent.
The question will be considered to be answered by ascertaining,

on these hypotheses severally, whether the conditions of mechan-

ical stability are satisfied by the mutual attractions and motions

of the Planet and the Rings.

    It is desirable that an attempt should also be made to

determine on which of the above hypotheses the appearances both

of the bright rings and the recently discovered dark ring may be

most satisfactorily explained ; and to indicate any causes to which

a change of form, such as is supposed from a comparison of

modern with the earlier observations to have taken place, may

be attributed.

     In his essay, to which the prize was adjudged, and which

occupies sixty-eight pages of quarto, Maxwell considered in
the first place the hypothesis of Laplace, and showed that to
secure stability the irregularity of the ring must be enor-
mously great. Speaking of Laplace's conclusion that the
rings must be irregular, Maxwell says :

      We may draw the conclusion more formally as follows :

If the rings were solid and uniform, their motion would be

unstable, and they would be destroyed ; but they are not de-

stroyed, and their motion is stable, therefore they are either not
uniform or not solid.

    I have not discovered, either in the works of Laplace or in

those of more recent mathematicians, any investigation of the
motion of a ring either not uniform or not solid. So that, in the
present state of mechanical science, we do not know whether an
irregular solid ring, or a fluid or disconnected ring, can revolve
permanently about a central body ; and the Saturnian system
still remains an unregarded witness in heaven to some necessary
but as yet unknown development of the laws of the universe.
506 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

      The following extract shows how Maxwell mentally
realised every problem which he considered :

      When we have actually seen that great arch swung over the
equator of the planet without any visible connection, we cannot
bring our minds to rest. We cannot simply admit that such is
the case, and describe it as one of the observed facts in nature,
not admitting or requiring explanation. We must either explain
its motion on the principles of mechanics, or admit that, in the
Saturnian realms, there can be motion regulated by laws which
we are unable to explain.

      The investigation of the stability of the motion of a solid
ring, otherwise uniform but loaded with a heavy particle
upon its circumference, led to the conclusion that the mass
of the particle must be about four and a half times that of
the rest of the ring

      But this load, besides being inconsistent with the observed
appearance of the rings, must be far too artificially adjusted to
agree with the natural arrangements observed elsewhere, for a
very small error in excess or defect would render the ring again

unstable.

      We are therefore constrained to abandon the theory of the
solid ring, and to consider the case of a ring the parts of which
are not rigidly connected, as in the case of a ring of independent
satellites, or a fluid ring.

      There is now no danger of the whole ring, or any part of
     being precipitated on the body of the planet. Every particle
of the ring now to be regarded as an independent satellite of
Saturn, disturbed by the attraction of ring of satellites at the
same mean distance from the planet, each of which, however,
subject to slight displacements. The mutual action of the parts
of the ring will be so small compared with the attraction of the
planet that no part of the ring can ever cease to move round
 Saturn as satellite.

      But the question now before us altogether different from
that relating to the solid ring. We have now to take account of
 variations in the form and arrangement of the parts of the ring,
 as well as its motion as whole, and we have as yet no security
 that these motions may not accumulate till the ring entirely loses
 its original form, and collapses into one or more satellites circu-
 lating round Saturn. In fact such result one of the leading
it,
                   is

                                                                            a

                                                                               is

a
                           a
                                                  a

                                                is
                                                           is
            CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                 50*7

doctrines of the "nebular theory" of the formation of planetary

systems ; and we are familiar    with the actual      breaking up of
fluid rings under the action of  " capillary force,"  in the beautiful

Iexperiments of M. Plateau.

     In this essay have shown that such a destructive tendency
actually exists, but that by the revolution of the ring it is con-

verted into the condition of dynamical stability.

The investigation of the motion of a ring composed of

a continuous liquid, led to the result that the waves set

up in the ring would cause it to break up into a number

of drops which might revolve as satellites about Saturn;
but if the condition of stability was not fulfilled, they would

coalesce, forming a smaller number of larger drops, until the

condition of stability was secured ; and the same would be

the case if the ring were supposed to consist of a number

of concentric narrow rings. The 'liquid ring, therefore, did

not afford a more satisfactory result than the solid one,

though it appeared that the internal friction would produce
no sensible effect, and Maxwell had recourse to " the dusky-

ring, which is something like the state of the air sup-

posing the siege of Sebastopol conducted from a forest of

guns 100 miles one way and 30,000 miles the other, and

the shot never to stop but go spinning away round a

circle radius 170,000 miles." 1 This, however, is not the

order in which the investigations appear in the paper

before us.

Having dismissed the assumption of the solid rings,

Maxwell investigated the effect of disturbance on a ring of

small transverse section, the parts of which are not rigidly

connected. The disturbances he treated as made up of
" harmonic" elements, according to Fourier's method ; and,
first treating the ring as a number of equal satellites revolv-
ing round the planet, he found that such a ring " can always

be rendered stable by increasing the mass of the central
Ifbody and the angular velocity of the ring."
                                                      the ring con-

sist of 100 satellites, the mass of the planet must exceed

            1 See p. 278.
508 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

4352 times that of the ring in order to secure stability for

Ifall displacements. " this condition be not fulfilled, . i .

then, although the motion depending upon long undulations

may remain stable, the short undulations will increase in
amplitude till some of the neighbouring satellites are brought

into collision." The satellites of such a ring, when the con-
dition of stability is fulfilled, admit of four vibrations in

different periods in ellipses about their mean positions, and
these vibrations will be transmitted as waves with different

velocities round the ring, so that the form of the ring at
any instant resembles " that of a string of beads forming a
re-entering curve, nearly circular, but with a small variation
of distance from the centre," forming a number of " regular

curves of transverse displacement at regular intervals round

the circle. Besides these, there are waves of condensation

and rarefaction, the effect of longitudinal displacement."
Any external disturbance, such as a satellite or wave in

another ring, will produce a forced wave in the ring, and if

the angular velocity of the external disturbing cause around

the ring coincide, or nearly coincide, with the velocity of one

of the free waves of the ring, the amplitude of the forced

wave will increase indefinitely until the ring is destroyed ;
but if this condition is not fulfilled, the forced wave will

accompany the disturbing cause around the ring as the tide

follows the moon.

     The effect of one ring upon another is to produce in it

a series of forced waves travelling with the same angular
                                                                               Hence in
velocity as  otfhtewforeerinwgasve"sthinerethewidllistbuerbienigghtrinwga.ves    in each
a system

ring, and the corresponding waves in the two rings will act

and react on each other, so that, strictly speaking, every one
of the waves will be in some measure a forced wave, although

the system of eight waves will be the free motion of the two

rings taken together."

The dynamical stability of a ring of satellites is ex-

plained by the consideration that when one of the satellites,
in consequence of its oscillations, moves with more than its

mean velocity, and thus gets in front of its proper position,
                          CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.               509

it will be carried farther away from the planet, and thus not
only will its linear velocity be diminished, but, in virtue of
its increased distance, its angular velocity will be still farther
diminished and, lagging behind, it will fall back into its
proper position and, oscillating through it with a velocity
less than its mean, will approach the planet and the reverse
action will take place.

     After considering the manner in which the ring will
break up if the condition of stability is not fulfilled, Maxwell
takes up the question of " the dusky ring," consisting of in-

numerable small particles resembling " a shower of rain, hail,
or cinders." For the stability of such a ring its average

density must not exceed ^^ of that of the planet, and the

density of Saturn being only '7505, it follows that the aver-

age density of the ring cannot greatly exceed that of air at

ordinary pressure. Laplace showed that for a ring to rotate
as a whole with uniform velocity about Saturn, the density

of the planet cannot exceed 1*3 times that of the ring.

Hence the particles must move independently, or in a series
of concentric rings.

     In the case of concentric rings of satellites, their mutual
disturbances will destroy one another if the velocity of any

one of the four free waves of one coincide, or nearly coincide,
with that of any free wave in another ; and it is impossible

that there should be any great number of rings without this

condition frequently recurring.

In the case of a large number of concentric rings, the sta-
bility of each pair must be investigated separately, and if in the

case of any two, whether concentric rings or not, there are a
pair of conspiring waves, those two rings will be agitated more
and more till waves of that kind are rendered impossible by the
breaking up of those rings into some different arrangement.
The presence of the other rings cannot prevent the mutual de-
strucIttioanppoefaarsn,y
                          pair which bear such relations to each  other.
                          therefore, that in a system of many     concentric
rings there will be continually new cases of mutual interference
between different pairs of rings. The forces which excite these
disturbances being very small, they will be slow of growth,
and it is possible that by the irregularities of each of the rings
510 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

the waves may be so broken and confused as to be incapable of
mounting up to the height at which they would begin to destroy

the arrangement of the ring. In this way it may be conceived

to be possible that the gradual disarrangement of the system may
be retarded or indefinitely postponed.

     But supposing that these waves mount up so as to produce
collisions among the particles, then we may deduce the result
upon the system from general dynamical principles. There will
be a tendency among the exterior rings to move farther from the

planet, and among the interior rings to approach the planet, and
this either by the extreme interior and exterior rings diverging

from each other, or by intermediate parts of the system moving

away from the mean ring.
     The final result, therefore, of the mechanical theory
                                                                            is                               that
                                                                                    a
                                                                                                  a

                                                                                                        is,
the only system of rings which can exist one composed of anit

indefinite number of unconnected particles revolving round the7
planet with different velocities, according to their respective dis-
tances. These particles may be arranged in series of narrow

rings, or they may move through each other irregularly. In the
first case the destruction of the system will be very slow, in the
second case will be more rapid, but there may be tendency

towards an arrangement in narrow rings which may retard the

process.

The transparency of the inner ring, which allows the

planet to be seen through                                      it  without distortion, and the

observed changes in the configuration of the rings themselves,

all favour this conclusion.

    If the changes already suspected should be confirmed by                 it

repeated obser\ ations with the same instruments, will be worth

while to investigate more carefully whether Saturn's rings are
permanent or transitionary elements of the solar system, and
whether in that part of the heavens we see celestial immutability
or terrestrial corruption and generation, and the old order giving

place to new before our own eyes.

      The apparatus constructed by Maxwell to illustrate the
motions of the satellites in the rings has been already referred

to. It an arrangement in which ivory balls are made

to go through the motions belonging to the first or fourth of
1
                                                               See p. 295.
          is

                                                            1
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                                   511

the four series of waves above mentioned, except that the
balls describe circles instead of ellipses about their mean
positions. We give the description as printed in the essay ;
the apparatus itself is in the Cavendish Laboratory.

The instrument stands on a pillar A (Figs. 7 and    a          in
                                                        8),
the upper part of which turns the cranked axle CO. On the

parallel parts of this axle are placed two wheels, RR and TT,

each of which has thirty-six holes, at equal distance, in circle

near its circumference. The two circles are connected by thirty-

six small cranks of the form KK, the extremities of which turn

in the corresponding holes of the two wheels. The axle of the
crank K which passes through the hole in the wheel
                                                    S       bored
                                                        is

Fig. Fig. 8.
S.

     P,
                                7.
                                                                                       ;

                                                                                          a
                                                                                               Q,

                                                                                  R
so as to hold the end of the bent wire which carries the satellite

      This wire may be turned in the hole so as to place the

bent part carrying the satellite at any angle with the crank. A

pin which passes through the top of the pillar, serves to pre-

vent the cranked axle from turning and  pin         passing

through the pillar horizontally, may be made to fix the wheel
512 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

by inserting it in a hole in one of the spokes of that wheel.
There is also a handle H, which is in one piece with the wheel

T, and serves to turn the axle.

     Now suppose the pin P taken out, so as to allow the

cranked axle to turn, and the pin Q inserted in its hole so as to

prevent the wheel R from revolving ; then if the crank C be
turned by means of the handle H, the wheel T will have its
centre carried round in a vertical circle, but will remain parallel

to itself during the whole motion, so that every point in its

plane will describe an equal circle, and all the cranks K will be

made to revolve exactly as the large crank C does. Each
satellite will therefore revolve in a small circular orbit in the

same time with the handle H, but the position of each satellite

in that orbit may be arranged as we please, according as we
turn the wire which supports it in the end of the crank.

     In Fig. 8, which . gives a front view of the instrument, the

satellites are so placed that each is turned 60 farther round in
its socket than the one behind it. As there are thirty-six satel-

lites, this process will bring us back to our starting-point after

six revolutions of the direction of the arm of the satellite ; and
therefore, as we have gone round the ring once in the same
direction, the arm of the satellite will have overtaken the radius

of the ring five times.        Hence there will be five

                         places where the satellites
                         are beyond their mean dis-
                         tance from the centre of the

                         ring, and five where they are

                         withina               so that we have

                                   it,
                         here series of five undula-

                         tions round the circumfer-

                         ence of the ring. In this case

                         the satellites are crowded

                         together when nearest to the

                         centre. . .

                             Now suppose the cranked
                               it, C
                         axle to be turned, and all.

                         the small cranks K to turn

                         with    as before explained,

every satellite will then be carried round on its arm and in the same

direction; but, since the direction of the arms of different satel-is

lites different, their phases of revolution will preserve the same
difference, and the system of satellites will still be arranged in
five undulations, only the undulations will be propagated round
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.   513

the ring in the direction opposite to that of the revolution of the
satellites.

    If the satellites are arranged as in Fig. 8, where each is

more advanced in phase as we go round the ring, the wave will

travel in the direction opposite to that of rotation, but if they

are arranged as in Fig. 9, where each satellite is less advanced
in phase as we go round the ring, the wave will travel in the
direction of rotation.

We may now show these motions of the satellites among

each other, combined with the motion of rotation of the whole

ring. For this purpose we put in the pin P, so as to prevent

Ifthe crank axle from turning, and take out the pin Q, so as to
allow the wheel E to turn.  we then turn the wheel T, all the

small cranks will remain parallel to the first crank, and the

wheel E will revolve at the same rate as T. The arm of each
satellite will continue parallel to itself during the motion, so that
the satellite will describe a circle whose centre is at a distance

from the centre of E, equal to the arm of the satellite, and
measured in the same direction. In our theory of real satellites

each moves in an ellipse, having the central body in its focus, but

this motion in an eccentric circle is sufficiently near for illustra-

tion. The motion of the waves relative to the ring is the same

as before. The waves of the first kind (Fig. 8) travel faster
than the ring itself, and overtake the satellites, those of the

fourth kind (Fig. 9) travel slower and are overtaken by them.
                                                                                                                %

      This paper was characterised by the late Astronomer

IEoyal as " one of the most remarkable applications of Mathe-

matics to Physics that have ever seen."

      6. But notwithstanding the investigations above referred
to, and many other original papers on almost every branch
of Physical Science, it is for his researches in Electricity and
in Molecular Science that Maxwell stands pre-eminent among
the men of science of the present century. After taking his
degree in 1854, Maxwell read through Faraday's Experi-
mental researches, a course which he always recommended his

students to follow. In Faraday he found a mind essentially

of his own type. Thoroughly conversant himself with the
Theory of Attractions as developed in Mathematical Treatises,

                                                 2L
514 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

and with the laws of electrical action as illustrated by Sir

William Thomson in his paper "on the Uniform motion of heat

in homogeneous solid bodies, and its connection with the
Mathematical Theory of Electricity/' a paper published in

the Cambridge Mathematical Journal, February 1842, and
" on a Mechanical representation of Electric, Magnetic, and

Galvanic Forces," published in the Cambridge and Dublin
Mathematical Journal, January 1847, Maxwell saw the

connection between Faraday's point of view and the method

of research adopted by the Mathematicians. He used to say

that he had not a good nose to smell heresy, but whatever

was good and true Maxwell would detect beneath the mass of

misconception, or even falsehood, which had gathered round

and which caused its rejection by nearly every one else
it,
                    a

                                                                                                a
                                                                                                              a
without inquiry. Faraday's conception of medium he

adopted as guide throughout his electrical researches.

Until the sixteenth century all that was known respect-

ing electricity was the one fact that amber when rubbed

possesses the power of attracting light bodies. This property

was shown (Physiologia Nova, 1600) to be possessed by
variety of substances jDy Dr. Gilbert of Colchester, who was

Physician to Queen Elizabeth, and who may be regarded as
the founder of the Science of Electricity. From this time

rapid strides were made in the experimental portion of the

science, and the law according to which the attraction or repul-

sion between two small bodies charged with electricity varies

with the charges, and the distance between them, was deter-

mined by Coulomb with his torsion balance, an instrument

whose value to the experimental investigator can hardly be

over-estimated. But  to Cavendish (1771-1*781) that we
                     it

                         is
                                                          a

                                                    of
are mainly indebted for the foundation of the Mathematical

Theory of Electricity, and for the highest experimental

evidence of the law of electrical action. As the preparation

for the press of The Electrical Researches                   the Honourable

Henry Cavendish was the last of Maxwell's contributions to

science, the work being published only few weeks before
his death, we shall again have to refer to Cavendish's in-

vestigations, and need only state that his experiments proved
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.  515

conclusively, and in the best possible manner as far as the
instruments at his disposal would allow, that the attrac-
tion or repulsion between two small charged bodies varies
directly as the product of their charges, and inversely as
the square of the distance between them, so that the law of
electrical action is the same as Newton's law of gravitation,

except that the stress between similarly charged bodies is

repulsive, and that between dissimilarly charged bodies
attractive. After Cavendish's time comparatively little was

added to the theory of statical electricity, if we except the

elaborate mathematical investigations of particular problems
by Poisson, and the papers of George Green, which until

recently were read by few, and appreciated by only two or
three, until Faraday took up the subject. Most of Caven-
dish's work remained unpublished and unknown, and some

of his results were independently obtained by Faraday. It

is difficult to conceive what would have been the effect on
Faraday's mind of perusing Cavendish's " thoughts on
electricity," -as well as his own accounts of his experiments.
Perhaps it is best for the world that Faraday was left to work
and think on independent lines ; certainly it has been a
boon to Mathematicians and Physicists alike that Maxwell

has appeared to expound and develop, if not to perfect, the

work of both.

      The mathematical theory of attractions had, prior to the
time of Faraday, attained a very high degree of development
in the hands of Laplace, Lagrange, Poisson, and others, and
could be applied to the solution of many very interesting
problems in electricity. But Faraday was not satisfied with
the hypothesis of direct action at a distance between charges
of electricity, and held that there must be some mechanism
by which electric and electromagnetic actions can be com-
municated from point to point. Not all the arguments by
which he supported this view are conclusive, for the force

upon an electrified body and the induced electrification of
any conductor will be the same whether we adopt the
hypothesis of direct action at a distance or of the transmission
of electrical action in lines, straight or curved, through an
516 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

intervening medium. But any view, whether the arguments

in its favour are conclusive or not, is of value if it lead us

to inquire more closely into the mechanism by which a
phenomenon is brought about ; and thus Faraday's concep-
tion of lines of force, transmitted through a medium, and
exerting tension and pressure wherever they are to be found,
are of more value as an instrument of mental research than

Weber's Theory of Electro-magnetism, however perfect the
latter may be from a mathematical point of view.

      The following quotation, from the preface to the Elec-
tricity and Magnetism, gives Maxwell's views of Faraday in
his own words : 1

I IBefore
                began the study of electricity resolved to read
Ino mathematics on the subject till
                                     had first read through
IFaraday's Experimental Researches on Electricity.
                                                    was aware that

there was supposed to be a difference between Faraday's way of

conceiving phenomena and that of the mathematicians, so that

Ineither he nor they were satisfied with each other's language.

Ihad also the conviction that this discrepancy did not arise from
either party being wrong.        was first convinced of this by Sir
I IWilliam Thomson, to whose advice and assistance, as well as to

his published papers, owe most of what have learned on the

I Isubject.

     As proceeded with the study of Faraday, perceived that

his method of conceiving the phenomena was also a mathematical

Ione, though not exhibited in the conventional form of mathema-
tical symbols.  also found that these methods were capable of

being expressed in the ordinary mathematical forms, and these

compared with those of the professed mathematicians.
     For instance, Faraday, in his mind's eye, saw lines of force

traversing all space where the mathematicians saw centres of

force attracting at a distance ; Faraday saw a medium where they
saw nothing but distance ; Faraday sought the seat of the pheno-
mena in real actions going on in the medium, they were satisfied
that they had found it in a power of action at a distance im-

pressed on the electric fluids.

      Suppose a small positively electrified body to start from
a point close to a positively electrified surface, and suppose

1 See also Maxwell's article on "Faraday" in Ency. Brit., 9th edit.
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                                              517

it to move always in the direction in which it is urged by

itthe force acting on               will, of course, be repelled by the

         it,

          it
surface, and will move away along some path straight or

curved, and will continue to move indefinitely, the force

diminishing as proceeds, unless meet with negatively
                                    it

                                             it,
                                                              a
electrified surface, which will attract  and coming into

contact with this surface its career will terminate. The path

traced out by such                  small electrified body constitutes
of
    is

             a
Faraday's line force, which therefore line whose direc-
                                    is
                                                          a

tion at any point that of the resultant force at that point.

Such lines of force always proceed from positively electrified

surfaces, and terminate upon negatively electrified surfaces
or, failing this, they must proceed to infinity. Lines of force
                                                                 a

                                                                                  ;
proceeding from positively electrified body placed in room,a
unless there be other negatively charged bodies in the neigh-

bourhood, will in general terminate upon the walls, floor, and

ceiling of the room, or upon objects in the room in electrical

communication with these. Faraday thus conceived the

whole of the space in which electrical force acts to be tra-

versed by lines of force which indicate at every point the

direction of the resultant force at that point. But Faraday

went further than this he conceived the notion of causing
;
the lines of force to represent also the intensity of the force
               is
                        a                                    great the lines
                                a:
at every point, so that when the force   is
                                                             a

                                                                     is
might be close together, and far apart when the force

small and since the force in the neighbourhood of small

charged body proportional to the charge, he endeavoured

to accomplish this object by drawing from every positively

electrified surface number of lines of force proportional to

its charge, and causing similar number of lines of force to
terminate in every negatively electrified surface. In paper

entitled " On Faraday's Lines of Force," read before the
                                                             if

                                                                 a
                                                                    a
Cambridge Philosophical Society on December 10th, 1855,
and February llth, 1856, Maxwell showed that
                                                                     system

of lines could be drawn according to Faraday's method, then,

in virtue of the law of electrical action being that of the

inverse square of the distance, the number of lines of force

passing through  a   unit area of any surface, drawn perpen-
518 JAMES CLEEK MAXWELL.

dicular to the direction of the force, is proportional to the
magnitude of the force in the neighbourhood, and that the
number of lines passing through the unit area of any other

surface is proportional to the component of the force at right
angles to that surface. Maxwell therefore imagined the
positively electrified surfaces from which the lines started to
be divided into areas, each containing one unit of electricity,
and lines of force to be drawn through every point in each
bounding line. These lines therefore divide the whole of
space into " unit tubes," whose boundaries are lines of force,
and Maxwell showed that, in virtue of " the law of inverse

squares," the force at any point in any direction is inversely
proportional to the area of the section of the unit tube of

force made by a plane perpendicular to that direction.
Maxwell further showed that on the negatively electrified
surface upon which these tubes terminate, each tube will

enclose one, unit of negative electricity, and consequently, if

a metallic surface be introduced so as to cut the lines of

force, the surface being placed at right angles to the tube, a
unit of negative electricity will be induced on each portion
of the surface contained within the trace of a tube of force ;
and hence, in any isotropic medium, these unit tubes of force
are also unit tubes of induction. If, therefore, a system of
tubes of force be drawn in connection with any electrified
system, and in accordance with this plan, the whole of the
space in which the force acts will be divided into tubes each
originating from a unit of positive electricity and terminating
upon a unit of negative electricity, while the direction of the
force at any point will be indicated by that of the tube, and
the magnitude of the force will be inversely proportional to

the area of the cross section of the tube. Now, if the law

of force had been any other than that of the inverse square,
and tubes had been drawn starting from an electrified surface
as above, and such that the area of any section of a tube is
inversely proportional to the force across the section, these
tubes would either leave spaces between them as they recede

from the surface, or would intersect one another ; so that it
is only for the law of inverse squares that the system of
                CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                        519

tubes above described is possible. Faraday pointed out that

there is not only a tension exerted along each line of force,

but that the several lines exert a repulsion upon one another,

and Maxwell showed that a tension along the lines of force,

accompanied by an equal pressure in every direction at right

angles to these lines, is consistent with the equilibrium of

the medium. Taking an illustration from the flow of water

in a river, Maxwell pointed out that the stream lines or paths

along which particles of water flow, are analogous to lines of

electric force, the velocity of the water being analogous to
Ifthe intensity of the force.
                               the river be supposed to be

divided into tubes, the boundaries of which are lines of flow,

and if these tubes be so drawn that unit volume of water

passes across a particular section of each tube in a second,

then, if the flow be steady, unit volume of water will flow

across every section of each tube in a second, since no water

enters or leaves the tube except at its ends. Such tubes

may be called unit tubes of flow, and if no tributaries enter

the river there will be the same number of unit tubes crossing

each section of the river. Where the bed widens the section

of each tube increases, being always inversely proportional

to the velocity of the water, and hence the number of unit

tubes of flow which cut any unit of area in a cross section of

the river will be proportional to the velocity of the water in

the neighbourhood. Such a system of tubes, therefore, will

represent both the direction of motion and velocity of the

water at every point, and will exactly correspond, mutatis

mutandis, with a system of unit tubes of electric force.

The following letter was addressed to Maxwell by

Faraday on receiving a copy of the paper on "Lines of

Force:"

IMY DEAR SIR             Albemarle Street, W., 25th March 1857.

                received your paper, and thank you very
I Imuch for
Ihave said
         it.    do not   say venture to thank you for what you
         about  " Lines  of Force," because know you have done

it for the interests of philosophical truth ; but you must suppose
it is work grateful to me, and gives me much encouragement to
I Ithink on.
         was at first almost frightened when saw such

mathematical force made to bear upon the subject, and then
520 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

Iwondered to see that the subject stood it so well.  send by this
I Ipost another paper to you ; wonder what you will say to it.

Ihope however, that bold as the thoughts may be, you may per-
haps find reason to bear with them.              hope this summer to make

some experiments on the time of magnetic action, or rather on

the time required for the assumption of the electrotonic state,

round a wire carrying a current, that may help the subject on.

The time must probably be short as the time of light ; but the

Igreatness of the result, if affirmative, makes me not despair.

Perhaps had better have said nothing about for am often
                                                 a

                                                                  it,

                                                                I

                                                                                is
long in realising my intentions, and failing memory                                 against

me. Ever yours most truly,                       M. FARADAY.

Prof. C. Maxwell.

The paper, read before the Cambridge Philosophical

Society, and published in vol. x. of their Proceedings,                             it is

confessedly only translation of Faraday's ideas into mathe-
a
matical language, with illustrations and extensions, and
    ;
makes no attempt at explaining the nature of the action in
                          a
the dielectric, or the mechanism by which the observed

effects are brought about. About five years later, in series
                                                 a
                                                               a
of three papers communicated to the Philosophical Magazine

in 1861 and 1862, Professor Maxwell gave simple sketch

of system of mechanism, capable of producing not only the

electrostatic effects above alluded to, but also of accounting

for magnetic attraction, the action of electric currents upon

one another, and upon magnets, and electromagnetic induc-

tion but before giving an account of these papers will be
                                                     it

necessary briefly to mention the principal phenomena, an

explanation of which was required.

The ordinary phenomena of magnetism, including the

attraction between dissimilar and the repulsion between

similar poles, as well as the still more familiar phenomena

of the attraction of soft iron by magnetic pole, are too well
                             is
                                             aa
known to require more than passing mention. Coulomb

showed that the law of inverse squares obtained equally for

magnetic repulsions as for electrical, so that the stress between

two magnetic poles           proportional to the product of the

strengths of the poles and inversely proportional to the
square of the distance between them, provided the steel of
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.  521

which the magnets are composed is sufficiently hard to pre-
vent the actions of the magnets on each other altering the
strengths of their poles.

    If a sheet of paper be supported horizontally above the

poles of a magnet, and iron filings be sprinkled over the
paper, each filing becomes magnetised by induction in the

direction of the resultant magnetic force at the point where

it is situated, and if the paper be gently tapped so as to

overcome friction, the mutual attraction of the unlike poles
in the filings causes them to adhere together in threads
or filaments, the North pole of one filing attaching itself to
the South pole of a neighbouring filing, and so on, the points

of attachment all lying along a line of force. In this way

the filings form a graphic representation of the lines of mag-
netic force, and it was this experiment which first suggested
to Faraday the idea of the physical existence of such lines ;
and as he found it difficult to conceive of curved lines of
force being due to " direct action at a distance " (Exp. Kes.
1166), he considered that there must be some medium which

is the vehicle both of magnetic and electric forces, and that
such forces are propagated from particle to particle of the
medium. Faraday also supposed that the same medium
might serve as the vehicle for the transmission of light.
The investigation of the properties of the medium necessary

to account for observed electric and magnetic actions, the
explanation of these actions, and the determination of the
velocity of light from purely electro-magnetic considerations
on the hypothesis of the existence of a such a medium con-
stitute Maxwell's greatest contribution to electrical science.

      The action of an electric current upon a magnet was first

observed by (Ersted. It is said that he made many attempts

in his laboratory to discover an action between a magnet and
a wire conveying a current, but in all his attempts he care-
fully placed the wire at right angles to the magnetic needle,
and could detect no effect whatever. On attempting to
repeat the experiment in the presence of his class he placed
the wire parallel to the needle, and the latter immediately
swung round and ultimately came to rest nearly at right
522 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

angles to the wire. Whenever the North pole (i.e. the North
seeking pole) of a magnet is brought near to a wire conveying
a current, the pole tends to go round the wire in a certain

direction, while the South (or South seeking) pole of the
magnet tends to go round the wire in the opposite direction,

and hence if the magnet be free to turn about its centre, the
magnet will come to rest at right angles to the wire. Many

memoriae technicce have been given for determining the manner

in which a magnet will behave in the neighbourhood of a
current. Maxwell's rule was as follows : Suppose a right-
handed screw to be advancing in the direction of the current,
and of necessity rotating as it advances, as if it were piercing
a solid. The North pole of a magnet will always tend to
move round the wire conveying the current in the direction
in which such a screw rotates, while the South pole will
tend to move in the opposite direction.

      We may thus suppose every wire conveying a current
to be surrounded by lines of magnetic force which form

closed curves around the wire, and the direction of the

force is that in which a right-handed screw would rotate if
advancing with the current. In the case of a straight wire

of infinite length, these curves are of course circles. Since
action and reaction are equal and opposite, it follows that
whatever be the mechanical force exerted by a current upon
a pole of a magnet, the latter will always exert an equal and

opposite force upon the wire or other conductor conveying
the current. Many experiments have been devised to show

this. Maxwell used to illustrate it in a very simple way.
Having attached a piece of insulated copper wire to a small

round plate of copper, he placed the plate at the bottom of a

small beaker. A disc of sheet zinc was then cut of such

size as to fit loosely in the beaker, a small " tail " of zinc
being left attached to it ; this was bent up and united to the
copper wire above the top of the beaker, while the plate of
zinc was suspended in a horizontal position an inch or two
above the copper plate. The beaker was filled up with dilute
sulphuric acid and placed on one pole of an electromagnet,
some sawdust or powdered resin being placed in the liquid
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                         523

to show its movements. On exciting the magnet the liquid

rotated in one direction, and on reversing the polarity of the
Ifmagnet the direction of rotation was reversed.
                                                  the plates

be suspended by a string, so that they can readily turn round

in the beaker about a vertical axis, the action of the magnet

on the current in the vertical wire will cause the plates to

turn always in the direction opposite to that of the liquid.

The laws of the mechanical action of conductors convey-

ing currents upon magnets and upon each other were in-

vestigated by Ampere in a series of experiments which were

at once conclusive and exhaustive,. These experiments were

alluded to in the highest terms by Professor Maxwell. Any

account of them would be out of place here, and we only

refer to them as furnishing the experimental evidence for the

statements which follow.

We have already described the manner in which magnetic

lines of force may be supposed to surround a wire conveying

a current. Now let such a wire be bent into a closed curve

or ring which need not necessarily be circular. The lines of

force, which themselves form closed curves around the wire,

will all pass in the same direction through the ring formed
by the wire conveying the current, as if they were strung
upon the wire, and hence the North pole of a magnet will

tend to pass through the ring in the direction of the lines of

force ; and a moment's reflection will show that this direction
is that in which a right-handed screw would advance if

rotating in the direction of the current in the wire. Hence,

if the North pole of a magnet be brought near to such a

small closed circuit, on the one side it will be attracted and
tend to pass through the circuit ; on the other side it will be
repelled. The South pole of a magnet will be acted upon in

precisely the opposite manner. Hence if a small magnetic

needle be suspended within a coil of wire conveying -a cur-

rent, it will tend to set itself at right angles to the plane of

the coil. Such an arrangement constitutes a galvanometer.

Now suppose that we have a small disc of steel of the

same size and shape as the ring formed by the wire, and

that this disc is magnetised so that one side is a north pole
524 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

and the other a south pole. Such a disc will act upon
external magnets in the same manner as the current if it be

magnetised, so that a right-handed screw rotating with the

current would enter at the south face and emerge at the

north face. Such a magnetised disc is called a magnetic

shell, and it will of course be acted upon by a magnet with

forces exactly equal and opposite to those with which the

magnet is acted upon by it. The magnetic lines of force

proceeding from a circuit conveying an electric current are

therefore the same as would proceed from the magnetic

shell above described, the strength of the magnetisation

being properly adjusted ; in other words, the magnetic field

around such a circuit is the same as that surrounding the

magnetic shell, and hence it follows that two circuits, each

conveying electric currents, will act upon one another in the

same way as two magnetic shells whose circumferences

coincide with the wires, and which are magnetised as

above described.

     Now if the shells be parallel and magnetised in the

same direction, they will have their opposite faces presented
Iftowards each other, and will attract one another.
                                                     they

are magnetised in the opposite directions they will repel
one another. Similarly, two parallel circuits will attract
one another if the currents be passing in the same direction
in both, and will repel one another if they be going in

opposite directions. Also two parallel wires, which may be

considered as parts of such circuits, will attract one another

when the currents in them are going in the same direction,
and repel one another if they are going in the opposite

directions. Maxwell's rule for determining the manner in
which a circuit conveying a current will behave in the

presence of other currents or of magnets is a very simple

expression of Faraday's results. Defining the positive direc-

tion through a circuit as that in which a right-handed screw

would advance if rotating with the current, he enunciated

the rule thus :

   If a wire conveying a current be free to move in a mag-

netic field it will tend to set itself so that the greatest possible
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE  525

number of lines of magnetic force may pass through the circuit
in the positive direction.

      Since the magnetic field may be produced either by

magnets or by electric currents themselves, as above de-
scribed, this rule combined with the principle that action
and reaction are equal and opposite will serve to determine

the character of the action either upon circuits conveying
currents or upon magnets in every possible case which may
arise, and, in fact, embodies the magnificent results of
Ampere's investigations in this subject.

      Previously to the experiments of Faraday the induction
of electric currents was unknown. The principal phenome-
non depending upon this action, which had been observed,
and of which no satisfactory explanation had been offered,

was that of Arago's rotating disc. In this experiment a

disc of copper was made to rotate rapidly in its own hori-

zontal plane above a compass needle, when the needle was
observed to follow the disc and rotate on its vertical pin.

This experiment was subsequently repeated by Sir John
Herschel and Mr. Babbage, who employed discs of various
substances, and found that it was only when the discs were
good conductors of electricity that Arago's result was
obtained. Faraday, in the first series of his Experimental
Eesearches, describes an experiment in which a copper disc
was made to rotate between the poles of an electro-magnet,
while one electrode of a galvanometer was connected with
the axis of the disc, and the other with a wire which was

held in contact with the edge of the disc, which edge was
amalgamated to secure a good connection. On spinning the
disc a current was immediately obtained, the direction of
which was reversed with that of the rotation. This experi-
ment may be regarded as the starting-point of the dynamo
machines of Wilde, Gramme, Siemens, and others, which

seem destined to play so important a part in the civilised
life of the future.

       Faraday also showed that when two circuits are placed

near to one another, if a current be started in one circuit

there is an instantaneous current produced in the opposite
526 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

direction in the neighbouring circuit, while on stopping the
" primary " current a transient current in the same direction
as the primary occurs in the other or " secondary " circuit.
This experiment was the origin of the now well-known

induction coil. Again, when the current was flowing

steadily in the primary circuit, if the secondary circuit were

brought nearer to    it,   current was induced in the secondary

in the direction opposite to that in the primary, and con-aa

tinued during the approach of the circuits. On removing

the secondary circuit transient current was set up in the

same direction as that in the primary.

We cannot here spare space to trace the development

of the laws of induced currents. The character of the action

may in all cases be inferred from the very concise state-

ment of Lenz, generally quoted as Lenz's law, and which

may be thus expressed

    If conductor move in
        a            :                 magnetic field, an electro-
               a
                                    a

motive force will be induced in the conductor which will tend

to produce current in such direction that the mechanical

force upon the conductor tends to oppose its motion.
      This law, taken in conjunction with the statements made

above respecting the mechanical action in magnetic field
                                           a
                                                  a
aupon conductor conveying current, serves to determinea
the character of the induced current whenever conductora
                                        a
moves in the neighbourhood of magnets or electric currents.
Moreover, the starting of current in neighbouring circuitif
must have the same effect upon the wire as the conductor
were suddenly brought from an infinite distance into the
position which.it actually occupies. Hence Lenz's law will
apply to every case of induced currents.

      Maxwell's statement expresses the laws of induced

currents quantitatively as well as qualitatively. It as

follows
        :

         of
                     of

                                 is
                                      of

                                                  by

                                                   of
                                                           is
                                                      of
                                                                                 of is
Whenever the number            lines    magnetic force passing

through a closed circuit changed there an electro-motive force
round the circuit represented         the rate diminution
                                                                                        the

number  lines force which pass through the circuit in the

positive direction.
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                               527

     If, then, the number of magnetic lines of force passing
through a circuit is diminished, there will be an electro-

motive force round the circuit in the direction in which a

right-handed screw would rotate if advancing along the lines

of force ; a line of force being always supposed to be drawn

in the direction in which a north magnetic pole tends to
Ifmove along it.
                       the number of lines of force passing

through the circuit is increased, the electro-motive force will

be in the opposite direction. This law can be deduced from

that which expresses the mechanical action upon a circuit

conveying a current when placed in a magnetic field together
with the principle of the conservation of energy. That it

may be numerically true all the quantities involved must be

expressed in terms of the electromagnetic system of units.

The telephone is a beautiful example of the application of

this law. Every movement of the iron disc in front of the

pole of the magnet alters the number of magnetic lines of

force passing through the coils of wire surrounding the pole,

and hence induces a current in one direction or the other in the

coil, which current, increasing or diminishing the strength

of the magnetism in the receiving telephone, causes a cor-

responding motion in the iron disc of the receiver, which

therefore emits sounds similar to those incident upon the

receiving instrument.

     From what has been stated it will appear that the
motion of a conductor will produce a current therein only

a
           a

                     a
                                                                    is,

                                                                                aa
when the conductor is moving in a magnetic field, that

portion of space through which magnetic lines of force pass.

Faraday supposed that conductor under these circumstances
was thrown into peculiar condition, which he termed " the

electrotonic state," and that current was induced whenever

this state varied. Maxwell showed that this electrotonic

state, on the variations of which the induced current in

circuit depends, corresponds to the number of magnetic lines

of force which pass through the circuit. Because every

change in this quantity involved the action of electromotive

force, its relations to electromotive force being the same as

those of momentum to force in dynamics, he called the
528 JAMES CLEKK MAXWELL.

quantity itself electromagnetic momentum. Maxwell's con-
ception of the physical nature of this quantity will be

described presently.
      The determination of the laws of self-induction in electric

currents is another of Faraday's many contributions to

electrical science. After one of the Friday evening lectures
at the Eoyal Institution, a certain Mr. Jenkin informed

Faraday that when he broke the connection of the circuit in

his electromagnet by separating two pieces of wire which he

held in his hands, he felt a smart shock. Faraday said that

this was the only suggestion, out of a very great number,

made to him by ordinary members of a popular audience

which ever led to any result. On investigating the matter,

Faraday found that when a current is flowing in a coil of wire

if the battery be removed there is a tendency for the current

to continue after the removal of the battery, and that this

tendency is increased by increasing the number of turns of

wire in the coil, and still more so by inserting soft iron in

the centre of the coil. This tendency does not depend so

much on the length of the wire as upon the relative positions
of its parts, and if the wire be first doubled and then wound
Ifinto a coil the tendency disappears.
                                        a few Grove's cells

send a current through a short straight piece of wire and
the circuit be broken a very feeble spark will be seen on
breaking, but if a large electromagnet be introduced into the
circuit a very much brighter spark will appear on breaking

contact, though the current sent by the battery is feebler.

Thus, when a current flows in such a coil its behaviour re-

minds us of that of water flowing in a pipe which, when an

obstruction is suddenly introduced so as to stop the flow,

exerts an enormous pressure for a short time upon the pipe

and obstruction, in virtue of the momentum which the water

has acquired ; but that the action is not due to any momen-

tum actually possessed by the moving electricity is shown
by the fact that it depends on the configuration of the wire.

This property of a coil is called self-induction. If the poles

of an electro-magnet be joined by a wire of great resistance
as well as by the battery, when the battery is removed a
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                529

considerable current will flow through the wire. This current

Faraday called the extra- current. It is more generally

referred to as the self-induction current.

     A similar action takes place when connection is made

between a battery and a coil. The current does not at once
acquire its full value, but for a short time goes on steadily
increasing ; the self-induction of the coil causing it to behave

as if the current in it possessed considerable mass, which has
in the first instance to be put into motion. All these

actions are immediate consequences of the law of induced

currents stated on p. 526.

There is a well-known experiment of Faraday in which a

specimen of his heavy glass, or borate of lead, was placed

between the poles of a powerful electro-magnet and a beam

of plane polarised light was passed through the glass in the

direction of the magnetic force. Faraday found that when

the light passed from the north to the south pole of the

magnet the plane of polarisation was turned through an
angle in the same direction as a right-handed screw would

rotate if piercing a solid and advancing with the light.

When the light passed in the opposite direction, the rotation

of the plane of polarisation was in the same direction with

respect to the magnet, and therefore reversed with respect

to the path of the light. In this respect the heavy glass

under the influence of the magnet behaved differently from

a solution of sugar which always turns the plane of polarisa-

tion of the light in the same direction with reference to its

direction of transmission. This was the first experiment

which showed any relation between light and magnetism,

and indicated that the medium which serves as the vehicle

of light the luminiferous ether must at least be affected

by the presence of magnetic force, though the fact that the

presence of ponderable matter is necessary to the production

of this rotation, and that the direction of the rotation depends

on the nature of the matter, renders it doubtful how far mag-

netic force affects the ether directly.
All transparent solids and liquids exhibit the same action
Ifon light in different degrees.
                                  a tube of water with plate

                            2M
530 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

glass ends be placed within a coil of wire through which an
electric current is passing, and plane polarised light be trans-
mitted through the tube, the plane of polarisation will be
turned through an angle in the direction in which the current
circulates, and this angle will be proportional to the current,
Verdet showed that in the case of a transparent (para-)
magnetic substance the rotation is in the opposite direction
to that of the current.

      The curious effect of a magnet upon the luminous dis-
charge in a vacuum tube and the recent experiments of
Dr. Kerr, may indicate other relations between light and

electricity and magnetism.

      Having thus very briefly referred to the principal pheno-
mena of magnetism and electromagnetism, we may proceed
to give a short explanation of the medium or mechanism by
which Maxwell accounted for these phenomena and their

mutual interdependence.
      From the well-known laws of the propagation of light,

Maxwell assumed "as a datum derived from a branch of

science independent of that with which we have to deal, the
existence of a pervading medium, of small but real density,
capable of being set in motion, and of transmitting motion
from one part to another with great, but not infinite, velocity."
Inasmuch as this medium can transmit undulations with
finite velocity, it follows that it possesses a property analo-
gous to mass, so that its motion implies kinetic energy ; in
addition to elasticity, in virtue of which its deformation

implies potential energy.

     It is well known that if a body rotate about a fixed centre

there will be a tension along any radius drawn in the plane of
rotation. The form which the earth would assume under the
action of gravity only, if there were no rotation, would be
that of a sphere. The diurnal rotation tends to cause the

polar axis to contract and the equatorial diameter to increase ;

and this action would go on indefinitely were it not that at
a certain early stage it is balanced by the attraction of gravi-
tation, and thus the earth assumes a nearly spherical form, in
which the polar axis is shorter than the equatorial diameter.
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.  531

      Eeferring again to the case of the earth, it is demon-

 strable from the fundamental laws and principles of dynamics

that if matter were conveyed from the equatorial regions to

 the poles, and there deposited so as to lengthen the polar
 axis at the expense of the equatorial diameter, the ' rate of

rotation of the earth would be increased and the length of
the day would be diminished ; while if the earth became

more oblate its velocity of rotation would diminish. In fact,
if any body be in rotation, and be unacted upon by external
forces, or if the forces acting upon it be such as not to affect
its rotation, and if the system be altered in shape by internal
stresses or otherwise, so that its moment of inertia about the
axis of rotation is increased, the angular velocity will be

diminished and, in the case of a sphere becoming an oblate
spheroid, the velocity at the circumference will also be

diminished, while if the moment of inertia be diminished,

the reverse effect takes place.

      Now Maxwell supposed that any medium which can
serve as the vehicle of magnetic force consists of a vast num-
ber of very small bodies or cells capable of rotation, and which

we may consider to be spherical or nearly so when in their
normal condition, until we have reason to believe them to be

of some other form. When magnetic force is transmitted by
the medium, these bodies are supposed to be set in rotation

about the lines of magnetic force as axis, and with a velocity
depending on the intensity of the force. For the sake of

fixing our ideas he supposed the rotation to be in the direc-

tion in which a right-handed screw would turn if it advanced

in the direction of the force. We thus have the magnetic
field filled with " molecular vortices," all rotating in the same

direction about the lines of magnetic force as axes. As we
have seen, these vortices will tend to contract in the direction

of their axes of rotation, and to expand at right angles to this

direction, so that if initially they are elastic spheres, they will

tend to become oblate spheroids like the earth. This tendency
will involve a tension in the medium along the lines of force,
these being the lines along which contraction tends to take
place, and this will be accompanied by an equal pressure in
532 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

every direction perpendicular to the lines of force, on account

of the tendency of the vortices to expand equatorially.

      Now suppose that we have a north magnetic pole and
a south magnetic pole placed near to one another. Lines of

force will proceed from the North pole, generally in curved

lines, to the South pole. The space in the neighbourhood
of the poles will be filled with molecular vortices, which will

be most energetic along the line joining the poles, and the
velocities of the vortices will diminish as we pass into weaker

portions of the field. The tension along the lines of force,

tending to draw the North and South poles together, affords

sufficient explanation of the apparent attraction between the

poles ; the kinetic energy of the molecular vortices accounts
for the potential energy of the separated poles, which we

thus suppose to be really kinetic energy, though possessed by

the medium between the apparently attracting bodies and not

by the bodies themselves. (Perhaps all examples of so-called

potential energy we shall some day find to be really kinetic

energy possessed by a medium with the properties of which

we have been hitherto unacquainted.) When the poles

approach one another, the field which is occupied by the

vortices is diminished in extent, and though the velocity of

the vortices is increased, the whole energy of the field is

diminished, and the difference is expended in work done upon
Ifthe approaching magnets.
                            the poles are of equal strength,

and can come absolutely to coincide, the field is destroyed,

all the vortices come to rest, and the energy possessed by

them is all expended in work done on the magnets.

    If two like poles, north poles for example, be placed near

to one another, the lines of force proceeding from the one,

instead of going to the other, will be turned aside, and if the

poles be of equal strength, a plane bisecting, at right angles,

the line joining the poles, will separate the lines of force due
to the one from those due to the other, so that no line will

cut the plane (Fig. 1 0). The lines of force thus passing nearly
parallel to one another, the pressure exerted by the molecular

vortices in every direction at right angles to the lines of force
will cause an apparent repulsion between the poles.
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.  533

     To account for the transmission of rotation in the same
direction from one molecular vortex to the next, Maxwell

                                                                   Fig. 10.

supposed that there exists between them a number of ex-
tremely minute spherical bodies which roll, without sliding,
in contact with the surfaces of the vortices. These bodies
serve the same purpose as "idle wheels" in machinery,
which, coming between a driver and follower, transmit the
motion of the former to the latter unchanged in direction.
These minute spherical particles Maxwell supposed to con-
stitute electricity. They roll upon the cells or vortices as

if the surfaces in contact were perfectly rough, or provided

with teeth gearing into one another, and thus, whatever
forces may be applied, sliding is impossible. What we
ordinarily consider as molecules of matter are supposed to
be very large compared with the molecular vortices, and

therefore d fortiori with the particles of electricity. In an
insulator, or dielectric, it is supposed that the electric par-
534 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

tides are unable to pass from molecule to molecule of the

body, but in a conductor they can do so, the passage, how-

ever, being opposed by friction, so that heat is generated

and energy dissipated in the transfer.

Now suppose that we have a current of electricity

flowing through a conducting wire. Let us confine our

attention at first to the central line of particles. These, as

they flow, will cause all the cells they touch to rotate about

axes perpendicular to the line of flow, so that the stream of

particles will be surrounded by rings of vortices. Each

ring of vortices will behave like an indiarubber umbrella

ring when we pass it over the finger or the stick of an

umbrella. Instead of sliding into its place it proceeds by a
rolling motion, continually turning itself inside out, as it

were, each circular section of the ring or tore rotating about

its own centre. Now this motion of the vortices would

tend to cause the layer of electric particles outside them to

move in the opposite direction to the central stream, and

this tendency, to which we shall again refer when we speak

of induction, can only be overcome by causing the next ring

of cells to rotate in the same direction as the inner ring,

when the particles may simply roll round between the

coaxial rings of vortices without moving backwards or for-

wards. But if the layer of particles be compelled to move

forwards like the inner stream the layer of vortices surround-
ing it must rotate more rapidly that the layer within it, and

so on, each successive shell of vortices rotating more rapidly

until we reach the extreme layer contained within the

conducting wire. The shell of vortices which bounds the

conductor must by the same mechanism set up molecular

vortices in the dielectric, the motion being communicated in

ever-widening circles to an unlimited distance. It does not

follow that this communication of motion is instantaneous.

The cells may consist of elastic material which does not

assume its final state of motion as soon as the tangential

action of the electric particles is exerted upon
a
                                                it,

                                                                           a
                                                  but begins

at first to undergo deformation, the time taken to set up

given rotation in each depending on its density and elasticity.
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.  535

Hence electro-magnetic induction, which is the name given
to the action we are now discussing, will be propagated

through space with a finite velocity, but of this we must say

more hereafter.

      From what has been said it appears that when a steady
(i.e. constant) current is flowing in a wire, molecular vortices
will be set up in the surrounding dielectric, the axis of
rotation of each vortex being perpendicular to the plane
passing through the wire and the vortex. The axes about
which the vortices turn will therefore form circles surround-
ing the wire, while the vortices themselves will constitute
vortex rings, spinning with very great velocity in the same
manner as the indiarubber ring above referred to, or the
rings of smoke which are sometimes seen to emerge from a
tobacco pipe. But the lines about which the molecular

vortices rotate are magnetic lines of force, there being a
tension in the medium along these lines, and a pressure
everywhere at right angles to them. Hence a straight line
carrying an electric current will be surrounded with magnetic

lines of force, forming circles with their centres on the axis
of the wire, and since the direction of the magnetic force is

that in which a right-handed screw would advance if rotat-

ing with the vortices, it follows that the direction of the
magnetic force around the wire will be that in which a right-

handed screw would rotate if advancing with the current.
The medium will be subject to tension in circles around the
536 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

wire, and to pressure in planes passing through the wire,
reminding us of the cylinders of an Armstrong gun.

    If the wire be bent the same will be true in kind, but

the lines will no longer be accurately circles. All the

magnetic lines of force pass through a closed circuit in the

direction in which a right-handed screw would advance if

rotating in the direction of the current. Fig. 11, taken from
the paper in the Philosophical Magazine, shows the relations
between the current, the lines of magnetic force, and the

direction of motion of the vortices, the arrows E E' represent-

ing the current, S 1ST indicating the direction of the magnetic

force, while the arrows V V7 show the direction of rotation

of the vortices.
      Now suppose a wire conveying a current to be placed in

a magnetic field at right angles to the lines of force. Let

S N" (Fig. 12) represent the lines of force, A the section of

                              a "/

                                                                                                                       ^ A/

                                                                                                                       ">A/

                                                                                                                           Af

                                                                               *N
                           q A "*f!l/f

                                                                                                      vA/

                                       S A/

                                                                   Fig. 12.

the conductor, and let the current be travelling from the

reader through the paper. In the space immediately above

the wire, the molecular vortices due to the magnetic force

originally in the field will be rotating in the direction in

which the current in A urges them, while in the space

below the conductor the reverse will be the case. Hence

the velocity of the vortices above the wire will be increased

by the current, while that of the vortices below the wire

is diminished. The pressure of the medium at right angles

to the lines of force will therefore be greater above the wire

than below  it,  and the wire will be urged downwards at

right angles to the lines of force and to its own direction.
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                         537

Again, suppose two parallel wires to be near together

and to convey currents in opposite directions. The strength

of a current determines the difference between the velo-

a

          if a
                                                                                       ;
                                                                            it,
cities of the molecular vortices on opposite sides of

the electric [particles being related to the vortices in the

same way as differential wheel in mechanism but the

vortices on one side of moving stream of electric particles

may be brought to rest the velocity of those on the other

side be doubled, the current remaining the same though the

electric particles themselves will now have to spin round,

but this makes no difference. Hence, when parallel wires

convey currents in opposite directions, the vortices between
them being made to spin in the same direction by both

currents, will rotate faster than those on the opposite sides

of the wires, and pressing as they do with force proportional

to the squares of their circumferential velocities, the wires
will be pushed apart as they repelled one another.
a
         aWhen two parallel wires convey currents in the same
             a
                       a

                    a if

                                                          a
                                                                     is

                                                 if

                                                                    is if
direction, they tend to make the cells in the space between
them spin in opposite directions, and the velocities of the

molecular vortices there will consequently be less than on

the other side of the wires. The pressure of the medium

between the wires will therefore be less than in the space

beyond, and the wires will be pushed together as  they

attracted one another.

Now, suppose that current of electricity commences

to flow in wire. Molecular vortices will be set up in the

immediate neighbourhood of the wire, and these vortices

acting on the electric particles on the other side of them,
remote from the wire, will endeavour to set them in motion

in the direction opposite to the current in the wire. But

the medium be dielectric, the particles cannot be displaced

through sensible distance. They will therefore be made to

rotate and start another and larger layer of vortices surround-
ing the wire, and so the motion will be propagated as above

explained. But suppose that at certain distance there

placed another wire parallel to the first, and forming part

of closed circuit in which no current  flowing. The
538 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

particles of electricity in this wire will be acted on in the

same way as those in the dielectric, but meeting with very
little resistance to their motion along the wire, they find it

easier to move through the wire than at once to transmit

the vortex motion to the elastic bodies on the other side of

them. But when a driver and follower are connected by a

differential wheel, if the follower be retarded only by its

own inertia, however small a resistance the differential wheel

may experience to its motion of translation it will at

length cause the follower to turn at the same rate as the
driver, and will itself cease to move. Hence the resistance

of the conductor at length brings the electric particles to rest,

and causes them to communicate the vortex motion to cells

beyond them. Thus when a current is started in a wire

transitory currents in the opposite direction will be induced

in neighbouring conductors, while electric stress will be pro-

duced in the dielectric, the elastic cells whose motion con-

stitutes the molecular vortices being at first deformed by the

tangential stress of the electric particles, but both the
induced currents and the stress will have entirely ceased

as soon as all the molecular vortices are in full swing.

Before a current can be maintained in a primary wire, the

molecular vortices in the surrounding field must be properly

started, and this requires the expenditure of work in con-

sequence of the mass of the bodies which constitute the
           It is therefore impossible for a finite electro-
vortices.

motive force to start a finite current in an indefinitely short

time, in the same way as it is impossible for a finite force
to produce instantaneously a finite velocity in a material

body, and, just as in dynamics we sometimes speak of the
reaction of a body against acceleration as though it were a

force opposing the force applied, so we sometimes speak of

the corresponding action in the case of the current as though
it were a force opposing the battery or other electro-motor,
and speak of it as the electro-motive force of self-induction.
As, however, this depends not on the current in the wire

simply, but on the molecular vortices in the surrounding
medium, it is clear that the self-induction of a wire will
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.  539

depend on the energy of these vortices, and this must
depend on the relations of the several portions of the wire
to one another and to the medium, as well as on the density

of the medium. The density of the medium Maxwell
identified with its magnetic permeability. This is greater
in (para-) magnetic substances than in air or vacuum ;

greatest of all in iron. In fact, it is so great in the case of

iron, that Maxwell supposed the particles of the iron itself
to take part in the vortex motion. Hence the energy of the
field, and therefore the self-induction of the wire, is greater

the greater the magnetic permeability of the surrounding

medium, and the presence of an iron core in a coil immensely

increases its self-induction and the energy corresponding to

a given current flowing in the coil.
     If, after a current has been established in a wire, the

circuit be broken or the electro-motive force removed, the

molecular vortices refuse to come to rest till they have

expended their energy. The only outlet for this energy is
a current in the wire, since there is no opportunity of doing
work in a non-conducting medium, where there can be no
slipping between the elements of the mechanism. The vor-
tices, therefore, keep the electricity moving in the wire after
the battery has been removed, until they have expended all
their energy in doing work against the resistance of the wire.

     But if there be another conductor in the field parallel or

slightly inclined to the first, there is another partial outlet
for the energy of the system, and a " secondary " current will
be set up in the second wire in the same direction as the
current in the primary, while that in the primary will be

less than it would have been if no secondary circuit had
existed. In this way the hypothesis of molecular vortices

affords an explanation both of the mutual induction of two

circuits and the self-induction of one.
      Suppose a wire to be placed in a magnetic field at right

angles to the lines of force, and then to be moved so as to

cut the lines at right angles, we should expect that in front
of the moving wire the lines of force or threads of vortices
would be squeezed together transversely, but extended in
540 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

the direction of their length, somewhat in the same way as

elastic strings would be affected by the wire before they
broke and allowed it to pass through. Behind the wire the
lateral pressure will be relieved, the vortices will contract

in the direction of their axes and expand equatorially. But

we have seen that the effect of stretching a rotating elastic

body in the direction of its axis of rotation, and compressing
it at right angles to this direction, increases the velocity of

rotation so that the actual velocity of every point on the

surface is increased ; while the contraction of the body along
the axis of rotation diminishes the velocity. Hence as long

as the wire is moving across the lines of force the velocity
of the vortices in front of the wire will be greater than that

of the vortices behind, and the electric particles in the wire,

coming, as they do, between two sets of vortices, which are
rotating with different velocities, will flow in a stream along
the wire. The direction of the current in the wire will be

that which would cause the vortices in front to rotate more

rapidly than those behind, and therefore to exert a greater
pressure on the wire ; in other words, there will be a current

induced in such direction as to oppose the motion of the
wire. We arrive at a similar result if we suppose the lines
of force to be cut obliquely instead of orthogonally. Thus

Lenz's law is a consequence of the hypothesis of molecular
Ifvortices.
             we suppose the magnetic force to act from

south to north horizontally, the wire to be vertical and to

move from west to east, we have magnetic force acting from

south to north, mechanical force acting from east to west,

and opposing the motion of the wire, and electro-motive force
acting in the wire vertically upwards.

Suppose that all over a certain area the electricity is

pushed forwards through a very small distance along the

normal, so that it does not pass from molecule to molecule
of the substance, but in each molecule undergoes a displace-

ment from back to front. The electric particles pressing

tangentially on the walls of the elastic cells are unable to

set them rotating, because each cell is acted upon equally

all round in the direction in which the electricity tends to
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                     541

move, and the substance of the cell therefore undergoes a

shearing strain which is resisted by its elasticity, and the

state of strain of the cells is propagated through the dielectric

by means of the displacement of the electric particles which

behave like perfectly incompressible bodies.  When the

force producing the original displacement is removed the

cells resume their original form in virtue of their elasticity,

the electric particles return to their normal positions, and
the energy of the strained elastic cells expends itself in the

work done during the electric discharge. Thus the same

medium which serves as the vehicle of magnetic force and

produces all the phenomena of electromagnetism also serves

for the transmission of the force between charges of statical

electricity and as a reservoir of the energy due to electro-
Ifstatic charges.
                   the dielectric be divided into cells by

unit tubes of force and equipotential surfaces drawn for every
unit difference of potential, each cell will contain the same

amount of energy. 1 The following quotations from the

paper in the Philosophical Magazine explain the application

of the hypothesis of molecular vortices to statical electricity

in Maxwell's own words :

      According to our theory the particles which form the parti-
tions between the cells constitute the matter of electricity. The
motion of these particles constitutes an electric current ; the
tangential force with which the particles are pressed by the
matter of the cells is electromotive force, and the pressure of
the particles on each other corresponds to the tension or poten-
tial of the electricity.

    A conducting body may be compared to a porous membrane

which opposes more or less resistance to the passage of a fluid;
while a dielectric is like an elastic membrane, which may be im-
pervious to the fluid, but transmits the pressure on the one side

to [the fluid] on the other.

    In a dielectric under induction, we may conceive that the

electricity in each molecule is so displaced that one side is

      1 See Elementary Treatise on Electricity by Professor James Clerk
Maxwell, published by the Clarendon Press, 1881.
542 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

rendered positively and the other negatively electrical, but that
the electricity remains entirely connected with the molecule, and
does not pass from one molecule to another.

      The effect of this action on the whole dielectric is to pro-
duce a general displacement of the electricity in a certain direc-
tion. This displacement does not amount to a current, because
when it has attained a certain value it remains constant, but it
is the commencement of a current, and its variations constitute
currents in the positive or negative direction, according as the
displacement is increasing or diminishing. . . . When we find
electromotive force producing displacement in a dielectric, and
when we find the dielectric recovering from its state of electric
displacement with an equal electromotive force, we cannot help
regarding the phenomena as those of an elastic body, yielding to
a pressure and recovering its form when the pressure is removed.

      Suppose we have a body positively electrified. This
means that a displacement of the electricity in the medium
takes place in all directions around the body and away from
its surface. The cells are thus exposed to a shearing strain,

diminishing as the distance increases, because the surface
over which the displacement takes place being increased the
linear displacement of the electricity is proportionately
diminished, the particles of electricity behaving like a per-
fectly incompressible fluid. The medium being isotropic the
lines of electric displacement coincide with those of electric
stress, which stress is everywhere proportional to the dis-
placement. The distortion which the cells experience by
the pressure of the electric particles induces an elastic pres-
sure in all directions, at right angles to the direction of dis-
placement, so that there is a pressure in the medium at right
angles to the lines of force.

      Now suppose that we have two positively charged
bodies in the field, which we may suppose to possess equal
charges. Each produces a displacement of the medium
outwards from itself, but the electric particles behaving like
an incompressible fluid, it is clear that there can be no lines
of displacement from the one to the other, but that between
the bodies the lines of displacement will be curved so as to
avoid one another in the same way as the stream lines
         CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                            543

emanating from two pipes, each of which is supplying water
to a tank, would be curved round, and would avoid one another.

The lines of displacement, and consequently the lines of force
which coincide with them, will therefore be bent in exactly

the same manner as the magnetic lines of force represented

in Tig. 10, p. 533, and the pressure in the medium at right
angles to these lines will cause an apparent repulsion of the

bodies.

For the same displacement, thatis
                                      is,

                                                                           is
                                          for the same charges

of the little bodies, the repulsion will be proportional to the
elasticity of the medium. It
                              also proportional to the

product of the charges, or, since they are equal, to the
Ifsquare of one of them. Suppose then that the medium
exchanged for one of greater elasticity.  we wish to keep

the repulsion between the bodies the same, the displace-

ments and therefore the charges must be diminished, the

product of these charges, that is, the square of either charge,
being made inversely proportional to the elasticity of the
medium. The magnitude of each charge must therefore
vary inversely as the square root of the elasticity of the

                              changed. Hence,
medium when the dielectricit                                         we

                                           is

                                                      it

                                                                 if
define the electrostatic unit of electricity as " that quantity

of positive electricity which, acting on an equal quantity at
unit distance repels with unit force," follows that the

unit will vary with the character of the dielectric, being

inversely proportional to the square root of its elasticity.

But the attraction or repulsion between two given

charges of electricity varies inversely as the specific induct-
ive capacity of the dielectric, so that the electrostatic unit
of electricity varies directly as the square root of the specific
inductive capacity, and thus the specific inductive capacity

       quantity which varies inversely as the elasticity of the
is
medium.a
                      is
      Suppose we have two parallel wires conveying equal
electric currents in the same direction. Other things re-

maining unchanged, the velocity of the molecular vortices

at any point proportional to the strength of the currents.
The attraction between the wires we know to be propor-
544 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

tional to the product of the strength of the currents, that is

to the square of one of them. The pressure excited by the

          cceteris paribus, proportional to their density and
avortices
     a
              athe square of their velocity. Suppose we keep the attrac-
                 is,
                      istion between the wires the same, but change the density of
                             aa
                                  isthe medium. Then the velocity of the vortices at any

point must vary inversely as the square root of the density

of the medium. But the velocity of the vortices propor-
                                                     is
tional to the strength of the currents. Hence the strength          a

of each current must vary inversely as the square root of
Ifthe density of the medium.
                                          then the electromagnetic

unit of current be defined as that current which, flowing in

certain wire, attracts an equal current in another given wire

with unit force, the unit of current, and therefore the unit

of electricity, which the amount flowing per second across

any section of wire conveying             unit current, will vary
                                          is a
inversely as the square root of the density of the medium.is

The ratio of the electromagnetic to the electrostatic

unit of electricity will therefore be proportional to the ratio

of the square root of the elasticity to the square root of the

density of the medium. But this known to be the velo-

city with which transverse vibration propagated through

the medium. Hence the ratio of these units           concrete
                                                     is
velocity, and proportional to the velocity of propagation ofa
                                                                is
an electromagnetic disturbance, or of the vortex motions
Ifabove described, through the dielectric.
                                                     the units are

chosen according to the ordinary system their ratio not

only proportional to but identical with this velocity.

     In paper published in the Phil. Trans, for 1868,

Professor Maxwell gave an account of an experiment for

determining the ratio of the electrostatic and electromagnetic

units of electricity where air the dielectric. The principle
                                      is

of the method lay in balancing the attraction between two

electrified discs by the repulsion between two coils of wire
in which currents were flowing in opposite directions. One
of the discs and one coil was placed at one end of the beam
of torsion balance, the other disc and coil being fixed, but

   third coil, conveying the same current as the other two,
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                     545

was placed at the other end of the beam in order to elimi-

nate the magnetic action of the earth and the suspended

coil. The apparatus is now in the Cavendish Laboratory.

The result of the experiment gave for the ratio of the units

a velocity of 288,000,000 metres, or 179,000 statute miles

per second. The result obtained by another method by

MM. Weber and Kohlrausch is 310,740,000 metres per

second. The battery employed for the electrostatic charges

was M. Gassiot's battery of 2600 cells, charged with corro-

sive sublimate. The accuracy of this result depends on

that of the B. A. unit of resistance, the velocity being in fact

represented by 2 8 '8 Ohms.

Now, according to the undulatory theory, light consists

of transverse vibrations of an elastic substance pervading

space and all bodies, and the velocity of light as determined

by Foucault is 298,000,000 metres per second, or very near

the mean of the values obtained by Maxwell, and by Weber

and Kohlrausch, for the velocity of propagation of electro-
Ifmagnetic disturbances.
                             this is found to be always the

case, clearly the same medium will serve to account for the

phenomena of electrostatics and electromagnetism, and for

the propagation of light which must consequently be of the

nature of an electromagnetic disturbance.

    If an electromagnetic disturbance take place in a perfect

insulator we have seen that it must be transmitted to an

unlimited distance, for as no slipping can take place between

the electric particles and the cells, and as the particles

themselves cannot be displaced except by inducing a cor-

responding elastic stress in the medium, there is no outlet

for the energy of the disturbance, which must therefore be

communicated from cell to cell without limit. But if the

medium be a conductor, that
a                                             the electric particles can
                     a

                                         is,

                              ; if
undergo permanent displacement passing from molecule

to molecule against frictional resistance and without any

tendency to return, the energy of the electromagnetic disturb-
ance will be gradually dissipated for the electric particles,

instead of communicating the whole of the motion of one
layer of cells to the next, will themselves be set in motion,

                             2N
546 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

and part of the energy will be dissipated as heat instead of

being imparted to the external layer of cells. The disturb-

ance will therefore continually diminish as it is propagated,

until it very soon becomes insensible. The behaviour is the

same as that of a driver and follower connected by a differential

wheel, whose epicyclic motion is retarded by forces of the

nature of friction. Hence electromagnetic disturbances can-

not be propagated in conductors of electricity, and we there-

fore infer that all true conductors are opaque to light.

The transparency of electrolytes, such as saline solutions

and the like, offers no difficulty in the face of this conclusion,

as the transference of electricity in them is by a process

entirely different from true conduction and more allied to

the convection of heat, but Maxwell pointed out that the

transparency of gold leaf is much greater than the theory

would indicate. Thus the resistance of a particular piece of

gold leaf was such that it ought to transmit only 10~ 50 of

the light incident upon which would be totally impercep-
it

    is
                                    it,

                                          is
                                                                      is
tible, while the amount of green light actually transmitted

by was easily perceived. This result Professor Maxwell
could reconcile with the theory only by supposing "that

there less loss of energy when the electromotive forces are

reversed with the rapidity of the vibrations of light than

when they act for sensible times, as in our experiments."

We have seen that the velocity of transmission of an

electromagnetic disturbance in any medium expressed by

the quotient of the square root of the elasticity divided by

the square root of the density of the dielectric. We have

learned that the elasticity  inversely proportional to the

specific inductive capacity of the medium while the density

corresponds with the magnetic permeability. Hence we

infer that the velocity of transmission of an electromagnetic

disturbance varies inversely as the square root of the

specific inductive capacity, and also inversely as the square

root of the magnetic permeability of the dielectric, and this

must be true for the velocity of light light be an electro-
                             if

magnetic disturbance. Now the magnetic permeability of

most transparent media, such as glass, quartz, sulphur, hydro-
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.  547

carbons, and the like, does not differ sensibly from that of a
vacuum, and hence in these substances the velocity of light
must be inversely proportional to the square root of their
specific inductive capacity ; or, since the index of refraction
of a medium is the ratio of the velocity of light in a vacuum
to its velocity in that medium, it follows that the refractive

index must be directly proportional to the square root of the
specific inductive capacity. As all our measurements of
specific inductive capacity refer to the action of electro-
motive forces which continue for a much longer time than

the duration of a luminous vibration, we should expect the

last mentioned relation to agree most nearly with experiment
the longer the wave length of the light, or, as it is some-
times stated, the specific inductive capacity of a dielectric
should be equal to the square of its refractive index for
" light of infinite wave length"

      The results of the measurements of the specific inductive

capacity of certain liquids by Silow, and of gases, sulphur,
paraffin, and resin, agree with this theory as well as can be
expected. Boltzmann also finds that the specific inductive

capacities of crystalline sulphur along its three crystallo-
graphic axes are different, these differences coinciding with
tfre differences of the squares of the refractive indices for

light transmitted along these three directions.

    Dr. Hopkinson (Phil. Trans. Part II. 1881) has recently

measured the specific inductive capacities of turpentine,

benzol, petroleum, ozokerit lubricating oil, castor oil, sperm

oil, olive oil, and neats' foot oil. The hydrocarbons give

results which are quite in accordance with Maxwell's
theory, but the fatty oils, which are compounds of glycerine
with fatty acids, have inductive capacities far too great. The
same appears to be the case with all the varieties of glass
tested by Hopkinson, the specific inductive capacities of which
vary from 6 "61 in the case of very light flint to 9 '8 9 6 for

" double extra-dense " flint. In the case of solid paraffin,

Hopkinson's result agrees very nearly with that of Boltzmann

and with Maxwell's theory. In the case of glass, as in that

of the fatty oils, the high specific inductive capacity is
548 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

associated with a complex chemical constitution, glass con-
sisting essentially of metallic silicates, including silicates of
the alkaline and alkaline-earthy metals.

      The measurement of the specific inductive capacity of
glass is attended with great difficulty on account of the
phenomenon generally known as residual charge or electric
absorption, that is the apparent soaking of the electricity
into the substance of the glass. This is a subject in which
Maxwell took very great interest, and in his work on electricity
and magnetism he has given a mechanical illustration of
the action on the supposition that it is due to a want of
homogeneity in the glass, some parts of which he supposed
to conduct electricity better than others, though badly at the

best. A form of experiment, very beautiful in its design,

was devised by Maxwell for measuring specific inductive

capacities, and was carried out by Mr. J. E. H. Gordon, who

was able to reverse the electric stress in the glass 12,000
times per second ; but this is of course no approximation to
the rapid alternations of the " waves " of light. With the
apparatus employed, however, the reduction of the observa-
tions involves great mathematical difficulties, and the results
must therefore be received with caution whether we regard
them as supporting the theory or as opposed thereto.

     In applying the hypothesis of molecular vortices to the

action of a magnetic field on polarised light, Maxwell " found
that the only effect which the rotation of the vortices will
have on the light will be to make the plane of polarisation
rotate in the same direction as the vortices, through an

angle proportional
      (A) to the thickness of the substance.
      (B) to the resolved part of the magnetic force parallel

to the ray.

       (C) to the index of refraction of the ray.
      (D) inversely to the square of the wave length in air.
       (E) to the mean radius of the vortices.
      (F) to the capacity for magnetic induction."

      The relation (E) between the amount of rotation and the size
of the vortices, shows that different substances may differ in
        CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                                549

rotating power independently of any observable difference in
other respects. We know nothing of the absolute size of the
vortices ; and on our hypothesis the optical phenomena are
probably the only data for determining their relative size in
different substances.

      Now, independently of the action of a magnetic field on
polarised light, all the phenomena of diamagnetism can be

accounted for on the hypothesis that the magnetic perme-
ability of diamagnetic substances is less than that of a
vacuum, so that they behave like a paramagnetic substance
immersed in a medium more magnetic than itself. But Max-
well has pointed out that " since M. Verdet has discovered

that magnetic substances have an effect on light opposite to
that of diamagnetic substances, it follows that the molecular
rotation must be opposite in the two classes of substances."

      We can no longer, therefore, consider diamagnetic bodies as
those whose coefficient of magnetic induction is less than that of
space empty of gross matter. We must admit the diamagnetic
state to be the opposite of the paramagnetic ; and that the vortices,
or at least the influential majority of them, in diamagnetic sub-
stances, revolve in the direction in which positive electricity
revolves in the magnetising bobbin, while in paramagnetic sub-
stances they revolve in the opposite direction.

Perhaps we cannot conclude this account of the hypo-

thesis of molecular  vortices            better than by quoting  Max-
well's own words :   l

I think we have good evidence for the opinion that some

phenomenon of rotation is going on in the magnetic field ; that

this rotation is performed by a great number of very small

portions of matter, each rotating on its own axis, this axis being

parallel to the direction of the magnetic force, and that the

rotations of these different vortices are made to depend on one

Ianother by means of some kind of mechanism connecting them.
      The attempt which [have] made to imagine a working
model of this mechanism must be taken for no more than it

really  demonstration that mechanism may be imagined
        1 is,
             a

                                      a
capable of producing connection mechanically equivalent to

        Electricity and Magnetism, vol. ii. Art. 831 (1st ed.)
550 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

the actual connection of the parts of the electro-magnetic field.
The problem of determining the mechanism required to establish
a given species of connection between the motions of the parts of
a system always admits of an infinite number of solutions. Of
these some may be more clumsy or more complex than others,
but all must satisfy the conditions of mechanism in general.

      The following results of the theory, however, are of higher

value :
      (1) Magnetic force is the effect of the centrifugal force of

the vortices.
      (2) Electromagnetic induction of currents is the effect of

the forces called into play when the velocity of the vortices is

changing.
      (3) Electromotive force arises from the stress on the con-

necting mechanism.
      (4) Electric displacement arises from the elastic yielding of

the connecting mechanism.

    In a paper entitled "A Dynamical Theory of the Electro-

magnetic Field," read before the Royal Society on December
8, 1864, Maxwell deduced all the above results by purely

mechanical reasoning, only assuming the existence of a

medium capable of receiving and storing up potential and
kinetic energy, and therefore capable of doing work in " re-
covering from displacement in virtue of its elasticity," while
the parts of the medium are connected by " a complicated
mechanism capable of a vast variety of motion, but at the

same time so connected that the motion of one part depends,

according to definite relations, on the motion of other parts,

these motions being communicated by forces arising from
the relative displacements of the connected parts, in virtue
of their elasticity." For the existence of such a medium we
have evidence independent of electrical actions. With regard
to the mechanism no attempt is made in the paper to give to
it any definite constitution. This paper has been regarded as
Maxwell's greatest contribution to electrical science, but most
of the results obtained in it have been already mentioned.

      The following is a good specimen of Maxwell's humor-
ous irony, of which there are many samples in his scientific
works. He is discussing certain developments by Bernhard
Riemann Lorenzo, of Weber and Neumann's theory of Electro-
             CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.      551

magnetism, which is based on the assumption that the action
between two quantities of electricity is direct action at a
distance, and depends not only
on the distance between the
charges but upon their relative
motion.

From the assumption of both

these papers we may draw the

conclusions  first, that action

and reaction are not always equal

and opposite ; and second, that

apparatus may be constructed to

generate any amount of work

from its own resources.

    I think that these remark-

able deductions from the latest
developments of Weber and
Neumann's theory can only be
avoided by recognising the
action of a medium in electrical

phenomena.

While at the Cavendish

Laboratory Maxwell construe- c

ted a mechanical model which

illustrates in a very beautiful

manner the principal pheno-

mena of induced 'currents. As

a piece of mechanism it is

simply a differential train, such

as is often employed as a

dynamometer for measuring

the power absorbed by a

machine. The apparatus is

sketched in Fig. 13. The

grooved wheel P is keyed to

the same shaft as the bevel        Fig 13i

wheel A, which therefore turns

with and the rotation of this piece represents the primaryit,
552 JAMES CLEftK MAXWELL.

current. A second bevel wheel D turns loosely on the arm

C D, which is one of four arms (of which only two are shown
in the figure) forming a cross, which can turn freely on the

central shaft at C. Sliding weights M M', etc., can be

fixed in any desired position on these arms so as to alter

the moment of inertia of the cross, which is the differential

piece in the mechanism. A third bevel wheel B is keyed

to the same hollow shaft with the wheel S, which is similar

to P, and the rotation of the piece B S represents the current
in the secondary circuit. As the shaft B S is hollow, and

rides loosely on the shaft A C, the wheels A and B can

turn quite independently of one another, except in so far
as they are connected by the wheel D. P' is an index

attached to the interior shaft and turning with P. A loop
of string is hung over each of the wheels P and S, and

carries a small weight. These strings act as friction brakes

to the wheels, and the friction represents the resistance of

the primary and secondary circuits respectively.  The

moment of inertia of the loaded cross, or differential piece,

represents the moments of inertia of the cells which con-
stitute the molecular vortices in the dielectric. Its kinetic

energy when rotating represents the energy of the vortices,

and its angular momentum is proportional to the electro-

magnetic momentum of the system. The moments of inertia

of the other portions of the mechanism are very small com-

pared with that of the loaded cross. The motion of the cross
and the wheel D is impeded by as little friction as possible.

     Suppose that the wheel P is made to revolve, repre-
senting a current in the primary wire ; the heavy cross will
not at first move, but the wheel D will revolve and com-

municate the motion to B, which, with S, will rotate in the

direction opposite to that of P, representing a current in the

secondary circuit opposite in direction to that in the

primary. But the motion of S is resisted by the friction
brake, and a finite force must therefore be exerted by D on
B to drive it. The reaction of B, together with "the force
exerted by A, will constantly tend to make the cross revolve
in the same direction as P, and the velocity of the cross
                         CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                           553

being constantly accelerated, it will presently revolve with
a velocity half that of P, and then D will roll round B,

which, with S, will remain at rest. The piece B S will
then continue at rest as long as the rotation of P remains

constant corresponding to the cessation of the current in the

secondary circuit, while that in the primary remains un-

changed, but if P be accelerated, S will revolve in the
direction opposite to the motion of P. Now suppose P to
be suddenly stopped. The kinetic energy of the cross will
cause it to continue to revolve until it has done a correspond-
ing amount of work against resistances, and A being at rest, D
will roll upon it and compel B, with S, to revolve in the same

                                       is,
                                          is

                                                          S
direction as the cross, that in the same direction in which

formerly revolved, and whatever be the resistance to the
P
                         will be overcome, and will revolve till the
                     S,

                  it
motion of

work done against resistance equal to the kinetic energy

originally possessed by the cross. This corresponds to                       a

current induced in the secondary coil on stopping the current

in the primary, which current          is  in the same direction as

the primary current, and continues until the energy of

rotation of the molecular vortices has been used up in work

done against electrical resistance.                          a        and endeavour
                                                                  S,
    If one operator lay hold of the wheel

to keep    at rest while another applies steady force to                     P,
is if
            it

              P
                  PP
the motion of will be accelerated much less rapidly than

                                                             it,
                                                                          S
the same force had been applied to and had been

free, because            can only move by setting in motion the
Ifcross with its great moment of inertia.
                                                             the operator who

                                                             great shock will be
turning now suddenly stops             S
                                           is it,
                                                                             will slip
                                                is a
                                                                    S
experienced by the machinery, and the wheel

from the grip of the other operator however firmly he may

hold it. The force applied to may correspond to an air-
break in the secondary coil, and this sufficient to prevent

spark when the battery current started in the primary,
a
                                    a
but by suddenly stopping the primary current, as in

KuhmkorfFs coil, disruptive discharge or spark passes

through the air between the terminations of the secondary

wire. (If the operator who endeavours to keep the wheel
554 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

S at rest is inexperienced the effect upon him is very

striking).

    If a pin be placed in the face of the wheel S, and one

end of a spring press against the pin, while the other end

is fixed to the frame of the apparatus, we have a repre-
sentation of a secondary coil in which the circuit is broken,

and a Leyden jar inserted with its coatings in connection

with the ends of the wire. When the motion of P is

changed, S will begin to move, and will deflect the spring,

Ifcorresponding to a current in the secondary coil charging
the Leyden jar.  the spring admit of very great deflection,

so that a great amount of work must be done upon it before

it slips from the pin, the primary current may have
attained its full strength before the slip takes place.

This corresponds to the capacity of the Leyden jar being

too great to allow of its being charged to a sufficient

potential to produce a spark. In this case no spark takes

place, but when the force between the wheels D and B

diminishes on account of the diminution of the acceleration

of P, the spring relieves its strain by forcing the wheel S

backwards, and the Leyden jar under corresponding circum-

stances quietly discharges itself through the secondary coil,

reversing the operation by which it was charged. But if the

pin slips from the spring, the wheel S will revolve, and the
spring will fly back corresponding to a disruptive discharge
through the air, and if the acceleration of P continue long

enough several such disruptive discharges may take place.
      We must, of course, be careful not to endeavour to learn

from such a model lessons which it was not designed to teach,

and we must remember that the behaviour of the mechanism

does not represent the electrical action in all respects.
      For many years Maxwell rendered valuable service to

the British Association, especially in connection with elec-
trical science. Some account of the meetings which he
attended will be found in the letters printed in another
part of this work, and though during the last few years
of his life other engagements prevented his attendance at
the annual gatherings, he always showed signs of keen en-
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.  555

joyment when discussing the "British Asses." In 1862

he was appointed a member of " The Committee on Standards

of Electrical Eesistance." In the report issued in 1863, the

Appendix, " On the Elementary Eelations between Electrical
Measurements," bears the name of Professor Maxwell in con-
junction with that of Professor Fleeming Jenkin, while the
general description of the method employed in the deter-
mination of the Ohm or B. A. unit of resistance, together
with the mathematical theory and details of the experiments,

are from Maxwell's pen. In 1863-4 Maxwell was again at

work on the same subject in the laboratory of King's College,
and most of the " spins " 1 were conducted under his own

supervision. In 1869 the results of Maxwell's experiments

on the relation of the electromagnetic to the electrostatic
unit of electricity, described above, were embodied in the
Eeport to the British Association at the meeting at Dundee,
and this forms the last of the Eeports of the Committee.

     In 1874 Professor Maxwell was elected a member of

the committee appointed by the British Association for the
purpose of investigating Ohm's law. Most of the work

executed by this committee was carried out by Professor
Chrystal in the Cavendish Laboratory, under the supervision
and at the suggestion of Professor Maxwell. An account of
the investigations will be found in the report presented to
the Association at the Glasgow meeting in 1876.

      Before concluding our notice of Maxwell's contributions

to electrical science we must mention the preparation for the
press of The Electrical Researches of the Honourable Henry
Cavendish, published in 1879, only a few weeks before the
death of its editor. The amount of labour which Professor

Maxwell bestowed on this work during the last five years of
his life can only be known to those who were constantly in
his company. Nearly all the MS. he transcribed with his

own hand, the greater part being copied after midnight, while
he watched over Mrs. Maxwell during the long illness to
which allusion has elsewhere been made. Every obscure

1 See Part I. p. 316.
556 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

passage or allusion was the subject of a long and searching
investigation; and many were the letters written to the

Librarian of the Eoyal Society and to scientific and literary

friends in different parts of the country, to gain information

respecting the meaning of obsolete words and symbols, or
the history of individuals. But besides this, and a comparison

of Cavendish's results with those obtained by subsequent

investigators, Maxwell repeated many of Cavendish's experi-
ments almost in their original form, only employing modern
instruments for the purposes of measurement. The intro-

duction and the appendices to the work evidence much

labour, patient investigation, and very extensive acquaintance
with the literature bearing on the subject. Maxwell was by
no means one of the class of " thinkers " who only read their

own writings ; his acquaintance not only with scientific
literature, but with nearly every other class of books was

astonishing ; and if any question of physics was brought

before him, he could generally give an account of nearly

all that had been done in the subject. In this respect

he resembled the late Professor W. H. Miller, whom Cam-

bridge men used to consult about everything.

     It would be impossible here to give any adequate account

of Maxwell's work in connection with the Cavendish papers,

but we may mention one experiment both on account of its

intrinsic importance and of the interest which Maxwell took

in it. Cavendish describes an experiment (see p. 104 of
The Electrical Researches) in which a sphere of 12'1 inches in
diameter was enclosed between two copper hemispheres 13 '3

inches in diameter, and the copper hemispheres, which were

supported in frames hinged together, and opened or closed by
silk cords, were brought together so as to enclose the sphere,
contact being made at the same time between it and the

hemispheres.  The outer sphere was then charged, and the

connection between it and the inner sphere removed. On

separating the hemispheres, the inner sphere was found to be
discharged, or at least the charge, if any, left upon it was too

small to affect Cavendish's pith ball electrometer. Knowing

what fraction of the original charge could not fail to be de-
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.  557

tected by the electrometer, Cavendish deduced from the
results of the experiment that the law of variation of
electrical action with the distance must lie between the

inverse (2 -^)th and (2 + ^)th power of the distance,

and inferred that it is the inverse square.

      Maxwell placed a copper sphere about 10 inches in
diameter within a hollow copper sphere, made of two hemi-
spheres, about 12 inches in diameter, supporting it upon a
ring of ebonite, so that the spheres might be concentric.
The outer sphere was carefully insulated, and a hole cut in
its surface, which could be accurately filled by a little trap
door. To this trap door was attached a wire which rested
on the inner sphere when the door was shut down. The
door was carried on va metal arm which turned about a hinge

attached to the outer sphere, and could be raised or lowered
by a silk thread which passed over a pulley and hung in
front of the operator. When the trap door was raised a
wire connection could be allowed to fall by relaxing a second
silk cord, so as to make contact with the inner sphere through

the hole in the outer. The trap door was first closed and

the outer sphere charged by means of a Leyden jar which

was immediately removed (the electric machine being placed
in a distant apartment). The trap door was then raised, the

outer sphere discharged by connecting it to earth, and the
inner sphere then put in communication with a quadrant
electrometer by means of the wire above mentioned. Not a
trace of electricity could be detected on the sphere. To test
the accuracy of the method, a small brass sphere was insu-

lated, and supported at a distance of about 60 centimetres

from the outer sphere, and the experiment was repeated.
When the copper sphere was charged the brass sphere was

connected to earth, and thus a small negative charge was

induced upon it by the positive electricity on the copper
sphere, and the ratio of this charge to that on the copper
could be easily calculated. The brass sphere was then insu-

lated, the outer copper sphere discharged as before, and the
inner sphere examined with the same result as previously.
The brass ball was then discharged, the outer sphere being
 558 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

 insulated, when it was found that there was sufficient positive

 electricity on the outer sphere to deflect the electrometer
 through more than 300 times the largest deflection which
 could escape notice. Now when the brass ball was insulated,

 the negative charge upon it was about -^th of the charge
 originally on the copper sphere, and this induced a positive
 charge on the sphere when in connection with the earth,
which was about -^^ of its original charge. Hence ^-J-^ of
the original charge is more than 300 times the largest charge
which could escape observation. From these figures it fol-
lows that, in the expression of the law of electrical action,
the true index of the inverse power of the distance must be
either 2 or differ from it by less than 2]L 600- These experi-
ments were carried out in the Cavendish Laboratory by Mr.
MacAlister of St. John's College. In note 19 appended to
the Cavendish papers, Maxwell describes the experiment,

and gives its complete mathematical theory.
    The idea that electricity flowing in conductors behaves

like an incompressible fluid is at least as old as Cavendish ;
but before he had the opportunity of reading Cavendish's
papers, Maxwell taught that all electric discharges involve a
displacement of electricity in a closed circuit, the electricity
behaving both in conductors and in dielectrics like a per-

fectly incompressible fluid. Thus, when a Leyden jar is
discharged, a certain quantity of electricity flows from the
inner coating through the knob of the jar, and hence to the
outer coating, but an equal quantity also passes across any
surface which we may imagine drawn within the glass, so as
to include the inner coating and exclude the outer. The
glass, therefore, may be regarded as completing a circuit across
every section of which the same quantity of electricity flows.
Again, if positive electricity be communicated to a conductor
by means of a wire which serves as an electrode, an equal
quantity passes out from the surface of the conductor and is

squeezed into the surrounding dielectric, causing a similar
transfer of electricity across every surface drawn in the
dielectric so as to surround the conductor, the extent of the
displacement of course diminishing as we recede from the
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.  559

conductor on account of the increased area of the surface,
but the displacement continuing until some external con-
ductor is reached through which the circuit is completed.
Thus, when we say that the charge of a body is increased,
we mean that positive electricity is communicated to it
through an electrode, but we know that an equal amount
passes out of the body through its external surface and is
squeezed into the dielectric, and it is this dielectric which is
the only portion of the system really affected by the charge,
and in which the whole energy of the charged body resides.
This view has very recently been put forth under the title
of The Conservation of Electricity. According to Maxwell's
view of the constitution of dielectrics, the squeezing of a

quantity of electricity into a dielectric does not imply a con-
densation of the electricity, but a strain in the dielectric on
account of the displacement of the electricity, which cannot
move without distorting the " cells " of which the dielectric

is supposed to be made up.

      7. Ever since men began to think about Nature, philoso-
phers have differed in their views respecting the primary
constitution of bodies. When, with all the freshness of a first

impulse, though unprovided with the barest means of verifi-
cation, the human mind first went forth in search of physical

truth, two paths at once appeared, leading to opposite poles,

and both were trodden by pilgrims full of hope. Some found
their satisfaction in contemplating the continuous fulness of
the universe. They could imagine no gap in Nature, whose

endless variety they were contented to refer to a principle
of infinite divisibility and to the inter-play of contiguous
elements whose changes were ordered by the mind that was
interfused with all. To others, of a more analytical turn, it
appeared impossible to account for the most obvious pheno-
mena, except by the hypothesis of atoms moving in a void.

      The penetrating intellect of Democritus had early given
consistency to an atomic theory, which became the founda-
tion of the system of Epicurus. Yet, widely as this

philosophy prevailed at certain periods, the doctrine of a
 560 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

plenum was on the whole the more prevalent in the ancient

 world.
       The controversy has been handed on to modern science,

or rather it has inevitably reappeared ; some, with Descartes
and Spinoza, resolving matter into continuous extension ;
while others, as Bacon would say, cut deeper into Nature, and

would divide her if possible into her ultimate constituent parts.

Experimental investigations, especially those through which
chemistry became an exact science, have greatly favoured
atomistic views, yet the tendency to maintain the continuity
and plasticity of matter is still apparent, and the bold hypo-
thesis of the vortex atom, due to Sir William Thomson,

affords us perhaps the nearest approach to a reconciliation
between these two contradictory theories. According to
this hypothesis the whole of space is filled with a uniform
and perfect fluid, and material atoms are vortices of one
form or another which have been created within this fluid.

     In order to reach the starting-point of Maxwell's in-

vestigations in molecular physics we must go back to Daniel
Bernoulli who, in his hydrodynamics, published in 1738,
explained the pressure of the air on the hypothesis that air
consists of a number of particles moving about in all direc-

tions and impinging on any surface exposed to its action.
Le Sage of Geneva in 1818 explained the pressure of a gas
in strict accordance with the modern Dynamical Theory.
The theory of Le Sage was based upon his doctrine of " ultra-
mundane corpuscles," a doctrine borrowed from the older
atomists, and employed by Le Sage to explain gravitation.
For a concise account of this and of the older atomic
theories the reader is referred to Maxwell's article " ATOM "

in the ninth edition of the Encyclopedia Britannica. In
1847 John Herapath published his Mathematical Physics,

in which he supposed gases to consist of perfectly hard
molecules impinging against one another, and against any
surface exposed to their action ; and he points out the rela-
tion of the motion to the temperature and pressure of a
gas and explains gaseous diffusion.

      But we are indebted for all the modern developments
             CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                                     561

of the molecular theory of gases, as well as for its establish-

ment on a sound dynamical basis, mainly to the researches

of three men Professor E. Clausius, Dr. Ludwig Boltz-

mann of Vienna, and James Clerk Maxwell. Maxwell's

principal contributions to the literature of this subject are

papers on "Illustrations of the Dynamical Theory of

Gases," presented to the British Association at the meeting
in Aberdeen in 1 8 5 9 ; " On the Viscosity or Internal Friction

of Air and other Gases," which constituted the Bakerian

lecture read before the Eoyal Society on February 8th, 1866,
and published in the Phil. Trans, for that year ; " On the

Dynamical Theory of Gases," a paper read before the Eoyal

Society  ;  on May 31st,   "  1O8n66M, oalnedcualelsso"pudbelliisvheeredd  in the Phil.
Trans.
              the lecture                                                   before the

British Association at Bradford in 1873, and which has
                  in Part I. ; a paper " On
been referred to                             tBhoedieDsyn" awmhicicahl
Evidence of the   Molecular Constitution of

was read before the Chemical Society in the Spring of 1875,
and published in the June number of its Journal ; and the
article " ATOM," in the ninth edition of the Encyclopaedia

Britannica.

According to the molecular theory all bodies are made

up of molecules which are more or less free to move relatively

to one another. In solids, each molecule can only move

through a small distance from its normal position, so that

all its movements are essentially of the nature of vibrations.

In liquids the molecules are free to move through any

distances within the substance of the liquid, but their motion

is constantly impeded by neighbouring molecules, from whose
interference they are never altogether free, each molecule in

its movements resembling an individual endeavouring to

work his way through a dense crowd. In a gas each molecule

is perfectly free except on tlie occasions, comparatively rare,

unless the gas be very dense when it comes into collision

with other molecules of gas, or of some other body in contact

with the gas. According to this theory, a gas consists of
molecules moving in all directions in straight lines, except

when they strike one another or some foreign body, when

                              2o
 562 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

 their motion is changed in accordance with the laws of im-
 pact of perfectly elastic bodies.

     It is probable that the investigations connected with

 Saturn's rings, which led Maxwell to contemplate the con-
 dition of the air in the midst of " a flight of brickbats," first
 led him to take up the subject of the kinetic theory of gases.

 At any rate, these investigations led him to the adoption of

 what he aptly termed " the statistical method," which in his
 hands became so fruitful in its applications to molecular
 science. This method consists in the separation of all the
 things considered into classes, which fulfil certain conditions,
 and the determination of the number of individuals which
 at any instant are to be found in each class, without reference

to the behaviour of any particular individual. In " the his-

 torical method," on the other hand, the life history of each

individual is traced, and if classes are considered at all it is

only in their relation to the particular individual we are
contemplating. The first method deals with the interests of
the community at large and disregards the fate of the indi-
vidual, except as affecting the average condition of the com-
munity; the second deals with the interests of the individual

alone. It is obvious that when the individuals are to be

counted by millions the only way in which they can be
successfully treated by a finite mind is by the statistical
method, and this was the method which Maxwell adopted.

     In the earliest papers of Clausius he treated all the

molecules of a particular gas at the same temperature as
moving with the same velocity. Maxwell showed that this

could not be the case, and that, even if all the molecules were

started with the same velocities, their mutual collisions would
increase the velocity of some and diminish that of others,
until at length the velocities would be distributed " according
to the law of errors." This law will be best understood from
Maxwell's own illustration. He prepared a diagram illustrat-
ing the distribution of bullet marks on a target on the
hypothesis that all the shots are aimed at the centre of " the
bull " by the same marksman, while the probability of an
error of any given magnitude occurring is less the greater
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.              563

the error : diminishing very rapidly as the error increases,
according to the ordinary hypothesis respecting " errors of
Ifobservation " developed by Laplace.
                                       on such a diagram a

series of concentric circles be drawn, say an inch apart, about

the centre of the target, and the number of shots between
each consecutive pair of circles counted, the number will be

found to be greatest for a particular pair, but there is nothing

to prevent some shots from hitting the target at any distance
Iffrom the centre.
                    the length of the line joining the centre

of the target with any bullet mark be taken to represent the
velocity of a molecule, the diagram will represent the law

of distribution of velocities among the molecules of a gas

when they have acted on one another for an indefinite time.

They will congregate about a particular value, but there is

nothing to prevent some individuals possessing a velocity as

great or as small as we please.

The momentum of a particle depends on the product of

its mass and its velocity ; its kinetic energy on the product

of its mass and the square of its velocity. One of the first

and most important properties of gases which Maxwell

showed to be a consequence of the kinetic theory was, that

when two groups of molecules are in equilibrium, being

separated only by a diaphragm which can transmit the

impacts of the particles, the average kinetic energy of the

molecules must be the same in each group. Identifying the

kinetic energy of the molecules with the heat of the gas,

since we know that for equilibrium the gases must be at the
same temperature, it follows that the specific heat varies

inversely as the mass of a molecule, which is the dynamical

expression of the law of Dulong and Petit, a law which

states that the products of the specific heat and combining

weight is the same for each element. The pressure of a

gas is proportional to the kinetic energy of unit volume of

a gas, and, since the average kinetic energy of the molecules
is the same for each gas at the same temperature, it follows

that equal volumes of two gases at the same pressure and

temperature contain the same number of molecules, and hence

the density of a gas at standard temperature and pressure is
564 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

proportional to the mass of a molecule, i.e. to its combining
weight, which is Gay Lussac's law of equivalent volumes.

    If two gases be in communication with one another, the
particles of each are found to penetrate the other until the

gases become uniformly mixed, unless some external force
act to prevent the uniformity of the mixture.                                       This

phenomenon, known as gaseous diffusion, has been studied

by Graham, Loschmidt, and others, and is a direct con-

sequence of the dynamical theory. It is plain that the rate

of diffusion of one gas into another will be proportional to

the average velocity of the particles in the case of two

gases being separated by a diaphragm perforated by very fine
holes, so that each mixture may be considered homogeneous

up to the diaphragm. Maxwell showed that in this case,

when the pressures on the two sides of the diaphragm are

equal, " the volumes diffused will be as the square roots of

the specific gravities inversely, which is the law of diffusion

established by Graham."

The slowness of gaseous diffusion was for some time

regarded as an objection to the kinetic theory of gases.

Clausius overcame this difficulty by the introduction of the

conception of the mean free path of a molecule, and by
showing how short this path is. The mean free path is the

average distance through which a particle passes between

two successive collisions with other particles. The first

estimate of the mean free path in air at ordinary pressure

and temperature was made by Maxwell from determinations

of viscosity or rate of diffusion of momentum in air.

Depending on the length of the mean free path are (1) the

diffusion of matter; (2) the diffusion of momentum or
viscosity; and (3) the diffusion of energy, or the thermal
conductivity of the gas. From determinations of the rate at

which these three kinds of diffusion proceed, independent

determinations of the mean free path in different gases have

been made. For hydrogen, at standard pressure and tem-

perature, it is about                                                   ^ an mcn -  For other gases
                                                            Y5TTo~o~o~
and air it is somewhat less. The length of the mean path
in air given by Maxwell in 1859 was -j-g-gVon ^ an mcn -
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.  565

Suppose two trains to be moving in opposite directions, side

by side on parallel lines, and suppose that as they pass each

other a number of passengers from each train jump into the

other. It is clear that each passenger will carry with him the

momentum he possesses into the other train which is moving

in the opposite direction, and will consequently diminish the
Ifmomentum and therefore the velocity of that train.
                                                            a

continuous interchange of passengers, backwards and for-

wards, between the trains were to take place, the trains

would ultimately be brought to rest relatively to one an-

other. This is an illustration of the diffusion of momentum,
and was originally given by Balfour Stewart. Now, suppose

two streams of gas to be passing each other tangentially.
There will be a continuous interchange of molecules by

diffusion between the two streams, and the molecules carry-

ing with them the momentum they possess, the effect of the
diffusion will be to tend to bring the two streams to relative

rest. Diffusion of momentum consequently introduces a

tangential action between layers of gas which are moving

relatively to one another, and therefore causes a resistance
to any " continuous change of form, depending on the rate
at which that change is effected," that is, it confers upon

the gas the property of viscosity. Thus, the so-called vis-

cosity of gases received from Maxwell its complete explana-
tion in accordance with the kinetic theory.

The viscosity of a gas depending on the rate of

diffusion of momentum, and therefore on the rate of

diffusion of matter, is proportional, like the latter, to the

average velocity of the molecules. If the gas be very rare,

each particle will meet with fewer collisions, and consequently
its course will be less interrupted than when the gas is

denser, so that Maxwell found that between two strata

of gas at a given distance apart the rate of diffusion was
the same whatever the density. He thus " arrived at the

startling result that the co-efficient of internal friction is

independent of the density of any particular kind of gas."

The experimental verification of this result occupied a con-

siderable portion of Maxwell's leisure time in 1865. The
566 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

description of the experiments and the statement of the

result arrived at form the subject of the Bakerian lecture of

1866. There plates of glass were suspended by a steel piano

wire, and caused to oscillate in their own planes between four

fixed plates, which were placed at equal distances apart, and

so that the moving plates were suspended half way between

each pair of fixed plates (see Part I. p. 341). The distance
between the plates was varied in different experiments, and

the whole system was enclosed in a receiver which could be

filled with different gases and the pressure regulated at will.

The oscillations of the discs were observed by means of a

mirror and scale, and the experiment consisted in determin-

ing the rate at which the oscillations died away, from which
the viscosity of the gas was calculated. For experiments

at high temperatures the receiver was surrounded by a steam

jacket. The results arrived at showed that dry air is more

viscous than damp air, and that the viscosity of air is

greater than that of hydrogen or carbonic acid, nearly in the

same ratio as was determined by Graham in his experiments

on the transpiration of gases through capillary tubes. But
the most remarkable results were (1), that the viscosity of

any particular gas is independent of the pressure; and (2)
that it is directly proportional to the temperature measured

from the absolute zero of the air thermometer. 1 From the
last result, Maxwell deduced " that the force between two

molecules is proportional inversely to the fifth power of the
Ifdistance between them."
                           the molecules only acted by
impact, it would follow that the viscosity must be pro-

portional to the square root of the absolute temperature.

     In the paper " On the Dynamical Theory of Gases," read

before the Eoyal Society on May 31, 1866, the molecules

are dealt with in the most general manner, no hypothesis

being made respecting their constitution. The paper dis-

cusses (1) the phenomena of diffusion, depending on the

average value of the velocities ; (2) the phenomena depend-
ing on the average square of the velocities, which deter-

      1 More recent experiments indicate that this statement should be
modified.
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                                            567

mines pressure and viscosity ; and (3) the phenomena
depending on the average value of the cubes of the

velocities, on which depends the diffusion of energy or the

conduction of heat in the gas. In this paper Maxwell
showed that if a number of gases be enclosed in any space
under the action of any external forces, each gas will arrange
itself as if the others were absent, and this result is independ-

ent of the law of action of the particles on each other. This

is the arrangement which Dalton suggested would probably

exist in the atmosphere if the effect of winds could be an-

nulled. He also showed that in a vertical column of air in

equilibrium under the action of gravity the temperature must

be the same throughout. This was contrary to the then cur-

rent opinion that the temperature must diminish as we ascend,
but Maxwell showed independently that it is a consequence

of the principle of the dissipation of energy. Boltzmann was,

however, the first to show how, in dealing with a collection of

molecules, to take account of external forces acting upon

them. In discussing the diffusion of energy Maxwell showed

that the thermal conductivity of iron at 25 C, as determined

by Principal Forbes, is 3525 times that of air at 16*6 C.
In the paper " On the Dynamical Evidence of the Mole-

cular Constitution of Bodies," published in the Journal of
                          June 1875, Maxwell
the Chemical Society,     the " virial " of a system,  introduces
Clausius's conception of                               a quantity

of which great use has been made in the discussion of
molecular theories since a name has been given to it by

Clausius. This quantity is the sum of the products of the

attractions between each pair of molecules into the distance

between them. Maxwell commences by explaining Clausius's

equation, which states that the energy of a quantity of gas
is the sum of two quantities, one of which is the virial, and

the other is proportional to the product of the pressure and
the volume. Now Joule showed that when a gas expands

into a vacuum its temperature remains sensibly unaffected,

is
                                                                it,
though no energy is communicated to or taken from and

since the gas obeys Boyle's law the product of its pressure

and volume constant. Hence the energy being unchanged,
568 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

and the product of pressure and volume remaining the same,

it follows that the virial must be unaffected by expansion.
But the virial must depend on the density if there be any

sensible forces between the molecules when at sensible dis-
tances, unless the force between two molecules varies in-
versely as the distance between them, a law which Newton
showed to be inadmissible in the case of molecular forces.
We must therefore conclude that the force between two mole-

cules is sensibly zero, unless the distance between them be
very small compared with the average distance between mole-

cules, and that the virial is therefore sensibly zero in a gas, so
that the energy and pressure of a gas depend on the motion
of the molecules and not on the forces between them.

      The experiments of Regnault indicated that in most
gases as the density increases the pressure falls below that
indicated by Boyle's law, which shows that when the
particles approach very near together the virial is positive,
or there is attraction between the molecules. When the
pressure is made still greater the gas reaches a condition in
which a small increase of density is accompanied by an
enormous increase of pressure, so that the virial is negative,
and the forces between the particles repulsive. This is the
case in the liquid s.tate. Maxwell infers that as the
particles of a gas approach each other the forces between
them become attractive, attain a maximum, then diminish,
and when they are within a certain distance become re-
pulsive, the repulsion increasing so rapidly " that no attain-
able force can reduce the distance of the particles to zero."
The same conclusion as far as the attraction between the

particles at small distances is concerned, was indicated by
the experiments which Joule conducted, in company with
Sir William Thomson, on the expansion of air into a vacuum,
when very careful measurements indicated that a slight
 cooling effect took place.

       The greatest difficulty which the kinetic theory of gases
 has to face is the observed relation between the specific
 heats of gases at constant pressure and at constant volume.
 Boltzmann showed that if each molecule possess n " degrees
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.     569

of freedom" the ratio of the kinetic energy of translation

to the whole kinetic energy of the system must be equal to

the ratio of 3 to n. Now in a rigid body capable of rotating

in any manner n is equal to 6, and this makes the total

energy equal to twice the energy of translation. This requires

that the ratio of the two specific heats should be 1*33 instead

of 1'408, and the observed ratio therefore disproves the
Ifhypothesis of hard bodies.
                              we suppose the molecules to be

material points, incapable of rotation or vibration n is equal

to 3, and the energy of translation is the whole of the kinetic

energy possessed by the molecules. This would make the

ratio of the specific heats to be 1*66, which is too great for

any real gas except mercury vapour, for which the ratio has
been shown by Kundt and Warbourg to be nearly 1'66.

The spectroscope shows that the molecules of a gas are

capable of executing vibrations in various periods. They

must therefore be material systems, and cannot have less

than six degrees of freedom. The ratio of the specific heats

cannot therefore be greater than 1/33, and this is too small

for most gases. Every additional degree of freedom pos-

sessed by the molecules makes the ratio less, and requires

that the specific heat of the gas should be greater than is

observed to be the case.

     In a paper " On Boltzmann's Theorem on the Average

Distribution of Energy in a System of Material Points," read

before the Cambridge Philosophical Society on May 6, 1878,

Maxwell showed that whatever be the forces acting upon or

between the molecules, provided they be subject to the prin-

ciple of conservation of energy, the average kinetic energy of

any two given portions must be proportional to the number

of degrees of freedom of these portions, and hence the total

kinetic energy corresponding to an increment of temperature

of 1 C is shown to be proportional to the product of the

number of degrees of freedom into the absolute temperature.

The actual dimensions of molecules were first estimated

by Loschmidt in 1865, then by Stoney in 1868, and by

Thomson in 1 8 7 0. At his lecture " On Molecules," before the

British Association at Bradford, Maxwell gave the following
570 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

              TABLE OF MOLECULAR DATA,

Divided into three ranks, according to the degree of accuracy
                  with which the Quantities are known.

                                           Hydrogen.     Oxygen,
                                                               16
        Mass of Molecule (Hydrogen = 1)               1                14       22
flank                                                     m
                                              Ig59                 ^        ^
I. Velocity (of mean square) metres)            965         560
                                                                     482      379
per second at C . . )                      17,750         7646
                                                 5 '8              9489     9720
Mean path, tenth-metres .               .         46         7 '6
                                                            736       8 '3     9 '3
Bank                                                                 644    1012

 II. Collisions in a second (millions)

Rank                                    .

III. Diameter, tenth-metres .

Mass, twenty-fifth-grammes              .

DEAR GARNETT   ... I 30th June 1877.
                           have been considering diffusion
Iof gases, and the method of separating heavy gases from light

ones, and find it hopeless to do it by gravity, but if a tube
10 cm. long with two bulbs, and the straight part stuffed with
cotton-wool, were filled with equal volumes of H and C0 2, and
spun 100 times round per second for about half an hour, then
C0 2           to H by volume would                      be greater in A than in
T ^-Q-,
               which is measurable.                         have got a new light
Ithe ratio of

B by about
about equilibrium of temperature in two different gases. Let

forces having potentials act on the molecules of two gases, but
differently on each. Let the potential of forces acting on the

gas a be zero in the region A and very large in B, diminishing
continuously in the stratum C. Let the potential for gas b be
zero in B and very great in A, diminishing continuously in C.

Then the region A will contain the gas A nearly pure, and B

the gas B nearly pure, and in the stratum C there will be en-

counters between the two kinds of molecules. By Boltzmann

and Watson the average kinetic energy of a single molecule is
the same throughout the whole vessel. Hence the condition of

thermal equilibrium between two gases (not mixed, but kept
pure though in contact) is that the mean kinetic energy is the
same in each. And it is difficult to see where this method

Ibreaks down when applied to solids.
        find the electric conductivity of air supposed of conducting

spheres to be
              CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.                                               571

         Where s = distance of centres at striking.
                   1ST Number in cubic centimetre.

                V Mean velocity.

         Now  -N 17,700 for air, and            = 48,500.
              is ^-s2
But this                     is                      In electromagnetic

                                             V
                         in electrostatic  measure.

measure the resistance

                         TT 48500000

so that      2.10 13 per cubic centimetre, or about 10 10 greater than
        r
that of copper; but thisit afar smaller than that of gutta-
                     is   is
                                       is

                                       J.

                                                           is

                                                                                   ?
percha. Hence the insulating power of air                                           not consistent

with its molecules being conducting spheres.                                          Yours very

But why should the molecules be conductors

truly,                                     CLERK MAXWELL.

Maxwell's investigations in the Kinetic Theory of Gases

led him to conclusion which                of great value in the

theory of energy. The principle of the dissipation of

energy, sometimes called the second law of Thermodynamics,

states that              impossible by means of inanimate material

agency to obtain work at the expense of heat by cooling
body below the temperature of the coldest body in the
                                                                                      it

                                                                                                       a
neighbourhood. This principle was first distinctly given by

Sir William Thomson. Maxwell showed that                                              obtains

only in consequence of the coarseness of our faculties not

allowing us to grapple with individual molecules. If we

could seize upon individual molecules, and bring them to

rest in the same way as we can lay hold of fly-wheel, and
         a it
                            it             has been deprived of

                                         is,

                                                it
                                                  it

                                                                              a
compel to do useful work until

all its motion of rotation, we could convert the whole of the

heat of body into work, and bring to the absolute zero

of temperature. As        we are at the mercy of the mole-

cules, and capable of obtaining from them only so much

work as they are willing to give in the most favourable

circumstances in which we are able to place them. Maxwell

imagined quantity of gas, all initially at the same pressure

and temperature, to be divided into two portions, A and

by partition full of little trap doors which might be
a
            a

                                                                                              B,
572 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

opened or closed without the expenditure of energy. Each

trap door he supposed placed in charge of a "demon" that is a

creature whose eyes are sharp enough to see the molecules

and estimate their velocities, and hands agile enough to

open and close the trap doors in time to allow or prevent

the passage of any particular molecule which is approaching

the partition. The operation depends on the difference of

the velocities of the particles in the same mass of gas, and

the office of the demon is purely selective, so that any mechan-

ism which could be devised to sort the molecules in the

same way would be equally effective. Suppose each demon

to open his trap door when a molecule is approaching the

partition from A with a velocity above the average, but to

keep it closed when the velocity of the molecule approach-

ing from A is below the average ; while in the case of a

molecule approaching the partition from B the door is

opened if the velocity be small, and closed if it be great.
In this way all the slowly moving molecules will gradually

be sorted into the compartment A, while the rapidly moving
particles will be accumulated in B. Thus the temperature

of the gas in B will be raised, and that in A lowered with-

out any loss of energy or any work being done by an

external agent. A heat engine may now be employed,
using B as the source and A as the condenser, and doing
work at the expense of part of the heat of A until equi-
librium of temperature between B and A has been produced,

when the services of the demons may be again utilised, and

the process repeated until the whole of the heat of the gas has

been converted into work. This is contrary to the principle
of dissipation of energy, which has thus been circumvented

by intelligence. No corresponding method of overcoming the

principle of conservation of energy can be devised, and this

principle is thus shown to rest on an entirely different kind
of
    footing from that of the second law of   Tahretircmleod"AynTaOmMic"s. in
      The following extract from Maxwell's-

the ninth edition of the Encyclopaedia Britannica is character-
istic. Speaking of the teaching of molecular science re-

specting the size of atoms, he says :
         CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.

It forbids the physiologist from imagining that structural

details of infinitely small dimensions can furnish an explanation

of the infinite variety which exists in the properties and functions

of the most minute organisms.
A microscopic germ
   a
                                         is,

                                                       is

                                                                                                        ?

                                                                             a

                                                            if
                    we know, capable of development

into highly organised animal. Another germ, equally micro-

scopic, becomes when developed an animal of totally different
kind. Do all the differences, infinite in number, which distin-

guish one animal from another arise each from some difference
in the structure of the respective germs Even we admit

this as possible we shall be called upon by the advocates of
Pangenesis to admit still greater marvels. For the microscopic

germ, according to this theory,    no mere individual, but a

representative body, containing members collected from every
rank of the long-drawn ramification of the ancestral tree, the

number of these members being amply sufficient not only to

furnish the hereditary characteristics of every organ of the body,

and every habit of the animal from birth to death, but also toit a
afford stock of latent gemmules to be passed on in an inactive

state from germ to germ, till at last the ancestral peculiarity

which represents revived in some remote descendant.
         a
Some of the exponents of this theory of heredity have
             it is
attempted to elude the difficulty of placing whole world of
wonders within body so small and so devoid of visible structureis
                               aa  a
                                                   a
as germ, by using the phrase structureless germs. Now, onea
material system can differ from another only in the configuration
and motion which has at given instant. To explain differ-

ences of function and development of germ without assuminga

differences of structure therefore to admit that the properties
of germ are not those of purely material system.

     A paper " On Stresses in Earified Gases arising from

Inequalities of Temperature," by Professor Maxwell, was

read before the Eoyal Society on April 11, 1878, and

published in the Phil. Trans, for 1879. The notes and

appendix added to the paper in May and June 1879 em-

bodied the results of Maxwell's last investigations in the
kinetics of gases. In this paper Maxwell showed that when

inequalities of temperature exist in gas the pressure at
   is
                                                           a

                                                                             is
                                                                                                       a
point not generally the same in all directions, but the

maximum and minimum pressures differ by an amount depend-

ing on the rate of change of the increase of temperature per

unit length in the direction in which this rate                                                            greatest
574 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

The stress thus arising from variation in rate of change of

Iftemperature varies inversely as the pressure of the gas, and
is therefore most conspicuous in high vacua.  two small

bodies are warmer than the air, the line joining them will

be a line of maximum pressure, and they will repel each
other, while they will attract one another if they are colder
than the air. If, however, a ring be placed so as to have

the line joining the bodies for its axis and be sufficiently

heated the repulsion may be changed into attraction. In the

case of a cup, as noticed by Stokes, the variation of the rate

of change of temperature is much greater on the convex side

than on the concave, where it is nearly uniform, like the elec-

tric potential within a hollow vessel, and hence the normal

pressure is greater on the convex surface than on the concave,

which will account for the motion of the cup radiometer if

tangential stresses are neglected. But when the tangential
stresses on any portion of gas are considered, it appears,

that they, with the normal forces, form a system which is in

equilibrium, so that inequality of temperature has no tend-

ency of itself (i.e. without the action of gravity, etc.), to
produce currents in the gas. Maxwell therefore concludes

that the above explanation is insufficient, and that the true

cause of the motion is to be found in the character of the

tangential action between the solid and the gas, allowing
the gas to slide over the surface of the solid, and thus

diminishing the tangential stresses without affecting the

normal stresses. In the appendix, dated May 1879, Max-

well determined the character of the tangential action on

certain hypotheses respecting the nature of the surface of

the solid, and the character of the collisions, and concluded

that the gas may slide over the surface of the solid with a

finite velocity, and that inequalities of temperature at the
surface " give rise to a force tending to make the gas slide

along the surface from colder to hotter places."
      Most of the more elementary theorems respecting the

kinetic theory of gases are given in a very concise form by
Maxwell in his Theory of Heat, the more recent editions
of which also give an account of Professor Willard Gibbs'
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCIENCE.  575

Thermodynamic Surface. This surface, in which the co-

ordinates represent respectively the energy, entropy, and

volume of the substance to which it corresponds, was
modelled in clay by Maxwell's own hands in the Cavendish
Laboratory. From the clay model a number of plaster
casts were taken. These casts Maxwell placed in the sun-

shine in particular positions, and drew upon them in water-

colours the boundary-lines between the light and shadow,

which correspond to constant pressure or constant tempera-
ture, on the part of the substance. An account of this
surface, and many of the properties which it represents,
will be found in the work referred to.

      We have now presented to the reader a scanty selec-
tion from the results of Maxwell's scientific work. The
mere enumeration of his original papers would occupy
several pages of this book, and those who are desirous of
forming any approach to a true conception of his contribu-
tions to science should consult the memorial edition of
Maxwell's papers, edited by Mr. W. D. Mven, F.E.S., and

about to be published by the Cambridge University press.

END OF PAET II.
                                                                   osr

            PAKT III.

                    POEMS.

I. JUVENILE VERSES AND TRANSLATIONS.

  TRANSLATION OF VIRGIL ^ENEID, i. 159 TO 169.

     School Exercise, 10th May 1844. dt. 12.

  THERE lies within a long recess a bay,
 An isle with gulfing sides restrains the sea,
  The waves, divided ere they reach the shore,
  Run through the winding bay, and cease to roar ;
  On this side and on that vast rocks arise,
 And two twin crags ascending threat the skies,
  Beneath whose shade the water silent lies ;
  Above, with waving branches, stands a wood,

 A grove with awful shade o'erhangs the flood,

 And on the further side a cave is shown,
 Within, fresh springs, and seats of living stone
  The nymphs' abode ; no chains or anchors bind
  The worn-out ships, secure from waves and wind.

    (SCHOOL RHYMES). [Nov.] 1844. 1 ^t. 13.

  O ACADEMIC muse that hast for long
  Charmed all the world with thy disciples' song,

                                            1 See p. 66.
                                                    2P
578 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

       As myrtle bushes must give place to trees,
        Our humbler strains can now no longer please.
        Look down for once, inspire me in these lays
       In lofty verse to sing our Eector's praise.

        The mighty wheel of Time to light has rolled
        That golden age by ancient bards foretold.
        Minerva now descends upon our land,
        And scatters knowledge with unsparing hand ;
        Long since Ulysses saw the heavenly maid,

       In Mentor's form and Mentor's dress arrayed,

        But now to Cambrian lands the goddess flies,
       And drops in Williams' form from out the skies ;
       And as at dawn the brilliant orb of light,
       With his bright beams dispels the gloomy night,
        So sunk in ignorance our land he finds,
        But with his learning drives it from our minds,
       And he, a hero, shall with joyful eyes
         See crowds of heroes all around him rise ;
       With great Minerva's wisdom he shall rule
         Those boisterous youths the rector's class at school,
       And when in the fifth class begins his power,
       And he begins to teach us, from that hour
        Dame Poetry begins to show her face,
       And witty epigrams the plaster grace ;
        There growing wild are often to be seen
        The names of boys that Duxes erst have been,
       And at the chimney-piece is seen the same

       All thickly scribbled with the boobie's name.

         Ne'er shall the dreadful tawse be heard again,
        -The lash resounding, and the cry of pain ;
        Carmichael's self -will change (0 that he would !)
        From the imperative to wishing mood ;

       Ye years roll on, and haste the expected time
        When flogging boys shall be accounted crime.

        But come, thy real nature let us see,
        No more the rector but the goddess be,
JUVENILE VERSES.                                        579

Come in thy might and shake the deep profound,

Let the Academy with shouts resound,
While radiant glory all thy head adorns,
And slippers on thy feet protect thy corns ;

  Imay live so long on earth below,
IThat may learn the things that thou dost know !
IThen will praise thee in heroic verse

So good that Linus' will be counted worse ;
The Thracian Orpheus never will compare
With me, nor Dods that got the prize last year.

But stay, stay upon this earth a while,

Even now thou seest the world's approving smile,
And when thou goest to taste celestial joys,
Let thy great nephew 1 teach the mourning boys,

Then mounting to the skies upon the wind,
Lead captive ignorance in chains behind.

TORTO VOLITANS SUB VERBERE TURBO

QUEM PUERI MAGNO IN GYRO VACUA ATRIA CIRCUM
INTENTI LUDO EXERCENT.

                                                Virgil, dZn. vii. 378.

IOF pearies 2 and their origin sing :        Nov. 1844.

How at the first great Jove the lord of air

Impelled the planets round the central sun

Each circling within each, until at last

The winged Mercury moves in molten fire.

And which of you, ye heavenly deities,

That hear the endless music of the spheres,

Hast given to man the secret of the Top ?

Say, was it thou, Fun, that dost prefer,

Before all temples, liberty and play ?

Yes, yes, 'twas only thou, thou from the first

Wast present when the Eoman children came

To the smooth pavement, where with heavy lash

They chased the wooden plaything without end.

1 Mr. Theodore Williams, English Master in the Academy

                                          2 See p. 51.
580 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

            But not to tell of these is now my task,
       Nor yet of humming-tops, whose lengthened neck,
       With packthread bound, and handle placed above,
        Amuses little children. Not of these,

    IBut of the pearie, chief of all his tribe,

       Do now sing. He with a sudden bound
       From out his station in the player's hand
        Descends like Maia's son, on one foot poised,
       And utters gentle music circling round,

       Till in the centre of the ring it sleeps.

            When lo, as in the bright blue vault of heaven

      A falcon, towering in his pride of place

         Perceives from far a partridge on the wing,

       And stoops to seize him, even so comes down
        Another pearie, and as when the sword
       Of faithful Abdiel struck the apostate's crest
       And " sent him reeling back ten paces huge,"

         So reeled the former pearie, nor can stand
        The latter's iron peg, and more come down;
        Innumerable hosts of pearies, armed

       With dire destructive steel. The players shout ;

      It is the shout of battle ; the loud cry

       Of victors rushing to the spoil ; the wail
        Of ruined boys, their pearie split, and all,

      All lost.

                        Thus wags this ever-changing world,
        And we may morals from the pearie draw.

(NATHALOCUS.)   Jan. 1845.
            I.

BLEAK was the pathway and barren the mountain,
    As the traveller passed on his wearisome way ;

Sealed by the frost was each murmuring fountain,
    And the sun shone through mist with a blood-coloured ray.

But neither the road nor the danger together,

Could alter his purpose, nor yet the rough weather ;
So on went the wayfarer through the thick heather,

   Till he came to the cave where the dread witches stav.
JUVENILE VERSES.                                           581

                                             II.

Hewn from the rock was that cavern so dreary,
   And the entrance by bushes was hid from the sight,

But he found his way in, and with travelling weary,
   With joy he beheld in the darkness a light.

And in a recess of that wonderful dwelling,
He heard the strange song of the witch wildly swelling,
In magical numbers unceasingly telling

    The fortunes of kingdoms, the issue of fight.

                                            in.

Up rose the witch as the traveller entered,
 " Welcome," she said, " and what news from the king ;
And why to inquire of me thus has he ventured,

   When he knows that the answer destruction will bring ?
Sit here and attend." Then her pale visage turning
To where the dim lamp in the darkness was burning,
She took up a book of her magical learning,

    And prepared in prophetical numbers to sing.

                                                      IV.

Now she is seated, the curtain is o'er her,

    The god is upon her ; attend then and hear !
The vapour is rising in volumes before her,

   And forms of the future in darkness appear.
Hark, now the god inspiration is bringing,
'Tis not her voice through the cavern is ringing ;
No, for the song her familiar is singing,

   And these were the words of the maddening seer.

                                                       v.

" Slave of the monarch, return to thy master,
    Whisper these words in Nathalocus' ear ;

Tell him, from me, that Old Time can fly faster
    Than he is aware, for his death hour is near ;

Tell him his fate with the mystery due
But let him not know of the hand that shall do
                  it,

                             it

                                    ;"
582 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

I" Tell me, vile witch, or swear thou shalt rue it !"
    " Thou art the murderer," answered the seer.

        VI.

I"Am a dog that I'd do such an action !"

Answered the chief as in anger he rose,
" Would I, ungrateful, be head of a faction,
                                                "
And call myself one of Nathalocus'  foes
                                              ?
" No more," said the witch, " the enchantment is ended,

I brave not the wrath of the demon offended,

Whatever thy fate, 'tis not now to be mended."
    So the stranger returned through the thick - driving

snows.

        VII.

High from his eyrie the eagle was screaming,
    Pale sheeted spectres stalked over the heath ;

Bright in his mind's eye a dagger was gleaming,

    Waiting the moment to spring from its sheath.

Hoarse croaked the raven that eastward was flying ;
Well did he know of the king that was dying;
Down in the river the Kelpie was sighing,

    Mourning the king in the water beneath.

                                           VIII.

His mind was confused with this terrible warning,
    Horrible spectres were with him by night ;

Still in his sorrow he wished for the morning,

    Cursing the day when he first saw the light.
He said in his raving, " The day that she bore me,
Would that my mother in pieces had tore me ;
See there is Nathalocus' body before me;

    Hence, ye vain shadows, depart from my sight!"

                                                IX.

And when from the palace the king sent to meet him,
    To ask what response from the witch he might bear ;

When the messenger thought that the strangerwould greet him,
    He answered by nought but a meaningless stare.
                JUVENILE VERSES.                             583

On his face was a smile, but it was not of gladness,

For all was within inconsolable sadness.

And     aye in   his eye was    the fixt glare  of madness,  there."
    "           king's private                   answer him
       In the                    chamber, I'll

                                                  x.

I" Tell me, my sovereign, have been unruly ;
  IHave been ever found out of my place ;

IHave not followed thee faithfully, truly,

    Though danger and death stared me full in the face ?

IHave been seen from the enemy flying,
IHave been wanting in danger most trying ?
IOh, if have, judge me worthy of dying,

    Let me be covered with shame and disgrace !

                                                 XI.

I" Couldst thou imagine that should betray thee,
  I whom thy bounty with friendship has blessed ?

But the witch gave for answer that my hand should slay thee,
    'Tis this that for long has deprived me of rest,

Ever since then have my slumbers been broken,

But true are the words that the prophet has spoken,
Nathalocus, now receive this as a token,"

    So saying the dagger he plunged in his breast.

       THE DEATH OF SIR JAMES, LORD OF DOUGLAS.

             Prize Poem, July 1845. 1 JEt. 14.

          "Men may weill wyt, thouch nane thaim tell,
            How angry for sorow, and how fell,
             Is to tyne sic a Lord as he
             To thaim that war off hys mengye."
                                            Barbour's Bruce, B. XX. i. 507.

        WHERE rich Seville's proud turrets rise

        A foreign ship at anchor lies;

                                           1 P. 69.
584 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

   The pennons, floating in the air,
   Proclaim that one of rank is there

   The Douglas, with a gallant band
   Of warriors, seeks the Holy Land.

   But wherefore now the trumpet's bray,

   The clang of arms and war's array,

   The atabal and martial drum ?

   The Moor the infidel is come ;

   And there is Sultan Osmyn see !

   With all his Paynim chivalry ;

   And they have sworn to glut their steel

  With the best blood of fair Castile.     land !"
" And do we here inactive stand ? "

  The Douglas cries ; " Land ! comrades,

   Then for the Christian camp he makes,

"  When thus Alphonso silence breaks :

   What news  from Scotland do you bring    ;
   And where  is now your patriot king ? "
" Alas ! within this casket lies

   The heart so valiant, good, and wise,

   This to the Holy Land we bear,

   For we have sworn to lay it there.

   But let us forward to the fight,
   And God protect the Christian right !"
   To whom Alphonso " Scottish lord,

   That now for Spain dost draw that sword,

   The terror of thy English foes,

   When for her freedom Scotland rose ;

   With knights like thee and thy brave band
   We'll drive the Moslem from the land."

  The Douglas thus his comrades cheers
" Be brave ! and as for him that fears,

  Let the base coward turn and fly,
  For we will gain the day, or die.
  Now couch the trusty Scottish spear,
  And think King Robert's heart is here,
  And boldly charge already, see

   The dogs of Moslems turn and flee."
                   JUVENILE VERSES.           585

  At the first onset, with the slain

  Those valiant warriors strew the plain ;
  But, hark ! the Allah Hu ! the foes
  Rally, and hot the combat grows,
  For here the Spaniards yield, and there
  The Moors have slain the brave St. Clair.
  Then, midst the thickest of his foes,
  The precious casket Douglas throws

I" Pass on before us," hear him cry,

" For will follow thee, or die."
  He rushes on but all in vain,
  For thicker comes the arrowy rain ;
  And now, by multitudes opprest,
  With many a wound upon his breast,

  "Where 'midst the slain the casket lies,

 A noble death the Douglas dies.

                     THE VAMPYRE. 1

                     James Clerk Maxwell [1845.]
Compylt into Meetera is
           a

                   is
                              a "by

                                        is
THAIR  knichte rydis through the wood,

And douchty knichte hee,

And sure hee on message sent,
    He rydis sae hastilie.

Hee passit the aik, and hee passit the birk,
   And hee passit monie tre,
       it

                         a
Bot plesant to him was the saugh sae slim,
   For beneath hee did see

The boniest ladye that ever he saw,

    Scho was sae schyn and fair.

And there scho sat, beneath the saugh,

   Kaiming hir gowden hair.
And then the knichte " Oh ladye brichte,

What chance hes broucht you here,

But say the word, and ye schall gang
    Back to your kindred dear."

                     1  P. 69.
586 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

    IThen up and spok the Ladye fair
            " have nae friends or kin,

     IBot in a littel boat live,

            Amidst the waves' loud din."

        Then answered thus the douchty kniehte

         " I'll follow you through all,

       For gin ye bee in a littel boat,
           The world to it seemis small."

        They gaed through the wood, and through the wood
            To the end of the wood they came :

       And when they came to the end of the wood

            They saw the salt sea faem.
        And then they saw the wee, wee boat,

            That daunced on the top of the wave,
       And first got in the ladye fair,

           And then the kniehte sae brave ;
        They got into the wee, wee boat,

           And rowed wi' a' their micht;
        When the kniehte sae brave, he turnit about,

           And lookit at the ladye bricht ;
        He lookit at her bonie cheik,

           And hee lookit at hir twa bricht eyne,
        Bot hir rosie cheik growe ghaistly pale,

           And scho seymit as scho deid had been.
        The fause fause kniehte growe pale wi frichte,

           And his hair rose up on end,
        For gane-by days cam to his mynde,

           And his former luve he kenned.

         Then spake the ladye, " Thou, fause kniehte,

           Hast done to mee much ill,
        Thou didst forsake me long ago,

       IBot am constant still ;
     IFor though ligg in the woods sae cald,

        IAt rest canna bee
     IUntil sucke the gude lyfe blude

            Of the man that gart me dee."
        Hee saw hir lipps were wet wi' blude,

             And hee saw hir lyfelesse eyne,
          JUVENILE VERSES.                  587

And loud hee cry'd, " Get frae my syde,
                               "
Thou vampyr  corps  uncleane
                              !

Bot no, hee is in Mr magic boat,

   And on the wyde wyde sea ;
And the vampyr suckis his gude lyfe blude,

   Sho suckis hym till hee dee.

So now beware, whoe're you are,

That walkis in this lone wood ;

Beware of that deceitfull spright,

The ghaist that suckis the blude.

SEVENTH ODE OF THE FOURTH BOOK OF HORACE. 1846.

          (In the metre of the original?)

ALL the snows have fled, and grass springs up on the meadows,
                   And there are leaves on the trees :

Earth has changed her looks, and turbulent rivers decreasing,

                     Slowly meander along ;
Now, with the naked nymphs and her own twin sisters,

Aglaia

          Gracefully dances in time.

But the Year, and the Hours which hurry along our existence,

          Solemnly warn us to die.

Zephyr removes the frost, and Summer, soon destined to

    perish,
                     Treads in the footsteps of Spring,

After the joyous reign of Autumn, abounding in apples,
                     Shivering Winter returns.

Heavenly waste is repaired by the moon in her quick revo-

lutions,

                     But when we go to the grave,
Beside the pious ^Eneas, and rich old Tullus, and Ancus,

                     We are but dust and a shade.

Who knows if the gods above have determined whether to-

morrow

          We shall be living or dead.
588 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

Nothing will come to the greedy hands of your spendthrift

    successor

                     Which you have given away.
When you are gone to the grave, and Minos, sitting in judg-

    ment,

                     Utters your terrible doom,
Neither your rank nor your talents will bring you to life,

    Torquatus,                                              of

                 Nor will affection avail ;

Even the chaste Hippolytus was not released by Diana
                     From the infernal abyss,

Nor could Theseus break from his friend the rewards

    presumption
                    Which the stern monarch imposed.

                           HOE., OD. in. 9. 1846.

                    (In the metre of the original?)

                                             Horace.

IWHILE was your beloved one,

And while no other youth threw his fond arms around

  IYour white neck so easily,

Than the King of the world was far happier.

                                         Lydia.

While you loved not another one,

IWhile you did not prefer Chloe to Lydia,
        then thought myself happier
Than the mother of Home, great Ehea Silvia.

                      Horace.

Thracian Chloe now governs me,

She can merrily sing, playing the cithara ;
    I'd
If  the  not scruple  to die for her,    auburn  haired.
         Implacable   spared Chloe, the
TRANSLATIONS.                                             589

                                          Lydia.

I now love and am loved again,

By my Calais, son of the old Ornytus ;
    Twice I'd die for him willingly,

If the terrible fates spared but my Calais.

                                             Horace.

What if love should return again,
And unite us by ties more indissoluble ?

    What if Chloe were cast away,
And the long-closed door open to Lydia ?

Lydia.

My love's brighter than any star ;

You, too, lighter than cork, tossed on the waves of       the

     IHadriatic so terrible ;       could die with thee.

Still I'd live but with thee, and

      HORACE, SEVENTH EPODE. 1846.

   WHITHER, whither, reckless Eomans,
       Are you rushing, sword in hand ?

  Has not yet the blood of brothers,
      Fully stained the sea and land ?

  Not that raging conflagration
       Should o'er fallen Carthage play ;

  Not that the unconquered Briton
       Should descend the sacred way.

" Eome," exclaims the joyful Parthian,
    " Euin for herself prepares ;

  Wolves with wolves are never savage,
      Lion lion never tears."

 IIs this fury ? is it madness 1
       Speedy answer demand ;
  Foolish, blinded, guilty Eomans,

       Silent, stupefied you stand.
590 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

                Thus 'tis fated, blood of brothers
                    Must atone for brothers' guilt,

                Since the blood of injured Kemus
                     Komulus in anger spilt.

                             (AN ONSET.) [1848.]

HALLO ye, my fellows ! arise and advance,
See the white -crested waves how they stamp and they

         dance !
High over the reef there in anger and might,

So wildly we dance to the bloody red fight.
Than gather, now gather, come gather ye all,
Each thing that hath legs and arms, come to our call ;
Like reeds on the moor when the whirlwinds vie
Our lances and war-axes darken the sky ;

Sharp, sharp, as the tooth of the sea-hound and shark,
They'll tear ye, they'll split ye, fly lance to the mark,
Home, home to the heart, and thou battle-axe grim,

Split, splintring and shivering through brain-pan and limb;

To-day we ask vengeance, to-day we ask blood,

We ask it ; we're coming to make our words good ;
The storm flinches not tho' the woods choke its path,
We ask it ; we're coming, beware of our wrath.
At home wives and children a hearth for us lay,

A savoury flesh-feast awaits us to-day ;

 Behind yonder mountains e'en now the smoke streams,
 And the blaze of the bush fire crackles and gleams.
 Long, long have we hungered and thirsted for you,

 At home the dogs bark round the clean table too,

 Loud shouting we'll eat you to-night every one,
 Devour you clean to the white sinewy bone.
 Rush, rush ye my fellows, rush on them like hail,
 Soon, soon shall their roasting your nostrils regale,
 The fire is flaring, the oven's a glow,
 Heave to now, hew thro' now, Holloa, Hollo.
JUVENILE VERSES.                                  591

(SONG OF THE EDINBURGH ACADEMICIAN.)     [1848.]

    IF ony here has got an ear,

         He'd better tak' a haud o' me,

    Or I'll begin, wi' roarin' din,

         To cheer our old Academy.

    Dear old Academy,

  IQueer old Academy,

A merry lot we were, wot,

    When at the old Academy.

There's some may think me crouse wi' drink,
   And some may think it mad o' me,

But ither some will gladly come

   And cheer our old Academy.

Some set their hopes on Kings and Popes,
    But, o' the sons of Adam, he

Was first, without the smallest doubt,

    That built the first Academy.

Let Pedants seek for scraps of Greek,
    Their lingo to Macadamize ;

Gie me the sense, without pretence,
    That comes o' Scots Academies.

Let scholars all, both grit and small,

    Of Learning mourn the sad demise ;
That's as they think, but we will drink

    Good luck to Scots Academies.

SPECIMEN OF TRANSLATION FROM THE AJAX OF SOPHOCLES.
                                       1852.

                             (Lines 1192-1222.)

                HAD he first been swept away,
              Through air by wild winds tossed,
592 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

            Or sunk from Heaven's ethereal ray,
                To Pluto's dreary coast.

            Who trained the Grecians to the field,
             Taught them the sword, the spear to wield,

               And steeled the gentle mind !
            Hence toil gives birth to toil again,

             Hence carnage stains the ensanguined plain,

               For he destroyed mankind.

            Nor the brow with chaplets bound,
             Breathing balmy odours round,
            Nor the social glow of soul,
           Kindling o'er the generous bowl,
            Nor the dulcet strain that rings
            Jocund from the sounding strings,
            Nor endearing love's delight,
            Which with rapture fills the night,
           Me will he permit to prove,
             He, alas ! hath murdered love.

        IBut neglected here lie,

            Open to the inclement sky ;
           And my rough and matted hair
            Drinks the dews of night's moist air,

                  Memorials sad of Troy.

          Yet till now, when pale affright

            Rolled her hideous form through night
            Great in arms, thy shield to oppose,
           Ajax at his rampire rose,

        IAnd my terror was no more.

            Now the hero deplore,
            To the gloomy god consigned,
           Now, what joy can touch the mind ?

                  that on the pine-clad brow,
            Darkening o'er the sea below,
            Where the cliffs of Sunium rise,
            Rocky bulwarks to the skies,
             1 were placed with sweet address

         ISacred Athens would bless,

                 And feel a social joy.
OCCASIONAL POEMS.                           593

II. OCCASIONAL PIECES.

EEFLEX MUSINGS :

BEFLECTTON FROM VARIOUS SURFACES.

                                  18th April 1853.

IN the dense entangled street,

  IWhere the web of Trade is weaving,

Forms unknown in crowds meet

Much of each and all believing ;

Each his small designs achieving

Hurries on with restless feet,

  IWhile, through Fancy's power deceiving,

Self in every form greet.

Oft in yonder rocky dell
    Neath the birches' shadow seated,

I have watched the darksome well,

    Where my stooping form, repeated,
    Now advanced and now retreated
With the spring's alternate swell,

   Till destroyed before completed
As the big drops grew and fell.

By the hollow mountain-side

  IQuestions strange shout for ever,

While the echoes far and wide

  ISeem to mock my vain endeavour ;

    Still shout, for though they never
Cast my borrowed voice aside,

    Words from empty words they sever
Words of Truth from words of Pride.

Yes, the faces in the crowd,
    And the wakened echoes, glancing

From the mountain, rocky browed,
   And the lights in water dancing

                                      2Q
594              JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

         Each, my wandering sense entrancing,
     Tells me back my thoughts aloud,

        All the joys of Truth enhancing

     Crashing all that makes me proud.

             A STUDENT'S EVENING HYMN.

                                             Cambridge, April 25, 1853.
                                         I.

     Now no more the slanting rays
        With the mountain summits dally,

     Now no more in crimson blaze
         Evening's fleecy cloudlets rally,
         Soon shall Night from off the valley

     Sweep that bright yet earthly haze,
         And the stars most musically

     Move in endless rounds of praise.

                                     ii.

     While the world is growing dim,
         And the Sun is slow descending

     Past the far horizon's rim,
         Earth's low sky to heaven extending,
         Let my feeble earth-notes, blending

     With the songs of cherubim,

          Through the same expanse ascending,
     Thus renew my evening hymn.

                                     in. '

     Thou that fill'st our waiting eyes
         With the food of contemplation,

     Setting in thy darkened skies
          Signs of infinite creation,
          Grant to nightly meditation

     Wljat the toilsome day denies
          Teach me in this earthly station

      Heavenly Truth to realise.
                   OCCASIONAL POEMS.         595

                                       IV.

Give me wisdom so to use

  IThese brief hours of thoughtful leisure,

That may no instant lose

   In mere meditative pleasure,

    But with strictest justice measure

All the ends my life pursues,

    Lies to crush and truths to treasure,
Wrong to shun and Eight to choose.

                                        v.

Then, when unexpected Sleep,
    O'er my long-closed eyelids stealing,

Opens up that lower deep
    Where Existence has no feeling,

   May sweet Calm, my languor healing,
Lend me strength at dawn to reap

   All that Shadows, world-concealing,

For the bold enquirer keep.

                                   VI.

Through the creatures Thou hast made
    Show the brightness of Thy glory,

Be eternal Truth displayed

   In their substance transitory,
   Till green Earth and Ocean hoary,

Massy rock and tender blade
    Tell the same unending story

We are Truth in Form arrayed."

                                  VII.

IWhen to study retire,

    And from books of ancient sages
Glean fresh sparks of buried fire

    Lurking in their ample pages
    While the task my mind engages
Let old words new truths inspire
    Truths that to all after-ages
Prompt the Thoughts that never tire.
I596 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.
      if,
                                          VIII.
                                                                                               ;
           Yet led by shadows fair                                                                     )
                   have uttered words of folly,
II         a is
            Let the kind absorbing air
                  Stifle every sound unholy.1
                So when Saints with Angels lowly1

          Join in heaven's unceasing prayer,I

                Mine as certainly, though slowly,
            May ascend and mingle there.

     Two stanzas omitted, the Author knoivs ^vhere but not
                    to be inserted till he knows how.

            Teach me so Thy works to read
                That my faith, new strength accruing,

            May from world to world proceed,
                Wisdom's fruitful search pursuing
               Till, thy truth my mind imbuing,
               proclaim the Eternal Creed,
                Oft the glorious theme renewing

            God our Lord God indeed.

            Give me love aright to trace
                Thine to everything created,

             Preaching to ransomed race

              By Thy mercy renovated,
             Till with all thy fulness sated

                behold thee face to face

              And with Ardour unabated
            Sing the glories of thy grace.

     (ON ST. DAVID'S DAY. To MKS. E. C. MORRIESON.)

                                                                                1st March 1854.
                      'TWAS not chance but deep design,

                    Tho' of whom can't divine
                    Made the courtly Valentine

                               (Corpulent saint and bishop)

                                                See p. 207.
         OCCASIONAL POEMS.                   597

Such a time with Bob to stay :
Let me now in bardish way
On your own St. David's day

         Toss you a simple dish up.

'Tis a tale we learnt at school,
Oft we broke domestic rule,
Standing till our brows were cool

       In the forbidden lobby. 1

There we talked and there we laughed,

Till the townsfolk thought us daft,

What of that ? a thorough draft
        Was and is still my hobby.

To my tale : In ancient days,

Ere men left the good old ways,
Lived a lady whose just praise

        Passes all fancied glory.
Eich was she in field and store,
Kicher in the sons she bore,
How could she be honoured more ?

        Listen and hear the story.

On a high and festive day
When the chariots bright and gay
To the temple far away

       Passed in majestic order,
When the hour was nigh at hand,

She who should have led the band

Found no oxen at command,

        Searching through all her border. 2

Then her two sons brave and strong
Girt their limbs with band and thong,
And before the wondering throng

        Drew their exulting mother.

1 P. 68.  2 Herodotus, i. 31.
598 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

                    Swift and steady, on they came ;

                 At the temple loud acclaim

                    Greeted that illustrious dame,
                             Blest above every other.

Then, while triumph filled her breast,
Loud she prayed above the rest,
Give my sons whatever best

        Man may receive from heaven.
To the shrine the brothers stept,
Low they bowed, they sunk, they slept,
Stillness o'er their brave limbs crept :

        Eest was the guerdon given.

Such the simple story told,

By a sage renowned of old, l
To a king 2 whose fabled gold

        Could not procure him learning.
Heathen was the sage indeed,
Yet his tale we gladly read,
Thro' his dark and doubtful creed

        Glimpses of Truth discerning.

Now no more the altar's blaze

Glares athwart our worldly haze,
Warning men how evil ways

        Lead to just tribulation.
Now no more the temple stands,
Pointing out to godless lands
That which is not made with hands,

        Even the whole Creation.

Ask no more, then, " what is best,
How shall those you love be blest,"
Ask at once, eternal Eest,

         Peace and assurance giving.

1 Solon.  2 Croesus.
         OCCASIONAL POEMS.               599

Eest of Life and not of death,
Eest in Love and Hope and Faith,
Till the God who gives their breath

        Calls them to rest from living.

EECOLLECTIONS      OF DKEAMLAND.
                            Cambridge, June ? 1856. 1

EOUSE ye ! torpid daylight-dreamers, cast your carking cares

         away !
As calm air to troubled water, so my night is to your day ;

All the dreary day you labour, groping after common sense,

IAnd your eyes ye will not open on the night's magnificence.

Ye would scoff were to tell you how a guiding radiance

         gleams
On the outer world of action from my inner world of dreams.

IWhen, with mind released from study, late lay me down

         to sleep,

IFrom the midst of facts and figures, into boundless space

        leap;
For the inner world grows wider as the outer disappears,
And the soul, retiring inward, finds itself beyond the spheres.
Then, to this unbroken sameness, some fantastic dream

          succeeds,

Vague emotions rise and ripen into thoughts and words and

          deeds.

Old impressions, long forgotten, range themselves in Time
         and Space,

ITill recollect the features of some once familiar place.
IThen from valley into valley in my dreaming course roam,

Till the wanderings of my fancy end, where they began, at

          home.    morning twilight, while each streamlet far
                   hazy mantle, borrowed from the mountain's
Calm it lies in
                                 1 See p. 249.
         and wide

Still retains its
        side;
600 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

Every knoll is now an island, every wooded bank a shore,
To the lake of quiet vapour that has spread the valley o'er.

Sheep are couched on every hillock, waiting till the morning

         dawns,

Hares are on .their early rambles, limping o'er the dewy

         lawns.

All within the house is silent, darkened all the chambers

     Iseem,             enter, gliding onwards in my

As with noiseless step

      dream.

What ! has Time run out his cycle, do the years return

         again?
Are there treasure-caves in Dreamland where departed days

I Iremain ?
   have leapt the bars of distance
                        left the life that late

         led

I Iremember years and labours as a tale that have read ;
IYet my heart is hot within me, for feel the gentle power
IOf the spirits that still love me, waiting for this sacred hour.
Yes,   know the forms that meet me are but phantoms of

      the brain,

For they walk in mortal bodies, and they have not ceased
         from pain.

Oh ! those signs of human weakness, left behind for ever

      now,

Dearer far to me than glories round a fancied seraph's brow.
Oh ! the old familiar voices ! Oh ! the patient waiting eyes !
Let me live with them in dreamland, while the world in

         slumber lies !

For by bonds of sacred honour will they guard my soul in

          sleep
From the spells of aimless fancies, that around my senses

      creep.

IThey will link the past and present into one continuous life,
While       feel their hope, their patience, nerve me for the

      daily strife.
OCCASIONAL POEMS.                                                        601

For it is not all a fancy that our lives and theirs are one,
And we know that all we see is but an endless work begun.
Part is left in Nature's keeping, part is entered into rest,
Part remains to grow and ripen, hidden in some living breast.
What is ours we know not, either when we wake or when

         we sleep,
But we know that Love and Honour, day and night, are ours

         to keep.
What though Dreams be wandering fancies, by some lawless

         force entwined,

Empty bubbles, floating upwards through the current of the
        mind ?

There are powers and thoughts within us, that we know not,

       till they rise

Through the stream of conscious action from where Self in

         secret lies.

But when Will and Sense are silent, by the thoughts that

         come and go,
We may trace the rocks and eddies in the hidden depths

         below.

Let me dream my dream till morning ; let my mind run slow

         and clear,
Free from all the world's distraction, feeling that the Dead

          are near,

Let me wake, and see my duty lie before me straight and
        plain.

Let me rise refreshed, and ready to begin my work again.

            To THE Am OF " LORELEI."

                                               Aberdeen t January 1858.
                                        I.

ALONE on a hillside of heather,

  I lay with dark thoughts in my mind,
I I IIn the midst of the beautiful weather

        was deaf, was dumb, was blind.
602 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

        I knew not the glories around me,
          I counted the world as it seems,

          Till a spirit of melody found me,
               And taught me in visions and dreams.

                                II.

For the sound of a chorus of voices

  ICame gathering up from below,

And heard how all Nature rejoices,
   And moves with a musical flow.
    strange ! we are lost in delusion,
    Our ways and doings are wrong,

We are drowning in 1 wilful confusion,
    The notes of that 2 wonderful song.

                                in.

But listen, what harmony holy
    Is mingling its notes with our own !

The discord is vanishing slowly,

    And melts in that dominant tone.
And they that have heard it can never

    Return to confusion again,
Their voices are music for ever,

    And join in the mystical strain.

                                      IV.

No mortal can 3 utter the beauty
    That dwells 4 in the song that they sing ;

They move in the pathway of duty,
    They follow the steps of their King.

1 would barter the world and its glory,
    That vision of joy to prolong,

Or to hear and remember the story
    That lies in the heart of their song.

1 v.r. marring with.  r2 v  the>
3 v.r. may.
                      4 v<n breathes through.
OCCASIONAL POEMS.  603

                     " I'VE HEARD THE RUSHING."

                                                                             Aberdeen, 1858.

I'VE heard the rushing of mountain torrents, gushing
    Down through the rocks, in a cataract of spray,
                  Onward to the ocean ;
                Swift seemed their motion,
   Till, lost in the desert, they dwindled away.

I've learnt the story of all human glory,
    I've felt high resolves growing weaker every day,

              Till cares, springing round me,

          IWith creeping tendrils bound me,

   And all once hoped for was wearing fast away.

I've seen the river rolling on for ever,
    Silent and strong, without tumult or display.

             In the desert arid,

               Its waters never tarried,
   Till far out at sea we still found them on their way.

Now no more weary we faint in deserts dreary,
    Toiling alone till the closing of the day ;

             All now is righted,

                 Our souls flow on united,

   Till the years and their sorrows have all died away.

             " WILL YOU COME ALONG WITH ME ? "

                                                                             Aberdeen, 1858.
                                                   I.

                WILL you come along with me,
                  In the fresh spring-tide,

                My comforter to be
                     Through the world so wide ?

              Will you come and learn the ways
             A student spends his days,

                 On the bonny, bonny braes
                     Of our ain burnside ?
604 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

                                                 II.

                   For the lambs will soon be here,
                     In the fresh spring-tide ;

                    As lambs come every year
                         On our ain burnside.

                   Poor things, they will not stay,
                   But we will keep the day
                    When first we saw them play

                         On our ain burnside.

                                            in.

                   We will watch the budding trees
                     In the fresh spring-tide,

                   While the murmurs of the breeze
                         Through the branches glide.

                    Where the mavis builds her nest,
                    And finds both work and rest,

                 In the bush she loves the best,

                         On our ain burnside.

                                                      IV.

                   And the life we then shall lead
                     In the fresh spring-tide,

                 Will make thee mine indeed,

                         Though the world be wide.
                    No stranger's blame or praise
                     Shall turn us from the ways
                     That brought us happy days

                           On our ain burnside.

" WHY, WHEN OUR SUN SHINES CLEAREST."

                                                           1858.

WHY, when our sun shines clearest,
Why, when our hopes seem nearest,
Why, when our life feels dearest,

         Rises a secret pain
               OCCASIONAL POEMS.          605

Hope's perfect mirror broken
Shadows of things unspoken
Why will not some sure token

         Calm us to rest again ?

Mixed with all earthly blessing
Lingers the fear distressing
Conscience within confessing

        Nothing of ours is pure.
Still must such thoughts upbraid us,
Seeking our own to aid us;
God, not ourselves, hath made us ;

        Trusting in Him we're sure.

Thus, from our sorrows gleaning
Thoughts of the world's deep meaning,
Let us rejoice while leaning

        Firm on our Father's arm.
Now are we one for ever,
Joined so that none may sever,

Souls, so united, never
        Faint through mischance or harm.

           KTo M. D.

                                                             Aberdeen, 1858.

IN the buds, before they burst,

    Leaves and flowers are moulded ;
Closely pressed they lie at first,

    Exquisitely folded.

Though no hope of change they felt,
    Folded hard together,

Soon their sap begins to melt

   In the warmer weather.

Till, when Life returns with Spring;
    Through them softly stealing,

All their freshness forth they fling,

    Hidden forms revealing.
606 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

                Who can fold those flowers again,

                 In the way he found them ?

                Or those spreading leaves restrain,

                 In the buds that bound them ?

                Trust me, Spring is very near,

                All the buds are swelling ;
            All the glory of the year

                 In those buds is dwelling.

                What the opened buds reveal
                    Tells us Life is flowing;

                What the buds, still shut, conceal,
                    We shall end in knowing.

          ILong lingered in the bud,

                    Doubting of the season,

          IWinter's cold had chilled my blood-
                          was ripe for treason.

          INow no more doubt or wait,

                All my fears are vanished,

                  Summer's coming, dear, though late,
                       Fogs and frosts are banished.

IITune,  Segreto per esser felice.

                                                               24th March 1858.
                                   I.

THERE are some folks that say,
They have found out a way,

        To be healthy and wealthy and wise
" Let your thoughts be but few,
Do as other folk do,

       And never be caught by surprise.
Let your motto be Follow the fashion,

    But let other people alone ;
OCCASIONAL POEMS.                                  607

Do not love them, nor hate them, nor care for their fate,

    But keep a look out for your own.

Then what though the world may run riot,
    Still playing at catch who catch can ;

You may just eat your dinner in quiet,
   And live like a sensible man."

                 II.

'Twere a beautiful thing,                          remains,

Thus to sit like a king,
       And talk of the world turning round,

If it were not that we,

Like all things that we see,

        Are standing on moveable ground.
While we boast of our tranquil enjoyments,

    The means of enjoyment are flown,

Both our joys and our pains, till there's nothing

    But the tranquil repose of a stone.

The world may be utterly crazy,
   And life may be labour in vain ;

But I'd rather be silly than lazy,
    And would not quit life for its pain.

IIn Nature read  ill.

Quite a different creed,
       There everything lives in the rest ;

Each feels the same force,
As it moves in its course,

       And all by one blessing are blest.
The end that we live for is single,

    But we labour not therefore alone,

For together we feel how by wheel within wheel,

    We are helped by a force not our own.

So we flee not the world and its dangers,
   For He that has made it is wise,

He knows we are pilgrims and strangers,
   And He will enlighten our eyes.
608 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

                  (To HIS WIFE.)            1858.

IOFT in the night, from this lone room
       long to fly o'er land and sea,
To pierce the dark, dividing gloom,

   And join myself to thee.

IAnd thou to me wouldst gladly fly,
       know thee well, my own true wife !
We feel, that when we live not nigh,

    We lose the crown of life.

IYet soon hope, at dead of night,

    To meet where all is strange beside,
And mid the train's resounding flight

    To have thee by my side.

IThen shall feel that thou art near,

    Joined hand to hand and soul to soul ;
Short will that happy night appear,

   As through the dark we roll.

Then shall the secret of the will,
    That dares not enter into bliss ;

That longs for love, yet lingers still,
    Be solved in one long kiss.

I, drinking deep of thy rich love,

    Thou feeling all the strength of mine,
Our souls will rise in faith above

    The cares which make us pine.

ITill give thee, thou giving me,
    As that which either loves the best,
To Him that loved us both, that He

   May take us to His rest.
             SERIO-COMIC VERSE.             609

Wandering and weak are all our prayers,
    And fleeting half the gifts we crave ;

Love only, cleansed from sins and cares,
    Shall live beyond the grave.

Strengthen our love, Lord, that we
    May in Thine own great love believe

And, opening all our soul to Thee,
    May Thy free gift receive.

All powers of mind, all force of will,

    May lie in dust when we are dead,
But love is ours, and shall be still,

    When earth and seas are fled.

    III. SEEIO-COMIC VEESE.

                " NUMA POMPILIUS."

         A Lay of Ancient Rome.

                                            Junior Sophs' Exam.,
                                             Cambridge, December 1851,

   WELL is thee ! King Numa,
    Within thy secret cave,
Where thy bones are ever moistened
    By sad Egeria's wave ;
None now have power to pilfer
    The treasure of thy tomb,
And reveal the institutions
   And secret Eites of Eome.

O blessed be the Senate
    That stowed those books away,

Curst be the attempt of Niebuhr
    To drag them into day ;

Light be the pressure, Numa,
    Around thy watery bed,

May no perplexing problems
    Infest thy kingly head !

                                 2R
610 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

          IAs thus blessed King Numa
          I And struggled hard with sleep,

                     felt unwonted chillness
                    O'er all my members creep ;
                Before mine eyes in fragments
                    The fireplace seemed to roll,
                The chillness left my body

                   And slid into my soul.
                Deep in Egeria's grotto

            I saw the darksome well ;
          I slowly sunk to Numa,

             IBut why cannot tell.

               " What ! Livest thou stiU, old Sabine,
                   With thy mysterious wife ? "

             "Yes, here beneath the surface,
                     We lead a torpid life.

                 But little think the Critics
                   Who nullify old Eome,

                 That in these benumbing waters

             I always lived at home.
           INever was a Sabine,

                     Or lived like men above ;
                 No mortal wight was Numa,

                     Who quelled the fear of Jove.
                   Before my day the Eomans

                      Served gods of wood and stone,
                 But what each man had fashioned

                      That worshipped he alone ;
                With care he saved the silver,

                    With pains the mould designed,
                  He loved and feared the offspring

                      Of his pocket and his mind.
                  To him he went for counsel

                      And then to Common Sense ;
                  When both of these had failed him

                      He took to tossing pence ;
             SERIO-COMIC VERSE.      611

IBut forbade all tossing,

    Made men enquire of beasts,
Pulled down all private idols

   And set up public priests.
Birds, too,' said I, ' are holy,

    They show us things to come,

They have more subtle spirits
    Than wooden idols dumb.

No longer burn your incense
    Before your private shrine,

My Vestals are most careful
    To feed the flame divine ;

Dismiss all fear of idols,
    Of demons, and of gods,

My Augurs will protect you
    With their long crooked rods.

(With such the careful shepherd

     Drags lambs from ditches deep;

With such he points to heaven
    When they are fast asleep.)

0, trust me, those same Augurs
    Know more about the stars

Than you whose only business
    Is everlasting wars.

How can you be religious,
    How can they work for bread ?

You sinners must be shriven,
    My Augurs must be fed.

 You know dividing labour
    To nations riches brings,

So let my Augurs shrive you
    While you mind earthly things.

Your case I've set before you,
    You see the thing to do,

If you fork out the needful,

     They do your job for you.'

IWith this and other speeches
         brought the people round,
612 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

              Till not a single Boman
                 In Jove's house can be found.

                For well he knows each evening
                    When bells in steeples toll,

                'Tis a sign that well-paid Augurs
                    Are helping on his soul.

                  'Twas this that kept 'em quiet
                    Through all my fabled reign,

             Till quarrelsome young Tullus

                    Brought battles back again.
                  Thus my cold-blooded doctrines

                    The fear of Jove could quell,
                Wonder not then to find me

                  Alive here in a well."

A VISION

Of a Wrangler, of a University, of Pedantry,

                    and of Philosophy.

                                                                    10th November 1852.

DEEP St. Mary's bell had sounded,
And the twelve notes gently rounded
Endless chimneys that surrounded

                   My abode in Trinity.

I(Letter G, Old Court, South Attics),
   shut up my mathematics,
That confounded hydrostatics

                   Sink it in the deepest sea !

In the grate the flickering embers

Served to show how dull November's

Fogs had stamped my torpid members,

     Like a plucked and skinny goose.
prepared for bed,
I IAnd as
I IIfAsked myself with voice unsteady,
    of all the stuff read,

Ever made the slightest use.
SERIO-COMIC VERSE.  631

 Late to bed and early rising,
 Ever luxury despising,

 IEver training, never " sizing,"
                          have suffered with the rest.
 Yellow cheek and forehead ruddy,
 Memory confused and muddy,
 These are the effects of study

                       Of a subject so unblest.

 Look beyond, and see the wrangler,
 Now become a College dangler,
 Court some spiritual angler,

                       Nibbling at his golden bait.
 Hear him silence restive Eeason,
 Her advice is out of season,
 While her lord is plotting treason

                       Gainst himself, and Church or State,

 See him next with place and pension,
 And the very best intention
 Of upholding that Convention

                       Under which his fortunes rose.
  Every scruple is rejected,
 With his cherished schemes connected,
" Higher Powers may be neglected

                     His result no further goes."

  Much he lauds the education
  Which has raised to lofty station,
  Men, whose powers of calculation

                         Calculation's self defied.
  How the learned fool would wonder
  Were he now to see his blunder,
  When he put his reason under

                       The control of worldly Pride.

 IThus muttered, very seedy,

  Husky was my throat, and reedy ;

 And no wonder, for indeed I

                       Now had caught a dreadful cold.
614              JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

     Thickest fog had settled slowly
     Kound the candle, burning lowly,
     Bound the fire, where melancholy

                          Traced retreating hills of gold.

     Still those papers lay before me-

     Problems made express to bore me,
     When a silent change came o'er me,

                       In my hard uneasy chair.

     Fire and fog, and candle faded,
     Spectral forms the room invaded,
     Little creatures, that paraded

                          On the problems lying there.

     Fathers there, of every college,
     Led the glorious ranks of knowledge,
     Men, whose virtues all acknowledge

                          Levied the proctorial fines ;
     There the modest Moderators,
     Set apart as arbitrators
     'Twixt contending calculators,

                             Scrutinised the trembling lines.

     All the costly apparatus,

     That is meant to elevate us
     To the intellectual status

                            Necessary for degrees
     College tutors private coaches

     IfLine the Senate-house approaches.

          our Alma Mater dote, she's
                           Taken care of well by these.

     IMuch doubted if the vision

     Were the simple repetition
      Of the statements of Commission,

                             Strangely jumbled, oddly placed.
      When an awful form ascended,
      And with cruel words defended
      Those abuses that offended

                         My unsanctioned private taste.
SERIO-COMIC VERSE.                                        615

  Angular in form and feature,
  Unlike any earthly creature,
  She had properties to meet your

                        Eye whatever you might view.
  Hair of pens and skin of paper ;
  Breath, not breath but chemic vapour ;
  Dress, such dress as College Draper

                       Fashions with precision due.

  Eyes of glass, with optic axes
  Twisting rays of light as flax is
  Twisted, while the Parallax is

                          Made to show the real size.

  Primary and secondary
  Focal lines in planes contrary,
  Sum up all that's known to vary

                    In those dull, unmeaning eyes.

  Such the eyes, through which all Nature
   Seems reduced to meaner stature.

 If you had them you would hate your

                        Symbolising sense of sight.
   Seeing planets in their courses
  Thick beset with arrowy " forces,"
  While the common eye no more sees

                        Than their mild and quiet light.

" Son," she said (what could be queerer
  Than thus tete-a-tete to hear her
  Talk, in tones approaching nearer
                        To a saw's than aught beside ?

  For the voice the spectre spoke in
  Might be known by many a token
  To proceed from metal, broken

                        When acoustic tricks were tried.

   Little pleased to hear the Siren
" Own " me thus with voice of iron,

  I had thoughts of just retiring

                        From a mother such a fright).
616 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

I" No," she said, " the time is pressing,
  So before give my blessing,
  I'll excuse you from confessing
                       What you thought of me to-night.

" Powers   "  she  cried, with  hoarse devotion,

          !

" Give my son the clearest notion

How to compass sure promotion,
                   And take care of Number One.

Let his college course be pleasant,

Let him ever, as at present,

Seem to have read what he hasn't,

                   And to do what can't be done.

" Of the Philosophic Spirit
  Eichly may my son inherit ;
  As for Poetry, inter it
                     With the myths of other days.

" Cut the thing entirely, lest yon

  College Don should put the question,
  Why not stick to what you're best on ?

                          Mathematics always pays."

As the Hag was thus proceeding

ITo prescribe my course of reading,

And as was faintly pleading,

                     Hardly knowing what to say,

ISuddenly, my head inclining
   beheld a light form shining ;
And the withered beldam, whining,

                     Saw the same and slunk away.

Then the vision, growing brighter,
Seemed to make my garret lighter ;

As when noisome fogs of night are
                     Scattered by the rising sun.

Nearer still it grew and nearer,
Till my straining eyes caught clearer

Glimpses of a being dearer,
                     Dearer still than Number One.
SERIO-COMIC VERSE.                                        617

In that well-remembered Vision

I was led to the decision

Still to hold in calm derision

                       Pedantry, however draped ;
Since that artificial spectre
Proved a paltry sub-collector,

And had nothing to connect her
                   With the being whom she aped.

I could never finish telling

You of her that has her dwelling
Where those springs of truth are welling,

                     Whence all streams of beauty run.
She has taught me that creation
Bears the test of calculation,
But that Man forgets his station

              If he stops when that is done.

Is our algebra the measure
Of that unexhausted treasure

That affords the purest pleasure,
                   Ever found when it is sought ?

Let us rather, realising

The conclusions thence arising
Nature more than symbols prizing,

                     Learn to worship as we ought.

Worship ? Yes, what worship better
Than when free'd from every fetter
That the uninforming letter

                     Eivets on the tortured mind,
Man, with silent admiration

Sees the glories of Creation,
And, in holy contemplation,

                       Leaves the learned crowd behind !
618 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

TO F. W. F.

                             6th April 1853.

FARRAR, when o'er Goodwin's  page

  ILate found thee poring,

From the hydrostatic Sage

    Leaky Memory storing,
Or when groaning yesterday

    Needlessly distracted

By some bright erratic ray,

Through a sphere refracted,

Then the quick words, oft suppressed,

   In my fauces fluttered ;

Thoughts not yet in language drest

    Pleasing to be uttered.

He that neatly gilds the pill

  IHides the drug but vainly,

So, in chance-sown words, will

    Speak the matter plainly.

Men there are, whose patient minds,

   In one object centred,
Wait, till through their darkened blinds

    Truth has burst and entered.

Then, that ray so barely caught

    Joyfully absorbing,

They behold the realms of Thought
    Into Science orbing.

Thus they wait, and thus they toil,
    Thus they end in knowing,

Like good seed in kindly soil

    Taking, root and growing.
Men there are whose ambient souls,

   In rapt Intuition,

Seize Creation as it rolls,
    Whole, without partition.
            SERIO-COMIC VERSE.       619

Not for them the darkened room,
    Lens, and perforation ;

Enemies are they to gloom,
    Foes to Insulation.

Theirs the light of perfect Day,
    Theirs the sense of Freedom ;

Dungeons, and the tortured ray,
    Serve for those that need 'em.

Song to them of right belongs,
    Eloquently flowing ;

Sweeping down time-honoured wrongs,
     Surging, burning, glowing.

Songs in which all hearts rejoice,
    Songs of ancient story ;

Songs that fill a People's voice
    Marching on to glory.

Thus they live, and thus they love,
    Thus they soar in singing ;

Like glad larks in heaven above,

  IDazzling courses winging.

Here, prithee, turn thy mind
    To a little fable

Of the fledged and rooted kind,
     Bird and vegetable.

Pensive in his lowly nest
     Once a Lark was lying ;

Often did he heave his breast
     Querulously sighing.

For he saw with envious eyes,
     Pampered vegetation

 Cabbages of goodly size,
     SwolTn with emulation.

Till their self-infolded green

     Tight crammed, wide distended,
 Seemed in sphered pomp to mean

    All that it pretended.
620 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

                Long lie sought to win their place

                 In the Gardener's favour ;
               Well he caught the silent grace

                   Of a plant's behaviour.

             All was useless, he confest,

                    Earth for him unsuited;
                Terror seized upon him, lest

                     He should there be rooted.
                " Cabbages are cabbages,

                     Larks are larks," he muttered ;
                Then, light springing in the breeze,

                     Through the sky he fluttered.

Farrar, mark my fable well,

   Fling away Ambition ;
By that sin the angels fell

    Into black perdition.
Cut the Calculus, and stop

    Paths that lead to error ;

Think below the Junior Op.,1

    Gapes the Gulph's grim terror.

     1 The occasion of this and of the following poem is fully explained
in a note from the Rev. Canon Farrar, which is here subjoined :

             To PROF. CAMPBELL.

MY DEAR SIR  I 30th March 1882.
               am sorry that the playful nonsense of my under-
graduate days should be printed, but if the lines will in the slightest

Idegree help to illustrate the extreme goodness and kind-heartedness of

Maxwell, am content.
IThe circumstances were these.
                                went up to Cambridge very ill

prepared in mathematics, and my classical work was much hindered
by the considerable amount of mathematics required for a " Senior
I IOptime," at which aimed. In despair
                                        used to say to Maxwell
Isometimes that should be " plucked " in mathematics, which in those

days would have prevented my taking classical honours. He, in his

ready sympathy, and the kind interest which he showed towards me,
took my words d'un trop grand strieux, and wrote me the poetic apologue,
              SERIO-COMIC VERSE.                  621

Then your Mathematic wings,
    Plucked from off your shoulder,

Will express what Horace sings
    Of that rash youth, bolder

Than his waxen wings allowed,
    Or his cautious father.

Fall not thou from out thy cloud

    Algebraic, rather

ITry the Poll, for none but fools,
    Fools, mean, at College,
Eeach the earth between two stools,

    Triposes of Knowledge.
Better in poetic rage

     Sing, through heaven soaring,
Than disfigure Goodwin's page

    By incessant poring.

REPLY TO THE ABOVE, BY F. W. F.

" Te quoque vatem dicunt pastures" VIRGIL.

   MAXWELL, if by reason's strength
   And studying of Babbage,
You have transformed yourself at length
   Into a mental cabbage ;
And if I've proved myself a lark
   At morn and blushing even,
By soaring like a music-spark

    Thro' sapphire fields of Heaven,

Iin which he advised me to aim at poetry like a lark, while left mathe-

maticians to the distinction of being what Carlyle calls the " quickest

Iand completest of vegetables." The point of his advice was that should

give up the effort to win honour in the Mathematical Tripos, and

should be content with the Poll, or ordinary mathematical degree,
Ireserving my strength for the Classical Tripos.
                                                  sent him my reply
Ithe same day, and remember he pressed me to let him read it at one
Iof our social meetings which absolutely refused to allow him to do.

Without this word of explanation the verses would seem too nonsensical.

Yours very truly,                                 F. W. FARRAR.
622        JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

     Our diverse fates are now reversed

       IBy strange metempsychosis,

     Into a cabbage have burst
        And scorn poetic posies ;

     But you a lark with twinkling wings
         O'er violet-banks are soaring ;

     Your voice the dewy rose-cloud rings
        While Statics me are boring.

     IYet cabbage as will on earth
       IMy roots cannot anchor,

     For at my mathematic birth
         Was also born a canker !

     IIt soon will gnaw my roots away

        But when weigh a chcenix

     I'll freely soar to realms of day

        An emerald cabbage-Phoenix.

     Then talk not of the Poll to me,

       I hate, detest, and scorn it ;
     I am as earnest as a bee,

       IBut savage as a hornet.

     And if they pluck me will drown

        Each pedant in a sonnet,
     And of their pluckings make a crown

        With golden plumes upon it.

     So if my cabbage growth be slow
        I'll try to be a carrot,
     Or still remain a lark but know
        I'll not be Poll, or Parrot.

     IThen if fall beneath the mark,
           I'll shout with accent
     " It                           savage,
           is a lark to be a lark,

           "Tis green to be a cabbage."

LINES written under the conviction that it is not wise to read
         Mathematics in November after one's fire is out.

     IN the sad November time,           10th Nov. 1853.

     When the leaf has left the lime,

     And the Cam, with sludge and slime,

           Plasters his ugly channel,
            SERIO-COMIC VERSE.                 623

While, with sober step and slow,
Bound about the marshes low,
Stiffening students stumping go

             Shivering through their flannel.

Then to me in doleful mood
Eises up a question rude,
Asking what sufficient good

             Comes of this mode of living ?
Moping on from day to day,
Grinding up what will not " pay,"

Till the jaded brain gives way

             Under its own misgiving.

Why should wretched Man employ
Years which Nature meant for joy,
Striving vainly to destroy

             Freedom of thought and feeling ?
Still the injured powers remain
Endless stores of hopeless pain,
When at last the vanquished brain

             Languishes past all healing.

Where is then his wealth of mind

All the schemes that Hope designed ?

Gone, like spring, to leave behind
             Indolent melancholy.

Thus he ends his helpless days,
Vex't with thoughts of former praise
Tell me, how are Wisdom's ways

            Better than senseless Folly ?

 Happier those whom trifles please,
 Dreaming out a life of ease,
 Sinking by unfelt degrees

             Into annihilation.
 Or the slave, to labour born,
 Heedless of the freeman's scorn,
 Destined to be slowly worn

             Down to the brute creation.
624            JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

      IThus a tempting spirit spoke,

       As from troubled sleep woke
       To a morning thick with smoke,

               ISunless and damp and chill}'.

       Then to sleep turned once more,

      IEyes inflamed and windpipe sore,

       Dreaming dreams dreamt before,
                    Only not quite so silly.

      IIn my dream methought strayed

       Where a learned-looking maid
        Stores of flimsy goods displayed,

                    Articles not worth wearing.
     " These," she said, with solemn air,
     " Are the robes that sages wear,

       Warranted, when kept with care,
                    Never to need repairing."

       Then unnumbered witlings, caught
       By her wiles, the trappings bought,
       And by labour, not by thought,

                    Honour and fame were earning.
       While the men of wiser mind
       Passed for blind among the blind ;
       Pedants left them far behind

                  In the career of learning.

     " Those that fix their eager eyes
       Ever on the nearest prize
       Well may venture to despise
                    Loftier aspirations.
       Pedantry is in demand !
       Buy it up at second-hand,
        Seek no more to understand
                      Profitless speculations."

        Thus the gaudy gowns were sold,
        Cast off sloughs of pedants old ;
        Proudly marched the students bold

                    Through the domain of error,
               SERIO-COMIC VERSE.             625

  Till their trappings, false though fair,

  Mouldered off and left them bare,
  Clustering close in blank despair,

                Nakedness, cold, and terror.

 IThen, said, " These haughty Schools

  Boast that by their formal rules
  They produce more learned fools

               Than could be well expected.
  Learned fools they are indeed,
  Learned in the books they read ;
  Fools whene'er they come to need

               Wisdom, too long neglected.

" Oh ! that men indeed were wise,
  And would raise their purblind eyes
  To the opening mysteries
                 Scattered around them ever.
  Truth should spring from sterile ground,
  Beauty beam from all around,
  Eight should then at last be found
              Joining what none may sever."

A PROBLEM IN DYNAMICS.

                             19th Feb. 1854.

AN inextensible heavy chain

Lies on a smooth horizontal plane,

An impulsive force is applied at A,

Eequired the initial motion of K.

Let ds be the infinitesimal link,
Of which for the present we've only to think ;

                                  2s
626 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

Let T be the tension, and T + eft

The same for the end that is nearest to B.

Let a be put, by a common convention,
For the angle at M 'twixt OX and the tension ;
    wVhticahndVV4 awlobneg
yLet                        ds's velocities,  it is ;

Of                           and Vn across

Then -v^* the tangent will equal,
Of the angle of starting worked out in the sequel.

     In working the problem the first thing of course is

      To equate the impressed and effectual forces.

    K is tugged by two tensions, whose difference dT

(1) Must equal the element's mass into Vj.

     Vn must be due to the force perpendicular

      To ds's direction, which shows the particular

      Advantage of using da to serve at your

       Pleasure to estimate ds's curvature.

     For Vw into mass of a unit of chain

(2) Must equal the curvature into the strain.

     Thus managing cause and effect to discriminate,is
                     a
      The student must fruitlessly try to eliminate,
     And painfully learn, that in order to do he       a it,
      Must find the Equation of Continuity.
      The reason this, that the tough little element,is
     Which the force of impulsion to beat to jelly meant,
      Was endowed with property incomprehensible,
      And was " given," in the language of Shop, " inexten-

                sible."

    It therefore with such pertinacity odd defied

      The force which the length of the chain would have
                modified,

      That its stubborn example may possibly yet recall
      These overgrown rhymes to their prosody metrical.
       The condition got by resolving again,

    IfAccording to axes assumed in the plane.

           then you reduce to the tangent and normal,

(3) You will find the equation more neat tho' less formal.
SERIO-COMIC VERSE.        627

(4) The condition thus found after these preparations,
      When duly combined with the former equations,

     Will give you .another, in which differentials

(5) (When the chain forms a circle), become in essentials
      No harder than those that we easily solve

(6) In the time a T totum would take to revolve.

      Now joyfully leaving ds to itself, a-
      Ttend to the values of T and of a.

      The chain undergoes a distorting convulsion,

     Produced first at A by the force of impulsion.
     In magnitude E, in direction tangential,
(7) Equating this E to the form exponential,

      Obtained for the tension when a is zero,

     It will measure the tug, such a tug as the " hero

      Plume-waving " experienced, tied to the chariot.
      But when dragged by the heels his grim head could not

                carry aught,
(8) So give a its due at the end of the chain,

      And the tension ought there to be zero again.
      From these two conditions we get three equations,
      Which serve to determine the proper relations

      Between the first impulse and each coefficient

     In the form for the tension, and this is sufficient
     To work out the problem, and then, if you choose,
      You may turn it and twist it the Dons to amuse.

  Equations referred to.

(1) dT = mVt ds

          da
-^(2) ... v

(4) ds 2
628 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

                         (6) T = C

                      (7) E = C
                       (8) 0=C

VALEDICTORY ADDRESS TO THE D N.

                                    May 1854.

JOHN Alexander Frere, John,

    When we were first acquent,
You lectured us as Freshmen

   In the holy term of Lent ;

But now you're gettin' bald, John,

  IYour end is drawing near,

And think we'd better say " Goodbye,
    John Alexander Frere."

John Alexander Frere, John,

    How swiftly Time has flown !

The weeks that you refused us

    Are now no more your own ;
Tho' Time was in your hand, John,

   You lingered out the year,

That Grace might more abound unto
   John Alexander Frere. 1

There's young Monro of Trinity,

And Hunter bold of Queen's,

Who spurn the chapel    system,
   And " vex the souls  of Deans."

But all their petty squabbles

More ludicrous appear,

When we muse on thy departed form,
    John Alexander Frere.

     1 Mr. Frere had accepted the living of Shillington, but retained
his fellowship for the customary "year of grace."
SERIO-COMIC VERSE.                     629

 There's many a better man, John.
      That scorns the scoffing crew,

  But keeps with fond affection
      The notes he got from you

" Why he was out of College,
     Till two o'clock or near,

  The Senior Dean requests to know,

    Yours truly, J. A. Frere."

IJohn Alexander Frere, John,
       wonder what you mean
By mixing up your name so

   With me, and with " The Dean."

Another Don may dean us,
    But ne'er again, we fear,

Shall we receive such notes as yours,
   John Alexander Frere.

The Lecture Koom no more, John,

    Shall hear thy drowsy tone,
N"o more shall men in Chapel

    Bow down before thy throne.
But Shillington with meekness,

    The oracle shall hear,

That set St. Mary's all to sleep
    John Alexander Frere.

                Then once before we part, John,
                     Let all be clean forgot,

                 Our scandalous inventions,
                     [Thy note-lets, prized or not].

               For under all conventions,
                     The small man lived sincere,

                 The kernel of the Senior Dean,
                   John Alexander Frere. 1

     1 The genuine esteem expressed in the concluding words, which
alone in this youthful pasquinade are to be taken seriously, must be
the apology for inserting what Maxwell himself would not have printed.
630 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

                  IN MEMORY OF EDWARD WILSON,
      Who repented of ivhat was in his mind to write after

                                                  section.

                             Rigid Body (sings).

                     GIN a body meet a body
                       Flyin' through the air,

                     Gin a body hit a body,

                     Will it fly ? and where ?
                   Ilka impact has its measure,

                     Ne'er a ane hae I,
                   Yet a' the lads they measure me,

                          Or, at least, they try.

                     Gin a body meet a body
                         Altogether free,

                     How they travel afterwards
                         We do not always see.

                    Ilka problem has its method
                        By analytics high;

             IFor me, ken na ane o' them,
                IBut what the waur am ?

     VALENTINE BY A TELEGRAPH CLERK $ TO A TELEGRAPH

                                    CLERK ?.

           " THE tendrils of my soul are twined
                With thine, though many a mile apart,

              And thine in close-coiled circuits wind
                  Around the needle of my heart.

           " Constant as Daniell, strong as Grove,
                  Ebullient through its depths like Smee,

             My heart pours forth its tide of love,
                  And all its circuits close in thee.
                   SERIO-COMIC VEKSE.         631

" tell me, when along the line
      From my full heart the message flows,

  What currents are induced in thine ?
      One click from thee will end my woes."

  Through many an Ohm the Weber flew,
      And clicked this answer back to me,

I" am thy Farad, staunch * and true,

      Charged to a Volt with love for thee."

LECTURES TO WOMEN ON PHYSICAL SCIENCE.

          PLACE. A small alcove with dark curtains.

                    The Class consists of one member.
            SUBJECT. Thomson's Mirror Galvanometer.

            THE lamp-light falls on blackened walls,
               And streams through narrow perforations,

            The long beam trails o'er pasteboard scales,
               With slow-decaying oscillations.

Flow, current, flow, set the quick light-spot flying,
Flow current, answer light-spot, flashing, quivering, dying,

                look ! how queer ! how thin and clear,
               And thinner, clearer, sharper growing
            The gliding fire ! with central wire,
                 The fine degrees distinctly showing.
Swing, magnet, swing, advancing and receding,
Swing magnet ! Answer dearest, What's your final reading ?

                love ! you fail to read the scale
                 Correct to tenths of a division.
            To mirror heaven those eyes were given,
               And not for methods of precision.
Break contact, break, set the free light-spot flying ;
Break contact, rest thee, magnet, swinging, creeping, dying.

                                               1 v.r. Stout.
632 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

       LECTURES TO WOMEN ON PHYSICAL SCIENCE.

                                                                   July 1874.
                                      ii.
Professor Chrschtschonovitsch, Ph.D., " On the C. Cf. S. 1
                         system of Units."

    Remarks submitted to the Lecturer ly a student.

       PRIM Doctor of Philosophy
           From academic Heidelberg !

      Your sum of vital energy
          Is not the millionth of an erg. 2

       Your liveliest motion might be reckoned

      At one-tenth metre 3 in a second.

     " The air," you said, in language fine,
           Which scientific thought expresses,

     " The air which with a megadyne, 4

       IOn each square centimetre presses

        The air, and may add the ocean,
       Are nought but molecules in motion."

Atoms, you told me, were discrete,
    Than you they could not be discreter,

Who know how many Millions meet
    Within a cubic millimetre.

They clash together as they fly,
But you ! you cannot tell me why.

1 C. G. S. system the system of units founded on the centimetre,

gramme, and second. See report of Committee on units. Brit. Ass.

Report for 1873, p. 222.

Erg the energy communicated by a dyne, acting through a

centimetre. See p. 60, note 2.         3 Tenth-metre = 1 metre x lO" 10.
                                   It is somewhat more than the weight
      4 Megadyne = 1 dyne x 10 6.
of a kilogramme.
                     SERIO-COMIC VERSE.            633

  And when in tuning my guitar
      The interval would not come right,

" This string," you said, " is strained too far,

    I'Tis forty dynes, 1 at least too tight !"

  And then you told me, as sang,
  What overtones were in my clang. 2

  You gabbled on, but every phrase
       "Was stiff with scientific shoddy,

  The only song you deigned to praise
      Was " Gin a body meet a body,"

" And even there," you said, " collision
  Was not described with due precision."

" In the invariable plane,"
      You told me, " lay the impulsive couple." 3

  You seized my hand you gave me pain,
      By torsion of a wrist so supple ;

  You told me what that wrench would do,
" 'Twould set me twisting round a screw." 4

             Were every hair of every tress
                 (Which you, no doubt, imagine mine),

             Drawn towards you with its breaking stress

          IA stress, say, of a megadyne,

             That tension would sooner suffer
             Than meet again with such a duffer !

      1 Dyne the force which, acting on a gramme for a second, would
give a velocity of a centimetre per second. The weight of a gramme
is about 980 dynes.

      2 See Sound and Music, by Sedley Taylor, p. 89.
      3 See Poinsot, TMorie nouvelle de la rotation des corps.

    4 See Prof. Ball on the Theory of Screws, Phil Trans., 1873.
634 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

    To THE CHIEF MUSICIAN UPON

                A Tyndallic Ode.

                                    I.

I COME from fields of fractured ice,

    Whose wounds are cured by squeezing,
Melting 2 they cool, but in a trice,

    Get 3 warm again by freezing.
Here, in the frosty air, the sprays

   With fern-like hoar-frost bristle,
There, liquid stars their watery rays

     Shoot through the solid crystal.

                                II.

I come from empyrean fires

    From microscopic spaces,
Where molecules with fierce desires,

    Shiver in hot embraces.

The atoms clash, the spectra flash,

    Projected on the screen,

The double D, magnesian I,
    And Thallium's living green.

                                in.

We place our eye where these dark rays
    Unite in this dark focus*

Right on the source of power we gaze,
    Without a screen to cloak us.

Then where the eye was placed at first,
    We place a disc 4 of platinum,

It glows, it puckers ! will it 5 burst ?

    How ever shall we 6 flatten him !

1 Nabla was the name of an Assyrian harp of the shape y. y is

j-(a quaternion operatori + ^J~ + ^T") invented by Sir W. R.

Hamilton, whose use and properties were first fully discussed by
Professor Tait, who is therefore called the " Chief Musician upon Nabla."

2 v.r. They melt.         j ril8 v.r. Grow.        4 v.r. dish.
5 v.r. like to.                              have to _
                          6 v , r By ov6)
           SERIO-COMIC VERSE.                      635

                                       IV.

This crystal tube the electric ray
    Shows optically clean,

No dust or haze within, but stay !

   All has not yet been seen.

What gleams are these of heavenly blue ?
    What air-drawn form appearing,

What mystic fish, that, ghostlike, through x
    The empty 2 space is steering ?

                                    v.

I light this sympathetic flame,
I My faintest wish that answers,

   sing, it sweetly sings the same,

I IIt dances with the dancers.
   shout, whistle, clap my hands,
   And 3 stamp upon 4 the platform,
The flame responds 5 to my commands,

   In this form and in that form.

                                   VI.

What means that thrilling, drilling scream,
    Protect me ! 'tis the siren :

Her heart is fire, her breath is steam,
    Her larynx is of iron.

Sun ! dart thy beams ! in tepid streams,
    Eise, viewless exhalations !

And lap me round, that no rude sound
    May mar my meditations.

                                 VII.

Here let me pause. These transient facts,
    These fugitive impressions,

Must be transformed by mental acts,
    To permanent possessions.

v.r. What fish, what whale is this, that through.  2 v.r. vacuous.

3 v.r. I.  4 v.r. about.  5 v.r. bows down.
636 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

            Then summon up your grasp of mind,

          TillYol usirghfatsncayndsciseonutnifdics, with thought combined,

                Become 2 of truth prolific.

                                           VIII.

            Go to ! prepare your mental bricks,
                Fetch them from every quarter,

           Firm on the sand your basement fix
               With best sensation mortar.

            The top 3 shall rise to heaven on high
                 Or such an elevation,

           That the swift whirl with which we fly
                 Shall conquer gravitation.

  To THE COMMITTEE OF THE CAYLEY PORTRAIT FUND.

                                                                                               1874.

   WRETCHED race of men, to space confined !
What honour can ye pay to him, whose mind
To that which lies beyond hath penetrated?
The symbols he hath formed shall sound his praise,
And lead him on through unimagined ways
To conquests new, in worlds not yet created.

First, ye Determinants ! in ordered row
And massive column ranged, before him go,

To form a phalanx for his safe protection.
Ye powers of the nth roots of 1 !

Around his head in ceaseless 4 cycles run,
As unembodied spirits of direction.

And you, ye undevelopable scrolls !             lines

Above the host wave your emblazoned rolls,
Ruled for the record of his bright inventions.
Ye Cubic surfaces ! by threes and nines
Draw round his camp your seven-and-twenty
The seal of Solomon in three dimensions.

v.r. That.  2 v.r. May be.  3 v.r. tower.       4 v.r. endless.
                         SERIO-COMIC VERSE.                              637

March on, symbolic host ! with step sublime,
Up to the flaming bounds of Space and Time !
There pause, until by Bickenson depicted,

In two dimensions, we the form may trace
Of him whose soul, too large for vulgar space,
In n dimensions flourished unrestricted.

                 MOLECULAR EVOLUTION.

                                                                      Belfast, 1874.

AT quite uncertain times and places,
    The atoms left their heavenly path,

And by fortuitous embraces,
    Engendered all that being hath.

And though they seem to cling together,
   And form " associations " here,

Yet, soon or late, they burst their tether,
    And through the depths of space career.

So we who sat, oppressed with science,
   As British asses, wise and grave,

Are now transformed to wild Eed Lions,1
   As round our prey we ramp and rave.

Thus, by a swift metamorphosis,
    Wisdom turns wit, and science joke,

Nonsense is incense to our noses,

   For when Eed Lions speak, they smoke.

Hail, Nonsense ! dry nurse of Eed Lions, 2
    From thee the wise their wisdom learn,

From thee they cull those truths of science,
    Which into thee again they turn.

What combinations of ideas,

    Nonsense alone can wisely form !
What sage has half the power that she has,

    To take the towers of Truth by storm ?

1 The " Red Lions " are a club formed by Members of the British

Association, to meet for relaxation after  the  graver  labours  of the               day.
     2 " Leonum arida nutrix." Horace.
638 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

            Yield, then, ye rules of rigid reason !
                  Dissolve, thou too, too solid sense !

           Melt into nonsense for a season,
                Then in some nobler form condense.

            Soon, all too soon, the chilly morning,
               This flow of soul will crystallize,

            Then those who Nonsense now are scorning,
                May learn, too late, where wisdom lies.

                                                           Molecular Evolution.

                        SONG OF THE CUB.

                                                                     Belfast, 1874.

I KNOW not what this may betoken,
  IThat feel so wondrous wise ;

My dream of existence is broken
    Since science has opened my eyes.

IAt the British Association
        heard the President's speech,

And the methods and facts of creation
    Seemed suddenly placed in my reach.

IMy life's undivided devotion
    To Science solemnly vowed,
I'd dredge up the bed of the ocean,

    I'd draw down the spark from the cloud.
To follow my thoughts as they go on,

   Electrodes I'd place in my brain ;
Nay, I'd swallow a live entozoon,

    New feelings of life to obtain.

    where are those high feasts of Science ?

    where are those words of the wise ?

I1  hIe,aeratbuwthatht ethroeairr  of Eed  Lions,
                                   Jackal  supplies.

    meant to be so scientific,

    But science seems turned into fun ;
And this, with his roaring terrific,

    That old red lion hath done.
               SERIO-COMIC VERSE.              639

            BRITISH ASSOCIATION, 1874.

            Notes of the President's Address.

IN the very beginnings of science, the parsons, who managed

things then,

Being handy with hammer and chisel, made gods in the

        likeness of men ;

Till Commerce arose, and at length some men of exceptional

power

Supplanted both demons and gods by the atoms, which last

to this hour.

Yet they did not abolish the gods, but they sent them well

        out of the way,
With the rarest of nectar to drink, and blue fields of nothing

to sway.

From nothing comes nothing, they told us, nought happens
        by chance, but by fate ;

There is nothing but atoms and void, all else is mere whims

out of date !

Then why should a man curry favour with beings who can-

not exist,

To compass some petty promotion in nebulous kingdoms of

mist?

But not by the rays of the sun, nor the glittering shafts of

the day,

Must the fear of the gods be dispelled, but by words, and
        their wonderful play.

So treading a path all untrod, the poet-philosopher sings
Of the seeds of the mighty world the first-beginnings of

things ;

How freely he scatters his atoms before the beginning of

         years ;

How he clothes them with force as a garment, those small

         incompressible spheres !        he dowers them

Nor yet does he leave them hard-hearted

with love and with hate,

Like spherical small British Asses in infinitesimal state ;
640 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

Till just as that living Plato, whom foreigners nickname

         Plateau, 1

Drops oil in his whisky-and-water (for foreigners sweeten
       it so),

Each drop keeps apart from the other, enclosed in a flexible

         skin,

Till touched by the gentle emotion evolved by the prick of
       a pin:

Thus in atoms a simple collision excites a sensational thrill,
Evolved through all sorts of emotion, as sense, understanding,

       and will;

(For by laying their heads all together, the atoms, as coun-
        cillors do,

May combine to express an opinion to every one of them

     Inew).            should say, has felt true indignation

There is nobody here,

         at all,

Till an indignation meeting is held in the Ulster Hall ;

Then gathers the wave of emotion, then noble feelings arise,

Till you all pass a resolution which takes every man by

         surprise.
Thus the pure elementary atom, the unit of mass and of

         thought,

By force of mere juxtaposition to life and sensation is

         brought ;
So, down through untold generations, transmission of struc-

         tureless germs
Enables our race to inherit the thoughts of beasts, fishes,

         and worms.
We honour our fathers and mothers, grandfathers and grand-

         mothers too ;
But how shall we .honour the vista of ancestors now in our

        view?
First, then, let us honour the atom, so lively, so wise, and

        so small;
The atomists next let us praise, Epicurus, Lucretius, and all ;

      1 Statique Exptfrimentale et The'orique des Liquides soumis aux seules

Forces MoUculaires. Par J. Plateau, Professeur a 1'Universite de Gaud.
                            SERIO-COMIC VERSE.                             641

Let us damn with faint praise Bishop Butler, in whom many

atoms combined

To form that remarkable structure, it pleased him to call

his mind.

Last, praise we the noble body to which, for the time, we

         belong,

Ere yet the swift whirl of the atoms has hurried us, ruth-

         less, along,             like Leviathan worshipped by

The British Association

Hobbes,

The incarnation of wisdom, built up of our witless nobs,

Which will carry on endless discussions, when I, and prob-

        ably you,

Have melted in infinite azure in English, till all is blue.

         Translation of " Notes on the President's Address, British
                     Association, 1874." By R. ShUleto.

TT/OWT* dp\ofJLvrj^ (ro(tas, lepeis, olcnrep Tore irdvr
SaLoaXoKOfJLiJ/oyXv^avoppaio-Tai, Ovyry Oeov CIKOT

 S T {JLTTOpia 'yei/ef*, tTGC /3pOTO<S TrAaTWtoTO? VTTe<TK.\.UTV TfcS

8ai)aova KCU $eov, avTetA^ws drofAovs ^X
ov fJirjv TravTCo? y3 eKretve ^eovs, a A A* IKTOTTLOVS aTreT

rvtKrap re TTICIV (TTravtoy, yAavKot? kv dypois rot?

4^ ovSevos eW ov8ev, e^>acr/<ov crwe/?^ yap anravra KO.T aurav.
irX.'rjv arofJLOL KCU ^ao? oijSev <j>W kpoviuv raAA* ov KaAov o{et.
Tt av ovv rots fr Swarots cTvai zeAerws av

                                  oijS ^epiov /?eAo? aij
ov fJirjv ov8* av o-eAas rjeXiovo 25
                T*                  T5
<TKe8ao-ete #eojv Set/x', aAAa Aoyot, ^((5 Trept TOVTCOV (rrevoAe(r^a)i/.J
                           1
OS Tavra Trarwv (rrifiov acrrefcTrrov, [JLtydXovT'3

KocrfJLOV Trpwras -         y',   ap^as Travrcov OTrocr eWiv

         //,aA JAei^epuos 7r/)tv (f>vvat TO^S evtavrovs,

         re/5t8vs ra o-<j>aiptoi ov%l Tnccrrd'

(f>iX.iav fJLevToi /X6cros  tTreSwK*, oi^ o-K\r)p6(>povas KaTaAeiVwv,

a>s o-fJLtKp' OVTCL vfyaipi^ OTTOO-TOVV ^trv/xar oVeia Bperavvwv.

Ka^' oia IIAaTWV ^wv vwt, KaAeovcrt ^eot 8e IIAarata,

yavos olvapLO) "piev eXatov (yAvKv yap Trotet ^eos OVTW),

erepa ^co/ots (rrayocrtv 8e/3ju, aioAov d^i&ras Tt,

         1                  Accentum nolim mutare. C.
642 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

                                                              Kevrpoiviv

                  crvyKpaa-is aTrXrj Trap'eyei riva yapyaAov ofuv,

          aVowr* ov KIV^CTIS, vous ofa <jE>pdv^crts

ov8' av (f>airjv yv^criov opyr^v TWV                          evrav    l  ev
irplv eiroirjOrj <rv\X.oyos opyfjs 08'                        lepvrjs

Tore Kivrja-is Kv^ar eyei/aet, /xeyaAr; Tore ytyverac 6/

OavfJLari 6* vfttis \l/rl<j>ov Oepevoi KaraTrA^TTere Travras
aro/xos Sta TavO' r) Trpcor^, vov TrX^Oovs 6' evas, atev a/cparos

          yevewv         J
                       ^
Orjpiov   i^dvs avros       6  (frOelp                     a  (frpovovcriv

          TrdtTTTTovs TI/ZW/ACV act TrjOais /cat ^rpdviv avrai<s

6' av Trpoyovcov T?yvSe Trapovcrav rt/x^creiev rts OTO^IV ;

          tiTrj Keicr^w rt/x^,

OiTOfJ,loVTa<S 7TiT ttlVW AoVKpTrjTLOV 7J& '^iTTL

Kara/xeya^o/ievos TrdAA* Otvo^oov, Ket TroAv TrA^os

aro/xwv   ^8 Ju,yaatvcTOav^foM/ooev/oyaa^^ajovtaevrocovv,     o /caAetv ot e'So^e vo^a.
{Jcrrara
                                                              v

<rr/oo/3os oi)? dro/icov OVTTW (ro/3apbs

KvwSaAov ofov TOV ^v^oAoyov, (friTvpar oveia Bperavv(ov ?

acro^ov KTicrOevTCLS VTT lyKe^xxAov, croc/>ia? UL\l/v^ov
                                                                      3
otTrep SiaTptyovcTLV aVavcTTtoS,        oTrdrav                               av  re  Kayw
                                                              ra^ tcrw?

Kvava> re raKW/xev ev acr^ecrro), Kat yAavKa Trept^ crwaTravf*

          To THE ADDITIONAL EXAMINER FOR 1875. 2

                       QUEEN CRAM went straying
                       Where Tait was swaying,

                       In just hands weighing,
                           With care immense,

                       Dry proofs made pleasant
                       By Kouth or Besant
                       For one who hasn't

                           Got too much sense.

                       Nor marked how, quicker
                       Than mounts the liquor

                       In brains made thicker

1 Var. 1. 'lepn/cis suppedidat nescio quis. Mihi quidem haud displicet.
                  2 Compare Mr. Swinburne's Bothwell, Act ii. Sc. 17.
[ED.]
                 SEBIO-COMIC VEKSE.         643

               By College beer,
            The murderous maiden,
            Mistake, walks laden
With tips forgotten and slips so queer.

            How, like a spider,
           She still spreads wider,

              O'er bookwork, rider,

               And problem too,

            Her flimsy curtain
           Of terms uncertain,

          Till all seems dirt in .

                 The marker's view.

          For if Cram were not,
           Which markers spare not,

            Wise men would care not

                 To pluck too soon,

             Seeing all life's season
           Of budding 1 reason
Finds good stiff work for a wooden spoon.

            As Tait sat joking,
           And marked while smoking,
           Still slyly poking

                 Where jests might hit,

              She came, soft-gliding,

           Her false face hiding,
            Rich food providing

               For Tait's sharp wit.

             Through symbols tangled,

            The Wranglers wrangled
           Like sweet bells jangled

               And out of tune.
           For though their music

            Would soon make you sick
The tides they measure and guide the moon.

1 v.r. opening.
644 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

                           Cram found no cover
                        Wherein to hover,

                      For still above her
                             Tait held his pen,

                        Which, onward creeping,
                      Might find her sleeping,
                        But left her weeping

                                O'er ruined men.
                        For, like a blister,
                        Mistake, Cram's sister,
                        Would wring and twist her

                        In awkward T ways,
                    Till all the knowledge

                        Acquired at College
           Had passed from thought 2 in the last six days.

PROFESSOR TAIT, LOQUITUR.

                                             June 1877.

WILL mounted ebonite disk

    On smooth unyielding bearing,
When turned about with motion brisk

    (Nor excitation sparing),
Affect the primitive repose,

    Of + and in a wire,

So that while either downward flows,

The other upwards shall aspire ?

Describe the form and size of coil,

   And other things that we may need,
Think not about increase of toil

I Involved in work at double speed.
   can no more, my pen is bad,
   It catches in the roughened page
But answer us and make us glad,

THOU ANTI-DISTANCE-ACTION SAGE !

1 v.r. secret.                 2 v.r. away.
                SERIO-COMIC VERSE.                      645

IYet have still a thousand things to say.

    But work of other kinds is pressing
So your petitioner will ever pray

    That your defence be triple messing. 1

                      ANSWER TO TAIT.

THE mounted disk of ebonite
    Has whirled before, nor whirled in vain ;

Eowland of Troy, that doughty knight,
    Convection currents did obtain 2

In such a disk, of power to wheedle,

From its loved North the subtle 3 needle.

'Twas when Sir Rowland, as a stage

    From Troy to Baltimore, took rest

In Berlin, there old Archimage, 4

    Armed him to follow up this quest ;
Eight glad to find himself possessor
Of the irrepressible Professor. 5

But wouldst thou twirl 6 that disk once more,

    Then follow in Childe Rowland's train,

To where in busy Baltimore
    He brews * the bantlings of his brain ;

As he may do who still prefers

One Rowland to two Olivers. 8

But Rowland, no, nor Oliver,
    Could get electromotive force,

Which fact and reason both aver,

    Has change of some kind as its source,
Out of a disk in swift rotation

Without the least acceleration.

i Illi robur et aes triplex ! (Horace.)  2 Berlin Monats-berichte.

3 v.r. pensile.  4 i.e. Helmholtz the chief magician !

See Prof. Sylvester's Address to the Johns Hopkins University.

6 v.r. whirl.    7 v.r. rears.  8 Heaviside and Lodge, see p. 374.
646 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

            But with your splendid roundabout
               Of mighty power, new-hung and greasy,

           With galvanometer so stout,

            A new research would be as easy ;
         A test which might perchance disclose,

            Which way the electric current flows.

            Take then a coil of copper pure,
               And fix it on your whirling table ;

             Place the electrodes firm and sure
                As near the axis as you're able,

           And soon you'll learn the way to work it,
           With galvanometer in circuit.

            Not while the coil in spinning sleeps,
                On her smooth axle swift and steady ;

            But when against the stops she sweeps,
                To watch the light-spot then be ready,

            That you may learn from its deflexion
             The electric current's true direction.

         It may be that it does not move,

                Or moves but for some other reason ;
           Then let it be your boast to prove

               (Though some may think it out of season,
           And worthy of a fossil Druid),
            That there is no Electric Fluid.

KEPORT ON TALI'S LECTURE ON FORCE: B.A., 1876,

YE British Asses, who expect to hear

          IEver some new thinsO^1,    fear,

I've nothing new to tell, but what,

                May be a true thing.
For Tait comes with his plummet and his line,

                Quick to detect your
Old bosh new dressed in what you call a fine

Popular lecture.
                 SERIO-COMIC VERSE.                          647

Whence comes that most peculiar smattering,

      Heard in our section ?

Pure nonsense, to a scientific swing

That         Drilled to perfection  ?     l  a barber's  block,
      small word " Force," they
                                    make

      Eeady to put on

Meanings most strange and various, fit to shock

      Pupils of Newton.

Ancient and foreign ignorance they throw
               Into the bargain ;

The shade of Leibnitz 2 mutters from below

                 Horrible jargon.
The phrases of last century in this

                 Linger to play tricks
Vis Viva and Vis Mortua and Vis

                  Acceleratrix :

Those long-nebbed words that to our text books still
                 Cling by their titles,

And from them creep, as entozoa will,
               Into our vitals.

But see ! Tait writes in lucid symbols clear

                   One small equation ;

And Force becomes of Energy a mere

                   Space-variation.

Force, then, is Force, but mark you ! not a thing,
                 Only a Vector ;

Thy barbed arrows now have lost their sting,
                 Impotent spectre !

Thy reign, Force ! is over. Now no more
                 Heed we thine action ;

Eepulsion leaves us where we were before,

                   So does attraction.

1 v.r. is made.                     2 v.r. sage of Leipzig.
648 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.

    Both Action and Eeaction now are gone.
                   Just ere they vanished,

    Stress joined their hands in peace, and made them one ;
                    Then they were banished.

    The Universe is free from pole to pole,
                    Free from all forces.

    Eejoice ! ye stars like blessed gods ye roll
                     On in your courses.

    No more the arrows of the Wrangler race,
                    Piercing shall wound you.

    Forces no more, those symbols of disgrace,
                    Dare to surround you:

    But those whose statements baffle all attacks,
                     Safe by evasion,

    Whose definitions, like a nose of wax,
                     Suit each occasion,

    Whose unreflected rainbow far surpassed

                All our inventions,

    Whose very energy appears at last
                     Scant of dimensions :

    Are these the gods in whom ye put your trust,
                     Lordlings and ladies ?

    The hidden * potency of cosmic dust
                     Drives them to Hades.

    While you, brave Tait ! who know so well the way
                       Forces to scatter,

    Calmly await the slow but sure decay,
                     Even of Matter.

                                 (CATS) CRADLE SONG,

                            By a Babe in Knots.

                       PETER the Eepeater,
                         Platted round a platter

                                              1 v,r. secret.
        SERIO-COMIC VERSE.         649

Slips of slivered paper,
    Basting them with batter.

Flype 'em, slit 'em, twist 'em,
    Lop-looped laps of paper ;

Setting out the system

    By the bones of Neper.

Clear your coil of kinkings
    Into perfect plaiting,

Locking loops and linkings
    Interpenetrating.

Why should a man benighted,

    Beduped, befooled, besotted,
Call knotful knittings plighted,

   Not knotty but beknotted ?

It's monstrous, horrid, shocking,
    Beyond the power of thinking,

Not to know, interlocking
    Is no mere form of linking.

But little Jacky Horner

   Will teach you what is proper,

So pitch him, in his corner,
    Your silver and your copper.

To HERMANN STOFFKRAFT, PhJD., the Hero of a recent work
                     called " Paradoxical Philosophy."

A Paradoxical Ode.

[After Shelley.]

                               I.  1878.

MY soul is an entangled * knot,
Upon a liquid vortex wrought

1 v.r. 's an amphicheiral.
650 JAMES CLERK MAXWELL.it,

   By Intellect, in the Unseen residing,;
       And thine doth like a convict sit,
        "With marlinspike untwisting*

    Only to find its knottiness abiding
        Since all the tools for its untying

       In four-dimensioned space are lying,

        "Wherein thy fancy intersperses
        Long avenues of universes,
       While Klein and Clifford fill the void
       With one finite, unbounded homaloid,
And think the Infinite now at last destroyed.
             is

                                                 u.

        But when thy Science lifts her pinions

       In Speculation's wild dominions,

    We treasure every dictum thou emittest,
       While down the stream of Evolution
        We drift, expecting no solution

    But that of the survival of the fittest.
       Till, in the twilight of the gods,
        When earth and sun are frozen clods,
        When, all its energy degraded,
        Matter to aether shall have faded;
        We, that is, all the work we've done,
        As waves in sether, shall for ever run

In ever- widening spheres through heavens beyond the sun.
1

   I
                        2
                                                    !
                                                                    2
                                                                                                  !
                                        in.

    Great Principle of all we see,
    Unending Continuity
By thee are all our angles sweetly rounded,
   By thee are our misfits adjusted,
    And as still in thee have trusted,
So trusting, let me never be confounded

v.r. Whole.      v.r. swift expanding.
SERIO-COMIC VEESE.                                       651

         Oh never may direct Creation
        Break in upon my contemplation ;

        Still may thy causal chain, ascending,

        Appear unbroken and unending,
       While Eesidents in the Unseen

         J&OTLS and Emanations intervene,
And from my shrinking soul the Unconditioned screen. 1

1 v.r. And where that chain is lost to sight
         Let viewless fancies guide my darkling flight,

 Through atom-haunted worlds in series infinite.

END OF PART III.
                              INDEX.

ABERDEEN, application for professor-            Berkeley's Theory of Vision, Maxwell's
           ship at, pp. 247, 250.                  study of, 198, 207.

Maxwell's appointment as pro Bernoulli, allusion to his account of
                                                cycloidal oscillations, 226.
      fessor, 256.

commencement of work, 257.                      his theory of gases, 314, 332.

prepares inaugural lecture, 263.                place in history of dynamics, 398 y
work ends by amalgamation of the                    560.

      colleges, 278.                            Biography, thoughts about, 244.
J.Adams, discovery of Neptune, 85 ; prize Birmingham, visit to, proposed by
    (see Saturn's rings).                          M.'s father, 7 note, 185.             C.
W. G., successor to Maxwell at                  and carried out, 168.

      King's College, 344.                      Blackburn (Mrs. Hugh, ne'e Jemima

       letter to, 384.                          WJ.eCd.deMrb.,ur1n1)., her portrait of
Ampere's formula, 330, 331.

       electrical investigations, 523, 525.     J.a frequent visitor at Glenlair, in
Analogies, the subject of an essay at
                                                        C. M.'s early days, 36.
                                                her pictorial genius, 36.
Cambridge, 235.

Andrews, conversion of energy in                her sketches of family groups, 5,

   chemistry, 335.                                  30, 31, 38, 40, 42, 46, 62.

Apioid, delineation of, 87, 88, 98-104.         occupations at "Old 31," 52.
                                                a picture of hers described by J. C.
Arago, 525.
Archery in the Happy Valley, a subject             M., 270.

of youthful verse, 64.                          Professor Hugh, his advice as to
Arthur's Seat, glacier markings on rocks
           of, a novel subject of interest (in     Maxwell's going to Cambridge,
             1846), 73.                             131 note, 132.
                                                and in choice of a college there,
employed by Professor Forbes to
                                                146.

      show his class mode of barometric Boltzmann, 569.

      observation, 116, 130.                    Boole's mathematical analysis of logic,

Artisan students, class at Aberdeen,            113, 378.

283, 291, 292.                                  Brewster, Sir David, his demonstrations
Atoms, article on, by Maxwell, for
                                                with Wheatstone's stereoscope,

Encyclopaedia Britannica, 390, 561.             125.

Autobiography, the subject of an essay          Maxwell's youthful debate with
                                                him at British Association, 144.
at Cambridge, 244.

BAKERIAN Lecture (1866) on viscosity of         at British Association (1855), 203,
    gases, 325.
                                                             215, 216.
Basket-making, an amusement in child-           British Association, Maxwell's youthful

  hoodsketch by J. W., 31.                                 appearance disputing a point
Beauty, subject of essay at Cambridge,                     with Sir David Brewster, 144.
                                                Maxwell present at meeting of (in
231.                                            1855), 203.

Bell, Professor Graham (telephone), 361,        meeting at Oxford (in 1860), 314.

363.                                            committee on electrical standards,

Benson's Manual of Colour, 346, 379.            316, 343.
654 INDEX.

British Association                                         Cavendish Laboratory, Maxwell's letter

meeting    at Liverpool (1870), Max-                        to the Vice-Chancellor on the subject,
   well
           president of Section A                               352.

   (Mathematics and Physics), 326.                          Cay, Charles Hope, a cousin of J. C. M. ,
apparatus for committee on electri-
                                                                              his visit to Glenlair, 312.

cal standards deposited in Caven-                                  his correspondence with Max-

dish Laboratory, 353.                                              J.well, 324, 337, 341, 343.

Bradford (1873), Maxwell's dis-                             Miss Jane, maternal aunt of C.
                                                                      M., 13.
course on molecules, 358.
                                                                 letter to her from J. C. M.'s
committee for verifying Ohm's law,
                                                                  J.parents in early days, 27.
365.
                                                                letter from C. M. (;Et. 84),
meeting at Belfast (1874), last at-

tended by Maxwell, 372.                                              33.

his paraphrase of the President's                               influence of her tastes and

address, 373.                                                       occupations,   36.   M. 's
                                                                her interest in
Buckle's History of Civilisation, first                                           J. C.                     edu-

impression of, 295.                                                  cation, and letters to him as

       allusion to, 458.                                          J.a boy, 41, 44.
Butler, Rev. H., D.D., Head Master of
                                                                her care in C. M. 's religious
Harrow School, a friend of Max-
                                                                J. education, 55.
well at college, 168.
                                                                    C. M. domiciled with her in
his reminiscences of Maxwell, 422.
                                                                    1844, 67.
                                                                Maxwell's correspondence with

CAMBRIDGE, causes of delay in decision                               her, 169, 180, 184, 186,

   as to entering university, 130.                          John     193, 195, 208, 253, 281.
choice of a college, 146.
                                                                     (Sheriff  uonfcleLinolfithJ.goCw.),M.,ma7-.
Peterhouse fixed upon in first in-                                    ternal

    stance, 146.                                                  companion of Maxwell senior,

migration to Trinity in second term,                                 at meetings of Edinburgh

147.                                                                 Eoyal Society, 8, 13.

mathematical examinations 1854,                                   J.his scientific occupations a
   Maxwell second wrangler, and he                                   source of interest to                  C.

    and Eouth bracketed Smith's                                      M., 67.

    Prizemen, 176.                                                accompanies J. C. M. in visit-
                                                                     ing Mr. Nicol (inventor of
Maxwell elected Fellow of Trinity,

204.                                                                 polariscope), 84.

essays for meetings of society at,                                a friend of Sir W. Hamilton,
    223-246, also 434-463.
                                                                    J.108.     C. M. a " Nicol' s
influence as examiner at, 325, 357.
chair of experimental                                             sends
                                           physics                     prism," 123.

    founded 1871, 348.                                      E. D., maternal uncle of J. C. M.,
Maxwell's inaugural lecture in this
                                                                     13.

chair, 354.                                                       his letter to Miss Cay after
                                                                     death of Mr. John C. Max-
Carmihchisaewl, orkA.asNp.,roJf.essCo. r,     364.
                                           M.'s master  in           well, 254.
Greek and Latin at Edinburgh Aca-
                                                            E.  H.,  Ensaql.,groafnNdf.atChhearrlotof nJ,.  mater-

demy, 50.                                                                                                   C. M.,

Cartesian space equations, 380.                                       2, 22.
                                                                  mention of him in Lockhart s
Cavendish, Hon. Henry, F.E.S., his

electrical researches collected and                                J.Life* of Scott, 13.                    C. M. ),
edited by Maxwell, 374, 375,
                                                            William Dyce (cousin of
514, 555.                                                            his letter describing meet-

reference to this work in a letter                                   ing of British Association
    of Maxwell to W. Garnett, 389.
                                                                    J.(1855), 215.
Laboratory (Cambridge), Maxwell's
   hereditary genius shown in plan-                               employed by C.' M. to build
    ning, 9.                                                         a bridge over the Urr, 323.
       Maxwell's arrangements in its
                                                                  his recollections of Maxwell,

           design and erection, 325,                                             324.

           350, 353.                                        J.Charlton, N., Northumberland, home of

                                                                    C. M. 's mother's family, 2.
                                      INDEX.                                      655

Chemistry class at University of Edin-       Colour-blindness, phenomena of, inves-

burgh attended by Maxwell under               tigated, soon after Cambridge

Professor Gregory, and practical              degree, 198.

chemistry under Mr. Kemp, 107, 126.           results communicated          to Dr.

Chrystal, Professor, associated with             George Wilson, 203, 217.
                                              account of his investigations, 474,
Maxwell in committee of British

Association for verifying Ohm's law,          482.

365, 392.                                    Colours, early questions about, 31.

Clausius, mathematical investigations         order of ideas upon, 84 note.
   suggested by his theory of gases,
                                              investigations  upon, commenced

332, 336, 342, 380, 399, 562, 564,            after the Cambridge degree, 198,

567.                                              209, 211, 212, 261, 268.
                                              his triangle of, 209.
Clerk, George, afterwards Sir George
                                              remarks on Maxwell's investiga-
           Clerk Maxwell (great grand-
           father in the direct male line     tions, by Professor Stokes,

        of J. C. M.), his betrothal and       287.

      marriage to his cousin, Dorothea        lecture upon, at Eoyal Institution

      Maxwell, heiress of Middlebie,          1861, 315.

      19, 23.                                 paper upon colour-vision at differ-

Sir George (of Penicuik), brother of          J.ent points of the retina, 327.
      JoofhJn.   Clerk  Maxwell  and  uncle   letters to C.   Monro on colours,
                C. M.,  322.
                                              347, 379.

Captain James, paternal grand-               Colour-top, 198, 332, 469.

  father of J. C. M., 3 and note, 22.        Colour- vision, lecture on (B. A. 1870),
J.Mrs. James (nee Janet Irving),
                                              327, 354.

      paternal grandmother of         C.      account of Maxwell's experiments

   M., 4, 21.                                 on, 466-491.
John, of Eldin, brother to Sir
                                             Conical pendulum, MS. on, 87.

      George Clerk (J. C. M.'s great-        Craigenputtock, incident of pilgrimage

      grandfather), and author of a          to, 257 note.

   book on naval tactics, 19-21.             DESCARTES, his ovals identified, with
John (son of the above), a dis-                         those delineated by Maxwell by
                                                        new and simpler method, 77, 79,
   tinguished lawyer and Lord of
                                                          88.
      Session (Lord Eldin), 19, 21 and
      note.                                          laws of, 398.

Sir John, of Penicuik, elder brother                 on matter and extension, 436.
  J.of James (paternal grandfather of        Determinism, 434-444.
                                             Devil -on -two -sticks, a favourite game,
        C. M.), 3, 22.
Sir John (of Penicuik, Baron of                  65, 117, 129, 135, 251.
                                             Devonshire, Duke of, his gift of a
   Exchequer), great - great - grand -
                                                physical laboratory to Cambridge,
  J.father in the direct male line of            348.
                                             Dewar, Principal, of Marischal College,
        C. M., 19.
John, afterwards John Clerk Max-                          Aberdeen, 275.
                                                    his daughter Katherine Mary D.
  J.well, of Middlebie (or Glenlair),
                                                     married to J. C. M., 276.
   the father of C. M. (see Max-
   well, John Clerk).                        Dielectric, Maxwell's theory of action
William, brother of Lord Eldin,
                                                 in, 559.
      and friend of young Walter Scott,      Dynamical top, Maxwell's paper on, 287,

      21 and note.                               500.
                                             Dynamics, Maxwell's investigations in,
William, married Agnes Maxwell,
                                                          465, 498-501.
      and left only child, Dorothea                 letters to W. Garnett on, 398, 399.

      Maxwell, heiress of Middlebie,

      who married her cousin, George

      Clerk, as above, 23.

Clerks (of Penicuik), their family traits    J.EDINBURGH ACADEMY chosen as the
           and Coterie- Sprache, 5, 6.
                                                        school for C. M., 44.
       note upon their descent and his-
                                                    early days at, 45-61.
      tory, 16-22.                                  rector's class under Archdeacon

Colour-box, 198, 314, 318, 334, 335,                    Williams, 66.

337, 347, 476.
656 INDEX.

Edinburgh University, Maxwell's en-         Experimental physics, chair of, 348.
                                                   inaugural lecture, 354.
trance at, 105.                                    work of, 364 et seq.

Edison's loud-speaking telephone, 363.      Extension (Spinoza), 380.

        phonograph, 455.                            (Descartes), 436.
Elastic solids, Maxwell's investigations    Eye, lecture to operatives on, at Aber-

on, 106, 126, 127, 133, 465, 491, 491-          deen, 264.

    496.                                    FARADAY, MICHAEL, reference to his
Elasticity, a subject of lectures at Aber-

    deen, 295, 301.                         experiments upon table-turning,

Eldin (see Clerk, John).                    189.
Electricity, a subject of Maxwell's study
                                            Maxwell's early interest in his in-
           while at Edinburgh University,

106, 118, 120.                                  vestigations, 199 note.
                                            his lines of force, the subject of a
resumed immediately after the
                                               lecture by Maxwell 1855-56, 199,
    Cambridge degree, 199, 204.
a subject of lectures at Aberdeen,              204, 222, 256.
                                            his letters to Maxwell, 288, 519.
    291, 302.
Maxwell a member of        committee        reference to his style, 305.
                           for deter-       at Maxwell's lecture Royal Insti-
   (British Association)
   mining standard of      resistance,         tution (1861), 319, 528.
                                            his Electrical Researches carefully
    316.
Maxwell's comparison of electro-            studied by Maxwell, 513, 516.

magnetic and electrostatic units,           his discovery of magnetic induction,

    317, 336, 337, 545.                                 525.
Maxwell's great work on, takes
                                            Farrar, Rev. F. W. (Canon of Westmin-
    shape 1866-1870, 320.                      ster), a friend of Maxwell as an

general mathematical propositions           undergraduate at Cambridge, 168, 182,
   relating to, 330.
                                                200.
instrument for measuring effects
                                            Fluid displacement, 346.

of, through different media,                Foramen centrale, phenomena of, 315.

    334.                                    Forbes, Professor       oJafmJe.sC.D.M, .'shisgeenaiursl,y
one of the primary objects of the                      recognition

   chair of experimental physics at             74, 75.

    Cambridge, 350.                         reads paper of J. C. M. at Royal
Maxwell appointed one of com-
                                               Society, Edinburgh, 76.    J.   C.
   mittee of British Association for        his lifelong friendship with

verifying Ohm's law. Keported                  M., 79.
                                            his natural philosophy class in the
    at Glasgow 1876, 365.
publication of book on electricity          University of Edinburgh, 90,

    and magnetism, 374.                         114, 115, 116, 124, 127.
various work relating to, 375.              his advice as to Maxwell's going to

posthumous work on, 288 note, 354.              Cambridge, 131 note, 132.
synthetical account of Maxwell's            his suggestions as to paper (on

   contributions to science of, 513-           elastic solids) for the Royal
                                                Society, 137.
559.                                        advises Trinity College, Cambridge,

Electromagnetic field, 550.                 146.

     machines, seen by J. C. M. in 1842,

52.                                         correspondence upon colours, 213,

theory of light, 340-342.                       214.

      . units, 336.                         suggestion as to Aberdeen profes-
                                               sorship and joining the Royal
Ellicott, C. J., Bishop of Gloucester,         Society of Edinburgh, 250.

   his correspondence with Maxwell,         letter upon Maxwell's appointment
                                               and on his father's death, 256.
392-396.

Energy, conversion and conservation of,     letter upon professorial work, 266.
                                            vacates chair of Natural Philosophy
    335, 438.
                                               at Edinburgh, 277.
Everitt, Professor, member of committee     letter on Saturn, etc., 307.
   of British Association on Ohm's Law,
    365.                                    resignation of principalship,

Examination system at Cambridge, 325,                                          St.
    356.
                                            Andrews, 327, 345.
                                      INDEX.                                                                  657

Force, suggestions from Faraday as to Hamilton, Sir William, Edinburgh, his
definition of, 289.
                                                                             logic and metaphysic class at-
Foucault, his pendulum for showing the
                                                                             tended by Maxwell, 90, 107, 116,
rotation of the earth, 153.
                                                                             126.

his determination of the velocity of                                   influence on Maxwell of his teach-

light, 545.                                                                  ing, 108, 165, 227.

Fourier's Theorie de la Chaleur perused                                j Happy Valley,     Vale  of Urr,  in  Coterie-
           by Maxwell while at Edinburgh                                     Sprache, 62.

   University, 133 note, 134.                                          J.i Harmonic analysis, 374.
method of harmonics, 507.
                                                                       j Hay, Mr. D. R., his work suggested
Fraunhofer's lines, preparation of water                                     C. M. 's investigations on the sub-

prism for showing, to students, 267.                                         ject of ovals, 73.

Free will, 305, 306.                                                   furnishes colour-patterns, 198.

Fresnel, 129, 486.                                                     his book of colours, 212.

Frog, a subject of childish interest, 34. Heat, a subject in chair of experimental
transformations ingeniously deli-
                                                                             physics, 350.

neated on magic disc, 37.                                              treatise on, 374.

                                                                       Helmholtz, his investigations on colours

GALILEO, 501.                                                                referred to, 214, 468.

Galton, F., 435.                                                       on conversion of energy, 335.

Galvanism (see Electricity).          of,  at                                  on acoustics, 363.
Gases, experiments on viscosity
                                                                       Heriot Row, "Old 31," house of aunt,

different pressures and tempera-                                             Mrs. Wedderburn, and home of
tures, 318.
                                                                             J. C. M. while at school and
paper on this subject, delivered at                                          college in Edinburgh arrival
   Bakerian Lecture 1866, 325.
                                                                             there sketched by J. W., 46.

Geometry,       J.oCri.giMna. lbyinsqchuoiroilesexesrucgisgeessteind,          home occupations, 52.
            to                                                         Herschel, Sir John, his essays, 302.

69. his style, 305.

Maxwell's investigations in, 465,                                      Sir William, his observation of

496-498.                                                                     Saturn's rings, 502.
                                                                       Hills and Dales, paper on
Germs, speculations upon, 390.             J.                             Association 1870), 327,497.         (British
Glacier-markings on Arthur's Seat,

C. M. points out to L. C., in 1846, Hopkins, William, his remark that
73. "Maxwell never made a mis-

Glaciers, Forbes's investigations on, a                                   take," 133 note.
                                                                       Maxwell commences to read with
  subject of interest to J. C. M., 80.
Glenlair, name of farm acquired by Mr.
                                                                             him, 154.

John C. Maxwell, and house built                                       reminiscence of a fellow - pupil

  J.by him, 24-26.

journey from, on
                      J.  C.  M.  going    to                                      under, 175.   A., his recollections
                                                                       Hort, Professor F.

Edinburgh for schooling, 46.                                           of Maxwell, 417-421.

holidays at, 61-65, etc.                                               Hughes, Professor (microphone), 363.

completion of new offices at, 64.                                      Huyghens' discovery of Saturn's rings,
Maxwell's residence in intervals of 501.

           professorial work, 320-328.                                 IMPENETRABILITY of matter, doctrine

Gloag, J. C. M.'s first mathematical                                   stated in paper on properties of

teacher, 68.

Graham's experiments on gases, 315,                                    matter, written for Mental Philo-

332, 564.                                                              sophy class in Edinburgh University,

Gregory, Professor, at Edinburgh, his                                  109.

chemistry class attended by Maxwell, Inertia, as a property of matter, defined
                                                                       in paper written for Mental Philo-
    107, 114, 126, 127.                                                sophy class in University of Edin-

Guillemard, Rev. Dr., of Little St.
Mary's, 1 Cambridge), his account of
                                                                       burgh, 109.

   Maxwell's last hours, 414-416.                                      | Investigation, early proclivities for, 27.
HAIDINGER'S BRUSHES, 84, 489.                                           Irving, Miss Janet, paternal grand-

                                                                                mother of J. C. M., 4, 21, 22.

                              i N.B.  not Trinity, as in 413.

                                         2u
658 INDEX.

Irving, John, half-brother to above, and        Mackenzie, Rev. Charles, a moderator in
           friend of Walter Scott and Lord                the examination for the Mathe-

           Eldin, 21 and note.                             matical Tripos 1854, 193.
Italy, tour with Mrs. Maxwell in, 324.                 Colin, a cousin, present at Maxwell's

JENKIN, Professor FLEEMING, associated                     last illness, 411, 416.
           with Maxwell in committee of                Frank, a college friend and con-
           British Association, for deter-
           mining standard of electrical re-              temporary of Maxwell, 169, 186,

            sistance, 316.                      193.
       Maxwell's correspondence with, 336.      Maclagan, W. D. (now Bishop of Lich-
Joule, 335, 568.                                   field), a friend of Maxwell at Cam-

KELLAND, Professor, referred to on J.             J.bridge, 203.     F., one of Max-

           C. M.'s early paper upon ovals,      Maclennan, the late
           and agreed with Professor            well's college friends, 161, 177,
           Forbes as to its merit, 75.
      'his mathematical classes attended        252.
           by Maxwell in the University of
           Edinburgh, 90, 107, 115, 116.        visits Glenlair, 263.
       reads Maxwell's paper on rolling
           curves at meeting of Royal Society,  Magnetism (see Electricity).
           Edinburgh, 19th Feb. 1849, 106.      Mathematics, modicum of teaching re-
       consulted as to choice of college at
                                                ceived at the Edinburgh Aca-
             Cambridge, 146.
                                                            demy, 68, 71.
       congratulations on degree, 207.                 Professor Kelland's classes in Uni-
Kinetic energy, 563.
King's College, London, Maxwell ap-                        versity of Edinburgh, 90.
                                                Matter, properties of, discussed in paper
           pointed Professor of Natural
           Philosophy in, 278.                             written for Sir W. Hamilton's
       his work in this professorship, 314-                class of mental philosophy, 109,
                                                       and motion, small book on, 374,398.
             320.
Kirchoffs rules for electric circuits,          Matteucci, Professor, 325.
                                                Maurice, Professor, Maxwell's interest
    372, 399.
                                                           in controversy upon Theological
                                                           Essays, 171, 192, 194.
                                                       his working-men's college scheme
                                                           entered into by Maxwell, 205,

                                                217, 222, 256, 260.

                                                criticism of his writings, 218.

                                                Maxwell, Dorothea Clerk, heiress of

                                                Middlebie, great - grandmother

LAGRANGE, 398.                                  (omf otJh.erC.  of paternal    grandfather)
                                                                 M., her     betrothal and
Laplace, 398, 438, 505.

Lavater, 302.                                   marriage to her cousin George

Leaping-pole, 34.                               Clerk, 19, 23.
Le Sage, 560.
                                                Sir George Clerk (of Penicuik and
Leibnitz, 335, 398.                                Middlebie), great-grandfather, in

Lenz's law, 526, 540.                             the direct male line, of J. C. M.,

Leverrier, 85, 351.                                 19, 23.
                                                JAMES CLEEK, birth and parentage,
Liddell, Elizabeth, maternal  grand-

  mother of J. C. M., 13.                             2.

Light, velocity of, 317, 329, 483.              childhood, 24-44.
Litchfield, R. B., a college friend, cor-
                                                boyhood         Edinburgh Aca-

respondence with, 207, 215, 221, 261,              demy (Mt. 10-13), 45-65.
                                                adolescence (JSt. 13-16), 66-90.
262, 280, 304.                                  original work at this period

Lucretius, his argument for a vacuum                  (ovals, etc.), 91-104.
   adopted in a paper of Maxwell's,
   written for the mental philosophy            University of Edinburgh (Mt.
   class, Edinburgh University, 109,112.              16-19), 105-145.

                                                undergraduate life at Cam-

MACKENZIE, Rev. CHARLES (afterwards                bridge (Mt. 19-22), 146-196.
           Bishop of Natal), consulted in       Bachelor-scholar and Fellow of
           choice of a college at Cambridge,
            146.                                   Trinity (1854-1856), 197-

     takes J. C. M. and his father to see           222.                         1853-
                                                Essays at Cambridge,
            the colleges, 148.
                                                    1856, 223-246.
                                          INDEX.                                           659

Maxwell, James Clerk, his father's               Molecular physics, account of Maxwell's
                  death, professorship at Aber-
                                                     investigations in, 465, 559-574.
      deen, marriage, 247-313.                   Molecules, Maxwell's discourse            on,

      King's College, London Glen-                       British Association at Bradford

      lair 1860-1870, 314-347.                           1873, 358-360.

      Examiner at Cambridge, 325.                 his paper on dynamical evidence of
                                                     the molecular constitution of
      Cambridge        Cavendish la-

      boratory (1871-1879), 348-                         bodies, 361.

          405.                                          his theory of, 561.
      illness and death 1879, 406-               Moral Philosophy, Professor Wilson's

          433.                                           (Christopher North), lectures on,
      last essays at Cambridge, 434-
                                                         107, 114, 127, 128.

      463.                                        thoughts upon, in correspondence,

     J.poems, 577-651.                                   140-44.

John Clerk, father of     C. M., 2.               and in an essay, 234.

      his place in descent of the                 Maxwell's comments upon Professor
                                                     Wilson's lectures, 145.
      Clerks of Penicuik, 22.

      inherits remnant of Middlebie

      under an entail which de-                  NECESSITY, 306 (and see Determinism).
                                                 Neptune, interest in discovery of planet,
      barred his elder brother
                                                     85.
      George (Clerk) from holding
      it with Penicuik, 3.                       Newton, his optics perused by Maxwell
                                                            while at Edinburgh University,
      converts estate into habitation
                                                              133 note.
         (Glenlair), 5, 25.
      inherited and personal traits of                 Principia, etc., referred to, 398,

          character, 5-12.                                    437.

      portrait-sketch by J. W., 38.                      class at Aberdeen upon, 291, 295,

      genial intercourse   between                      J.302.

      father and son, 53.                        Newton's rings, engaged attention of
                                                    C. M. (&t. 15), 84.
      interest in son's progress, 72,
                                                 Nichol, Professor, his lecture on dis-
      73.                                           covery of plane't Neptune, 85.

      J.places son at Cambridge, 146.            Nicol, Mr., inventor of the polariscope

      extracts from his letters to C.                         visited, 84.
          M., 150, 156, 160, 181,184-
                                                      letters of J. C. M. referring to this
      187, 193, 194, 196, 207,
                                                            visit, 122, 123.
          213, 214, 217-220.                     Nicol's prism described, 486.
      anxiety about his health, 206.,            Niven, W. D., 402, 575.

      210.

      his death, 248.
      John Clerk
Mrs.     mother of  (nJ.eeC.FrMan.,ce2s.  Cay),  OERSTED, 305, 521.

                                                 Ohm's Law, 316, 365, 555.

      J.traits of character, 12.                 Ophthalmoscope, instrument made by

      her death in C. M.'s ninth                         Maxwell for seeing into the eye,

                     year, 15.                           198, 208.
Maxwells of Middlebie, note on their
                                                  dogs trained to submit to obser-

    descent, 22.                                         vation bya                   39, 208, 212,
Meloid, delineation of, 87, 88, 91-97.
                                                         342.                it,

                                                                                J.
Microphone (Hughes'), 363.                       Optics, Maxwell's contributions to, 483.
Middlebie, the family estate descended                  projected work on, 204.

           from the Maxwells, 3.                    - class at Aberdeen on, 291.

       Maxwells of, note on their descent,       Orr (or Urr), the name of the river by
                                                            Glenlair, 24.
    22.
how the bulk of the old estate was                scenery of, 33.

            disposed of, 23.                      spelling of, 67.                           C. M., as
       situation of remaining estate, 24.
                                                 Ovals,  invbeostyigoatfio1ns47o4n,,  by   76, 88, 91,
Milton, Maxwell's early familiarity                                                   75,
   with, 32.
                                                         98-104.

Moigno's Repertoire d'Optique, read               identified      with those of Descartes,
   during vacation at Edinburgh Uni-                              C. M.'s method new and
                                                    but J.

versity, 129.                                            simpler, 79, 88.
660 INDEX.

Ovals, delineation and propositions, 97-               Regular solids constructed by J. C. M.
             104.
                                                          as a boy, 56, 60.
PAGET, Dr., 406, 408.                                  Religio Medici, Sir Thomas Browne's, a

                                                          favourite book with Maxwell, 173, 175.

Pain, essay on, 444-452.                               Religion, Maxwell's views and senti-
Penicuik, seat of the Clerk family, 2.                    ments in regard to, 170 note, 321, ^

     holiday resort of J. C. M.'s father               323 note, 338-340.

    when a boy, 7.                                     Robertson, the Rev. Charles Hope, his
Clerks of, note on their history and
                                                           reminiscences, 163.
  J.descent, 16-22.                                    Rolling curves, a subject of study by

visited on way from Glenlair on                                   Maxwell while at Edinburgh
   C. M. going to Edinburgh for
                                                          University, 106-121.
    schooling, 46.                                     paper on, read before R.S.E. in
frequent resort
                       of J. C.  M. in                              1849, 106, 133.
                                                       Routh, fellow-pupil with Maxwell, senior
Christmas holidays, 65.                                wrangler, and he and Maxwell brack-

Perception, 227, 240.                                  eted Smith's Prizemen, 176.

Phonograph, 403, 455.                                  Royal Institution, Maxwell's lectures on

Plateau, 332, 507.                                         colours at, 315,  319, 354, 379.
                                                       Royal Society of
Platometer, 220.                                                             Edinburgh, J.     C.  M.

Poisson, study of his "mechanics," 119,                as a boy, taken by his father to

    134.                                                  their meetings,      54,   73.   M.  (&t.
study of his electricity and mag-                      paper upon ovals        by
                                                                                    J. C.
            netism, 217.                               14), read at meeting, 6th April
Polariscope, as constructed by Maxwell,
                                                       1846, 76.
    487.
Polarised light, Maxwell's early interest              paper on rolling curves, at meeting,
                                                           19th February 1849, 106.
    in, 84.
a subject of study while at Edin-                      paper upon colours (19th March

   burgh University, 106, 117, 122-                    1855), 469.

124, 126.                                              other papers, 483.

theory of rotation of the plane of,                    referred to in correspondence, 343.

by magnetism, 331.                                     Rowland, Professor, 373 note.

Pomeroy, a Cambridge friend, 182, 184,                 SATURN'S RINGS, Maxwell's work on, for

191, 201, 203, 211, 220, 262.                          Adams prize, 275,291,293,295,303.

nursed in illness by Maxwell, 206,                     his model of, 309.

    221.                                               account of his investigations re-

his description of his travels, 266.                               garding, 465, 501-513.
his death in India from fever,                         Schuster, his experiments on electrical

   brought on by over - exertion                       resistance, 365.

    (1857), 274.                                       Scripture, early knowledge of, 32.
his character reflected by Maxwell's
                                                              interpretation of, 309, 328, 338.
    letters, 281, 282.                                 Sea-fyke, an object of boyish interest,
his own last letter, 285.
                                                           58, 59.
Psychophysik, 452-463.                                 Smiddy near Glenlair, childish interest

QUATERNIONS, 384.                                         in, 27, 33.
                                                       manufacture of steel ba-rs for mag-

RAMSAY, the late Dean, of Edinburgh,                               nets, 85.
   his estimate of young Maxwell, 163.
                                                       Smith, Adam, 143, 234.
Ray Club, Maxwell introduced to, 213.
                                                              Dr. E., on food, etc., 335.
        elected an associate of, 220.                  Soap - bubbles, objects of youthful

        meetings of, 249.                                  interest, 33.
Rayleigh, Lord, on Maxwell's influence                 Society of Arts, Edinburgh, visits to,

     (Hoatn.CaJ.mWbr.idgSet,rut3t)57o.n colours. 376,    by J. C. M. with his father, 73.
             380.
       letter from, 349.                               Space (of m dimensions  !),  380.
       theory of sound, 363.
                                                       "Spin," word used to describe the pro-
Regnault, 568.
                                                       cess in experiments on electrical

                                                               resistance, 316.
                                                       Spencer, Herbert, social theories criti-

                                                       cised, 459.
INDEX.                                                                                661

Spinoza, 380.                                   Thomson, Professor, his experiments on
                                                           air (jointly with Joule), 568.
Spiritualism, common-sense views about,
    humorously expressed, 228-230.              Toby (in perpetual succession), a here-
                                                           ditary and lifelong companion,
Stephen, Sir James, his lectures attended                    38, 369.
    by Maxwell, 185.
                                                       sketched in family groups, 38, 42.
Stereoscope, Maxwell's interest in, 106,                at Cambridge, 369, 370.
                                                Top, colour-, 198, 332, 469.
             125, 251, 252.                            dynamical, Maxwell's paper on,
        his modified form of, 484.
                                                             287.
Stokes, Professor G. G., F.R.S., D.C.L.,        Trifocal curves, MS. on (see Ovals),
           commencement of Maxwell's at-
           tendance on his lectures, and life-      87.
           long friendship between them,        Tub, early navigation in, 42, 43.

             154, 185.                                 venture advanced from duck pond
                                                           to river, 62, 63.
       letter to Maxwell on his dynamical
           top and colour experiments, 287.     Tyndall, Professor, letter from, 288.
                                                       his address to British Association
       joins in urging Maxwell to stand                    (Section A), referred to, 336.
           for the chair of Experimental               his address as President of British
           Physics at Cambridge, 349.                      Association (1874), 372.

Stress, 493, 573.                               URR (see Orr).

Swimming, favourite exercise of J. C.

   M., 55, 120, 208.

Sylvester, Professor, 326

TABLE -TURNING, reference to Faraday's          VACUUM, arguments of Lucretius for,
                                                   adopted in paper written for mental
    experiments on, 189, 191.                      philosophy class in Edinburgh Univer-
Tadpole, a subject of childish interest,
                                                   sity, 109.
             34.                                Vassals, humorous designation of cot-

       transformation of, ingeniously de-                    tagers on estate, 39.
                                                       not forgotten amongst scientific
             lineated on magic disc, 37.
Tait, Professor P. G., his summary of                      work at Cambridge, 199, 206.

           reminiscences of Maxwell, 86,        Verdet, 549.

             87, 133.                           Verse, exercises in, by J. C. M. as a
       his appointment to the Chair of
                                                "  boy,    6"4,of69a,   70.     567.
           Natural Philosophy in Edin-                                 system,
           burgh, 277.                             Virial
Tayler, Rev. C. B., Maxwell's visit to,
                                                Viscosity of gases, experiments       on, 318,
             170, 190.
                                                   325.
       correspondence with, 187-189.
Taylor, Isaac, jun., a fellow - student         Vortices, Maxwell's theory of, 329.

           with Maxwell at Cambridge,           WASPS' NESTS, youthful adventure in
                                                    taking, 33.
             176.
                                                Weber, theory of electricity, 365, 516,
        senior, described, 177.
       senior, his works referred to, 227.          545, 550.

Telephone, lecture on, 361, 403.                Weddaefrprbeauqteurnren,natlMrvasiu.sni(ttnoeroe faJIts.aGbCle.elnlMala/,iCr 3le.inrkJ).,
Thaumatrope modified, a toy on which
                                                           C. M.'s childhood, 36.
   early ingenuity was exercised, 36.           Westcott, Professor, his tribute to Max-
Thomson, Professor (Sir William), asks
                                                           well, 358 note.
           Maxwell's assistance in some pre-    Wheatstone's stereoscope, letter referring
           parations for meeting of British
           Association, 144.                        to, 125.
       consulted as to choice of college at     Williams, The Ven. Archdeacon (of

            Cambridge, 146.                        Cardigan), Rector of Edinburgh Aca-
       his laying of the telegraph cable
                                                    demy, a genial teacher, 66.
           described by Maxwell in humor-
                                                Willis, Professor, Cambridge, his Princi-
            ous verse, 279.                              ples of Mechanism, read by Max-
       his solution of a problem set by                    well during vacation at Edin-
                                                           burgh University, 129, 133
           Maxwell, relating to the viscosity
           of gases, 341.                                   note.
       his work in reference to conversion
           of energy, 335.
662 INDEX.

Willis, Professor, his lectures on prac-             to him results upon colour-blind-
   tical mechanism attended by Maxwell                ness, 203, 217.

    when a graduate, 220.                 YOUNG, Dr. T., his triangle of colours,
Wilson, Professor (Christopher North),               a basis of Maxwell's experiments,
his Moral Philosophy class                             467, 472, 473.

attended by Maxwell, 107,                        clearness of his style, 305.

    114, 127, 128.  on his                ZOETROPE, 484.
Maxwell's comment

lectures, 145.

Dr. George, Maxwell communicates

                    THE END.

Printed by R. & R. CLARK, Edinburgh.
Messrs. MACMILLAN AND CO.'s Publications.

By PROFESSOR HUXLEY, LL.D., F.R.S.

Lay Sermons, Addresses, and Eeviews. New Edition.

             8vo. 7s. 6d.

Critiques and Addresses. 8vo. 10s. 6d.

Physiography. An Introduction to the Study of
          Nature. With Coloured Plates and Woodcuts. New Edition. Crown
             8vo. 6s.

American Addresses. With a Lecture on the Study
           of Biology. 8vo. 6s. 6d.

Science and Culture, and other Essays.  Demy 8vo.

             10s. 6d.

                   By PROFESSOR W. K. CLIFFORD, F.K.S.

Lectures and Essays. Edited by Leslie Stephen and

          FREDERICK POLLOCK, with Introduction by F. POLLOCK. Two Portraits.

             2 vols. 8vo. 25s.

Seeing and Thinking. With Diagrams. Crown 8vo.

           3s. 6d. [Nature Series.]

Mathematical Papers. Edited by Eobert Tucker,

        M.A. With an Introduction by H. J. STEPHEN SMITH, M.A., LL.D.,

          F.E.S., etc. Demy 8vo. 30s.

Mathematical Fragments : being Facsimiles of his

         unfinished Papers, relating to the THEOEY OF GRAPHS. Fcap. folio.

             10s. 6d.

          Works by W. STANLEY JEVONS, LL.D., M.A., F.R.S.

The Principles of Science. A Treatise on Logic and
           Scientific Method. New and Cheaper Edition, revised. Crown 8vo.
             12s. 6d.

Investigations in Currency and Finance. Svo.

                                                                                                 [ Just ready.

The Substitution of Similars, the True Principle of
           Seasoning. Derived from a Modification of Aristotle's Dictum. Fcap.
             8vo. 2s. 6d.

Elementary Lessons -in Logic, Deductive and Induc-

          tive. With Questions, Examples, and Vocabulary of Logical Terms.
           New Edition. Fcap. Svo. 3s. 6d.

Studies in Deductive Logic. A Manual for Students.

           Crown Svo. 6s.

MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON, W.C.
Messrs. MACMILLAN AND CO.'s Publications.

                    By ARCHIBALD GEIKIE, F.K.S., LL.D.,
Director-General of the Geological Surveys of the United Kingdom.

Text-Book of Geology. With numerous Illustrations.

Medium 8vo. 28s.

Geological Sketches at Home and Abroad.     With

           Illustrations. 10s. 6d.

Elementary Lessons in Physical Geography. With
numerous Illustrations. Fcap. 8vo. 4s. 6d.

QUESTIONS ON THE SAME. Is. 6d.

Outlines of Field Geology. With numerous Illustra-

tions. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d.

             By Sir JOHN LUBBOCK, Bart, M.P., F.R.S., D.C.L.

Fifty Years of Science. Being the Presidential Ad-
         dress delivered at York to the British Association, August 1881. Third
           Edition. Demy 8vo. 2s. 6d.

Scientific Lectures. With Illustrations. 8vo. 8s. 6d.

           CONTENTS : On Flowers and Insects On Plants and Insects On the
           Habits of Ants Introduction to the Study of Prehistoric Archaeology, etc.

The Origin and Metamorphoses of Insects. With
           numerous Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d. (Nature
             Series.)

On British Wild Flowers considered in their Eelation
          to Insects. With numerous Illustrations. Second Edition. Crown 8vo.
           4s. 6d. (Nature Series.)

Political and Educational Addresses. 8vo. 8s. 6d.

A Life of Kant. By Dr. J. H. W. Stuckenberg, late
         Professor of Wittenberg College, Ohio. With Portrait. 8vo. 14s.

Kant's Critique of Pure Reason. Centenary Transla-

         tion. By F. MAX MULLER. With an Historical Introduction by LUDWIG
           NOIRE. 2 vols. 8vo. 32s.

Charles Darwin. Memorial Notices. By Professor

        HUXLEY, F.R.S., G. J. ROMANES, M.A., LL.D., F.R.S., Sec. L.S.,

          ARCHIBALD GEIKIE, F.R.S., and W. T. THISELTON DYER, F.R.S. Re-
          printed from Nature. With a Portrait engraved by C. H. JEENS. Crown
           8vo. 2s. 6d. (Nature Series.)

The Methods of Ethics. By H. Sidgwick, M.A., Lec-

          turer and late Fellow of Trinity College, Cambridge. Second Edition,
           revised throughout, with Important Additions. 8vo. 14s.

             MACMILLAN AND CO., LONDON, W.C.

