Memoir of Augustus De Morgan, by his wife Sophia Elizabeth De
Morgan. With selections from his letters.

De Morgan, Sophia Elizabeth, 1809-1892.
London, Longmans, Green, and Co., 1882.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/hvd.32044004508750

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
oDefMMAuoegrmugsotauinsr

DeMSEloiozpargbheaitanh
      Mafb l^'-

i
AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN
r"

    , LOXDO* , rOUTTBD BY                  ngi'ARI
      rOTTIIWOODK AJTD CO., NBW-BTUEKT
                     AND PARUAHKNT BTBKKT
   r^t^e/ttw

v  FROV , ^HIITOGRAPH  BY MAYALL LONDON.
^mmm
                                                                                                                               Is*

I

f
                         t^/rvoJi  ayr' e^M. ·

             MEMOIE

                                                         OF

AUGUSTUS DE MOEGAN

                                          UV HIS WIFE

                SOPHIA ELIZABETH DE MORGAN

                 WITH SELECTIONS FROM HIS LETTERS

                              LONDON           AND  CO.

LONGMANS, GEEEN,

                                         1882

All rights reserved
HARVARD COtlEfiE LIBRARY

   FE8241883
           PKEFACE.

I I5rBD hardly say that in the following pages have not

attempted a scientific memoir. My object has been to
supply that part of my husband's life the material for
which would not be within the reach of another biographer.

     The selection from his letters might have been much

Ilarger, if could in all cases have inserted those of his

correspondents. Without these many would have been

incomprehensible. As it is, I may have over-estimated the

attention which readers will be disposed to give to them.
My rule in choosing the letters has been to take those
which are most characteristic of the writer, and in this
way to give to readers already acquainted with him through
his writings a more familiar knowledge of hiin as a man.

     His connection with University College, and the events
which led to his leaving it, are necessarily made promi
nent. So long a time has elapsed since their occurrence,

and I have known so little during that time of the Institu
tion, that I cannot even surmise how the present Council

would in like circumstances share the convictions or con-
6rm the action of its predecessors. After the lapse of

sixteen years I trust that the narrative will provoke no

revival of the somewhat acrimonious controversy which

ensued. It might perhaps have been in some ways
VI PREFACE.

better that Mr. De Morgan should have published a
fuller statement of his views at the time, and have thus
left less to be done by his biographer. But he had several
reasons for not doing this. He refrained partly from
reluctance to add to the censures which were being pro

nounced on the College, perhaps too emphatically, even by
well-wishers, and re-echoed by its enemies with uncon
cealed satisfaction ; partly by the feeling that he had
made no sacrifice of a pecuniary nature in resigning his

IProfessorship ; but, as think, chiefly from weariness and

disappointment, and from a desire to have done with the
Institution as soon as possible. Nothing, not even a dis
tinct recantation of the measure which made him leave,
would have induced him to resume his chair, for he would
have held such a recantation to be but another concession
to expediency in deference to the storm unexpectedly
raised.

   IShould any portion of what have written appear un
Icalled for, it must be remembered that could not touch my

husband's side of the question without placing the whole
before my readers. The insertion of the lengthy justifica

tion of the Council by members of the Senate will, I

trust, exempt me from the charge of having suppressed

arguments on the other side.

                         Sophia Elizareth De Morgan.

Cheyne Itoir,
          Chdtea, 18S2.
CONTENTS.

                       SECTION I.

From 1806 to 1827.

Place of Birth-- Voyage to England -- Family -- Schools and School   PAGE
    Days -- Early Religious Teaching -- Trinity College, Cam
     bridge -- Reading and Study -- Mother's Anxiety -- Teachers --
     College Friends -- Choice of Profession -- Degree -- Lincoln's

Inn 1-18

                       SECTION II.

Fkom 1827 to 1831.

William Frend --Religious Discussions -- Stoke Newington -- Can
didature for Professorship -- University in London -- Its
Foundation -- Its Principle -- Opening of Classes -- Introductory
Lecture -- Disagreements between Professors and Council --
Paris -- Colonel Briggs -- East India Service -- Dr. Briggs'
Ghost Story -- Opening of Session -- Differences renewed --
Letter of Remonstrance -- Resignation of Chair
                                                .                    19-40

                       section in.

From 1831 to 1836.

Residence in Guilford Street -- Astronomical Society -- Efforts
    to raise Astronomy -- Baily -- Herschel -- Airy --De Morgan
    elected Hon. Secretary --Astronomical Society's Charter --
    Captain Smyth -- Sir James South-- Friendships in Astro
    nomical Society -- Mr. Baily's House -- Sir James South's
    Quarrels -- Nautical Almanac -- Standard Scale -- ' Elements of
    Arithmetic ' --- Charles Butler -- Archdeacon Thorp -- Book-
    collecting -- Hachette -- Amicable Assurance Company --
    Troughton v. South -- Challenges -- Maps of the Stars --Return

to Mathematical Chair                                                41-74
Vlll CONTENTS.

                            SECTION IV.                              PAGE

Correspondence from 1831 to 1836                                 75-84

                   SECTION V.

                   From 1836 to 1846.

Death of his Sister-- His Religious Feelings and Opinions--His
    Mother's Anxieties -- Church Rates-- Marriage--Friends --
Lady Noel Byron -- Mrs. Fry -- Introductory Lecture -- Uni
versity of London -- 'Theory of Probabilities' -- 'Essay on
Probabilities '--Dickens' Works -- Women's Rights--' Philo
sophers '--Metaphysics-- Lecturing -- Distinguished Pupils --
Cram -- Outbreak of Students -- Testimonial -- Jewish Pupils --
George Long --James Tate -- 'Northern Lights'--Francis
Baily --The Cavendish Experiment -- Blackheath -- Death of
William Frend -- Obituary Notice--Commission on Standard
Scale -- Standard of Length --Henry Hallam -- Birth of George
Campbell De Morgan -- Dr. Whewell -- Cambridge Tracts --
' Differential and Integral Calculus ' finished -- Limits and
Series --John Stuart Mill-- Berkeley's Philosophy -- Mill's
Writings -- Comte's System -- Birth of Edward Lindsey
De Morgan -- Death of Francis Baily -- His Epitaph -- His
Bust -- Richard Sheepshanks -- Micrometer Observations --
Removal from Gower Street to Camden Street --Incapacity
of a Professor -- Class taken by Mr. De Morgan -- Students'
Gift --Malby's Globes -- Mr. John Taylor's Astronomy and
Work on the Pyramid -- Old Mathematical Society -- Historical
Society of Science -- Rev. Samuel Maitland -- The Easter
Question -- Lord Brougham -- Discovery of Neptune -- Recep
tion of Discovery
                                                            85-138

                            SECTION VI.  13&-156

Correspondence from 1836 to 1846

                           SECTION VII.

                                  From 1846 to 1855.
Formal Logic -- Dr. Whewell -- Cecil Monro's Remarks --

    Rev. Dr. Logan -- The Hamilton Controversy-- Mr. Herbert
                    CONTENTS.                                       IX

Spencer -- Berkeley's Metaphysics -- Professor Boole -- His         FAGB
System of Logic -- Psychology-- Chief Baron Pollock -- Intro
ductory Lecture -- Our Competitive Examination -- Opinions
of Friends --Astronomical Society -- Admiral Smyth -- Presi
dency --Royal Society --Acquaintance and Friends -- Ladies'
College -- Over-teaching -- Sir Rowland Hill -- Postage --
Museum Catalogue -- Guglielmo Libri -- Libri accused of
Theft --De Morgan's Advocacy -- Death of Thomas Galloway
-- Obituary Notice -- Address on Negro Slavery-- Cambridge
Examinations --Physiology --Vivisection --University College
-- Dr. Peene's Legacy -- Letter of Remonstrance to Council --

Our Eldest Child's Death-- City of London School-- Death of
Richard Sheepshanks-- His Funeral -- Anne Sheepshanks --
Memoir -- Table-turning -- Mr. Faraday's Lecture on Mental
Training -- De Morgan's Criticism --Mr. Faraday's' Indi
cator                                         . 157-193

                       SECTION VIII.          194-232

Correspondence from 1846 to 1855

                    SECTION IX.

                    From 1856 to 18C5.

His Mother's Death-- Her Sons -- Accident to Shoulder -- Decimal
    Coinage --History of the Movement-- Government Commis
    sions -- Decimal Association-- Deputation to Mr. Gladstone --
    Deputation to Board of Trade -- Debate on Question --Sum
    mary in ' Westminster Review '--Articles in ' Companion to the
    Almanac ' -- Lecture on Coinage --Lord Overstone's Questions
    -- Replies-- Death of Mr. William Brown-- Memoir of Newton
    -- Brewster's Life of Newton -- The Kaleidoscope --M. Biot --
    Catherine Barton -- Lord Halifax -- Article for ' Companion to
    Almanac' rejected -- Savings Bank -- Public Playgrounds --
    Rev. David Laing -- Letter of Charles Dickens-- Removal to
    Adelaide Road -- Cab Drivers-- Drinkwater Bethune--Ram-
   chundra -- Hindoo Algebra -- Non-acceptance of LL.D.
    Degree -- International Statistical Congress -- Retirement
    from Astronomical Society -- Farewell Letter --Death of Biot
    -- Foundation of Mathematical Society-- Death of George

Campbell De Morgan                            233-286

                                  SECTION X.  287-335

Correspondence from 1850 to 1866
X CONTENTS.

  SECTION XI.                                PA BE

From 1866 to 1871.

University College --Chair of Mental Philosophy -- Rev. J. Mar-

     tineau --Unitarians on Council --Report of Senate -- Requisi
      tion to Council --Appointment of Mr. Croom Robertson --
      Letter of Resignation -- Acceptance of Resignation -- Statement
      of Fifteen Professors to Proprietors --Annual Meeting --
     De Morgan's Last Visit to College -- Letters of Old Pupils --
     H. C. Robinson-- His Books -- His Breakfasts-- Death of
     George Campbell De Morgan --Mathematical Society -- Illness
     and Removal to Merton Road -- Latest Occupation and
     Interests-- Greek Testament --The Free Christian Union --
     Christian Belief --Rationalism -- Prayer-- Death of Christiana
     De Morgan-- Last Hours-- Death-- Extract from Will . 336-368

                               SECTION XII.  369-WX)
                                                     401
       Correspondence from 1867 to 1870               117
O List of Writings

       Index
         MEMOIE

                                                             OF

AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

       SECTION I.

Augustus DE Morgan was born in the year 1806 at                  1806.
Madura, in the Madras Presidency. His father Lieu

tenant-Colonel De Morgan had held appointments, some
of them staff situations, at several stations in India ; and

at the time of his fifth child's birth had chosen Madura

in preference to Vellore on account of its comparative

quietness. This choice was fortunate, for the battalion
of Colonel De Morgan's regiment commanded by Colonel
Fanshawe was at Vellore during the time of the mutiny
of the native troops ; and thus escaped the terrible out

break in which several English officers lost their lives,

and Colonel Fanshawe was murdered. Even at the

quieter stations there was cause for alarm from the
general disaffection of the native troops, and my hus

band's mother told how she, being then near her con

finement, saw Colonel De Morgan, when the sentries

were changed, creep out of bed to listen to the Sepoys,

that he might learn if any plot were in agitation,

about which information might be given with the pass

word.

     When Augustus was seven months old  his father  and         ^Voy*a"ge  to
mother came to England with three        children,   two

daughters and the infant. They sailed in the Duchess

       B
           2 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

    1807.  of Gordon, one of a convoy of nearly forty ships. The
Admind     Commodore, Captain (afterwards Admiral) Sir John Beau
Beaufort.  fort, was on friendly terms with my husband in after life.
           But Mr. De Morgan had no suspicion of having sailed
1808.      under his convoy until after Mrs. De Morgan's death,
           when the notice of it was found in her journal. When
           Admiral Beaufort heard of this he wrote, in a letter dated
           Oct. 10, 1857, five weeks before his own death, --

                 t Qur co-residence for three or four months,' not in the
           same street or village or county, but in the same track
           along the ocean, is an amusing link in our two life-

           threads ; but not the less flattering to me as being claimed

           by you, and as finding myself one of the dramatis personw
           in your mother's journal of the Jane, Duchess of Gordon.
           You most correctly picture us as being ' at the two ends

           Iof the chain,' for while it was my post to lead that

           gigantic fleet of upwards of thirty large vessels, well
           remember that she was in all cases the sternmost, in spite
           of the number of hoarse hints that were given her

           through our guns. Passengers, even ladies, are never
           very tender in their criticisms on the poor commodore,
           and it would be charming to see how your mother retali

           ated for his above coarse language by her sharp and witty

           castigation.'
                Colonel De Morgan settled at Worcester with his wife

           and children, but returned to India in 1808 alone.

           Some disturbances in the Madras Army, causing the sus
           pension from command of several officers, including him
           self, gave him much trouble and anxiety for some time ;
           but the affair, which was settled by an inquiry at the
           India House, resulted in his complete and honourable
           acquittal. On his return to England in 1810, the family
           lived in the north of Devonshire ; first at Appledore, then

           at Bideford, then at Barnstaple. In 1812, one daughter

           having died, and two sons been born, they settled at
           Taunton in Somersetshire. The father again left England
           for Madras, and took the command of a battalion at
EARLY EDUCATION.  3

Quilon. Being ordered home ill with liver complaint, he        1816.
left Madras in 1816, and died near St. Helena, on his way

to England.

     In a list given of his schools and instructors by Mr.

De Morgan, his father's name occurs as his first teacher.
He was then four years old, and learnt ' reading and nu

meration.' The heading of one column in this list, ' Age
of the Victim,' shows in a half-serious, half-humorous
way the idea ' the Victim ' retained of his early schooling.
He did not mean that it was worse in his case than in

that of other boys, and he always spoke gratefully of his

father; but he was no exception to the rule that most

children, especially those of great intellectual promise, are

more or less victims to our unenlightened methods of

Ieducation. Of these exceptional children have heard

him say that those have the best chance who have the

least teaching.

    At Barnstaple he learned, from a Miss Williams, 1818.

reading, writing, and spelling; at Taunton, being be- T6"0110"-

tween seven and eight, from Mrs. Poole, reading, writing,

arithmetic, and (very) general knowledge. He always

retained a painful remembrance of this school. The Rev.

J. Fenner, a Unitarian minister, was for a short time

his teacher. The pupil was at that time about nine

years old, and added Greek and Latin to his other studies.
Mr. Fenner was the uncle of Henry Crabb Robinson, who

died in 1867, aged ninety-one, and who had been at one

time a pupil in the school. The next two teachers were, at

Blandford, the Rev. T. Keynes, Independent minister ; and
at Taunton, the Rev. H. Barker, Church of England

clergyman, at whose school he was taught Latin, Greek,
Euclid, Algebra, and a little Hebrew. His last school

master, a clever man, and one of whom, though he was not

a high mathematician, his pupil always spoke with respect,

was the Rev. J. Parsons, M.A., formerly Fellow of Oriel.

At Mr. Parsons' school, at Redland, near Bristol, Latin,

Greek, and mathematics were taught. Mr. De Morgan
          4 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1820.  was at this school from the age of fourteen to sixteen and a
Mathema-
          half, and at this period of his life his mathematical powers

          were first developed. It was strange that among so many

          teachers the germ of mathematical ability should have

          been so long unnoticed. It could not be quite latent or

          quite unformed in the brain of a boy of fourteen ; it can

          only be supposed that the routine of school teaching

          smothered and hid it from observation. Education means

          drawing out ; it often is keeping in, and it is well when
          it is no worse. In this case it was good for the pupil

          and for mathematics that the early germ should be left

          to its own resources of natural growth, uncrippled and

          undistorted by mistaken systems of teaching. It was

          accidentally developed, and indeed made known to its pos

          sessor by the observation of a dear old friend, Mr. Hugh

          Standert, of Taunton. Seeing the boy very busy making

          a neat figure with ruler and compasses, and finding that

          the essence of the proposition was supposed to lie in its

          accurate geometrical drawing, he asked what was to

          Ibe done. Augustus said he was drawing mathematics.

          ' That's not mathematics,' said his friend ; ' come, and
          will show you what is.' So the lines and angles were rubbed

          out, and the future mathematician, greatly surprised by

          finding that he had missed the aim of Euclid, was soon

          I Iintent on the first demonstration he ever knew the mean
          ing of.  do not think, from what have heard him say,

          that Mr. Standert was instrumental in further bringing

          out the latent power. But its owner had become in some

          degree aware of the mine of wealth that only required

          working, and as some mathematics was taught at Mr.

          Parsons' school, the little help that was needed was soon

          turned to profit. He soon left his teacher behind, and

          from that time his great delight was to work out ques

          tions which were often as much his own as their solu

          tion.

             I can only find one little mention of his first going to

           his school in his own handwriting. In a letter to Dean
          SCHOOL EXPERIENCES.                           5

Peacock in 1852, he says apropos of Robert Young, of 1820.
whom he had been writing, --

   I I' When was sent to school near Bristol in 1820, Mr. Par-

was consigned to R. Young, who especially warned me

not to walk in my sleep, as there were no leads outside

the windows ; they had been removed. The consequence
Iwas, that though never walked in my sleep before or
Isince that I remember,
                         was awakened by the wind

blowing on me, and found myself before the open window,
Iwith my knee on the lower ledge.
                                   crept back to bed,

leaving the window open, and the family being alarmed

by the noise, came into my room, and found me asleep and

the window open, so that as their fenestral logic did not

reason both ways, they forgot that the leads were not there,

and searched the whole house for thieves.'

Mr. Robert Reece, his old schoolfellow and constant

friend of forty years, writes concerning these early school
days: --
' I entered Mr. Parsons' school at Redland, near
IBristol, on August 12, 1819.
                               think dear De Morgan

came among us at the latter end of the following year, or

in January 1821.
    ' He was certainly a fine stout fellow for his age, and at

once took a high place in the school. He had a grievous

infirmity, the loss of one of his eyes,1 which provoked all
kinds of gibes and practical jokes among the boys.'

Mr. Reece has told me how these cruel practical jokes

were put an end to. One lad was in the habit of playing

a trick upon his schoolfellow which deserves a worse

name than thoughtlessness. He would come up stealthily

to De Morgan's blind side, and holding a sharp-pointed

penknife to his cheek, speak to him suddenly by name.

De Morgan on turning round received the point of the

knife in his face. His friend Reece agreed with him that

until the aggressor should receive a sound thrashing he

    1 From birth. Both eyea wero affected with tho ' aorc eye ' of
India, and the left was aavod.
          6 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1820-21.  would never desist from his cruelty. 'But how,' said the

School    I Itormented lad, ' can catch him to thrash him ? cannot
days.     Isee him. He comes up, and is gone before can lay

          hands on him.' 'But you shall,' said Reece; and the

          arrangement was made. Reece, knowing that when his

          friend was quietly reading, as he often did, at a desk so
          placed that his blind side was near the door, the enemy

          would be likely to approach, hid himself in such a way
          that when the boy entered he could shut the door and

          prevent escape. All happened as he expected. De

          Morgan sat down at his desk with a book before him.
          Very soon the cowardly aggressor came quietly in, pointed
          his knife at his cheek, and said suddenly, ' De Morgan ! '
          His intended victim did not turn round as he had done
          before, and in a moment the lad, a stout boy of fourteen,

          was seized behind by Reece, who gave him over to receive
          the ' sound thrashing ' which De Morgan administered,
          and which proved effectual in making him keep the peace

          from that time.

               Mr. Reece tells how he and his friend, with another

          boy of similar tastes, contrived a late reading party, un
          sanctioned by the master. One of the three asked Mr.
          Parsons to lend them Scott's poems, at that time just
          published. Having got ' The Lady of the Lake,' they

          waited till all the other boys were in bed, the lights out,

          and all things quiet ; then De Morgan produced a match
          pistol and a tinder, snapped a spark and lit the candle,

          and then read to his two companions till all three were

          I Itoo sleepy to take an interest in Ellen and Roderick Dhu.
            do not mention this as an example to be followed, but
          hope my readers will forgive them.

             IMr. Reece says, ' was impressed with his wonderful
          Iability from the first, and courted him, and gave him

          my admiration and my love. In return, he became at

          tached to me, and invited or permitted me to sit by him
          in play-hours. He never joined in the sports of the boys,
          owing to his infirmity. He had a remarkable talent for
              CHOICE OF STUDIES.                                        7

drawing caricatures, of the kind that Gilray was so 1822.
Ifamous for.
              took great interest in these drawings, and Carica-
II had the privilege of suggesting
                                    aonseu,bje"ctChnaorwon'asndbtohaetn,".
Two of them remember -- the
with figures ; the other, " The Devil," with the three
Iblack graces, Law, Physic, and Divinity. It seems an odd

utinhpin"tghBalttaonwrdee'scllo-Qkrdnu,oawbdurnat teIilcewmEeeqllnutaraetrmiyoenbmsob"oekwr, h"tehnBartiDdegweM'asosrAgaldgavneabntrocaoe,"kd

for the first time. But it was so. He read Bridge's

book like a novel. In less than a month he had gone

through that treatise and dashed into Bland, and so got

Iout of sight, as far as was concerned. It is scarcely

necessary to say that all his school work was admirably

performed. Mr. Parsons had the highest opinion of him.' 1

Mr. Parsons being a good classical scholar, his aim

was rather to make his boys good classics than mathe
Ifmaticians.
              the mathematical power had not made

itself apparent, and taken the place of all other interests

in the pupil's mind, his studies would probably have
taken the direction desired by his master. As it was, he

was a good Greek and Latin scholar, and his classical

reading was wide and varied. The teaching at Redland

School was good, but abuses creep in everywhere. Here

is an account of a way of saying the lessons, given to

Ime by my husband in explanation of some remarks

had written on education. Like the midnight entertain

ment before mentioned, the story will afford hints to
teachers rather than an example for pupils : --

    ' An ingenious application of the logical fallacy of a

part for the whole was invented by schoolboys by the
help of Providence, to moderate a mischief which would

otherwise have been severely felt. It was thought neces

sary that boys should learn by heart Latin and Greek

     1 The writer of the above died two years after his friend, his
affection for whom was one of the strongest feelings in his mind while

consciousness remained.
           8 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1822.   verses, to strengthen the memory. The poor ignorant
Schoolboy
           Virgil and Homer scanners, and their subordinate Euclid

           and algebra drillers, had not the smallest idea that a

           memory is an adjunct of each faculty, that the training of

           one is of little or no help to another, and that the

           memory of words, which they over-cultivated, differs

           widely among young people. The allowance was forty

           lines a day, Latin and Greek alternately, for five days in

           the week, the whole two hundred to be repeated in one

           lot on Saturday. There was as much difference between

           the boys in the rapidity of committing to memory, as

           between the two pilgrims who went peashod to Loretto,

           the one with hard peas, the other with boiled, in his

           shoes. But the boys had the sense to learn their parts, as

           Ithe actors do, and again, like the actors, they learnt the

           cues. This was carried on, at a school at which was,

           year after year, without a single detection. Even the
           contretemps which arose when a boy was ill on a Satur
           Iday, or when one who had been ill on a week-day came in
           on the Saturday, were adroitly got over.  am perfectly

           satisfied that the master, an old Fellow of Oriel, was a

           party to the whole proceeding, as a means of reconciling

           the appearances demanded by opinion with the amount

           I Iof word-catching which he thought sufficient. And judg

           ing by what have heard of other schools, suspect that

           such connivance was not infrequent.'

           The boys of Mr. Parsons' school attended St. Michael's

           Church, Bristol. Having heard something from Mr. De

           Morgan of his juvenile delinquencies, arising from think

           Iing more of mathematics than of the scarcely audible

           sermon, searched out the school pew during a visit to

           Bristol, and there found, neatly marked on the oak wain

           scot partition, the first and second propositions of Euclid

           and one or two simple equations, with the initials A.

           De M. They were made in rows of small holes, pierced

           with the sharp point of a shoe-buckle, and are by this

           time probably repaired and cleaned away.
          EARLY DISPOSITION.                               9

The testimony of Mr. Reece to the affection felt for                   1822.

their schoolfellow by most of his companions has been

confirmed to me by one or two of the few who remain in

Ithis world, and find in letters from friends many little

confirmations.

    ' I have known more of you than you of me,' his friend

Mr. Leslie Ellis wrote to him during the long and suffer
ing illness which preceded his death. ' Even while you

I Iwere yet at Mr. Parsons' and was a child had heard of
Iyou, and of course in later years have heard of you very
Ioften ; but though everybody spoke well of you, was left

I Ito find out for myself how kind you could be to a sick

man -- how kind, think must infer, to all about you.'

   IAnd another time, --

    ' had, since your recollection of Parsons, two

brothers there, and I remember my father speaking of

hthaavtinygousewenereyo"u,suacnhd   saying that the usher  complained
                                   a glutton," meaning in  the matter
Iof reading ; but cannot recollect whether he spoke of

mathematical or classical reading, or of both.'

But the boy was probably, at school, very like what he

was at home, when his mother, who loved him fondly,

described him as a quiet, thoughtful boy, occasionally but

not often irritable, and never so well pleased as when he

could get her to listen to his reading and explanations, and
' always speculating on things that nobody else thought

of, and asking her questions far beyond her power to

answer.'

One element of his early teaching strongly tinged his

character in after life. Col. De Morgan, who was a

strictly religious man, of a rather evangelical, as it is

falsely called, turn of feeling, was premature, seeing the
sensitiveness and grasp of the mind he had to deal with,

in inculcating rigid doctrines, and insisting on formal

observances. The religious training of his son thus begun,
was continued, after his father left England, by his

excellent mother, who, with the best intentions in the
           10 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

    1822.  world, was unable to adapt the spiritual food to the needs
Religious  of the recipient. He was made to learn by heart and
           repeat long Scripture lessons, so chosen that their mean

           Iing and connection with each other and with himself

           were quite imperceptible ; indeed, have heard him say

           that, from frequent repetition, the words and phrases be
           came meaningless to him. He was taken to church twice
           in the week, three times on Sunday, and required to
           give an abstract of every sermon he heard. Being thus
           administered, religion could not fail to become a source of
           misery. Sunday was the one wretched day of the week,
           to be got over somehow, and church was a place of

           penance. A worse result of the system even than this

           was the confusing together in an honest young mind all
           ideas of right and wrong, truth and falsehood, in con
           nection with religion. The awful description of the
           Devil and his doings, and the eternal burning to be under
           gone by all who did not believe what he could not then,

           and never was able to believe in the prescribed form,
           were set in the boy's mind against Jesus Christ's declara
           tion that His Father was a God of love, and that repent
           ance was the only condition of forgiveness. For a boy
           like Augustus De Morgan, whose clear perceptions, love of
           truth, and readiness to venerate, rendered him sensitive

           to every word spoken by those whom he loved, or who
           were in authority over him, such mental antagonisms

           must have been the cause of great anguish, and he could
           only escape, after he once began to think, by dismissing

           the whole from his mind. The problem of how to recon
           cile the Divine idea of God's love with the human notion

           of God's justice was a harder one than he ever met with
           in after life, and he gave it up as insoluble. Not being
           yet able to detect the logical fallacies and critical errors
           which formed part of the arguments used to convince
           him, he could only receive those arguments in silence, but
           without assent. Happily the evil corrected itself, and no
           harm was done in the end. His innate sense of relation
ENTERS THE .UNIVERSITY.  11

ship to his heavenly Father was too strong to allow him       1822.
to become atheistical, and his reasoning power too sound

to allow him to be sceptical as to the Christian revelation.
But the process of pulling down and building up took

time, and it was years before the impressions of his child

hood could pass away, and the natural, healthy working
of the religious spirit could begin. Such an experiment

is a dangerous one for parents to try, and the greater the

early indications of religious feeling in a child, the more

cautious and forbearing should they be in their direction
of it.

One lasting injury done to him by the compulsory at

tendance so often at public worship, was his inability in

after life to listen for any time to speaking or preaching.

He said that the old troubles of the three services on
Sunday, and the ' dreary sermons ' came back to him, and
to get rid of these memories he thought of something

different from what was being said.                           1823.
     In February 1823 he entered Trinity College, Cam-

bridge. His old schoolmaster, Mr. Parsons, with other

friends, had counselled his pupil's reading for honours in

Classics ; and Mrs. De Morgan's wish was that her son
should enter the Church as an Evangelical clergyman. She

had had all the responsibility of her children's education,

and, looking to the success of her eldest at Cambridge as

a most important element of his future welfare, naturally

trusted to the advice of her friends, and believed that all

attention given to Mathematics beyond what was needed

for his examination would be so much labour lost. He Age on

was but sixteen years and a half old when he went to

Cambridge, entering at a by -term. Though always

studious and persevering, yet at his first examination,

when his attention had been divided between the classical

reading he had forced himself to attend to, and the
Mathematics which he loved, he stood at the top of the

second class only. But his failure, as she considered it,

caused his mother great anxiety, and her letters to him
            12 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

  1823.     at the time are filled with earnest entreaties ' not to dis
            regard good advice,' ' not to be so wilful,' &c.
1824.
Tutors          It is certain that her exhortations were not needed.
opinion of
his capa    I IHe had exerted himself, as his tutor's letter to him shows :
bilities.
            ' am sorry that cannot congratulate you on being in

            the first class, though your merits and exertions richly

            deserved it.' We may remember that he was at this time

            under seventeen, that he had been at college only three

            months, and that he beat by many places his competitor

            of his own year, two years his senior in age. Moreover, he

            had been urged by his tutor, against his own conviction,

            to go in for examination at this time.

                It appears from some of his mother's letters that he

            had in reply assured her that he would comply with her

            wish with respect to his reading. But it cannot be

            wondered at that the University lectures opened the field

            into which he had long desired to enter. It was like new

            life to him when he listened to Dr. Peacock's explanations,

            and followed up the study he loved under the guidance of

            one who knew how to show the way. From the conflict

            between his own inclinations and the wishes of his friends

            it is certain that his path could not be quite smooth, but

            happily the University courses made it better during the

            second than in the first year. A greater amount of Mathe

            matics was then required in the college examination, and

            he was found at the head of the first class. Mr. Higman,
            Ihis tutor, wrote to his mother : ' Notwithstanding my
            disappointment last year,  had formed such a very

            favourable opinion of Mr. De Morgan's talent, and was so

            I Imuch pleased with his industry and the implicit attention

            he paid to every direction that gave him, that felt per

            fectly assured that he would, on the next trial, when less

            depended on Classics, distinguish himself in a very extra

            ordinary manner. Nor have my prognostics with regard

            to his success proved deceitful ; he is not only in our first

            class, but far, very far, the first in it.'

            For the first two years of his Cambridge life, owing to
               RELIGIOUS PERTURBATIONS.                13

the difficulty of getting rooms in Trinity College, he was ^1824.

I Iin lodgings. After this his rooms were over the gateway.

At this time his mother wrote to him : ' hope am mis- His

ttoake"nthien  supposing from your letter that you go  entirely    UU^ety!
               chapel," and not with Mr. and Mrs.            , to

hear the Gospel on Sundays. . . . You are very young, my

love, and will be likely to go wrong from being left to
yourself so soon if you do not take advantage of the
Iexperience of those who have gone before you.
                                                       have
Iless fear for you than should have for many youths of

your age, because you are studious and steady, because

you love your mother tenderly, but above all, because you

are the child of many prayers ; but I shall be most

anxious if you do not hear dear Mr. Simeon.'
    In another letter she says, speaking of the same

friends who had assisted him in small money arrangements

at Cambridge : ' Mrs.  tells me you are like a man of

fifty in settling your accounts with her for things she has

bought. Dear own son of your father and mother, go on
through life with the same scrupulous punctuality ; it will

be a means of keeping you from spending extravagantly ;

it will make you respected and beloved, and preserve you

from that sort of carelessness which brings many young

men to ruin.'

    I would not put on record expressions showing the

intense anxiety of a most energetic and loving mother for
a beloved child, except to afford an instance of how the

very best intentions may be acted on in such a way as to

frustrate their own fulfilment. Mrs. De Morgan had put
some books, of what would now be called a ' Low Church '

Itendency, into a box with other things for her son,               nReligi°o8u's

accompanying them with a letter, from which extract
the following :--

    ' I am so anxious that you should read occasionally the
books I send (unknown to you), and was so fearful you

might endeavour to persuade yourself and me that you

had no time for such studies, that I thought the best way
           14 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1824.   would be to say nothing about it viva voce, but to send
Doctrines
           Ithem uninvited ; and, having determined on that, an
tion.
           explanatory note became necessary. beseech you, for my

           sake,  tthoemreadwhwenitehveartteynotuionopethnestehebmo,oks",   to utter a prayer
           over                                                            that they may be

           blessed to you as they have been to thousands," many of

           whom are now rejoicing in heaven, where you wish to go,

           but where you never can go while you remain wilfully

           ignorant of your state by nature, and of your need of a

           Saviour. Your believing an atonement necessary in a

           general sense 1 will not avail you. You must go by your

           self and for yourself to Christ for pardon and grace, and
           until you do this you may rest assured you are in a most
           awful state -- liable to be hurled into everlasting torment

           by every little accident, every disease, nay, even by a

           crumb of bread going the wrong way. Can you wonder

           Ithat a mother, doting as do on you, feels miserable when

           she contemplates a beloved child wantonly sporting on the

           edge of so tremendous a precipice ? . . . Can you picture

           to yourself any agonies like those which would take posses

           sion of your mind were you assured that before to-morrow

           morning you would be standing at the tremendous bar of

           an angry God ? '

           The young man thus appealed to was dutiful and

           affectionate, and these exhortations troubled him much.

           His reason and instinctive love of God told him that they

           must arise from misinterpretations of Scripture, and from

           human notions of Divine things. In many less logical and

           fearless minds they would have produced disgust with

           religion altogether ; but the intellect of the future logician

           was too clear to confound the thing itself with its abuses,

           or with the misrepresentations of ill-judging advocates.

           I I1 From this expression, and from what have heard,            conclude
           that Mr. De Morgan had assured his mother of his belief in the atone

           ment in the Scripture sense, namely, the reconciliation or at-one-ment

           of sinning and repentant man to a loving God, not the reconciling

           of an angry God to mankind, in consequence of intellectual belief.

           This was his creed in after life.
DISCURSIVENESS IN STUDY.             15

These had not even the effect of making him dismiss the 1825.

matter from his mind, for during the whole of his college

life his mind was actively employed on questions con

nected with theology and philosophy. He never saw the

gospel in any other light than as a professing declaration
of God's love and mercy, but it was some time before he

was convinced of its historical truth and supramundane

origin.

    In 1825 Mr. De Morgan was again high in his class.

He had had an illness, perhaps from reading too much

and too late at night ; and his mother, whose gratification

Iwas damped by her great anxiety about his health, writes
to him : ' You are much higher than  expected from
Iyour humble account of yourself, and rely on your letting
me know if you should suffer materially.' In April Schoiar-

a Trinity scholarship was awarded him. After this time

some friends must have made his mother anxious by

accounts of his general and discursive reading, for she

writes : ' I have heard of you lately as a man who reads

much, but who is not likely to do much, because he will not

conform to the instructions of those who could assist him.'

The indocility to which she refers consisted in extensive

Mathematical reading beyond the bounds marked out by

his tutors, and in the study of Metaphysics, Mental Philo

sophy, and even Theology. Berkeley's writings attracted

him strongly ; the immateriality of Berkeley's doctrine

being suited to a mind instinctively resting upon a

spiritual Father, and believing that we depend on His

sustaining power as well for absolute existence as for

support and guidance through life. It is far from im

probable that Berkeley's speculations, falling in in a great

degree with his own, gave a strong bias to his subsequent

thoughts on metaphysical questions.

He never forgot what he owed to his teachers in the

University. These were, as entered in his own book, his

college tutor J. P. Higman, Archdeacon Thorp, G. B.

Airy, A. Coddington, H. Parr Hamilton (Dean of Salis
              16 MEMOIK OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

    1825.     bury), G. Peacock (Dean of Ely), and W. Whewell (after
Early         wards Master of Trinity). With all of these gentlemen he
friendships.
              kept up a friendship and correspondence during their
Love of
music.        joint lives.

                  His college friends of nearly his own age were William
              Heald, William Mason, Arthur Neate, and Thomas

              Falconer, all of Trinity College. Among those whose

              friendship he valued, none were more esteemed by him
              than his teachers --Dean Peacock, Dr. Whewell, Mr. Cod-

              dington, and Dr. Thorp, afterwards Archdeacon Thorp.
              Mr. Heald, afterwards Rector of Birstal, in Yorkshire,

              died in 1875. Mr. Mason, Rector of Pickhill, near

              Thirsk, died in 1873, and his companion and chum of
              Trinity College days, Arthur Neate, died at his rectory,
              Alvescot, near Oxford, in 1870.

              Some peculiarities in his college life were well known

              to Cambridge men of his year. The habit of reading

              through great part of the night, and, in consequence,

              getting up very late the next day, was notorious ; and

              fellow-collegians, coming home from a wine party at four

              in the morning, might find him just going to bed. One
              of these, better known in the University for rows than for

              reading, has told me how often he himself, being late next

              day from a different cause, has gone into De Morgan's

              rooms, just below his own, and begged for an air on the
              flute to ' soothe a headache.' His flute, which he played

              exquisitely, was a great source of pleasure to himself and
              his friends. He was a member of the ' Camus,' a musical
              club so called from the initials of its designation -- Cam

              bridge Amateur Musical Union Society ; and their

              meetings, and those at the houses of a few musical

              families, were his chief recreation. He was a born

              musician. His mother said that when listening to the

              piano, even when a very little child, a discordant note
              Iwould make him cry out and shiver.
                                                   must not omit

              to record his insatiable appetite for novel-reading, always

              a great relaxation in his leisure time, and doubtless a
UNIVERSITY DEGREE.  17

useful rest to an over-active brain in the case of one who 1826-27.
did not care for riding or boating. Let it be good or bad

in a literary point of view, almost any work of fiction was
welcome, provided it had plenty of incident and dialogue,

and was not over-sentimental. He told me that he soon

exhausted the stores of the circulating library at Cam
bridge. Like his schoolfellows, his college friends loved

him for his genial kindness, unwillingness to find fault,

and quiet love of fun, always excepting practical jokes,

with which he had no patience at all.
     During the last year and a half of his stay at Cambridge Intention

Mr. De Morgan had some thoughts of becoming a phy- medicine.
sician. With his views on religion, his ordination was

out of the question ; but he liked the study of medicine,
and some friends advised him to read it with a pur
pose. This intention did not last long. His old friend,
Mr. Hugh Standert, of Taunton, knew by experience

what was generally needed for success in medical practice,

and an acquaintance from infancy made him believe

that Augustus was not pliant enough, and could not, or

would not, be sufficiently ready to adapt himself to the
fancies and peculiarities he would meet with to make him

a popular doctor. Whether or not he had any special
genius for medicine is uncertain. His mother agreed

with Mr. Standert, and urged upon her son that his

success in medicine might depend on an amount of tole
ration for ignorance and folly which, with his ' hatred of

everything low,' he would find a great trial. She begged
him to ' throw physic to the dogs,' and to turn his

thoughts to law. He complied, but did not like his des
tination. Events proved that he was right, that he had

not found his proper place in the world's workshop.          1827.
                                                               e8t"
    In 1827 he took the degree of fourth wrangler,

the order being Gordon, Turner, Cleasby, De Morgan.
This place, as one of his scientific biographers truly
says, ' did not declare his real power, or the exceptional
aptitude of his mind for mathematical study.' He had

o
       18 MEMOIR OP AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1826.  been expected to be senior or second wrangler, and his
       lower degree was attributed by bis contemporaries and
       competitors to the wide mathematical reading by which
       he was often led away from the course prescribed for
       examination. This failure, in a possibly fallacious test,
       was his own early, but unintentional, protest against
       competitive examinations ; for which he felt excessive
       disapprobation even before his experience as a teacher
       showed him not only their mischievous effect upon mind

       and health, but their insufficiency to determine the real

       Iworth of a candidate for honours. In saying this do

       not detract from the merit of the gentlemen who stood

       above Mr. De Morgan in the Tripos of 1826. All three

       distinguished themselves in after life, but as he was un

       doubtedly the first in mathematical ability, it is likely

       that their precedence of him might be due to the fact
       that his love of the study led him to read more widely

       and discursively than his friends on the very subject on

       which excellence was to be tested.

           At the time of his taking his B.A. degree he came to

       live with his two brothers, mother, and sister in London.

       He had determined to go to the Bar, and was beginning his
       legal studies, but he very much preferred teaching mathe
       matics to reading law. Something like the objection
       urged by his friends to medicine was uppermost in his
       mind, and he feared or imagined that in practising at the
       Bar he might find it difficult to satisfy both his clients
       and his conscience. But these scruples were overcome,
       and he entered at Lincoln's Inn.
                                               19

                 SECTION II.

                                      1827 to 1831.

It was at this time that he became acquainted with my 1827.

father, William Frend. They first met at the office of Wiiii,m
the N~autical Almanac, of which their common friend, Frend.
Lieutenant Stratford, R.N., had been recently appointed
Comptroller. Mr. Frend and Mr. Stratford were both
members of the old Mathematical, and subsequently of
the Astronomical Society. Though my father was, even
at that time, far behind Mr. De Morgan as a mathe
matician, the two had a good deal of mathematics in
common. My father had been second wrangler in a year
in which the two highest were close together, and was, as
his son-in-law afterwards described him, an exceedingly

clear thinker and writer. It is possible, as Mr. De

Morgan said, that this mental clearness and directness
may have caused his mathematical heresy, the rejection
of the use of negative quantities in algebraical operations ;

and it is probable that he thus deprived himself of an

instrument of work, the use of which might have led him
to greater eminence in the higher branches. This same
heresy gave occasion to many amusing arguments and
discussions. But between these two sympathy in matters
of morals and principle formed a stronger bond than
similarity of pursuit. My father had sacrificed good
prospects as a clergyman to his conscientious scruples
about the doctrines of the Established Church, as ex
pressed in the Creeds and Articles, and had been through
life an earnest advocate of religious liberty. These cir-

                                                                    c2
              20 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGASf.

    1827.     cumstances won for him at once the respect and esteem
Family of
llit' writer  of Mr. De Morgan, who, like himself, had thrown off the

              Irestraints of a creed which he could not hold, and which
              he refused to profess without holding.  think my father,

              who was a good Hebrew scholar, afterwards helped him to

              clear away some of the doubts and difficulties resulting
              from mistranslations of Scripture, and fostered by the

              early teaching of a sect not critically learned.

              We were living at Stoke Newington, in one of those

              old houses with wooded grounds, of which so few remain

              near London. It had formerly belonged to Daniel Defoe,

              and Isaac Watts had inhabited it. In my father's time it

              was the scene of many a pleasant gathering of men and
              women of all degrees of intellectual ability, and of almost
              every shade of political and religious opinion. The spot

              where the old house stood has become the centre of a

              district of streets and shops, built where the tall trees

              grew, and nothing now remains to commemorate its

              existence but the name of Defoe Street.
                  Mr. De Morgan first came to our house with Mr.

              Stratford. He then looked so much older than he was

              Ithat we were surprised by hearing his real age--just
              twenty-one.  was nineteen. We soon found out that
              this ' rising man,' of whom great things were expected in

              science, and who had evidently read so much, could rival
              us in love of fun, fairy tales, and ghost stories, and even
              showed me a new figure in cat's cradle. He was in
              person very like what he continued through life, but

              paler, probably from the effects of his recent Cambridge

              Ireading. His hair and whiskers were very thick and
              curly; he was not bald till thirty years after.   re

              member his having a slight pleasure in saying things
              which startled formal religionists, but which we, who

              were not formal, soon understood to mean what they ex

              pressed, and no more. These sayings were humorous, and

              like the half-mischievous jests of a very young man. It

              was easy to see that a deep religious feeling underlay the
STOKE NEWTNGTON.                           21

contempt for observance which his early training had 1827.

caused, and that his consciousness of the care and father

hood of the Almighty was a sacred thing belonging to

himself alone, not to be profaned by contact with human

forms or inventions. My father, who, like people who

have made their own belief, was a little impatient in argu

ment, at first thought him an unbeliever ; and so, in a

Icertain sense, he was ; but it was only in such things as
he could not find a reason for believing.  mention re

ligious questions because they entered much into our

thoughts and conversation at that time. As to the Gospels,

he waited for a better and more critical understanding of

them than could be gained from his first instructors, and

this a rather extensive reading of theology enabled him to

Iacquire before he left this world. When first knew him,

I was puzzled by such books as Volney's ' Ruins of Em- Antiqua-

pires,' Sir. W. Drummond's writings, and other works of

antiquarian research, to which a great interest in our

friend Godfrey Higgins's investigations had led me. Mr.

De Morgan showed me the scientific errors of some of

these writers, and the insufficiency of their theories to

account for all that they have tried to explain. He was

well informed in Eastern astronomy and mythology, and

saw that much of modern doctrine has gained something

of its form, at least, from ancient symbolism.1 Lieut. -

Col. Briggs, his uncle by marriage, had begun his
' Ferishta,' and his nephew's interest in the work had

brought him much into the society of Oriental scholars.

The ancient grandeur and simplicity of the East at once

excited and satisfied his imagination. He sometimes

said that India with its skies and mountains 'might

be really worth looking at,' whereas he never saw any

    1 All scholars must see that the time is approaching when a better

knowledge of ancient religions will show that they have been misunder

stood, and that they are not entirely fictitious or entirely astronomical.
If this were the place it would not be difficult to show the connection
ofafl.
          S52 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1827.  scenery in England than which he could not picture
Music.    to himself something infinitely grander. He was proud
 London   of his birth in the sacred city of Madura, and at one

          time longed to visit his native country, and fancied
          that every one had the same instinctive desire. Luckily,

          his doing so when young was prevented by the defect
          of sight which justified his mother in refusing a cadet-

          ship for him.

          During the ten years which preceded our marriage,

          Ihis delightful flute, accompanied by my sister on the
          piano, was a great pleasure to us.   lost the gratification

          Iof accompanying him then, and it was afterwards a

          sorrow to me that was not a musician. Our acquaint

          ance began just before he became a candidate for the

          Professorship of Mathematics, but he, like my father,

          took an interest in the foundation of the new University,

          of which, indeed, my father had been one of the first

          projectors.

              It has been observed that when the time is ripe for

          bringing forward any measure, ideas come at the same
          time to more than one mind fitted to receive them, and it

          is often difficult to find the author of the first suggestion.

          IThis is especially true in the case of the foundation of
          large institutions. In what follows  do not mean to

          assert that my father was the first suggester of a college

          or university in London, but, being one of the few persons

          now living who can remember the beginning of University

          ICollege and the expressed designs and hopes of its

          founders, venture to give, more in detail than the scope

          of a biography would justify, a short account of its origin ;

          Iand in thus contributing my share of its history must
          Ispeak of that part which best remember.

          About or before the year 1820, some liberal-minded

          men, after long pondering on the disabilities of Jews and

          Dissenters in gaining a good education, came to the con

          clusion that as the doors of the two Universities were

          closed against them, the difficulty could best be met by
         THE NEW LONDON UNIVERSITY.                      23

establishing a University in which the highest academical 1827.

teaching should be given without reference to religions kTM; "in

differences. As this could not be done in an institution

in which the pupils resided without excluding religion

altogether from education, a necessary condition of the
establishment was the daily attendance of students on

college lectures, so that while living under their parents'

roof they might be brought up in the religion of the

family.

     My father's ideas of the proposed institution had been
embodied in some letters signed ' Civis,' and published in
a monthly periodical1 edited by Mr. John Thelwall, some

where about 1819, which did not survive a third number.

The writer was well qualified by his own academical status,
and by the subsequent abandonment of Church prefer

ment which led him into connection with intelligent Dis

senters, to estimate the value of University training, and

the great loss and deprivation sustained by young men

every way qualified to profit by it who were unable from

religious belief to receive it. He looked forward to the

day when all forms of religion should be held equal within

the walls of the noble institution which he contemplated,

in which good conduct and compliance with rules should

be the only conditions of admission.

    A short time after the publication of the letters re

ferred to, Mr. Thomas Campbell, the poet, first visited their

writer, and informed him that Lord Brougham (then Mr.
Brougham) and Dr. Birkbeck, with himself and one or two

others, believed that the time for making the attempt
Iwas come.
            was about twelve years old when Mr.

Brougham dined with my father to consult upon it. Some

meetings took place, other liberal men joined them, and

after some delay the first active committee was formed.

Mr. Frend was prevented by long and severe illness

    1 I have tried in vain to find the title of this periodical, which is
not in the British Museum. It must have appeared between 1818

and 1822.
             24 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MOEGAN.

1827.        from taking an active part in the first movements, but he
             joined the general committee on his recovery, became a

             shareholder, and on the election of a council and officers

             was appointed one of four auditors.

             The establishment of University College, called at first

             the London University, promised to fulfil the hopes of all
             friends of education, and was hailed as a forerunner of

             religious freedom. My father naturally took the liveliest

             interest in its progress. Mr. De Morgan welcomed the

             opening of the College, as not only meeting a great

             want of the time, but as offering to himself a prospect of

             leaving the study of Law, which he did not like, for the

             teaching and pursuit of Science. When the time came
             for the appointment of Professors he sent his name in as

             a candidate for the Mathematical chair. He was one of

             thirty-two candidates. The committee for examining tes

             timonials found among his the highest certificates from

             Dr. Thorp, Dr. Peacock, Professor Airy, Professor Cod-

             dington, and others, his Cambridge teachers. He was

             much younger than any of his competitors, but his election

             to the chair of Mathematics was made unanimously, and

             afterwards confirmed by the Council on February 23, 1828,

             being formally communicated to him without delay.
             It was a little characteristic incident connected with
Election to

ship. the appointment of the future Mathematical Professor,

             that while the election was going on in one part of the

             college, and he with some others of the candidates were in

             the common room, he took up a volume lying on the table,
             which proved to be Miss Porter's ' Field of the Forty

             Footsteps.' The scene of this novel is laid in the fields

             which formed the site of the building and its surround

             ings. It was said that, some years before, the marks of

             the weird ' forty footsteps ' might still be seen in the

             ground, but builders and stonemasons had effectually

             removed them, and fanciful comparisons were drawn

             between the effacement of these marks of the brothers'

             rivalry and the barbarity of their lady love as the new
NEED OF A LIBERAL UNIVERSITY.                 25

foundations arose, and the disappearance of crime and 1827.

ignorance under the work which the College had to do.
The love of fiction was strong enough in the candidate's

mind to make him forget his interest in what was going

on, and he had run through the volume before a whisper

reached his ears as to the result of the election.

    In looking at the past history of an institution it is

useful to trace not only the successes, but the mistakes
which have caused failure and disturbance; for even in

cases where present prosperity may lead to imitation, a

statement of errors committed and corrected will be as a
Ichart of the rocks to be avoided hereafter.
                                              shall try to

give a truthful sketch of the early history of the College ;

not entirely omitting those elements in its formation which

created discord in the first years, and which had some
share long after in the disastrous termination of my hus
band's connection with it. Had he lived long enough he

would have himself done this, far better than any one else.
His pen was held for a time by consideration for con

temporaries, most of whom are now gone. Circumstances

connected with his memory have arisen since he was
taken from us which make it imperative on me to do the

work which he left undone.

     To learn this history fairly we must look back to the state of
state of education, and to the needs and disabilities which ,t this time.

led to the foundation of the London University. These
disabilities and needs were felt, not so much by highly
educated academical men wishing for a cheap school for

their sons, as by the great body of enlightened Jews and
Dissenters, held back by religious tests from sharing in
University advantages, but intelligent enough to perceive
the value of what they lost, and rich enough to supply
the want for themselves. The wealth of this party was
of course represented by commercial men. To these must

be added some parents living in London and the neigh

bourhood who could not afford to send their sons to

college, and to whom the attendance on daily lectures
          26 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1828.     while living at home seemed more desirable. A few of

          the most liberal thinkers of the time gave their best help

          to the completion of the design, but the large body of

          men who had been trained under University discipline

          held aloof from an institution from which religious tests

          were excluded, and which might at some time compete

          with the two Universities, bound up as they were by old

          usage with the interests of the Established Church, whose

          foundations were laid in the time of a church older still.

          Thus, with the exception of the few enlightened

              scholars who generally held out a hand to their less
Founders of fortunate brethren, the founders of the London Uni-

Uuhersity. versity were either liberal politicians, not always familiar
              with the details of academical discipline, or mercantile

          men, who, with the best possible intentions, had no ex

          perience of the best way of securing concord and due

          balance in the relations of governing body, teacher, and

          pupil.

          The Deed of Settlement of the London University

          bears date 1826. The Institution was a proprietary one,

          the funds being raised partly by shares, partly by sub

Constitu  scriptions. The management was vested in a council of
tion.     twenty-four gentlemen chosen from among the proprie

          tors, and a general meeting of proprietors formed the

          highest court of appeal. The Professors were elected by
          the Council; and a Warden, who was to be the medium of

          communication between the Council and Professors, and

          superintendent of the household department, was ap

          pointed. The duties of the Professors were confined to

          their class-rooms, in which, as it afterwards appeared,

          they were not absolute.

             It would have been well for the infant institution if a

          piece of advice given by Mr. De Morgan long after, and

          in a different connection,1 could have been acted on at
          this time. ' Never begin,' he said, ' by drawing up con-

          On the establishment of the Ladies' College, Bedford Square.
INTENTIONS OF ITS FOUNDERS.  27

stitutions. They are sure to prove clogs on the wheel. 1828.
Let the work begin in good earnest, and with no needless

machinery. If it is done well you will soon see what is

wanted, and the constitution will be formed by meeting

the needs as they arise.' The founders of University
College, as of other public institutions, had not grasped
the idea of this natural growth, and the effect of their
arrangements was to put a clog upon the wheels, which

shook the whole vehicle, and well-nigh overturned it at

first going off.

    As I cannot enter into the history of this institution

farther than is necessary to explain my husband's connec
tion with it, no names except those which belong to that
part of the history will be brought forward.

     The design of the London University, as set forth in

pamphlets, speeches, and the general understanding of
the time, and repeated many years later in an official
document,1 was to provide a liberal education in Classics,
Mathematics, Physical Science, and Medicine, without
regard to religious distinction either in teacher or pupil.

     The teaching was to be given in lectures attended
daily by students, and the only condition of entry, beside
the fee, was good conduct and compliance with the rules
laid down for the maintenance of order in the college.

    In conformity with this avowed principle of religious

neutrality we find, among the Professors first chosen, Professors.
three Clergymen of the Church of England, one Inde

pendent minister, a Jewish gentleman, who in his place
of Hebrew professor taught the reading of the Old Tes-

    1 No reference whatever is made to religion in the Deed of SetiU-
nl, Regulations, or By-Laws. In these it is stated that the object
of the University is to afford an education in Mathematical and Phy

sical Science. Classics and Medicine. The absolute determination to

leave the subject of religion entirely untouched appears negatively
from these documents, but positively from all the addresses given in
the institution, in newspaper articles, and in the general understanding
of all the parties connected with it, a great number of whom, being

nch Diaaentara, watched the proceedings with a jealous eye.
            28 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1828.    tament, and other gentlemen nominally churchmen, but

Letter to   whose religious views were known to vary from strict
Mr. Frend.
            orthodoxy to the widest latitudinarianism.
Appoint
ment        The appointment to the Mathematical Professorship

            pleased some of Mr. De Morgan's Cambridge friends, who

            spoke and wrote of it as a boon to the London University

            and to himself. It would be untrue to say that all his

            friends rejoiced in it, for his own family and near rela

            tions, who had anticipated a brilliant success for him at

            the Bar, felt that to take a position as yet doubtful, with

            a greater doubt of fitting remuneration, was really a

            sacrifice on his part.  My father      shared in this feeling,
            and, in reply to the                   of Mr. De Morgan
            wrote: --               expression
                                        I
                                                        it,
            You seem to fancy that was going to the Bar from
            '

                  I
            choice. The fact is, that of all the professions which are

            called learned, the Bar was the most open to me but my
                                                             ;

            choice will be to keep to the sciences as long as they will

            feed me.      am very glad  that       anca"n  sleep without   the
            chance of  dreaming that                       Indenture of   Five
                                           see
                                      I
                                           I

            Parts," or some such matter, held up between me and the

            Mecanique Celeste, knowing all the time that the dream

            must come true.'

            One false step due to the tendency in young asso

            ciations to frame constitutions before their needs are
            known, was the appointment of a Warden for the new

            University. The next error arose from the same cause,
            and showed the inability of the governing body to per

            ceive what was due to men of worth and education, if

            they meant such men to give them the weight of their

            character and influence. As good friend to the new
                                    :

                                      '
                                                a
            College wrote to Mr. De Morgan, speaking of two influen
            tial members of Council A. believes that the University

            depends on the Professors, B. that the Professors depend

            on the University.' Unfortunately the A.s were in the

            minority.

            Mr. De Morgan received the official notice of his
      FORMAL APPOINTMENT TO PROFESSORSHIP.        29

appointment on the day of the election, and was informed               1828.
at the same time that ' a formal certificate of appoint

ment will be prepared, in which the duties of the Pro

fessors will be specified, and they will be required to sign
an acceptance of the authority of the Council and of the

rules of the University on receiving them.'

These conditions and obligations were not such as could Undue re-

be accepted by men accustomed to academical discipline, profaJ,rs.

and who knew the value of their work. They were the

work of a governing body new to its own duties, and

to the claims and rights of those for whom they were

composed. But after a strong remonstrance the Pro

fessors were enabled to hold their diplomas on a simple

declaration of adherence to the constitution as set forth

in the Deed of Settlement. The classes opened on the

following November, and on the 5th the Professor of

Mathematics gave his introductory lecture, when, as he
says, he ' began to teach himself to better purpose than

he had been taught, as does every man who is not a fool,

let his former teachers be what they may.' 1
Thia lecture ' On the Study of Mathematics ' takes a introduc-
                                                                              *°
mnch  wider view of that study, and  its effects  upon the             ture.
mind, than its title alone would imply. It is an essay

upon the progress of knowledge, the need of knowledge,

the right of everyone to as much knowledge as can be

given to him, and the place in mental development which

the culture of the reasoning power ought to hold. It is

not only a discourse upon mental education, but upon

mind itself. It was the work of a young man of twenty-

two years and four months old, and the earnestness and

sanguineness of youth may be seen in the strong deter-

    ' In this year he published a translation of the first three chap

ters of Bourdon's Algebra. This was afterwards superseded in hi*
Hs-- -n»'iu by his own Arithmetic and Algebra. In his own copy
<4 Konrdon is inscribed, after his name, ' Aged 22 years and 2
months, being the first work he ever published. -- A. De M., Aug. 26,
/

                30 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1828. mination with which his work was begun, and the high

                hopes which he felt of the work the University had to do.

                How well his part was done, after years, and the con

                senting voice of many pupils whose own work bore the

                fruit of his teaching, have given proof.
                    What part he had in obtaining for the College its

                subsequent reputation it is not for me to say. How he

                was repaid, the judgment of the future must deter

                mine.

                     The Mathematical class during the first session con

                sisted of nearly one hundred pupils. In the next year

                there was an increase of numbers. The Professor gave
                two lectures every day, the first from nine till ten a.m.,

                the second from three to four in the afternoon. After

                each lecture he remained for a time at his desk, in order

                that pupils who had found any part obscure might come

                to him to have their difficulties cleared up. In this way

                the two lectures occupied about three hours in the day,

                and the pupils' exercises which were to be examined

                rather less than an hour more.

   Day school.  Various proposals had been made by the most active

                among the Professors for improving the condition of the
                institution; among those which were carried into effect

                were the foundation of a day school in connection with

                the University, and the annual distribution of prizes and

                honours. But, as might be expected from the elements of
                which the new institution was founded, it could not go on

                long smoothly. Troubles began soon after the opening,

                due to arrangements which resulted from the forma

                tion of a constitution and laws before the working neces

                sities of the institution could be known ; and all the mis

                apprehensions which soon arose among the component

                members were traceable to this cause. These were set

                forth chiefly in the following pamphlets, printed for
                private circulation : --

                   1. 'A Letter to the Shareholders and Councillors of

                the University.'
VISIT TO PARIS.  31

     2. ' Statements respecting the University of London,     1828.
prepared at the desire of the Council by Nine of the Pro

fessors.'
     3. ' Letter to the Council of the University of London,

by Leonard Horner, Warden of the University.'

    4. ' Observations on a Letter, &c., by L. Horner, Esq.,

Ac., Ac., by Nine Professors.'
     During the vacation of 1829, Mr. De Morgan spent a 1829.

few weeks in Paris, chiefly at the house of Colonel, after

wards General John Briggs, of the Madras Army. Col. Colonel
Briggs and his father, Dr. Briggs, also of the Indian ngg8-

army, had married two Miss Dodsons, sisters of Mr. De

Morgan's mother. They were, therefore, his uncles by

marriage. Col. Briggs, who, as a young man, had served
under Sir John Malcolm during the time of the dissolu

tion of the Mahratta Confederacy, afterwards held suc

cessively a diplomatic post in Persia, and that of Besident

at Nagpoor, and finally, for a short time, the place of

Senior Commissioner of Mysore. He was an able officer

and an indefatigable student of Eastern language, history,
and Science. His work on the Land Tax of India was

one of the earliest protests against some points of British

misrule in the East. In the bringing out of this work his

nephew Augustus gave him a good deal of assistance.

Besides this work, General Briggs was the author of
' Letters on India,' an excellent guide for young men

entering the army, even now when the army is under
different rule ; and besides the ' Ferishta,' already men

tioned, he translated the work by Ghulam Hussein on
the ' Decay of the Mogul Empire.' His knowledge of

Eastern languages and Science had brought him and

our friend Godfrey Higgins into intimate acquaintance.

They visited my father together at Stoke Newington,

and their animated discussions were always amusing

and often instructive, though the two had a tendency to

differ about Hindoo temples and topes and remains, which

Mr. Higgins declared had been built and decorated
          32 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1820.  according to his theory of ancient Astronomy, and Colonel
Acquaint
ances in  Briggs as firmly maintained were not so when he last saw
Paris.
          them.
India.
               The visit to Paris was paid just before Colonel Briggs

          left for India. It was a time of great enjoyment, and

          besides the society of his uncle's family and the pleasures

          of Paris life, then quite new to him, whose time had been

          altogether given to study, he made acquaintance with

          many of the scientific men and scholars of the time.
          Among these were MM. Hachette (with whom he corre
          sponded till M. Hachette's death in 1832), Biot, Chladni,
          the Due de Broglie, and others. With M. Quetelet he
          became acquainted two years later. M. Bourdon, whose

          work on Algebra he had translated, was in Paris, but the

          two never met.

          My husband's interest in his birthplace had always

          been kept alive by intercourse with his many relations

          there, some of whom were in the Madras army, some in

          the Civil Service. It is well known how frequent were the

          disputes and jealousies among the servants of the East
          India Company. Col. De Morgan had suffered much from
          accusations made against him by superior officers, for

          which the later justice done to him hardly compensated.

          Col. Briggs, who was acknowledged to be an able and well-

          informed officer, had his share of trouble. In 1829, great

          difficulties arose in the government of the Mysore, owing

          partly to the mixture of native rule, and partly to the
          province being under the direction of the Governor of

          Madras, who appointed Commissioners for it. Owing to
          these disorders, Lord W. Bentinck, the Governor-General,

          determined to separate the Mysore from the Madras

          Presidency, and appointed Col. Briggs and another officer

          Commissioners, with full powers over the province. Of

          these Col. Briggs was the chief. This appointment

          displeased the Governor of Madras, who left no stone

          unturned to reverse  it,  and after a year and a half

          succeeded in getting Col. Briggs removed, and another
         COLONEL BRIGGS.                                     33

officer put in his place. The difficulties and real hardships              1829.
(for he was then ill) which Col. Briggs underwent during this
time were communicated to his sympathising nephew and

friend in England, who gave what help he could by calling
the attention of the Directors of the Company to the case.
Nothing could be done, however, and Mr. James Mill

Iwrites, ' From all I hear, believe Col. Briggs' friends

have reason to rejoice in his dismissal.' 1
     The session of 1829-30 began nearly as the last

  1 Dr. Briggs' ghost story, well known in the Madras Presidency

ninety years ago, was one of the best authenticated incidents of the

kind I ever heard. I give it here as it was told me, first by Mr.
De Morgan, who heard it from his mother ; afterwards by General

Briggs, who had it when a young man from Sir John Malcolm. His

father could not be induced to speak of it.

     When my informant was a very young infant, Dr. Briggs, who was

quartered with his regiment somewhere (I forget the place) in the hill

coun try, used to hunt once or twice a week with the officers and others,

whose custom it was to breakfast at each other's houses after the sport

was over. On a day on which it was Dr. Briggs' turn to receive his

friends, he awoke at dawn, and saw a figure standing beside his bed.

He rubbed his eyes to make sure that he was awake, got up, crossed

the room, and washed his face well with cold water. He then turned,

and seeing the same figure, approached it and recognised a sister

whom he had left in England. He uttered some exclamation, and

fell down in a swoon, in which state he was found by the servant who

came to call him for the hunt. He was of course unable to join his

friends, who, when at breakfast on their return, rallied him on thecause

         of his absence. While they were talking he suddenly looked up
         and said trembling, Is
                                    possible that none of you see the
         ('

             ''

                    is it
                                        I
         'Iwho stands there
         They all declared there was no one.

tell you there is,' he said. She my sister.  beg you all to make
» n«<e of this, for we shall hear of her death.' All present, sixteen in
number, of whom Sir John Malcolm was one, made an entry of the

  ecurrvnee and the date in their note-books, and by the first mail

which could bring the news from England the sister's death at the

time was announced. She had, before leaving this world, expressed a
wish that she could see her brother and leave her two young sons to

his care. Dr. Briggs was a man of great nerve and courage, and one

to whom the idea of a spirit's appearance would, until that time, havo

U«n utterly ridiculous. The death of General Briggs some years

since, at the age of ninety, makesP it  allowable to publish the story,

which, however, he gave me for the purpose forty years ago.
            34 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1829-30.    had ended, and the dissensions in the institution were

1831.       publicly known. In March 1830 the Mathematical Pro
committee,
            fessor's share of the difficulties became serious, and a

            correspondence between himself and the Warden resulted
            in some modifications of the functions of that officer.

            But the disturbances on the Medical side continued

            through the year, the result of a series of alternate mis
            takes on the part of the authorities and remonstrances on

            that of the Professors. One of these remonstrances is con

            tained in a letter written by Mr. De Morgan, who had been
            asked by some members of the Council to lay before that
            body the views he had expressed in a conference with a
            Committee appointed to examine into some complaints pre
            ferred by the Anatomical class against their instructor,
            Professor Pattison : 1--

                 Gentlemen, -- In compliance with the wish expressed by you

            I Iwhen had the honour of an interview with you, lay before
            Iyou the views which entertain on a subject most essentially

            connected with the welfare of the University, viz., the situation
            which the Professors ought to hold in the establishment. This
            question is of the highest importance, inasmuch as upon the
            manner in which it shall be settled depends the order of education
            and merit which will be found among the Professors in future,
            and the estimation in which they will be held by the public.

                 In order to induce men of character to fill the chairs of the

            University, these latter must be rendered highly independent
            and respectable. No man who feels (rightly) for himself will
            face a class of pupils as long as there is anything in the character
             in which he appears before them to excite any feelings but those
             of the most entire respect. The pupils all know that there is a
             body in the University superior to the Professors ; they should
             also know that this body respects the Professors, and that the
             fundamental laws of the institution will protect the Professor as
             long as he discharges his duty, as certainly as they will lead to
             his ejectment in case of misconduct or negligence. Unless the
             pupils are well assured of this they will look upon the situation
             of Professor as of very ambiguous respectability, and they will

                I1 have avoided entering into details, leaving the principles at

             issue to be inferred from Mr. De Morgan's letter.
          LETTER TO COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL.                              35

only be wrong inasmuch as there will be no ambiguity at all in             1831.

the case.

     With the public the situation will be altogether as bad.
Wherever the Professor goes, he will meet no one in a similar
situation to his own -- that is, no one who has put his character

and prospects into the hands of a number of private individuals.
The clergyman, the lawyer, the physician, the tutor or Professor
in the ancient Universities, will all look down upon him, for they
are all secured in the possession of their characters. Nothing but

the public voice, or the law of the land, can touch them, and a

security as good must be given to the Professor of the London
University before he can pretend to mix in their society as their

equal.

    If these were the sentiments of one individual only, they
would merit little attention ; but if they be the opinions of a

majority of the present Professors, or even of a large minority,

the committee may be sure that they are prevalent among the

class of men from which the University ought to expect to draw

its Professors. The sense of the Professors on this subject can be

readily ascertained, and the committee will incur a heavy moral

responsibility should they, without the most attentive examina

tion, propose a change which may place the Professors, present
or future, in the situation I have described. For mark the con
Ifsequences.
              I am right, every man who has the feelings of a

gentleman will abandon the University in disgust ; the same
feeling will prevent any person of considerable attainments from

offering himself for the vacant chairs ; and the University, in the
general school at least, will sink into the most paltry of all estab
lishments for education, indeed, long continue to exist.
                         I if,                                         I

                                        it

                                                                    ;
am not mentioning my own opinions alone such deductions are

very common at present.  hardly meet one of my friends who

does not seriously advise me to resign my situation on these very

grounds.
The committee has done me the honour to ask my opinion

as to the principles to be laid down for the future regulation of

the Professorships.  will state, in few words, my own convic
                     I

                                                3
                                                            ;
                                                          is
                                                             is
tions on the subject.

    The University will never be other than divided against itself

as long as the principle of expediency recognised in the dis
missal of Professors. There will always be some one who, in

the opinion of some of his colleagues, doing injury to the
school by his manner of teaching and there will always be

                                                          p
       36 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1831.  attempts in progress to remove the obuoxious individual. The

       medical school is peculiarly subject to this evil, owing to the very

       frequent jealousies of one another which arise among the mem

       bers of that profession. No man will feel secure in his seat ;
       and, consequently, no man will feel it his interest to give up his

       time to the affairs of his class. And yet this is absolutely

       necessary in the general school at least, for from the moment

       when a class becomes numerous the preparation, arrangement,

       I Ifand conduct of a system of instruction is nearly the business of
       a life ; at least, have found it so.           a Professor is easily

       removable, he will endeavour to secure something else of a more

       certain tenure ; he will turn his attention to some literary under

       taking, or to private pupils, while he remains in the institution,

       in order that he may not be without resource if the caprice of the

       governing body should remove him --and this to the manifest
       detriment of his class, which, when it pays him well, ought to
       command his best exertions. In addition to this, he will al

       ways be on the watch to establish himself in some less precarious
       employment, which he will do even at pecuniary loss, since,

       especially if he have a family, it must be his first object. In this
       way the University will become a nursery of Professors for

       better conducted institutions of all descriptions, since no man,

       or body of men, desirous to secure a competent teacher in any

       branch of knowledge, will need to give themselves the trouble to

       examine into the pretensions of candidates as long as any one

       fit for their purpose is at the University of London. The conse

       quence will be a perpetual change of system in the different classes

       of the University, and the eventual loss of its reputation as a place

       of education. These evils may be very simply avoided by mak

       ing the continuance of the Professors in their chairs determinable

       only by death, voluntary resignation, or misconduct either in

       their character of Professors or as gentlemen, proved before a

       competent tribunal, so framed that there shall be no doubt in the

       public mind of the justice of their decision.
       IBut this, it has been said, will be to give the Professors a
       vested interest.  assert that, in the proper sense of the words

       Ivested interest, it ought so to be. Who have more interest in

       the well-being of the University than and my colleagues ? Is

       it the Proprietary and the Council, on account of the capital

       invested by them, and their zeal for the advancement of educa
       tion ? In the latter we yield to none of them ; and as to

       pecuniary risks, I, for example, have invested the whole results
   LETTER TO COMMITTEE OF COUNCIL.                                     37

Iof an expensive education, for the original outlay of which               1831.

might buy fifty shares at the market price ; and even omitting

Ithis, have invested here my time, character, and prospects, all

and every one of which is as truly an investment of capital as
that made by any proprietor --with this addition, that it is my all ;
whereas the portion of any proprietor is a very small part of his.

Can it be expected, then, that the Professor should be the only
person in the institution who has no interest in it ? and that he,

merely on account of the important part he has to play, should

be placed in a situation not so respectable as that of a domestic

servant ? These are truths which cannot but have the greatest

weight with every person who shall hereafter think of embarking

his fortunes here ; and the only way to secure proper Professors

<m Ikt irkole is to respect these truths, and not to let incidental

advantages, even supposing them such now, be considered of

more importance than general results.

   An institution such as ours is a machine meant to last for

centuries, but this it cannot do if those who manage it are content
to avail themselves of expediency, which is made for the day,

in preference to fixed principle, which will never wear out.

    I have written these sentiments because I feel no trouble too
great when the end proposed is so truly useful. Personally I
feel but slightly interested, for I cannot conceal from myself that

the chance of resuming my duties in the University is very small.

The opinions which I have here given will be the guide of my
conduct, and, I have reason to believe, of that of others also.

But should the result of the present proceedings be that a

Professor of the University of London need not hold down his

head for shame when he hears his situation mentioned, and the

terms on which he holds no one more ready than myself to
                      I
stand or fall with this institution. This        iIs,
                            it,
                                                          I
                              I                  fear, not an un

                                             is
meaning pledge, for past events have so fixed in the minds of

men an impression unfavourable to our prospects, that fear our
number of pupils will be seriously diminished in the ensuing

   la conclusion, gentlemen, have to thank you for the polite

attention with which         was received by you when took an
                                                     I

opportunity of laying these sentiments before you in person, and

I  beg to subscribe myself,

                             Your obedient servant,

                                                 AcocsTca De Morgan-.

   W Guilford Street, July 15, 1831.
1831.  38 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

            Mr. De Morgan also wrote the following letter, offi
       cially addressed to the Council through the Warden : --

          ISir, -- I beg leave to address the Council through you on a

       subject which approach with great reluctance.

           It is well known to the Council that I have often differed
       I Ifrom them on matters connected with the management of the

       University, and that, when have done so, have never hesitated

       I Ito declare my opinions in the plainest language. The Council

       will therefore believe me when say that am convinced that they
       and the Professors have during the last session been coming to
       such an understanding as would have made the supremacy of the
       former quite consistent with the respectability and independence
       of the latter. A third body has, however, interfered in the ques
       tion, whose declared intentions, if carried into effect, will render

       Iit impossible for me to continue in the situation at present hold.

            Should the result of the labours of the Select Committee be
       the abrogation of the by-laws alluded to at the General Meeting,

       I respectfully inform the Council that it is my intention to seek
       Ielsewhere the subsistence and character which had hoped to
       gain in the University of London alone. At the same time I
       feel it would not be dealing fairly with the Council if I let them

       remain in ignorance of my determination, considering that the
       deliberation of the Proprietors may possibly be pushed to a late
       period in the vacation, when a proper choice of a successor to

       Imy chair may be rendered difficult by the shortness of time re

       maining for that purpose. Having announced my intention,
       am therefore in the hands of the Council ; should they consider

       Iit unfair in me to offer a conditional resignation dependent on cir

       cumstances over which they have no control, will, on intimation
       to that effect, offer an absolute resignation immediately. My

       wish is decidedly to remain in the University, if that can be done

       consistently with my own notions of what is due to my character.

       IHaving thus shortly stated the predicament in which find my
       Iself placed, leave the matter to the decision of the Council.

                I have the honour to remain, sir,

                                                     Your obedient servant,
                                                                   Augustus de Morgan.

           90 Guilford Street, July 1831.

            The whole was brought to a crisis a few days after by
       the dismissal of the Professor of Anatomy, the resolution
      FIRST RESIGNATION OF PROFESSORSHIP.                              39

for which concluded with these words :-- 'Kesolved--That,                         1831.
in taking this step, the Council feel it due to Professor
Pattison to state that nothing which has come to their
knowledge with respect to his conduct has in any way

tended to impeach either his general character or profes
sional skill and knowledge.'

     Immediately on hearing of this resolution, Mr. De
Morgan sent in the following letter of resignation :--

                             To the Council.

Oektumin,-- I have just seen Mr. Pattison, who has informed

me of his removal from his chair, and has also shown me a reso

lution, of which this is a copy. [Copy of resolution as above.]
Here is distinctly laid down the principle that a Professor may

be removed, and, as far as you can do            disgraced, without any
fault of his own.
a

   I
                              I

                                                                  it,
                                                                it
This being understood, should think discreditable to hold

Professorship under you one moment longer.

      have, therefore, the honour to resign my Professorship, and

to remain, gentlemen,              Your obedient servant,
     90 Guilford Street,                                    A. De Morgan.

        Sunday, July 24, 1831.

     The answer came in the words, The Council accept your;
resignation.'
                                    I
    In reply to a letter from my father, he wrote --
                                          's                           :
                                              '
                                                                               I
    Dijlr Sir, --    have    just  90 Guilford Street, July 20, 1831.             Letter to
                   I               received your kind note, which                 William
h. asten to answer.                                                               Frend.
                          a
The Council, in session held after the meeting on Saturday,

deprived Mr. Pattison of his Professorship, alleging at the same
time, in vindication of themselves, suppose, that nothing which

had ever come to their knowledge had any tendency to lower

their opinion either of Mr. Pattison general character or of his

professional skill and knowledge thus laying down the principle
that a Professor might be deprived of his office without any fault

hit oicn, and even under a fire of encomiums from the Council.
<f
      had long fully made up my mind not to hold any office
   I

whatever which was not absolutely my own during good be

haviour-- not even in the service of Government, should such u
1831.  40 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

       thing ever fall in my way. Immediately, therefore, on seeing

       Ithe minute of Council containing the aforesaid removal, together

       with their most sufficient reason for the same as a rider, ad

       Idressed a letter to the Council that, under the principle there

       advocated, should consider it discreditable to hold their Pro

       Ifessorship one moment longer. The resignation was of course

       accepted, and have done with them.
           This step will be against my pecuniary interest should the

       University ultimately succeed very well, which the present pro
       ceedings of the Council will not allow any man to think who
       knows how much such an institution depends on public opinion.

       IFor the present moment, and up to the present time, shall be
       I Ino loser, since know that by my own private exertions can

       gain as much as, thanks to the dissensions in the University and

       Ithe conduct of the Council regarding them, have ever done in

       my public capacity.

           With regard to an accusation and a hearing supposed by you

       Inecessary previous to the removal of a Professor, must en

       lighten you on a principle discovered in the University of London
       by the Council, and faithfully acted on by them up to the present
       moment ; viz., that a Professor in their institution is on the same
       footing with regard to them as a domestic servant to his master,
       with, however, the disadvantage of the former not being able to
       demand a month's wages or a month's warning. The proprietors,
       by their sense expressed at public meetings, have agreed with

       Ithem, it appears to me.

               have still some interest in the University on account of some
       valued friends who remain behind, having what the advertise
       ments call encumbrances. They, however, have expressed their

       I Idetermination to remain only one session longer ; and feeling, as

          do, that never could send a ward of mine to an institution
       where it has been thus admitted by precedent that the student is
       a proper person to dictate the continuance and decide the merits

       Iof a Professor, cannot wish the University to succeed, because
       I feel it ought not to succeed upon those principles.

          If there be a large body of the Proprietary really interested

       in the moral as well as intellectual part of education, their efforts

       may yet save that fine institution. As a proprietor of it I would

       gladly lend my humble aid.
                                                      Yours most sincerely,
                                                                       A. Dr Morgan.
            41

            SECTION III.

            1831 to 1836.

At the time when he left the College, Mr. De Morgan 1831.

was living with his family in Guilford Street, but re

moved in the autumn of 1831 to 5 Upper Gower Street,
where he lived till our marriage in 1837. His only sister

had been married the year before to Mr. Lewis Hensley,

a surgeon of ability and good practice. My own family

left Stoke Newington and settled at 31 Upper Bedford

Place, Russell Square, in 1830.

     In May 1828, shortly after his first coming to London,
Mr. De Morgan had been elected a Fellow of the Astro

nomical Society, and in February 1830 took his place on

the Council. Of the state of          Science  jvust before that  Sgctaiet«nceof
peri.od, Sir John Herschel said : '  The end   of the eighteenth

and the beginning of the nineteenth century were re

markable for the small amount of scientific movement

going on in this country, especially in its more exact

departments. . . . Mathematics were at the last gasp,

and Astronomy nearly so-- I mean in those members of

its frame which depend upon precise measurement and

systematic calculation. The chilling torpor of routine
had begun to spread itself over all those branches of

Science which wanted the excitement of experimental

research.'

In 1820 the Astronomical Society was founded by

Mr. Baily in conjunction with Dr. Pearson, and from the

time of its formation the joint efforts of many earnest

intellectual men were given to raise the higher sciences
/

   1831.  42 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

          from the state of depression and inactivity described by
          Sir John Herschel. The work, however, had not been
          uninterrupted, and the difficulties attending their task
          were increased by some injudicious persons who liked
          better to attack old errors and abuses than to work
          harmoniously with those whose only aim was to introduce

          better methods and measures.

               This was inseparable from a condition of reconstruction
          --the same spirit of change and reconstruction that was
          at work in the political world-- and the obstacles thrown
          in the way of reform by men whose efforts went either
          in the wrong direction or too far in the right direction,

          Iwere not felt only in science. Of this time my husband

          wrote some years after : ' first began to know the Scien
          tific world in 1828. The forces were then mustering for
          what may be called the great battle of 1830. The great
          epidemic which produced the French Eevolution, and
          what is yet (1866) the English Reform Bill, showed its
          effect on the scientific world.' The nature and extent of

          the scientific works begun before this time and carried
          out to completeness during the half -century which fol
          lowed, can be but slightly mentioned. Mr. Francis Baily
          had effected the improvement in the ' Nautical Almanac,'
          and compiled the Society's ' Catalogue of Stars.' Sir
          John Herschel was engaged on his ' Catalogue of Double
           Stars,' to complete which he left England for the Cape of
           Good Hope nearly three years later. The Royal Observa
           tory, Greenwich, was in full operation, under the direction
           of Professor, now Sir George Airy. Astronomy was
           rapidly approaching that height on which it now stands,

           and the efforts of the Astronomical Society --a body of
           men working with earnestness and unanimity --did much
           to raise it to its present state.

               Mr. De Morgan was elected honorary secretary in

           1831. He entered with zeal into every question brought

          Itbefore the Society, and his place was not a sinecure.

           is not easy to say how much of the usefulness and pros
THE ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY.  43

perity of the Society during the years in which Mr. De 1831.
Morgan filled this place was due to his incessant energy

and effort, and to his steady judgment at difficult junctures.
     His work at the Society brought him into immediate Astrono-

contact with all its transactions and with all concerned in Society.

them, and as he never left London, and was known to be

always at hand, much more than the routine duties of an

honorary secretary would have fallen to his share, even if he

had not voluntarily taken them upon himself. He drew up

documents, wrote letters, and arranged for the meetings and

the publication of memoirs. His obituary notices, written
as one after another of his fellow-workers left the world,

are biographical photographs, taken with a skill that
makes the sunlight bring out all the finest as well as the
most characteristic lines of the face.

     In the year 1831, the second of Sir James South's

presidency, a royal charter was granted to this Society.
It was made out in the name of the President, owing to a
legal formality, which would have involved greater expense

to the Society if others of the Council had been included.

But though no mention of differences of opinion appears
on the minutes of the Society, there was certainly any
thing but unanimity as to the manner of receiving this
grant, for Mr. De Morgan has preserved the following
letter from Captain, afterwards Admiral Smyth, in answer
to the requisition officially made for another Council meet

ing to re-discuss the question. The style of the formal

letter contrasts strongly with the friendly effusions to the
' Esteemed Sec.' and ' Dear Mentor ' of after times : --

     In answer to the requisition for a Council to meet on Satur
day next to re-discuss the subject of the charter, I regret to say

Ithat indispensable occupations prevent my attendance ; but,
must add, if leisure were at my command I should still strongly

object to being called away from employment on account of the
whims of an individual.

       I consider the point in question to have been already as well
considered as the true spirit of our association requires ; that

any objection that has been started is more specious than valid ;
       44 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1831.  Iand that any further alteration will be merely a distinction

       without a difference.  firmly believe that every member of the

       Council has acted to the best of his ability and opportunity, and

       also feel that the Council, as a body, has ever shown itself more

       zealons abont substance than about quibbling forms ; but they

       might as well frame laws and institutions for Mars or Jupiter as

       Ifor those who are predetermined to be dissatisfied.

               therefore trust, in order that the vigour of the Society
       may not be fettered, that the Council will take effectual steps to

       repel every disorderly attempt to impute motives or impugn its

       conduct, as well as to stifle their rancorous disputes, which can
       Ifonly engender an atrophy of moral work.
                                                  this is not insisted

       on, the meeting, which was purely instituted for the propagation

       of Science, will quickly degenerate into a spouting club, in which,

       instead of the adduction of undistorted facts, we shall be exposed

       to all the artillery of premisses without conclusions, and conclu

       sions without premisses, added to the iteration of undigested

       thoughts in all the turgidity of ill-taste; and even were the

       reasoning powers among us more perfect, we should only be

       making much noisp and little progress, leaving the good uncer

       tain and remote, while the evil would be certain and immediate.

       Moreover, the disputatious system, being both irritable and irri

       tating, is altogether as absurd for astronomers as would be the

       Idramatising of Newton's Principia.

               therefore firmly hope that a perfect union in the cause we

       are embarked on will distinguish our efforts, for the straightfor

       Iward course of duty is as perfectly practicable as it is desirable.
          have the honour to be, sir,
                              Your obedient servant,

                                                  W. H. Smtth.

       Professor De Morgan, Sec. Ast. Soc.

            Who the individual was whose ' whims ' Captain

       ISmyth refers to cannot say. But it is a significant fact

       that Sir J. South, whose Presidency had not expired when

       the charter was granted, was not re-elected in the new
       staff of officers, nor does his name appear on the Council

       after this time.

            Mr. De Morgan's acquaintance with his colleagues on
       the Council of the Astronomical Society became in several
       cases intimate friendship. His friends were Mr. Baily,
FRANCIS BAILY.                       45

Sir John Herschel, the Astronomer Royal, Lord Wrottesley,         1831.

Rev. Richard Sheepshanks, Admiral Manners, Mr. Gallo

way, and a few others. Mr. Sheepshanks and Mr. Galloway

had houses in the immediate neighbourhood of Gower
Street, and Mr. Baily lived at 37 Tavistock Place-- a

pleasant house in a garden sheltered by sycamores. This

house, rendered famous by the repetition of the Cavendish

experiment, had formerly belonged to Mr. Perry, of the
' Times.' In it my mother had met Porson, and heard

him repeat Greek poetry.1

Mr. Baily was well fitted by his clear-headed steadiness

of character, as well as by his excellent temper and

geniality, to form the centre of a knot of friends sharing

in the same pursuits. The same qualities made him an

excellent host, and a better President of the Astronomical

Society than if he had been a more brilliant talker. His

kindly, simple bearing gained the love of those who could
Ionly look at his work with wonder.
                                     remember feeling
Iproud of having played a game of chess, in which was of

course beaten, with him. His house and appointments were

just what they should be, made perfect to his friends by the

cordiality of his reception. After his sister came to live

with him, when this welcome was extended to his friends'

Iwives and sisters, no house in London, suppose, had held

Imore happy parties than 37 Tavistock Place.
        find an anecdote showing his characteristic order and

neatness in a letter left by my husband for the Institute

of Actuaries. The proposal referred to was made in 1835,

and related to the Cavendish experiment.

     ' That every rule must have its exceptions is true even

of Baily's accuracy, though I should have thought the
Iassertion must have failed if had not known the con

trary. Few persons, however, know that this assertion

contradicts itself. For, if it be a rule that every rule has

its exception, this rule must have its exception ; that is,

J.1 This house was left by Miss Baily to Sir Herschel, and until

  lately was inhabited by Mr. Digby Wyatt.
1831.  46 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

       Ithere must be a rule without exception. Leaving this bone

       for logicians to pick, go on with my story. About 1835
       the Government made an important proposal to the
       Astronomical Society. Mr. Baily, the President, stated
       that he had summoned the Council to consider a com
       munication from the Lords of the Admiralty, which he
       would forthwith read. He then put his hand in his pocket,
       and the paper was not there. This almost excited remark,
       for that Mr. Baily should not remember in which pocket
       what he looked for was to be found, was a very unlikely
       thing. But the other pockets also answered in the negative,
       and the end of it was that Baily announced that he must
       have left his papers behind him. The announcement of
       a comet with satellites would not have created half the
       surprise which followed. There was nothing for it but to
       take a cab and get back as quick as possible, leaving the
       Council to decide mem. con., though it could not be entered
       on the minutes, that they liked the President all the
       better for being, to absolute demonstration, a man of like
       failings with themselves.'

           In the Supplement to the ' Penny Cyclopaedia ' Mr. De
       Morgan wrote of Mr. Baily : --

            ' The history of the astronomy of the nineteenth cen
       tury will be incomplete without a catalogue of his labours.
       He was one of the founders of the Astronomical Society,
       and his attention to its affairs was as accurate and

       minute as if it had been a firm of which he was the chief

       clerk, with expectation of being taken into partnership.'
            Sir John Herschel, the most distinguished in general

       estimation of these co-workers, was not so often among
       them at this time. He left England for the Cape of Good
       Hope in 1833, and was of course unable during his absence
       to take part in the practical business of the Society. My
       husband's letters to him show how little his colleagues
       liked to consider him absent. This correspondence began
       in the year 1831, when Mr. De Morgan, as secretary,

       addressed him with official formality, and continued till
RICHARD SHEEPSHANKS.  47

1870, having for many years become the expression of 1831.

affectionate friendship.

     The Astronomer Royal and Mrs. Airy were among the
most welcome of this circle of friends, who often met at

the house of Mr. Sheepshanks, where the presence of his

sister, a woman full of genial kindness, made all feel wel

come and happy. All were fond of music, and Mrs. Airy's

and her sister's ballads, sung with a spirit that gave them
a character equal to Wilson's, were sometimes accompanied
by Mr. De Morgan's flute, and are still among my

pleasantest remembrances.
      Mr. De Morgan had a strong regard for Mr. Sheep- Richard

shanks. Among many descriptive remarks, he says of siJX.

him in the MS. before mentioned, ' He was the man

Ifrom whom learnt more than from all others of the
way to feel and acknowledge the merits of an opponent. I

 have known many men cheerfully and candidly admit the

 good points of an antagonist, but hardly another, besides
 Sheepshanks, who would, in the course of opposition,
 systematically select them, bring them forward, maintain
 them against those of his own side ; and this always, year
 after year, when engaged in warm opposition as well as in
 jocose conversation, when in public discussion with several
 as well as in private conversation with a single friend.'
 And that which must be noticed is the vigorous and prac
 tical character of his friendship. His active and unwearied

 assistance was as surely to be reckoned on as a law of

 nature, especially if to the cause of his friend was attached

 the opportunity of supporting some principle, or aiding
 some question of science. Nor was his kindness of feel

 ing limited to his friends. It showed itself in real and

 thoughtful consideration for all with whom he came in
 contact. Had he been a physician, his fanciful and self-
 tormenting patients would have thought him the worst of

their ills, his milder cases of real suffering would have

 been cheered by his bantering kindness, while severe and
 dangerous malady would have felt the presence of the
            48 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

    1831.   sympathy which money cannot buy, shown with a delicacy

The con-    which benevolence itself cannot always command.
spirators.
            The reference to an opponent points to Sir James

            South, who had become before this time a general oppo

            nent of most of his scientific friends. He joined Mr. Bab-

            bage, who had accused some members of the Astronomical

            Society of being in a conspiracy against him, and this
            accusation elicited from Mr. De Morgan the following

            description of his own relations with three of his
            friends :--
            ' The only conspirators named were MM. Airy and
                                                .
                                                   These two and myself lived together  in
            Sheepshanks.

            ...intimate friendship, officers of the Astronomical Society
            through a long course of years,        we three, and each

            for himself, deciding that he was a rational and practi

            cable man, and that the other two, no doubt worthy and

            rational, were a couple of obstinate fellows. Francis

            IBaily thought the same of all three. suppose we were
            Ian equi-tenacious triangle. But never a sharp word, am

            sure, passed between any two of the four. Men of Science

            are not always quarrelsome ; and, as often happens when

            obstinate persons are reasoners, we were generally of one

            line of action, with occasional repudiation of each other's

            views. In all the many pleasant laughs we have had

            together about the doings of the two common assailants,

            nothing ever emerged which gave me the least impression

            of the existence of any common purpose in the two other

            minds, with reference to the eccentric anomalies of the

            Astronomical world.'

            Captain, afterwards Admiral Smyth, soon after this

            Itime came from Bedford, and took up his abode in

            Cheyne Walk, Chelsea. He, assisted, have heard, by his

            bowl of punch, was the life of the Astronomical Club, a

            little meeting of chosen friends who repaired after the

            business of the Society to the Piazza Coffee-house.

            Captain Smyth was a genial companion and a quaint,

            pleasant writer, devoted to Astronomical science. He also
ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY.  49

gave a good deal of attention to antiquarian research, pub- 1831.

lished a quarto volume on the coins and other antiquities
of Hartwell House, whither he went some years after to

take charge of Dr. Lee's observatory. I think that my

husband's intercourse with his co-secretary, Admiral
Manners, was at first chiefly official ; but in after years
we saw more of him, and he continued till death our

cordial friend.
     Mr. and Mrs. Bishop were living at South Villa, George

Regent's Park. Mr. Bishop was at one time President

and for many years treasurer of the Royal Astronomical
Society. His love of science never abated while he lived,

and it led him to undertake a difficult study at an age

when most men hold elementary learning out of the
question. Shortly after this time he came to Mr. De
Morgan for lessons in algebra, in order to read the
Mecanique Celeste. The little observatory in the Regent's
Park was rendered famous by Mr. Hind's discovery of

many asteroids.

    It was at Mr. Baily's suggestion that in the year 1827 Nautical

or 1828, the state of the Nautical Almanac was made the
subject of Government inquiry. This ephemeris, which
was under the management of the Admiralty, had not, as
to the information it afforded to navigators, kept pace with

Continental works of the same character ; and its defects
and errors were great in comparison with theirs. The
Board of Longitude had suggested improvement, but this
Board was dissolved in 1827, and there seemed to be no

hope that the work, upon which the navigation of the

country greatly depended, should be brought to that
degree of perfection which the amount of scientific know
ledge in England rendered possible. A strong remon
strance from Mr. Baily drew attention to the matter, and

after some discussion in various quarters, the Conimis-

tionerB of the Admiralty entrusted to the Astronomical
Society the task of revising and remodelling the Nautical
Almanac. A committee was appointed and a Report

                                                                                 
           50 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

    1831.  drawn up by Mr. Baily, who had given the subject un
1830-31.   remitting attention. The recommendations of this Report
Seconds    were adopted by Government, and the Nautical Almanac,
pendulum.  in its improved state, was the result. Lieutenant Strat

1831-32.   ford was appointed Superintendent.
Useful
Knowledge       The pendulum experiments had been repeated by Mr.
Society.
           Baily in 1828, under conditions which precluded any but
           an almost imperceptible amount of error. Many other

           determinations depended on these, a most important one

           being the national standard of length ; for, in the event of
           the standard yard being lost, the length of vibration of

           the seconds pendulum was the only source from which a

           new measure could be constructed. In 1832 a new scale

           was formed by the Astronomical Society under Mr. Baily's
           superintendence. This, which was rigorously tested, was
           compared with the imperial standard, and with another

           made by Bird in 1758. It was well that this work was

           completed, as both these scales, as well as the national

           standard of weight, were destroyed by fire in the Houses
           of Parliament in 1834.

               In all these works, after 1828, Mr. De Morgan took a
           deep interest, but he was not an experimenter. He had a
           great love for scientific instruments, and in his various

           writings described their construction and work in such a

           way as to make them readily understood by any person of

           average intelligence. But his want of sight prevented his

           using them himself, and his share of the work done at this

           Itime of revival was, at least as to applied Science, that

           of an expounder and historian. believe that every dis
           covery, or determination of fact, of any importance, was
           made as clear to the world as the subject allowed in his
           articles in the ' Companion to the Almanac,' ' The Penny

           Cyclopaedia,' and many other works.
                The institution of the London University had been an

           effect of that quickening of thought and action which ac
           companied what Mr. De Morgan called the social pot-boil
           ing. Another result in the same direction was the formation
POPULAR SCIENCE.  51

of the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge. It was 1831-32.
founded in 1826 by Lord Brougham, Mr. J. Hume, M.P.,

and others, most of whom had also taken part in the
establishment of the University. The object was to spread
scientific and other knowledge, by means of cheap and

clearly written treatises by the best writers of the time.
Partly from the character of free thought ascribed to
some of its founders, partly perhaps from its designation --
for there is much in a name, and ' Diffusion of Useful
Knowledge ' sounded to some undistinguishing ears like
a parody of ' Promotion of Christian Knowledge '-- the

Society was held by some timorous lookers on to be a
sort of conspiracy to subvert all law and religion ; and
the publication of the ' Saturday Magazine,' a markedly
religious periodical, just after the appearance of the ' Penny
Magazine ' of the Society, showed the feeling of opposi
tion that was in people's minds. One reason given for
this rival publication was that the ' Penny Magazine,'
like the other works of the Society, was too dry and
scientific for general readers. As for the Magazine itself,
it spread far and wide, and the ' Penny Cyclopaedia,' one
volume of which appeared at the end of the first year,

had a great circulation, and has taken its place as a high-
class book of reference. The charge of dryness is not so
easy to get rid of as regards some of the tracts ; but then
it would not be easy to make light and popular reading of
the higher branches of Mathematics, Chemistry, Hydro
statics, or the Polarisation of Light. The Society did

good to its adversaries by making them give a better and
sounder character to their own works of professedly reli

gious aim. A few words from the ' Address of the Com

mittee' in the year 1846,1 when the Society's labours
came to an end, will give an idea of the principles on

    1 This address was drawn up by Mr. De Morgan ; Lord Brougham,
Sir Laaac Goldamid, and one or two others made a few slight altera
tions, amounting to about twenty lines, in his proof.

                                               »J
             52 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1831-32. which it was founded, and to which it adhered through

             out.  ' At its commencement the Society determined with

Aims of the

             obvious prudence to avoid the great subjects of religion

             and government, on which it was impossible to touch
             without provoking angry discussion. At a time when

             the spirit which produced the effects of 1828, 1829, and

             1832, was struggling with those who, not very long
             before, had tried to subdue it by force ; when religious

             disqualification and political exclusion occupied the daily

             attention of the press, and when the friends of education

             were themselves divided on the best way of adjusting these

             and other matters of legislation, any interference with

             theology or politics would have endangered the existence

             of a union which demanded the most cordial co-operation

             from all who wished well to the cause. That the Society

             took an appearance of political colour from the fact that

             almost all its original supporters were of one party in

             politics, is true ; but it is as true that if the committee

             had waited to commence operations until both parties had

             been ready to act together the work would have been yet

             to begin, and the good which so many of the Society's
             old opponents admit that it has done would have been

             left undone. But the committee remember with great

             satisfaction that this impossibility of combining different

             views in support of a great object extended only to

             politics. From the commencement the Society consisted

             of men of almost every religious persuasion. The harmony

             in which they have worked together is sufficient proof

             that there is nothing in difference of doctrinal creed

             which need prevent successful association when the object

             is good and the points of dispute are avoided.'

Tracts.            Mr. De Morgan, who became a member of the com

             mittee in the year 1843, was from the first a very large
             contributor to its publications. His work ' The Differ

             ential and Integral Calculus' formed a portion of the
             series of tracts. The long list of articles in the ' Penny
USEFUL KNOWLEDGE SOCIETY.              53

Cyclopaedia,' amounting in all to nearly one-sixth of the                   1831-32.

whole work, were begun by him at the outset, and con-                       Penny Cy-

eluded with the last volume of the Supplement, in 1858.                     CiOTMfiulfL.

That his labours in this direction were fully appreciated

Iis certain. He gave time, advice, and help in every way to
the Society's work.1  find on the title-page of the

Address from which the extract is made, in his own
handwriting, --

I ' This Address was drawn up by me ; even as to p. 17,
    had to blow my own trumpet, because those who

Iinsisted on its being blown, and proposed to do it for me,

were going to blow louder than liked.
                      ' A. De Morgan.
'Aug. 26, 1852.*

     P. 17 contained, to the best of my recollection, his
own modified version of the laudatory expressions inserted

in the rough draft by the President and Vice-President,
who had taken it home for inspection.

     Private pupils occupied a good deal of the time which
Mr. De Morgan had before spent in lecturing in Univer
sity College. He was also engaged in writing for the
' Quarterly Journal of Education ' of the Useful Know

ledge Society, of which the first volume appeared in 1831.

It was carried on for five years under the editorship of Mr.

George Long, formerly Professor in University College.
    The ' Companion to the Almanac ' for this year con- 1831.

    1 In 1867, Mr. Coat eg wrote to Mr. De Morgan, in answer to his

inquiry as to the place where the relics of the Society were deposited, --

   ' Take my word for it, that I have the liveliest recollection of the
U.K. S., mingled with some pride, that for twenty years of my life I
was not altogether useless to mankind. Nor have I been since, as to

that matter, in spite of your innuendoes.'
     ' The archives, or papers of the Society, were deposited by Conolly

in (I suppose the cellars of) University College ; in two boxes or chests,
as I have heard.

     ' The process was after my dynasty was closed. The common seal

is in my hands, locked up in a little brass box, whereof Sir Isaac
fit Jdsmid had one key and Lord Brougham had another. The original

charter is, I suppose, in one of the two chests aforesaid.'
           54 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1831.   tains an article on Life Assurance, the first of a series of

1Elements  twenty-five articles contributed annually by Mr. De Morgan
meti"'
           to this work.
           In this year the ' Elements of Arithmetic ' was first

           published. The author's old pupil, Mr. Richard Hutton,
           says of this book : --
                ' The publication of his  " Arithmetic,"  a  book  which

           has not unnaturally been more useful to masters than to

           scholars, began a new era in the history of elementary

           teaching in England ; devoting, as all his books did, far

           more space and labour to the logical processes by which the

           various rules are demonstrated than to the more technical

           parts of the subject, though of these too, in their proper

           place, the writer was never unmindful, spending the

           greatest care on teaching the art of rapid and accurate

           computation, no less than of the true science of number.

           His exposition of the theory of limits, from the earliest

           stage at which it entered into algebraical conception, was

           so masterly and exhaustive, that it haunted his pupils in

           the logical tangle of their later lives, and helped many a

           man through the puzzle of Dr. Mansel's conundrum-
           making as to ' the Infinite,' in his ' Limits of Religious
           Thought.' i

           These few lines indicate the place which this book, an

           early fruit of his own methods of reasoning, held in rela

           tion to the later writings, and show how, in his most

           elementary teaching, he laid the foundation of principles

           which were afterwards fully developed, and which fur

           nished a guide to thought on subjects whose connection

           with them was not at first apparent.

           He liked puzzles about numbers, as he liked riddles,

           and, when very good, plays upon words and puns. So all

           puzzles were referred to him, and gradually all attempts

           to do the impossible, by circle squarers and trisectors. One

               1 For a list of all Mr. De Morgan's works see Appendix. The
           articles on education for the U. K. Society were reprinted in a book
           entitled The Schoolmaster, edited by Charles Knight, London, 1836.
CHARLES BUTLER.                        55

of the puzzles had a pleasant result.  Mr. Charles            1832.

Butler, the Roman Catholic author of ' The Revolutions of Charles

the Germanic Empire,' &c., an old friend of my father's,

was not only a very learned, but a very kind and genial

man. He dabbled (by his own account not very deeply) in

Mathematics, and was fond of algebraical and geometrical

questions. He gave me one, declaring that he had puzzled

over it in vain, and never yet had found a person who

could solve it. The following in Mr. De Morgan's writing      A w«ger.
will tell the rest : --

     ' Mr. Charles Butler betted Miss Frend a coffee party

that she could not find a Mathematician who could make

out a certain difficulty. Miss Frend referred it to Mr.

De Morgan, who solved it. This letter is for the settle

ment of the bet.'
     ' Mr. Butler presents his compliments to Mr. De

Morgan. . . . He has perused with great pleasure Mr.

De Morgan's solution of the question proposed to Miss

Frend. It is certainly satisfactory in the highest degree.

Mr. Butler's great professional employment has prevented

his giving the attention he wished to the exact sciences,

but he has always entertained the greatest regard for them,

lamented his inability to prosecute them, and looked with

a holy envy on those who have time and talents to cultivate

them. The proposed coffee party has been changed into

a dinner party. It is fixed for Saturday, the 18th inst., at

Mr. Butler's house, 44 Great Ormond Street. Mr. Butler

requests Mr. De Morgan will do him the honour to join

the party.

     ' February 11, 1832.'

     The party, a pleasant one, as the few now living
who remember Mr. Butler will readily believe, dined

together as appointed, and the solver of the problem was

duly honoured.
     Everything belonging to education commanded Mr.

De Morgan's attention from the time when he began
to think. Many circumstances of his own University
               56 MEMOIR OP AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

  1832. career had shown him how much was needed in the Cam
             bridge system to adapt the methods and processes of in
             struction to the wants of learners of every degree and
            variety of ability. His own place in the tripos of his year
             was an evidence of the inadequacy of the competitive sys
            tem, faulty as it was then, and as it is now, to ascertain
             the quantity or quality of mental power. Before he left
             this world he saw that the method of crowding so much
             learning into a short time, at an age when the brain needs
            vital strength to bring it to maturity, was not the right
            way to secure future excellence. Its results, too, were
              beginning to be seen in nervous and other diseases ; but
              he felt, and often said, that remonstrance as yet would
              be useless, and that those who saw the evil only too

        Iplainly must wait till the conviction of its reality should

              be forced upon all. have not been able to get his letters
Archdeacon to his old tutor, Dr. Thorp, but, judging by the replies, he

              must have felt and expressed this belief at an early period.
              The answers generally announce the reception of an essay
              or book, or a new pupil sent by the old one to a teacher to

           whom he held himself indebted. In one Dr. Thorp says :--

             IYon will see that have taken some pains to attend to the

               spirit of your wishes abont yonr young friend. We are going

          Iupon the plan of discouraging private tuition as much as possible,

               for the sake both of tutors and pupils, as hold that a lecture-
               room ought to supply all that is necessary ; but as long as such
               a various crew is sent up to us as we get every year, part re
               quiring the highest kind of scholarship and part unacquainted
               with the rudiments, the latter must avail themselves of some
               extra help to bring them up to the comprehension of such lectures
                 as the former require.

                   Surely the means and appliances now at work to pre
              pare young men for Cambridge ought to make private

           tuition even less wanted than it was in 1832 ; and if stu

              dents were examined only on the real knowledge legiti
              mately gained in the lecture-room, which, as Dr. Thorp
              says, ought to supply all that is necessary, what would
COMPETITIVE EXAMINATIONS.                                                           57

Ifbecome of cramming and coaching ?1  any supplementary                                 1832.

teaching is needed, it should be only to explain difficulties

in the lectures, not to introduce new subjects.
     At another time Dr. Thorp writes from Cambridge : --

    Believe me, my dear friend, I fully sympathise in the pleasure

you derive from reading classics in yonr own way only and for

information, and would like nothing better than to keep pace
with yon in studying Aratus, Theon, and Euclid in the original ;

though I doubt whether young men would be made better mathe

maticians, or as good classics or logicians hereby, as by the study

of authors more remarkable for system, and for the perfection of

language and of art. . . . Yon should come down and see us

oftener, to prevent your losing the knowledge of our streets.
Our streets, however, are not much more changed than our ways.

Have you seen our Trinity lecture-rooms, which we built at a Trinity
                                                                                        ege'
cost of 4,0001. (besides a hole in the tutor's pocket, which a
tutor in ancient times little thought of), and without asking any

body r It would make you a scholar to see the men going in

Icrowds every morning to be taught by fourteen tutors (that is

our number : have got four, viz., myself, Martin, Law, and
John Wordsworth, on my side), each of whom gives two, and

some three lectures a day.

    I rejoice to think that we have so much in common as -- 1, some

affection for the University ; 2, something to do with preparing
young men for it ; and 3, some contempt for ' politics and stuff.'
But, believe me, it gives me sincere pleasure to see a few friendly

and familiar lines from one whom, though I have no right to claim
much merit for -- which was his fault, not mine-- I am not a little

proud to speak of as my old pupil. Ever, dear De Morgan,
                                             ' Your attached friend,
                                                                      ' T. Thorp.'

     This letter is dated 1833.

     1 During the time in which this has been written, several cases

have occurred which sadly confirm my assertions. One will suffice.
A young man, a very high wrangler, full of intellectual power and
aspiration, was obliged to give coaching lessons to undergraduates.
The exhaustion which followed his taking his degree and his subsequent
hard work led him to recruit his strength with stimulants, first opium,
thro lienor. He drank himself to death. Had he not done so, in all
probability he would have been a victim to disease in some other
form, the result of exhausted vitality. This would have been less dis
graceful perhaps, but equally lamentable.
   1832.  58 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

M. Ha-        With his keen interest in books and their history Mr.
chctte.   De Morgan had a great love for collecting rare or ancient
          ones. His little library was begun soon after he left
          Cambridge, and the Theon, Aratus and Euclid, of which
          he so much enjoyed the reading, were among the first he

          Ibought, and are now with his other books in the library

          of the University of London, in Burlington House.1
          have heard him say that he never laid out a shilling on a
          book which was not repaid with interest, even as a money
          transaction, from the use he made of the purchase. Had
          he been rich his collection would have been very large
          and valuable, but he was soon obliged to deny himself the
          luxury of buying, except the chance treasures which fell
          in his way at bookstalls. The first English book which
          he bought when a boy was ' The Pilgrim's Progress.' His
          researches in bibliography, which afterwards resulted in
          the ' Arithmetical Books,' the ' Budget of Paradoxes,' and
          many of the tracts, date from the time of his beginning to
          collect.

               Visitors to the University Library, who take down any
          of these works from the shelves, will almost certainly light
          upon some of the numerous marginal notes and illustra
          tions, serious or otherwise, with which their former owner
          embellished them. The fly-leaves and insides of the covers
          are decorated with pictures from periodicals, notably Punch,
          and other collectanea, always having some reference to
          the contents of the work, although, to those unacquainted
          with the peculiarities of Mr. De Morgan's mind and style,
          the appropriateness of some of them may not at once
          appear obvious.

             M. Hachette, the French mathematician, whom Mr.
          De Morgan had visited in his stay at Paris two years

                1 This Institution must not be confused with University College,
          Gower Street. The University of London is for granting degrees

          only. It was founded in 1836. The books were bought of me, after
          my husband's death, and presented to the University by Lord Over-

          stone.
FRENCH CORRESPONDENTS.  59

before, was one of those who felt strongly on the struggle          1832.
for freedom and enlightenment. The two authors had
exchanged scientific brochures, and after thanking Mr.
De Morgan for some sent in 1831, M. Hachette asks

this question relating to the invention of the steam-
engine : --

     Vous me ferez bien plaisir de m'éclaircir sur un fait relatif à M. H«-

1a construction de la machine à vapenr. Je lis dans l'ouvrage de |TM"*£

M. Partington, ' An Historical and Descriptive Account of the
Steam Engine,' London, 1822, p. 7, que Sir Samuel Morland

était fils du baronet de même nom, qui suivit Charles II. dans

son exil ; d'autres disent que ce baronet est le mécanicien qui a
le premier mesuré la densité de la vapeur d'eau ; cependant M.
Partington est, dit-on, le bibliothécaire do l'Institution Royale ;
il n'a paa écrit sans preuve un fait de cette importance. Tâchez
donc de savoir la vérité. Pour l'honneur de la science, et de

l'humanité, je désire que le mécanicien ne soit pas celui qu'on
accuse d'avoir trahi le parti constitutionnel.

   I have not Mr. De Morgan's answer, but it appears

not to have settled his correspondent's doubts, though

they were afterwards in some measure set at rest.
     In return for the answer to his own question, M. Vieta's

Hachette made some inquiries for Mr. De Morgan touch- NovJ'TM
ing a missing book, the ' Algebra Nova ' of Vieta. In the

letter giving what information he had gained I find the

first mention of Count Guglielmo Libri, author of the
' History of Mathematics.' The last communication made

by M. Hachette touching the lost work of Vieta is as
follows : --

    . . . J'ai reçu la lettre que vous m'avez fait l'honneur de
m'écrire le 16 Juillet.

     Le fait concernant le manuscrit du Hannonicon Céleste,
prêté par Bouillaud au Prince Leopold de Médicis, est consigné
dans les MSS. de Bouillaud, et M. Guglielmo Libri, savant géo-
uu'trc, m'en a donné l'assurance. Les omissions de Montucla,

on les erreurs de Delambre, nous prouvent qu'il faut chercher
dans les manuscrits, ou dans les ouvrages publics par leur auteur,
la vérité de l'histoire. . . .

Paria, Août 15, 1832.
             60 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1832.             The remainder of the letter contains a comparison of

             dates and facts, recurring again to his object of proving
             that Morland the mechanician was not the Royalist.

             IM. Hachette was probably the more satisfied in some de

             gree by the references Mr. De Morgan gave him, as find
             in the Penny Cyclopaedia article, founded on those au
             thorities, that the history of Morland's relations with the

             Royalists is very doubtful.
                  His last letter to Mr. De Morgan is dated September 30,

             1832.

                IMr. De Morgan had, think, met M. Quêtelet in

             Paris in 1830, but M. Quêtelet had not remembered this
             when he wrote to Mr. De Morgan in 1833, --

             Mon cher Monsieur, -- Je vous remercie beaucoup pour l'obli

             geance que vous avez eue de m'addresser la table que vous m'avez

             promise, et vos ouvrages que j'ai parcourus déjà avec le plus
             grand plaisir. La méthode que j'ai trouvée dans vos livres

             élémentaires angmente encore le prix que j'attache aux suffrages

             honorables que vous avez bien voulu exprimer pour les miens.

                 Je suis très charmé que notre ami commun, M. Babbage,

             m'ait procuré le plaisir de faire votre connaissance : je désire

             beaucoup le cultiver. Je regrette de ne pouvoir aller moi-même

             vous exprimer mes remercîments, mais, comme je vais aujour

             d'hui, j'ai dû me borner à vous écrire, comptant bien sur votre

             indulgence.

             Recevez, je vous prie, mon cher monsieur, l'expression de

             mes sentimens distingués.  Tout à vous,

                                        Quêtelet.

Amicable          The place of registrar of the Amicable Assurance
office^1100  Office having become vacant about this time, Mr. De
             Morgan sent in his name as a candidate. He was of
             course well qualified for the situation, and it was a lucra
             tive one, but he would not have liked the work so well as

             he did teaching and writing, and he had, as he afterwards
             told me, but one reason for wishing to succeed. Our
             friend Mr. Thomas Galloway, a distinguished Mathe
             matician, and Fellow of the Astronomical Society, a man
TROTJGHTON AND SIMMS V. SOUTH.                   61

every way suited for the place, was appointed, and held     1833.
it until his death in 1851.

    The ' opponent ' referred to in Mr. De Morgan's little

sketch of Mr. Sheepshanks was Sir James South, known

as the owner of the Campden Hill Observatory, and having

some name as an Astronomer on account of his dexterity
in using his very fine instruments. In the year 1833 a
trial of a curious character, in which Sir James South was

the defendant, commenced. With other scientific men

Mr. De Morgan was greatly interested in this affair, and
has left the following notice of it : --

    ' Mr. Sheepshanks's visits to Campden Hill were in

discharge of his duty as scientific adviser on the side of

Messrs. Troughton and Simms, who in 1833 brought an

action against Sir James South to recover payment for

mounting equatorially a large object-glass. While the
work was going on, Sir James thought it would not do,

insisted on beginning again upon a new plan, with offer

of payment of money out of pocket, and, on refusal, shut

Messrs. Troughton and Simms out of his observatory.

The Court of course recommended arbitration ; and this

arbitration, which extended over 1833-1838, is the most

remarkable astronomical trial which ever took place in

England. The arbitrator was Mr. Maule, afterwards

judge, the senior wrangler of 1810, a powerful Mathema
tician, and a man of uncommon sharpness of perception.

The counsel for Troughton and Simms was Mr. Starkie,

the senior wrangler of 1803, with Mr. Sheepshanks, who

was a witness, for his scientific adviser. The counsel for

Sir James South was Mr. Drinkwater Bethune, a well-

known Mathematician, and a high wrangler of 1823, as

sharp as Mr. Maule. Mr. Babbage was a witness and a

sort of scientific adviser. The arbitrator began by insist

ing that Troughton and Simms should be allowed to

finish the work; he also permitted certain additions to

the plan proposed by Mr. Sheepshanks, on condition that
they should only be paid for if they succeeded.
                                                 The
       62 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1833.  instrument was made serviceable in the opinion of the

       arbitrator, and the whole claim was awarded, additions

       included. Sir James did not let the instrument remain to

       shame the arbitrator and the opponent witnesses; he

       atbhnreodkwe aaildltsdruwepsi,sthesdoaldbtotilhl,e"hmeshaaydteceordicak"lsObtbosyeyravuamctotairokyne,,rsK,aenndssmpinolagkcteao-rjnadce;kd"

       makers, mock coin makers, &c. &c.," and stating that

       " several hundredweight of brass, &c., being the metal

       of the great equatorial instrument made for the Ken

       sington Observatory by Messrs. Troughton and Simins,

       were to be sold by hand on the premises ; the wooden

       polar axis of which, by the same artists, with its botchings
       cobbled up by their assistants, Mr. Airy and the Rev. R.

       Sheepshanks, was purchased by divers vendors of old

       clothes, and dealers in dead cows and horses, with the

       exception of a fragment of mahogany specially reserved,

       at the request of several distinguished philosophers, on

       account of the great anxiety expressed by foreign astro

       nomers to possess them, was converted into snuff-boxes as

       a souvenir piquant of the state of the art of Astronomical

       instrument making in England during the nineteenth

       Icentury, will be disposed of at  per pound.'"

       do not mention these things with any wish to throw

       blame on one who, as after events proved, was in a state

       of mind which rendered eccentricity excusable. But at

       that time this was not known, and, as so often happens,

       that which would form an excuse for foolish conduct, and

       ought to give others the right of restraining it, was not

       suspected. The troubles arising from this cause among

       men of science, and reaching public associations, were as

       real as if they had been the result of wicked designs

       rather than of morbid impulse. The Astronomer Royal,

       who wished to visit Campden Hill for the inspection of

       Groombridge's transit circle, begged that no reference
       might be made during his visit to the trial then pending.

       Sir James insultingly accused him of having changed his
SIB JAMES SOUTH.  63

opinions on that question, &c. On Mr. Airy's declining        1834.
further correspondence till assured that no disrespect was

meant, Sir James 'waited on a military officer of high Sir James

rank in her Majesty's service,' who, however, either refused

to accept the office offered to him, or quietly stopped the

aggression. Sir James afterwards published the whole

account as an advertisement in the Times of Nov. 29,

1838, in an attack upon the Admiralty. But all persons

who had taken part with the prosecutors in the arbitra

tion, or who had expressed an opinion contrary to that of

Sir James, were held by him as enemies. Mr. De Morgan,

as the intimate friend of Mr. Sheepshanks, and honorary

secretary of the Astronomical Society, was one of these.

Meeting him one day at the rooms of Lieut. Stratford,

then assistant secretary, Sir James, in a loud voice, asked

the latter to show him the time when and recommenda

tion on which Mr. De Morgan had been elected a Fellow
of the R.A.S., and added something about ' those gentle

men ignorami' by whom the election had been made.

Mr. De Morgan took no notice of this, but afterwards

addressed a temperate note to the speaker, saying that it

had appeared to him that Sir James South asking in his

presence for the time, &c., when he became a member of

the Society was not in accordance with the sort of

courtesy which parties who wish to behave distantly

towards each other usually observe when they meet in

private. He asked whether this was to be imputed to

forgetf ulness, or to a desire to convey the impression that

Sir James had no wish to practise towards himself that

negative courtesy with which a stranger is usually treated.

He begged for an answer, that he might know how to

Ibehave towards Sir James in case they should meet again,

' since, in any case,' he says, ' should not consider such

a breach of etiquette worth any further consideration.'

    Sir James South's answer is curious. It ends with --

' As to how you regulate your demeanour towards myself

if we should happen to meet again, that is a point which,
      64 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1834  though it may concern yourself, is to me a matter of the

      completest indifference.      have recently received, and

         I' After conduct such as
      Iin which you have borne, am told, no inconsiderable
      Ipart, beg to decline further correspondence with you,
      and must refer you for any further information you may

      Irequire to my friend Captain Francis Beaufort, R.N., to

      whom have confided the preservation of my character

      as a man, and my honour as a gentleman.

                   I' remain, sir, your obedient servant,
                                                  'J. South.

      ' Observatory, Campden Hill,

              ' March 15, 1834.'

           Captain Beaufort being thus referred to, Mr. De

      Morgan wrote to that gentleman, stating the circum

      stances, and saying that he was by no means sure that any

      offence was intended.

         IHis letter was quiet and temperate, and Captain Beau

      fort and Lieut. Raper, who, have been told, were satisfied
      that whatever allusions to gunpowder might be made, it

      was certain that any waste of that article was not really
      contemplated by Sir James, were soon authorised by him
      to assure Mr. De Morgan that no offence had been meant.
      The affair passed off. In these days, when good sense and

      good feeling are generally found more effectual in keeping
      the peace than ' the laws of honour,' we may remember,

      that although duels were lamented and reprobated forty
      years ago, it was often more easy to fight than to avoid
      one. But it must not be forgotten that had the required

      assurance not been given by Sir J. South, it would have

      been almost impossible for Mr. De Morgan as Secretary of

      the Society to have afterwards met him.

           The death of M. Hachette at Paris occurred at this
      time. Mr. De Morgan, who had a strong sympathy with
      and regard for this excellent man, had already received
      the news before hearing as follows from Dr. Gregory : --
DEATH OF HACHETTE.                                       65

Yon have probably heard of the death of our friend M. 1834.
Hachette at Paris. It took place in January last, but I did not letter fnm
... Ilearn it till about a fortnight ago, in a letter from M. Quetelet.
        I have met with very few men of science whom have so             ^'""x"

much admired and esteemed as M. Hachette. He had an ardour

in the pursuit and promotion of science not to be extinguished

by the shameful treatment which for years he met with ; and

his gentleness, kindness, single-heartedness, and generosity were

particularly engaging. . . .

    I quite share your feelings of indignation, not only on

account of the shameful treatment experienced by M. Hachette

for so many years, but also on account of the chary and meagrely

doled out measure of justice he has received since his death. As

a man of Science he was truly estimable, and laid Science under

many obligations not yet acknowledged; and as a man among

IFrench men of Science his character was altogether unique.

am glad that yon ro decidedly intend doing him justice.1

    I am glad to know that you are about a work on the Dif
ferential Calculus upon the principles to which you refer. I

have long felt that recourse to algebraical expansions in series,

in establishing the principles, is exceedingly illogical, and have

Itherefore long been perplexed to know what book to employ as

a text-book. In my own class here have principally employed

Francoear in the second vol. of his Mathematiques Pures

The anomalies which you specify are exceedingly curious, and

serve still further to confirm me in my long-cherished persuasion

that the fashionable process is hollow and unstable, and referable

to no irrefragable principle. I wish you complete success accord

ing to your views of what the logic and metaphysics of first

principles require in your important and interesting undertaking.

. . . And I am,

Yours very cordially,
               Ulim iius GHtciuiii.

     Early in the year 1836 The Connexion of Number and

Magnitude was published. It is an attempt to explain

the fifth book of Euclid. In the Preface the author says,
' The subject is one of some real difficulty, arising from the

limited character of the symbols of Arithmetic considered
as representatives of ratios, and the consequent iutroduc-

1 In the Astronomical Oliitwiry Xtitifts.

                     t
1834.  66 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

       tion of incommensurable ratios, that is, of ratios which
       have no arithmetical representation. The whole number of
       students is divided into two classes : those who do not

       feel satisfied without rigorous definition and deduction ;
       and those who would rather miss both than take a long
       road, while a shorter one can be cut at no greater expense
       than that of declaring that there shall be propositions
       which arithmetical demonstrations declare there are not.

       This work is intended for the former class.'
            Most of his books were illustrated after his own fashion.

       The connexion of Number and Magnitude is shown by a

       Igigantic father having the contents of his pocket rifled by

       a crowd of dwarfish children, one meaning of which
       understand to be, to represent the properties of magnitude
       analysed by the aid of number.

            The author made a great descent in his next book, as
       he tells a correspondent. The Useful Knowledge Society,
       which, notwithstanding the Rev. Dr. Folliott's low esti
       mate of the ' learned friend ' in Peacock's ' Crotchet
       Castle,' was a most useful instrument in raising the
       objects and methods of thought of both those who had,
       and those who had not thought before, out of a foggy
       region of half-knowledge into a comparatively clear and
       systematised state, had published ' Maps of the Stars,' for
       students of Astronomy, together with smaller ones for
       popular use, and six maps of the Earth. Mr. De Morgan
       wrote for the Society an explanation of all these maps.1

            Mr. Lubbock furnished some of the materials for the
       ' Explanation,' &c., in the account of the selection of
       objects, the authorities, and the notation employed.

            On the back of the title-page is written by the author,
       ' Ce coquin de livre a ete commence pendant Pete" de 1833,
       et n'a ete fini que dans le mois de Mai 1836. '

            1 Entitled An Explanation of the Gaonumk Projection of the Sphere,
       ' and of such points of Astronomy as are most necessary in the use of
       Astronomical maps; being a description of the construction and use of the
       smaller and larger maps of theU.K.S.; also of the six maps of the Earth.'
USEFUL KNOWLEDGE SOCIETY'S PUBLICATIONS. 67

This book is exceedingly clear, and even popular. 1836.

The treatise on and explanation of different projections of

the sphere, with the reasons for rejecting Mercator's, are

given in the first chapter. A great deal of bibliogra

phical knowledge appears in the reference to early Astro

nomers, and not only much knowledge of Astronomy, but

much of the history of it may be gained from the work.

Astronomical Science in England in the sixteenth century

is represented by an explanation of the constellations

given by T. Hood in 1590 :--

IScholar.  marvell why, seeing she (Ursa Major) hath the Astronomy

forme of a beare, her taile should be so long.                      axtecntk

Mutter. I imagine that Jupiter, fearing to come too nigh century,

unto her teeth, layde hold of her tayle, and thereby drew her

up into the heaven, so that shee of her selfe being very weightye,

and the distance from the earth to the heavens very great, there

was great likelihood that her taile must stretch. Other reason

know I none.

     A passage from the book adds interest to one of the
letters to Sir John Herschel : --

    The figures of the constellations are of no use to the istro- F.*m«of

nomer as such ; a star is sufficiently well known when its right (*,,,.

ascension and declination are given ; and if letters referring to

the constellations are used, such as f3 in Orion, y in Draco, &c.,
it is not now to direct the attention to any imaginary figure of
an armed man or a dragon, but to a particular region of the
heavens, which might with equal propriety have been called

region A or region B. It is to the mythological antiquary that

the figures are useful, as sometimes throwing light upon his pur
suits. Every ancient people has written its own account of the
singular fables, which are common to all mythologies, upon
groups of stars in the heavens, and it might have been thought
that some feeling of congruity, if taste were too much to expect,
would have prevented the burlesque of mixing the utensils of
modern life with the stories of the heroic age, presenting much
such an appearance as the model of a locomotive steam-engine
on the top of the Parthenon. But the Lacailles, the Halleys, and
the Ueveliuse-* have arranged it otherwise ; the water-bearer pours
a part of the stream which should wash the southern fish into a

                                            r2
       68 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1836.  sculptor's workshop ; a carpenter's rule has got between old

       Chiron and the altar on which he was going to sacrifice a wolf ;

       and the lion and the hydra, whose juxtaposition has made more

       than one speculator imagine he has found a key to the whole

       allegory, are in trnth two Astronomers fighting for a sextant,

       which Hevelius has placed at their disposal. A great deal of

       the southern sphere is laid out in mathematical instruments.
       If figures are to be drawn at all, it
       ;                                                               as we have said, for the

                           it

                                                                  is,
       historian, and not for the Astronomer; and we imagine the

       former will think  no loss that in our maps the heavens of

       Ptolemy have been restored, and in no one drawing exceeded.

       The names only, and boundaries of the modern constellations are

       given but all the figures are those of Ptolemy, so arranged as

       to represent his catalogue.

       The constellations are fortunately not in danger of

       being renamed before the origin and meaning of the old

       signs and symbols are well understood. Many Astro

       nomers, however, were then watching the names of heavenly

       bodies newly discovered with jealous eye, fearing more
       :

           '
              is

                                                     a
       mathematical instruments or other incongruities.

            Mr. Temple Chevalier wrote to my husband some time
       after -- Can there not be some proper protest against the

       introduction of earthly names among the heavenly bodies
                                                                       ;
       The heathen mythology, independently of lending itself to
                                                                                              ?
       analogy, exactly fitted to the purpose, by lending itself

       to allusions, <fiaivevTa avvsroiai,. Such are those contained
       in Parthenope, Hygeia, Calliope, Irene, and others.

       When a planet shall be discovered at Oxford, "Isis" will

       be another name    of the same kind.                             In the Comptes
       Rendus appears
                          that " Lutetia " was                         given because no
       it

            ?'

                is

                               it
       one exclaimed against " Massilia." It seems high time to

       avoid more mud being thrown into the skies or are we to

       have Lugdunum Batavorum, and other equally barbarous

       incursions

       Perhaps, barbarous as is, the plan of calling constella

       tions and planets after continental towns and scientific

       instruments        less mischievous as regards antiquarian

       research than mixing mythological words, 'lending them
NAMES OF CONSTELLATIONS.  69

selves to allusions ' without reference to time, system, or 1836.
symbol, with the ancient names, all of which bear some
reference to the religions and philosophies of the earliest
times, and furnish a key to some of the deepest mysteries
of past ages.

     The death of one of my sisters in March 1836, while Death nt
we were at 31 Upper Bedford Place, called out all our sister.
friend's sympathy and kindness. He had a very affectionate

regard for her, and his warm-hearted friendship was deeply

felt by my family in this time of sorrow.

     We left London in the autumn, to spend some months
in the west of England. Mr. De Morgan undertook to
forward letters, and in many other ways to give that

useful help which those at home can always render to the
absent. This occasioned frequent communications ; and
in allusion to my own love for the country being about
equal to his for town, his letters contained many ironical

contrasts between our desolate condition in Devonshire

and his own enviable life in empty London. Part of this
time he was confined to the house by an illness which,
however, was not dangerous, and which did not interfere
with his writing. This illness occurred in August, and
prevented his visiting us at Clifton during the Bristol
meeting of the British Association.

     Before the end of this year he again took his place as

Professor of Mathematics in University College. In October

1836, Mr. White, his successor, who had been spending Death of
the vacation in the Channel Islands, ventured, with his White,

wife and child, to cross from Guernsey to Jersey in a small
sailing boat. The sea was unusually rough, and the re
monstrances of the boatmen were unheeded. The boat

capsized, and all on board were lost. This grievous event
took place at the end of the College vacation. The classes
were to open immediately, and the Mathematical chair-- in
some respects the most important of all, as, independently
of its own importance, that of Natural Philosophy de

pended on it-- was without a Professor, and the difficulty of
              70 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

    183G.     filling it, either for a time or permanently, was greater
              than it would have been at another season of the year,
Invitation    when the authorities would have been in London.
to return to
University          Mr. De Morgan felt the great emergency of the case,
College.      and immediately offered to supply the want until the
              Christinas following. Only one who, like himself, had
              filled the chair before, could have taken it on so short a

              notice, and I am certain that in acting on his first impulse

              he consulted the needs of the Institution, without any
              thought of the chances of a permanent return. But, once
              installed in his old place, it was foreseen by all his friends

              that an effort would be made to keep him there ; and he

              judged, from the changes which had been made in the

              management, that his former objections to holding office
              in the College would not recur. An intimation soon came
              that the offer would be made, unless it should be distinctly
              understood that it would be rejected. His thoughts on
              this occasion were set forth in a letter to his friend Sir

              Harris Nicolas, by whose opinion as a lawyer he deter

              mined to abide.

Letter to        My dear Sir Harris, --I will not make any apology for asking
Sir H.
Nicolas.      of your friendship to consider the following case, and to give me

              Iyour advice ; firstly, because believe you will willingly give me
              Iyour opinion ; and secondly, because do not even make you run

              the risk of incurring the ordinary odium which unfortunate
              advisers are sure to meet with if they do not turn out to be

              Iright. For I do not want you to advise me what is right or

              what is wrong, or what is safe or what is unsafe ; but only

              want to ascertain the effect upon the mind of an unprejudiced
              person produced by the following account, without reference to
              the question whether such effect could or could not be made the
              basis of safe and honourable rule of action.

                 IThe London University opened in 1828, and was one of the

              Professors. The tenure of the Professorships amounted to this,
              that they were removable by the Council with or without reason
              assigned, having right of appeal against such dismissal to the
              Court of Proprietors ; a body, as it afterwards turned out, not
              without materials for agitation, but the numerical strength of

              which could always be swayed by the Council, partly owing to
          PROPOSED RETURN TO PROFESSORSHIP.                                    71

its consisting of men of business, who could not, or would not,                      1836.

take any great interest, partly by the system of voting by proxy,                  Letter to
the Council holding, as might be supposed, a great number of                             '«.
                                                                               ;
proxies.                                                                                 jV.r

Shortly after the commencement of the Institution various

causes of irritation arose between the Council and Pro

fessors, partly owing, in my belief, to the desire of power and

influence in an individual who stood in an ill-defined position

partly to the jealousy of some members of the Council whose

political bias led them to think the best way of preventing an
administrative officer from going wrong was to tie him up so
tight that he could neither go right nor wrong, but very much

from a feeling among the Professors that their position was not

safe, and in particular a suspicion, which suppose well founded,
thai the Council intended to divide the Professorships as soon as

the income became considerable.

     In the course of the years 1828 and 1829 the Professors --
that is, a considerable number of them -- made such representa

tions to the Council of their unwillingness to remain in so

ambiguous a position, backed with declaration of their inten
                        is
                               a
                                          a

                                                                            a
tion to retire, as induced that body to subject themselves to by
laws in regard to dismissal of Professor, requiring long notice,

considerable attendance, and decided majority before Professor
could be dismissed. It
                        to be noticed that these by-laws,

though rescindible at the pleasure of the body which imposed

them, were honourably adhered to in the subsequent matters,

and that no technical difficulties were thrown in the way of the
appeal to the Court of Proprietors.

     This matter being settled for the present, though no great

confidence in either body existed on the part of the other, disturb

ances arose in the Anatomical class, the pupils questioning the
competency of their Professor. Suppose admitted that these
                        it

disturbances were excited in the first instance by insinuations

of two other Professors in their lectures, and were culpably

fomented by the individual already alluded to, and by certain

members of the Council; suppose also that repeated investiga

tions into the competency of the Professor in question failed in
establishing anything against him, and that he was finally dig.

rouiM'd in consequence of the Council not being able to quell the

disturbance, and of the interference of the Court of Proprietors,

under the name of a Select Committee, which resolved to the

effect that there could be no peace in the University while
           72 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1836.   Mr. remained, and then denied that they had recommended
Letter to
           his dismissal ?
Nicolas.
              I0Q *kis dismissal, within twenty minutes of hearing it

           authenticated, retired from the University, writing the follow

           ing letter to the Council.1

               This took place in July or August 1831.

               IIn consequence of the retirement of other Professors, and of

           the severe loss sustained by the classes, as suppose, a different

           system of management was finally adopted. It is detailed in the

           printed paper enclosed, of which the parts in question are scored

           in black ink where they relate to the Professor and Council, and
           in red ink where they relate to the Professor and his pupils.*

                My successor has, most unfortunately for the University,

           been lost at sea, which was communicated to me very suddenly

           by one of my old colleagues. My first impulse was to offer to

           Iperform the duties till Christmas, which accordingly did, look

           ing at the moment only to the inconvenience and probable loss
           which would be sustained by the institution opening without
           one of its most material chairs.

                But on looking out into the world in this new character of

           Ia pro tempore substitute of my former self, find in the first
           Iplace a wish on the part of all have spoken to (or rather, who
           Ihave spoken to me) that should return to my old post per
           Imanently, mixed, suspect, with a strong notion that such is
           I Imy desire.
           am, therefore, if do not choose finally to make

           any overture on this subject, or to allow any to be made, in a

           position to be supposed to have coquetted with this divorcee of

           Imine, and unsuccessfully. This mean to avoid by taking a
           Ivery early opportunity of stating to anybody who thinks it worth
           while to ask the question, whether will take it or not. I want

           the opinion of an unprejudiced person, who knows the world, on
           the following questions :--

           1. Do the regulations here submitted amount to boiidfide
           moral security that Professorships in the University of London

           are offices tenable during good behaviour, and not held at

           pleasure ?

                2. In addition to the practical security, supposing it to exist,
           do they offer that exterior show of being so held which would

           place the holders in that advantageous position as to respect
           ability which a gentleman (meaning only by education and

           1 See p. 39.
           2 The document itself is much too long for insertion.
         LETTER TO SIR HARRIS NICOLAS.               73

sentiments, for God knows all the rest is but leather and                1836.

prunella) requires, one who believes that no independent man

can hold at the pleasure of any individual or corporation, except

perhaps the Crown, and then only because usage has made laws ?

      3. Does the regulation relating to that case provide the security

which a prudent man would think requisite against the subdivi

sion of the Professorship in the event of its becoming lucrative ?
     We will suppose it comparatively immaterial what shall or

shall not be good behaviour, and who shall decide, presuming on
the check of public opinion, which operated strongly though not

effectually on a former occasion. And, on the one hand, let the

affirmative of the question (1) have all the advantage of its
having been found very difficult to remove a Professor, even
under the old regime; while, on the other hand, it must have all

the disadvantage of the appeal to the Court of Proprietors being

utterly worthless.

     Your opinion should be given on no supposition of the
affirmative being desired, if possible.

    Should I accept any offer (for I shall certainly not be a
candidate) I should rather lose than gain for the time ; and I do
Inot consider the prospect of ultimate gain as greater than that

now have. The advantage would be the resumption of an occu

pation which is in itself pleasant to me, and which has some few

pleasing associations. But in a thing so nearly indifferent to

myself, the notion of what people in general would think would

have some weight.

    If your answers are such as would not please any parties con
cerned, I will keep this communication entirely secret, and

remain,

                    Yours sincerely,
                                      A. De Morgan.

5 Upper Gower Street, Oct. 10, 1836.

     N.B. -- The appeal to the Court of Proprietors is abolished,

which must be considered as increasing the respectability of the
Professorships, since, enire nout, a body of commercial English
men got together upon a point of trade (and with these gentlemen,
a* wax sufficiently evident before, the honour and character of a

Professor was avowedly, and almost ipsissimis verbis, made a

question of trade) knows neither right from wrong, nor reason
from anything else.

The answer must have been such as would please ull
       74 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1836.  parties, for when, immediately after, an offer of the

       Mathematical chair accompanied the thanks of the Coun

       cil for Mr. De Morgan's considerate kindness, the offer was

       accepted, and the Professor once more settled in his old
       Iplace.
                dare not, in the face of his and my firm

       belief that all things are ordered for us by a wiser judg

       ment than our own, express regret that this should have

       been ; but the six-and-thirty years of intense labour which

       followed, ill paid at the time, and terminated by a disappoint

       ment which broke his heart, may well make me hesitate to

       record his return with satisfaction. But he loved his

       work, and his pupils were endeared to him by the interest

       they took in his teaching, and their efforts to profit by it.
75

SECTION IV.

Correspondence from 1831 to 183G.

To Sir J. Herschel.

5 Upper Gower Street, Oct. 16, 1832.

My dear Sir John, --1 have just duly received your Cata-            1832.

Ilogue, which must in course of things be the first paper ordered
for press, after those already so disposed of.  shall be very

much obliged to you for all you have offered on the Catalogue,

the Comet, and the Herscheliana. The crumbs which fall
from a rich man's table are good -- astronomically, whatever they

may be gastronomically.

     Have you got, or do you know anything of, Bouillaud's
or Bullialdi's Astronomia Philolaica ? There is a copy in the

IBritish Museum which wants the Prolegomena, which is the

very part want. The matter has reference to Vieta's Har.
monicon Celeste, which has been supposed to be lost, and which

I have a faint hope might be recovered. Bouilland is reported

to say that somebody stole it from Mersenne, and certainly
Vossius quotes words to that effect from the Prolegomena. But
my good friend M. Hachette assures me that this is a mistake,
and that Bouillaud, in his unpublished MS. at Paris, says that

he himself lent Vieta's MSS. to Leopold, Duke of Tuscany. If
Ithis be true, some library at Florence may yet contain it. am

the more inclined to hope this, as Schootten, in the Preface
to Vieta, gives as his reason for omitting the Harmonicon

Celeste, not that no copy was to be had, but that the only ono
he could get appeared imperfect. Neither Montucla, Delambre,

nor Kastner is to be trusted implicitly --at least with regard to

Vieta. Neither of them was aware of the fact that Vieta

Iduring his life published a collection of his works, or rather

should say that the first publication of his works was in the form

of a collection, and that they did not appear severally, but w ere
       76 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1832.  afterwards severed by editors, as Ghetaldi and others. The name

       of this book, which was quite lost, was Kestituta Mathematica

       Analysis, and it contained, among other things, the first seven

       books of the Bestituta Mathematica, which all the above his

       Itorians agree are lost. Perhaps this book may yet turn up
       somewhere.  would hope from these circumstances that people

       Iwill think it worth while to look a little more into these points.

                                           remain, my dear Sir John,

                                    Yours very truly,
                                             A. De Morgan.

                   To Sir John Herschel.

                   5 Upper Gower Street, Dec. 27, 1833.

       Mr dear Sir John, -- I have a young relation going your way,

       Iand though my lucubrations generally speaking are little worth,

       yet as know paper direct from England acquires a certain

       Ivalue by crossing the sea, shall try to fill up this sheet with

       English news, or rather with what must pass for such in stag

       nation of better. Thank you, in the first place, for your paper

       Ion nebulae, which duly received, proving that yon never went

       to look after the southern hemisphere till you had pretty well

       rummaged the northern. . . .

          I II have written a note to Mr. Baily, informing him of this

       opportunity, but as have only had twelve hours' notice of it,
       am not sure that you will hear from him. In any case, he is in

       good health, and thriving as no man better deserves to be. The

       same as to predicaments of the Astronomical. Your papers,

       Inamely, Catalogues and observations of Uranus, duly received,
       and will be read in course.  shall take care of the proofs, and

       Mr. Baily also. The Royal has had several meetings about

       their funds. It appears that they are obliged to sell out to

       Ipay arrears, and also that their estimated expenditure exceeds

       their income. They do not seem to know where to reduce. do

       not know whether you left England before or after Captain Rosa

       returned. He was at the Astronomical in November in high

       feather. To judge by his case, the northern latitudes must be

       good for consumptive people.               I, though sup

           I am not aware whether you know Mr. I
       pose you do. A paper by him was read at the Astronomical,

       containing an account of Flamsteed, &c. As Captain Ross was

       there, the penny-a-liners got hold of the Astronomical, and com
         CORRESPONDENCE, 1831-36.                                      77

mitted paragrapbology. They spelt Halley, Nalley, whereupon                1833.
Mr. I
         wrote to Captain Beaufort, whom he had no acquaint

ance with, and asked him whether the Astronomical had been

attacking anybody under fictitious surnames. Captain Beaufort

answered, I believe, that the paper would be published and he

Imight see, and thereupon sent him our abstract when it appeared.

Mr. then said that the whole was an attack upon him, as
having copied from Professor Airy in his paper on ' Physical

Astronomy,' and reasoning very correctly, said it would have

been much better in the Royal to have refused to print his paper

in that case than to have suborned the Astronomical to attack

him, &c.

    IFrom this and several other things I have heard am very

much afraid that he (I  ) is decidedly wrong in his head.
Of course you have heard of your medal from the Institute.

How could they be so imprudent as to risk annihilation at the

hands of Captain Forman ? 1

Health and prosperity to you and all yours. Catalogy to the

nebulae of the southern hemisphere,

                                       I remain, dear Sir John,

                                             Yours truly,

                                             A. De Morua.v.

                        To Sir J. Herschel.

Mr drar Sir John, --The bearer, Mr. Templetou, now going
Ito the Cape, has offered to take this, whereupon
                                                                 have ad

vertised Mr. Baily of the same, and his letter accompanies it.

IWe have not up to this date heard of your arrival, or even of

MacClear's, which suppose we hardly could.

    I wrote you a gossiping letter by Mr. W. Bird, which I hope
tou got duly. Great is your loss if you missed for was
                                                    it,
replete with <,n ditn.                 presume Mr. Baily has made you
         I                                             I
acquainted with all that has passed, which, as far as know,is I it
                                   1

                                 it I
amounts to very little. The anniversary of the Astronomical

Society takes place on Friday (this Wednesday), and amis

just come from a preparatory meeting of Council. There an

old proverb that when the nose itches somo ono talking of the
                                             is is
wearer.  hope for your sake that the converse not true but
                                                                 if ;
a very good way to test will be to look in your diary, you

         An irrepressible paradoxer.
       78 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1834.  keep one, for the state of your nasal economy on February

       14th. -

       Your excellent friend, Captain Forman, has got a rise in the

       world. Sedgewick has mentioned him in the notes to a pub

       lished sermon on the studies at Cambridge ; not, indeed, as an
       individual, but as the representative of a class, ' The Formans '

       of the day. You know the story of Louis XIV., who noticed a

       merchant very much, and thereby emboldened him to ask for

       letters of nobility, which he got, and the King never spoke to
       him after, saying, ' You were the first of your class, now you are

       the last.' Would you rather be the first of the Formans or the

       last of the savans ?

           Your paper on Uranus and Co. is in course of reading at the
       Astronomical. The observations of Captain Foster will nearly

       fill Volume VII. of our Memoirs ; but if any paper is added to

       Ithem, it must be your Test Objects which has been read, and this.
       You will therefore receive them before long.  forget at this
       Imoment whether you ordered extra copies, but have your last
       I Iletter and shall look ; shall also ask Mr. Baily.
                                                             should not
       Ihave troubled you with such a scrawl had not Mr. Baily's

       letter to send, to which this shall be scum or dregs, according as

       you think it most flighty or stupid.

                                             Yours very truly,
                                                         A. De Morgan.

       5 Upper Gower Street,

       Wednesday, Feby. 14, 1834.

                                          To William Frend.

                                                                                                   Sept. 1, 1834.

           My dear Sir, -- I was not surprised to find on my return to

       town on Friday that you had decamped, seeing that you take

       I Ipleasure in the wilderness. Neither must you be astonished that

          did not exceed by a single day my estimate of the time could

       bear the viridity of extra-urban scenery. I suppose you will let
       Ime know how to direct to you before long. While my health is

       recovering from the effects of the raw atmosphere have been

       I Ibreathing, write this in preference to more serious occupation.

       I IThis is no joke, assure you ; whenever return from the coun

       try am knocked down for some days, and could be ill with

       Ivery little contrivance or external instigation, which never hap

       pens if I stay in town. And yet have been only two days

       regularly in the wilds. To give you some account of my progress,
                 CORRESPONDENCE, 18)1-30.           79

I went to stay with a clerical friend,1 who lives six miles from 1834.

any town or village, except the thing he calls his parish, and a

lone house he calls his rectory. So, he having no vehicle except

a four-legged apparatus called a pony, we slung my baggage

across the beast, and crossed the country on foot like a gipsy

migration, talking Mathematics over his head to his very great

edification. Indeed he, the quadruped, looked as wise and pro

fited as much as some of my preceding pupils have done. How

people live in such lone houses I know not. Conceive me

reduced to clip hedges to pass away the time till dinner, which

I did with great gout, seeing that it is reducing trees to some

thing like regularity, and diminishing the sum-total of foliage.

From thence I went to Oxford, where I was thrown upon my

resources for a whole evening. The only incident worth notice

was that, having strolled out and picked up some second-hand

books at a book-stall, rather Cornelius Agrippa looking sort of

IIIthings, a good-looking old gentleman (a stout Church and State
mmn.     swear) was so astounded that he changed his table to
increase his distance, and looked at me as if he expected to see

me carried away by an Avatar of the evil principle. Thence got

I to Bedford, where I stayed some days with Captain Smyth,
heard all the town politics, saw a jail with two men in father
                                           it,

and son, charged with cutting the tails off fifteen pigs, dined

with a clericus, and did various other things, not forgetting seeing

a play acted by little children. Captain Smyth's observatory

the most beautiful little thing imaginable, mounting 5-foot
is                                         II
              a                                  a
transit, 3-foot circle (belonging to our Society), and an 8-foot

equatorial. We had no very fine night, so that could not know
                      I
                              I

                                      I
all the merits of the latter; but judging from what saw,  it

must be a very capital instrument of its kind. Thence got to
                                                  aI
Cambridge inside coach with a lady, whose history wormed
                 a
out of her, agreeably to a talent have for doing those things
when like, which you will admit when tell you that in rideI
      I

of twenty-five miles ascertained that she had married when

very young an officer of 1st Light Dragoons, with him had gone

to India, was stationed at Bangalore, where she travelled; how

he died, she came home, and married the vicar of some place

which now forget and, having stayed at some place, which
      I

                                           ;
                                                 1

                                                                        I
equally forget, was now moving, with furniture following in a

waggon, and husband deposited outside the coach, to take possession
           of his living, first stopping to dine with a friend, whose

                      Rev. Arthur Noate.
       80 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1834.  I Iname forget.  also ascertained which of all my consins in

       India she had danced with in her day, which was instructive to

       Iknow. These, and a great many other things, did ascertain ;
       I Iso you may see that if am not communicative myself, know
       Ihow to make other people so when they do not know what am
       Iat. At Cambridge found Sheepshanks, Peacock, and several

       new buildings, the former of whom drove me to Madingloy, a

       place I never saw in my life before, so you may judge how far

       my walks extended as an undergraduate. Came home as tired

       as a city mouse of hedgerows and cottages, and was more

       Inearly in a good humour with the fiddler who stands opposite

       my window on a Saturday night than could previously have
       Ifthought possible.
                            the locomotives ever come to go so quick

       that one tree shall not be distinguishable from another, then, and

       Inot before, do become a traveller. Mr. Stephenson (engineer)

       says he shall never be satisfied till two hours take us from

       London to Liverpool. Blessings on his heart, but either he or,

       I Ibetter still, one of the minority who can be spared, shall try it
       first.  have not got a large organ of caution for nothing. am

       delighted with the House of Lords for throwing out the hard

       bargain of 80 per cent, of Irish tithes to be secured upon the

       Iland. The I. P.1 will never get so good a composition again.
       perfectly agree now with Lord
                                      that the Commons would
       sometimes blunder if it were not for the Lords. Can you imagine
               , the quondam Liberal, instigating the House of
       Lord

       Lords to put it in the power of Commissioners to hinder any

       pauper's religious instructors from having access to him unless

       he were of Parliament principles ? No letters from you, from

       Iwhich conclude that your thoughts are of trees, only interrupted
       Iby the slopping of the waves, which are always fiddling at the

       sand till long to give them a thump, and tell them to be easy.

       The prettiest thing about the sea is the straight horizon and the

       isochronism of the waves in deep water, but near the shore they
       do not keep time like my pendulum. . . . We have got our

       rooms (in part) given up to me, and about the end of September
       shall begin to stir in getting them ready. All the people are out

       of town except myself, and they might as well make me Secretary

       of State as set me painting, plastering, and whitewashing.

       Stratford is gone to Ramsgate with Mrs. S (as he calls her -- I
       abominate initial letters)  tratford, Baily to Edinburgh,
       son, &c., ditto. There is                                   Hender
                                   Inot a soul left that know of,  which is

       1 Quare Irish People f I cannot interpret these political allusions.
CORRESPONDENCE.                                           81

a great ad van tape of being in town in the summer; for, saving              1834.
your absence, it is a good thing to be thrown upon oneself for a

Imonth or two, to say nothing of the quantity of work one does.

  was very sorry to find when I came home that Mr. Woolgar

had been very uncourteonsly received by B  with my note.

That unfortunate man will never rest until he succeeds in getting

nobody's good word. He calculates very wrong (for a calculating
machine maker) if he thinks such a thrower of stones as himself

can stand alone in the world. It takes all his analysis and his
machine to boot to induce me to say I will ever have any com

munication with him again, which nothing should induce me to

do except the consideration that men of real knowledge should

have more allowance made for them than some charlatans I
know. I make no doubt Mr. Woolgar will detail to you the

reception he received. . . .

Apropos of logarithms, give my kind regards to all your

circle, and believe me, dear sir,

                                   Yours sincerely,

                                           A. De Morgan.

6 Upper Gower Street.

                           To William Frend, Hastings.

    Dear Sir, -- I have nothing whatever in the nature of news

to tell you, except that the Astronomical Society has ob
tained possession of its rooms 1 and moved into them, with
nothing remarkable except that one of the secretaries, whom you
know, had an opportunity of confirming an observation he has
often made, that upholsterers, carpenters, and all concerned in
furniture, are lawlaluret temymris asti, whatever may be their age.
The bookcases of the Society are ' such as are not made now ; '
and even the old orange chests, bought for a trifle to put books
in, are ' such as they doesn't make nowadays,' according to one
of the workmen. However, the race of men are not degenerated,
for four of them took up in their arms our large iron safety
affair, and carried it slick right away into a van, whereas /ir<;
men took two hours with iron rollers, &c., to get it into the

chambers a year ago.

    I have got the care of all the churches upon me now ; that

builders' estimates, &c., with hitch as to prices. Mr. Baily
-at r,( town, and workmen must be in the premises on Wednes
day at latest. We are in this condition. The Royal Society,

                                         In Somerset House.
1

               a
                                                                     is is,
       82 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1836.  which owns the upper storey, has cut a floor through what was

       ....a ntaircase, so that our rooms in part present a section like the fol
       lowing.1  However, I suppose it will come right somehow or

       other. Our meeting-room will hold from ninety to a hundred com-

       fortably. Our largest meeting hitherto has been eighty.

       Give my kind regards all round, and believe me,

                                        Yours sincerely,

                                                 A. De Morgan.

       5 Upper Gower Street.

                              To Dean Peacock.

       IDear Sir, -- send you herewith my series, corrected and

       revised in the newest manner. The result is so much generalised

       Ifrom that in the Calculus of Functions, that think it may be
       considered as new matter.

          I send also a small work with a new kind of title, being an

       endeavour to make the fifth book of Euclid somewhat readable.

       It is meant to be the first part of a book on Trigonometry. The

       astronomical world here has been enlightened by a starlight

       IKnight,2 at the Royal Institute. What Young and Faraday         did
       have there said of physics has been completely outdone.
       I Inot hear the lectures, but am told that if had should have
       known how George III., surrounded by his Astronomers, went

       to Kew to see an occultation, foregoing the stag-hunt which

       was going on ; how a cloud hid the moon, and how the pious

       King, without a single murmur against Providence (a point dwelt

       upon as remarkable), turned the telescope at the hunters, and

       saw the stag killed, between the two horizontal wires. The second

       lecture was closed by a description of the unfitness of Mathema

       ticians to be practical Astronomers, with the exception of Bessel.
       Now Sir James would have lectured at Cambridge with half the

       pains which were taken to get Airy.

                                         I remain, dear Sir,

                                                         Yours very sincerely,
                                                                         A. De Morgan.

       Upper Gower Street, April 25, 1836.

                            To Sir J. Herschel.

       My dear Sir John, -- Some months ago, when the Calculus
       Iof Functions which  now send you was published, I marked

            1 The reader's imagination  will easily supply the omitted  sketch
       from the context.

            2 Sir James South.
            CORRESPONDENCE.                                83

Ione for yon, which has been lying waiting opportunities.  am           1836.
ghd now of the delay, as I am enabled to send with it some
map* of the stars which I have been charged to present to you

in the name of the Committee of the Society for the Diffusion of

IUseful Knowledge. They are the first maps, believe, in which

Sir William's nebula and your own are laid down from the

Catalogue.

You will find a great deal of new speculation about an old

subject of yours iu the Calculus of Functions, and in particular
a discussion which concerns you in § 252, &c
                                              .

The two books on Algebra and Number and Magnitude con-
taiu various metaphysical points, which I heartily wish were

more attended to. I have not written your name in them be

cause non constat that it is reasonable to expect you to bring

elementary books home again to England, where other copies

will be much at your service. Present them, therefore, to any
person or institution whom they will be of use to.

     We are getting up a picture of Mr. Baily by subscription,

and the same is limited to a guinea. It has struck me that I do

not remember that anybody has put your name down, and that

you would not be pleased to be left out in any association which
is to do honour to such a man. I shall therefore take care that

the omission is remedied. The picture is to be presented to

the Astronomical Society.
     Your sixth Catalogue has been printed, or will be struck off

shortly. The extra copies shall be forwarded to Mr. Stewart.

There is very little stirring in our world. You will have heard

that Captain Smyth had already asserted that the two stars
y Virginis were in peri-one-another, and was laughed at by some

bho,dy«idfeo.r his assertion, which laughter your letter has turned on

     I should suppose you now can almost fix the time of your re

turn. I take it for granted yon have learned the extraordinary
discoveries you have made in the moon. It was a dull joke to
republish the book in England, and I suspect in America it
u dose to raise the wind. I flatter myself I did just as clever

a thing, which, however, has failed through Mr. Warren's want of

under standing ; at least, I have not seen it in print. I sent him

anonymously the following :--
     ' Sir John Herschel.' --This distinguished Astronomer writes

this to a friend from the Cape of Good Hope : -- ' The climate hero

i» so bad that my mirrors tarnish immediately. I do not know

            o2
       84 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1836.  I Iwhat should have done if had not taken the precaution to

       bring out with me a large supply of Warren's jet blacking, pre
       pared at his manufactory, 30 Strand, the polish of which is so

       Iexquisite that can see the faintest stars in the haziest evenings.'
       IWith best wishes, remain,

                                                               Yours very truly,
                                                                       A. De Morgan.

           5 Upper Gower Street, July 10, 1836.

       N.B. --The Southern Hemisphere on the maps looks tolerably

       empty of nebulae.  There is ample space and room enough the
       characters of He
                           1 to trace, whence it follows that you may

       mark the year and mark the night ; that is, dot down nebulae
       through all the twenty-four hours of R.A., and the year and

       night will be near enough as to time. Do you not find it

       an awfully unromantic change to get out of the land of Hercules,

       Draco, Cepheus, &c., into that of Pyxis Nautica, Caelum
       IfSculptoris, &c. ?
                            you have to make any new constellations,

       remember that the president and other officers of the Astrono

       mical Society have an official claim. Presses Societatis Astro-
       nomicse would look pretty ; and a Press., or ft Secret., would not
       be amiss in a list of moon culminating stars.

       Please to give my kind regards to Maclear and young

       Smyth when you see them. Maclear's paper on the opposition

       of Mars has reached the Astronomical Society duly, but we wait
       about printing it till we hear of his observations. Of course

       you know Bacbelier, the mathematical bookseller at Paris. All

       Ihis stock has been burnt, and that of others at the same time.

       wanted Libri's ' History of Mathematics ' in July, and find it is

       all gone in the flames.
85

SECTION V.

                                      1836 to 184C.             1836.

Soos after Mr. De Morgan's return to the college a great
affliction befell the family in the sudden death of his sister
Mrs. Hensley in her confinement. Her brother had left his
home in Gower Street, satisfied that she was doing well, and
on his return in the afternoon inquired as he entered the
house how she was going on. The servant replied that

Mrs. Hensley was dead. It had been quite unexpected,

and was a terrible blow to her mother, her husband, and

brothers. Mrs. Hensley left three daughters and the
infant son whose birth immediately preceded her own

death. It was many months before her brother Augustus

recovered from the shock he received in hearing so sud

denly of the event. In writing to my mother of the affliction

of his own, he added, ' As for me, I am stunned, and
hardly know what I write.' And it was far longer before

the grief caused by this, his first experience of the death
of one whom he loved most affectionately, abated.

     The religious doubts and difficulties created in his
mind by the doctrinal teaching of his early years were not

the only troubles arising from the same cause. It was

natural that a mother, so anxious and true-hearted as his,
should not see without pain anything like what she thought
carelessness in religious matters, and that her anxiety
to produce a belief like her own should be intensified
by her recent sorrow. His sister had shared her anxiety.
They looked upon him, of whose intellectual powers they
were proud, and who had been enabled to give such loving
1836.  86 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

       and dutiful help to his family, as one perhaps doomed to
       endless torment, because, using the power of head and inte
       grity of heart which made him so dear to them, he rejected
       some orthodox creed, and the belief that his Father in
       heaven was more cruel and unjust than any earthly father.

            After his sister's death, his mother wrote to him with

       painful earnestness on this subject, begging him to read
       some writings left by his sister. His reply shows both
       what he thought of the question and what he felt on the
       sorrowful occasion which called it forth.1

            From this letter it may be gathered that his opinions
       at this time were Unitarian, according to the meaning
       originally given by that word, and to the belief held by
       those who first bore the name.2 There is now so much

       Iconfusion of ideas as to this, that it is necessary for

       me to say what mean in calling my husband a Unitarian.
       He believed that Jesus Christ, the Son of God by the
       gift of the Holy Spirit without measure, was, as to his
       nature, a man like ourselves, except in His power of receiv
       ing the Spirit of God. That His divinity was not, like
       that of the Father, the Source of all things, underived and
       self-existent. That the Father spoke through Him by the
       same Spirit, sending the message and the means of redemp
       tion or bringing back erring man to God. That the
       mission was attested by His words and miraculous works,
        and that He rose from the dead, and was seen to rise to
        Heaven, from whence He sends the Spirit to those who are

       Iable to receive it.
             Mr. De Morgan never joined any religious sect, but
        think he had most respect for the Unitarians, as being
        most honest in their expression of opinion, and having
        most critical learning. The writer's belief in the supremacy
       of reason to sift and interpret revelation, and his implicit

             1 See correspondence following this section.
             a When a proposal was made to require the insertion in the census
        return of the various religious denominations, he declared that he
       should describe us as ' Christians unattached.'
REASON AND FAITIT.                       87

faith, sufficient evidence having been obtained, are shown in  1836.

the letter. The two are results of the same mental

power, for reason enables us as well to interpret testi
mony as to judge of its value. This only applies to that

religion which is of the head. My husband had a deep
instinctive spring of faith in his own soul, but with this,
the bond of union between his heavenly Father and him
self, the world had nothing to do. Years after this letter
was written, he was supposed to have accepted, on slight
and insufficient grounds, facts pronounced unworthy of

examination by less profound thinkers. It may be that

the time will come when his guarded judgment of these
phenomena will be in turn condemned as too cautiously

expressed.1

   Early in 1837, a measure for the abolition of Church iw.
rates, and the application of Church property to meet rates.
the expenses for which they were levied, was proposed by

the Government. Large calculations were, of course,
necessary to show in what way the property could be
so managed as to meet the necessities of the Church,
without injustice to those dignitaries who were its present

holders, and actuaries were engaged to make these calcu
lations, both on the part of the Ministers and on that of
the Opposition. Lord Ellenborough, then in office, applied
to Mr. De Morgan as follows : --

     Mr. Finlaison, not being authorised to communicate with

Lord Ellenborough with respect to the details of the new plan
for the management of Church property, has had the goodness
to recommend to Lord Ellenborough that he should request the
assistance of Mr. De Morgan as the ablest of actuaries in the

elucidation of the subject, &c.

    A very intricate calculation was gone through involv
ing the values of leases for various terms of years, of
the fines levied on change of holder, and of every part of
the complicated question. Lord Ellenborough, between

1 See Preface to From Matter to Spirit.
            88 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1837.       whom and Mr. De Morgan several letters had passed,
            wrote (March 14) : --

                 When the bill is printed and farther inforantion is obtained,

            I may have to trouble yon again with further questions ; but in
            Ithe mean time -cannot delay offering my acknowledgment to

            you for the most valuable assistance you have already afforded.

            This calculation occupied as many hours of several

            days as could be spared from his two lectures and his

            other work, and he had to sit up more than one night to

            complete it. The Bill was lost, and with it Mr. De Mor

Marriage.   gan's time and trouble.

Settled in      In the vacation of this year we were married. Mr.
Gower
Street.     IDe Morgan's religious views are by this time well known
            to the reader.  had been brought up in my father's

            belief, but had not adhered to it without much modifica

            tion. My husband's objection to the marriage ce remony

            was much stronger than my own, but my respect for his

            scruples made me willing to comply with his wish that we

            should not be married by the form prescribed by the

            Church of England. We were married at the registrar's

            office by the Rev. Thomas Madge, and by a form of words

            differing from that in the prayer book only by the omis

            sion of the very small part to which we could not assent

            with our whole hearts, and of the long exordium of St.

            Paul on the duties of husbands and wives.

            After a short tour in Normandy we settled at our first

            home, 69 Gower Street. The books, which were then

            tolerably numerous, had been taken from 5 Upper Gower

            Street, a few weeks before, when his mother went to

            a larger house in Manchester Street, Manchester Square.

            Our house was so near the college that my husband could

            come home in the intervals between his morning and

            afternoon lectures, instead of remaining away from 8 a.m.

            till 5 p.m., as he was obliged to do afterwards when we

            lived at a greater distance from Gower Street.

            My father was living in Tavistock Square at the time
        EARLY MARRIED LIFE.                            89

of our marriage. My husband had long known almost all       1837.
my father's circle of acquaintance. One exception -- a

dear and early friend of mine whom he did not know per
sonally till shortly before our marriage -- was Lady Noel

Byron, whose health kept her much at home, and whom

he accompanied me to see at her house near Acton.

She soon became as truly his friend as she had been

mine. Lady Byron was always shy with strangers, es

pecially with those who excited her veneration. This

shyness gave her an appearance of coldness, but she and

my husband soon knew each other's worth, and she never

lost an opportunity of showing her regard for him and

trust in his judgment. He was rather surprised to find in

one commonly reputed to be hard and austere, qualities

of quite an opposite nature. She was impulsive and affec

tionate almost to a fault, but the expression of her

feelings was often checked by the habitual state of re

pression in which the circumstances of her life had placed

her. I had known her from my childhood. My father,

whom she always held in the highest esteem, had taught

her Mathematics, as a friend, before her marriage. My

husband afterwards gave her daughter, Lady Love
lace, then Lady King, much help in her mathematical

studies, which were carried farther than her mother's had
Ibeen.
        well remember accompanying her to see Mr.

Babbage's wonderful analytical engine. While other

visitors gazed at the working of this beautiful instrument

Iwith the sort of expression, and dare say the sort of

feeling, that some savages are said to have shown on first

seeing a looking-glass or hearing a gun-- indeed, theyif,
had as strong an idea of its marvellousness -- Miss Byron,

young as she was, understood its working, and saw the

great beauty of the invention. She had read the Differen

tial Calculus to some extent, and after her marriage she

pursued the study and translated a small work of the

Italian Mathematician Menabrea, in which the mathe

matical principles of its construction are explained.
  1837.    90 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

Elizabeth      Mr. Babbage's 'Ninth Bridgwater Treatise,' at this

           time going through the press, contained the development

           of an idea suggested by the working of the engine. In

           the series of numbers presented by the rotation of the
           cylinders, a regular order, which has continued for a long
           time, is suddenly interrupted by the appearance of a new
           number. The old series is again resumed, and at another

           interval a number bearing relation to the first interrup
           tion makes its appearance. This process suggested to
           Mr. Babbage a reply to Hume's argument against miracles,
           founded on the experience of the world in the sequence of
           events. The idea of the intervention of a higher law in the
           processes of nature is now more familiar to the world than

           it was when Mr. Babbage gave his beautiful illustration.

           By theologians the book was condemned as heretical, as
           doing away with what was held to be the nature of

           miracle --an arbitrary suspension of the laws of nature.

           By some thoughtful men, who did not consider science
           and revelation incompatible, the suggestion was held
           valuable. My husband took a lively interest in the work,
           and the author, who was then on friendly terms with him,
           was a visitor at our house.

                In this year we made the acquaintance and gained
           the friendship of Elizabeth Fry ; of whom my husband
           speaks in the Budget of Paradoxes as ' one of the noblest
           of human beings.' Lady Noel Byron, who had heard of a
           scheme for a female benefit society and home, which
           seemed to promise great usefulness, and in which Mrs.
           Fry took an interest, introduced her to my husband for
           the sake of his advice on the calculations, and to us both,

           as likely to enter warmly into the design. He found the
           calculations utterly worthless, and loss or even ruin was
           prevented by the reference to him, for the projector had
            obtained promises of money for shares from persons who

           could ill afford to lose it; her vexation on the over
           throw of her scheme was very plainly shown. Mrs. Fry

           Itallowed me to accompany her in a visit to this person.
          OPENING OF COLLEGE SESSION.  91

wag like witnessing an interview between an angel and the     1837.

Iopposite character, and could only compare the steady

gentleness with which Mrs. Fry replied to the sharp, shrill

arguments of Miss  to sunshine clearing away a black

frost. My husband, who was very sensitive on such

points, was charmed with Mrs. Fry's voice and manner

as much as by the simple self-forgetfulness with which

she entered into this business ; her own very uncom
fortable share of it not being felt as an element in the

question, as long as she could be useful in promoting good

or preventing mischief. T can see her now as she came into

Iour room, took off her little round Quaker cap, and laying

it down, went at once into the matter. ' have followed

thy advice, and I think nothing further can be done in

this case ; but all harm is prevented.' In the following
year I had an opportunity of seeing the effect of her most

musical tones. I visited her at Stratford, taking my little

Ibaby and nurse with me, to consult her on some articles

on prison discipline, which had written for a periodical.

IThe baby -- three months old -- was restless, and the nurse

could not quiet her, neither could entirely, until Mrs.

Fry began to read something connected with the subject

of my visit, when the infant, fixing her large eyes on the
reader, lay listening till she fell asleep.

On the occasion of the opening of the Faculty of Arts intnxine-

my husband was appointed to deliver the introductory ture.

lecture.

The establishment of the University of London had

altered the relations of University College with the public

and with education generally, and, as Mr. De Morgan

said, * the circumstances under which this College (Univer
sity College) reopens its courses of instruction are more

remarkable than any in which it has been placed since the

commencement of its career.'

The University of London had been founded in the

year 1836 by Government; and to prevent the confusion

consequent on similarity of name, the institution which
           92 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1838.   had been called the London University took the name of
           University College. There were then two Colleges in
Theory of  London affiliated to the newly established university,
biiities.  which bore that name with more propriety, its object
           being not to give education, but to examine and confer

           degrees upon the pupils of Colleges.
                This lecture, given nine years after his first, shows the

           working of the same thought developed and extended over
           a wider field. He disclaimed being in any way the organ
           or representative of the College. The ideas were his own ;

           and the principles he laid down upon public education
           might be consulted now with advantage in this present
           stage of opinion on academical training.

                Our eldest child was born the year after our marriage.

           In the autumn of that year Lady Byron lent us her house,

           Fordhook, near Acton ; and for the ten weeks of our

           stay my husband was able to go on with his writing more

           easily than he could have done at a greater distance from

           London. During the years 1836 and 1837 he had been
           engaged in writing his Theory of Probabilities. This is the
           description taken from the agreement made with the pub
           lishers of the ' Encyclopaedia Metropolitana,' published in

           January 1838. 'A Mathematical Treatise on the Theory

           of Probabilities; containing such development of the
           application of Mathematics to the said Theory as shall
           to him (the Author) seem fit, and in particular such a
           view of the higher parts of the subject as laid down by
           Laplace in his work entitled Theorie ihs Probability, as
           can be contained in a reasonable compass, regard being

           had to the extent and character of the Mathematical por
           tions of the said work.' 1

                During the time which we spent at Fordhook, he
           completed the small volume entitled ' Essay on Probabi-

                1 From a pamphlet published in 1838, hereafter mentioned. The
           extract is given here for the same purpose for which the pamphlet

           was written, to show the difference between the scientific treatise and
           the popular Essay on Probabilities, in the Cabinet Cyclopaidia.
DISPUTE WITH PUBLISHERS OF ENCYCLOPAEDIA. 93

lities, and on their application to Life Contingencies and 1838.
                                    in Lardner's ' Cabinet
Insurance Offices,' which appeared  The advertisement of                  on
Cyclopaedia ' in September 1838.                               J-*8*?
                                                               bilities.

the ' Essay ' alarmed the editor of the ' Encyclopaedia

Metropolitana,' who, being unable to understand that a

profound Mathematical work full of definite integration

was altogether a different thing from a popular essay

requiring only decimal fractions, and mainly devoted to

life contingencies, accused the writer of having infringed

the rights of the proprietors of the Encyclopaedia, by
publishing what he said ' might be deemed a second

edition of the treatise,' and threatened, or implied a threat

of prosecution. The author, who was more amused than

annoyed by this want of perception in the publisher, ex

plained to him very clearly the respective characters of the

works, but failed to make him understand how widely they

differed. He then proposed arbitration, he being willing

to pay whatever damages should be judged proportionate

to their loss to the supposed injured parties ; or, in the
event of the decision being in his favour, that a sum of

money should be given by them to some charity, as amends

for the trouble given and the false aspersions made. This

last proposal being rejected, the author of the Treatise and

Essay published a little pamphlet in explanation, which

showed to all who cared to understand the question that

the publisher's ignorance of its nature had led him into
what my husband called ' wasting a good deal of good

grumbling,' but which was in truth an unjust imputation

on himself.

    The great amount of work which he did at this time,        Dickens
as at all times while his strength lasted, filled the day, so  scrisl-

that I had but little of his society. We both naturally

regretted this, but it could not be helped. He liked read

ing to me when he could get anything likely to please us

both, so I heard several of Dickens's novels from beginning

to end. They came out in monthly parts, and he would

ay, * We shall have a Pickwick (or whatever it might
            94 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1S38.       be) to-morrow;' and on the first day of the publication
            we had read and commented on it. ' Punch ' about that

            time was in the meridian, and Mrs. Caudle's Curtain

            Lectures threw terrible weapons into the hands of hus

            bands. Accordingly, these last were read to me with a

            view to my improvement, the reader dwelling with special

            emphasis on any of Mrs. Caudle's most outrageous sayings

            which were supposed to be particularly suitable to the
            case. He said, ' Every man's mother is Mrs. Nickleby,

            Iand every man's wife is Mrs. Caudle.' We had more

            time in the vacations, but was afterwards always parted
            from him for a few weeks in the autumn, as it was neces

            sary to take the children out of town for health.

            He seldom entered into any serious discussion, but

            liked to tell of any interesting fact which he had come

            across in his investigations either in reading or thinking ;

            and many valuable bits of knowledge, which were after

            wards expanded and published, were talked of first in

            this way. Matters of less importance, obscure deriva

            tions of words, and unsuspected translations, the origin

            of old customs, versions of nursery rhymes, and, above

Mcas about  all, riddles, good and bad, were generally welcome.
women.
               I must not conceal the fact that in the earlier part of

            his life he held man-like and masterful views of women's

            powers and privileges. Women, he thought, ought to have

            everything provided for them, and every trouble taken off

            their hands ; so the less they meddled with business in any

            form the better. But these very young notions gave way,

            as he saw more of life, to wiser and more practical ones.

            He found that women were not utterly helpless, and his

            love of justice, combined with his better opinion of their

            powers, made him quite willing to concede to them as

            much as he would have desired for himself, namely, full

            scope and opportunity for the exercise of all their faculties.

            This was shown by his giving lectures gratuitously in the

            Ladies' College for the first year after its foundation, and
                    PHILOSOPHERS.                          95

by the interest he felt in the success of those brave women                  1838.

who first attempted the study of medicine.

    In society he seldom entered into discussion on

abstract questions, except with those of whose compre

Ihension he felt sure, but he would sometimes listen to the
debates of others.  once saw him stand by, with a half-

amused, half -interested look, while a discussion was going

on between two learned professors on matter and spirit, the

future life, and a Creator, in which the two last were on

Ithe losing side, without uttering a word. When asked
Ihim what he thought of the arguments, he said, ' don't

understand them, but then I'm not a Philosopher.' '

soph1eHr e"  has left some definition of Philosophers : '  The word "Philo
             is one which has had meanings so different
                                                           from each other,

and has been in such demand for all manner of uses, that a person who

should read the writings of one period with a notion of this word

derived from the writings of another period would be in actual con

fusion about matters of fact and opinion both. Some movable words

are understood as such : a good man sometimes means a just man,

sometimes a benevolent man, sometimes a religious man, a rich man,

or, as at Cambridge, an (undergraduate) man who is well up in his

subject (of examination). This is pretty well understood, but nine-
tenths of the educated think that the Philosopher is one kind of

person, throughout all ages and countries.

' A Philosopher, in Greek, was originally a person who desired and

sought after wisdom, especially the knowledge of man in the widest

sense ; of his constitution, his capabilities, and his duties. But in

history may be found this variety of meanings : 1. The original sense

just described. 2. The votary of a school of opinions on man, or on

nature, or on morals. 3. An ascetic, who denies himself the good
things of the world. 4. A person whose temper is not easily put out.

5. A person who despises his fellow-creatures. 6. One who cares not

what is said about him. 7. An academically educated man. 8. An
atheist. 9. An infidel as to revelation. 10. An inquirer into the
Imaterial phenomena of the universe.
                                            need not say that this list

does not include the true Philosopher, a genus of species innumerable,

nor the technically adjectived Philosopher, as the moral Philosopher,

the chemical Philosopher, <fcc. , meaning a person who looks into

morals, chemistry, &c, in a thoughtful and speculative way. These

would be more rightly called Philosophic moralists, Philosophic

chemists, &c. The dreadful bore who did the moral business in
             96 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

    1838.    Then he repeated laughingly to himself a few words
             uttered by one of the speakers, and said, ' Poor
Mr. Richard                                                                                                                        , he
sketch?
             does not see that if what he said were true, he would not
             be here to say it.' As he wrote, he ' had no objection to

             Metaphysics, far from           'but a man takes candle to

                                                it,

                                                        if

                                                                '

                                                                             it

                                                                                            a
                                                                                                                         ;
             look down his own throat, he must take care not to set his

             head on fire.' And this sense of the danger of fire, coupled

             with the fact that his own thoughts ran in new channels,

             made him unwilling to speak on Metaphysical questions

             except to the few who were already familiar with his

             ideas. Logic and Mathematics were different, being in

             some degree out of the reach of fire.' But his beliefs in

             mental and physical science were founded on that of a

             constantly producing and constantly sustaining Creator

             and he was never found assenting to systems based only

             on observation of material nature. It might be that

             observation had not gone far enough when resulted in

             such expressions as forces inherent in matter,' but he

             said such expressions were only a step in the road to

             atheism. The present state of scientific belief in some

             measure justifies this.

               The morning lecture and explanation lasted from
             a.m. till 10.30, when he came home, but only to attend
           "
             to work of different kinds, or to a private pupil, of whom
                  9
             two or three came to him while we lived in Gower Street,
                    it I
             and afterwards in Camden Street. The afternoon lecture
                         ;I
             was from to 4.30, when he returned to dinner, and for
                                         .3
             the little rest he allowed himself before long evening of
                                                                                                        a
             writing, only interrupted by an hour's talk with me, or
                                                                                                                                ;
             occasionally with some friend who might visit us.

                   As cannot describe my husband in his character of

             Professor, thankfully give two little sketches of his mode

             children's books                asonadfid,foher"tyFhroaymdearsathia"sgsowmeawllams abyaut  Philosopher                he was
             sententious he                                                                             learn, and let              us all
             take warning,"                                                                                                        library
                                                                                                          well-selected

             (may  perish with him), containing no poets except Young and

             Akenside."' . . (Unfinished.)
COLLEGE LECTURES AND PUPILS.  97

and system of teaching, taken by pupils for whom he had 1838.

a sincere regard, and who both loved and venerated their      Mr- Hut-
                                                              lections.
old master, --Mr. Richard Hutton and Mr. Sedley Taylor,
Mr. Hutton says, --

     ' Few men have had more eminent pupils than your

husband, and few have done more to cultivate the intel

lects of those whom they taught. As you know, in Mr. De
Morgan's time, the Mathematical classes of University

College were quite as much classes in Logic, at least in the

Logic of number and magnitude, as in Mathematics ; but

Iof my own fellow-pupils very few have, think, since

become eminent in the world. The present Master of

Ithe Rolls (Sir George Jessel) was, believe, your husband's

pupil a year or two before my time, as was the late Mr.

Jacob Waley, who, after being his pupil, became his col

league at University College. Mr. Walter Bagehot, whose
books on the working of our political constitution and on

the early forms of national government have attracted

the attention of most thoughtful men, was a fellow-

student with me, and one of the chief subjects of discus

sion between us used to be the logical questions raised in

the Mathematical classes, especially in your husband's
lectures on the theory of limits, the theory of probabili

ties, the calculus of operations, and the interpretation of

symbols applied, with a new and extended meaning, to
cases which were not within the scope of their original
definition. Professor Stanley Jevons, of Owen's College,

Manchester, who has always prized very highly your

Ihusband's teaching, was his pupil many years after had

left the College, and no one has made better use of the

time passed in those delightful classes ; and every book

he publishes bears witness to the help he has derived from

your husband's teaching.
     ' One thing which made his classes lively to men who

were up to his mark, was the humorous horror he used

to express at our blunders, especially when we took the
conventional or book view instead of the logical view.

B
            98 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1838.    The bland " hush ! " with which he would suppress a sug

Mr. Sedley  gestion which was simply stupid, and the almost grotesque
recoiiec?
tions.      surprise he would feign when a man betrayed that, instead

            of the classification by logical principles, he was thinking

            of the old unmeaning classification by rule in the common

            school-books, were exceedingly humorous, and gave a life

            Ito the classes beyond the mere scope of their intellectual
            interests.  think all my fellow-pupils would agree that

            never was there a more curious mixture of interests than

            the prepared discussions of principle in his lectures, and

            the Johnsonian force and sometimes fun of his part in the

            short dialogues with his pupils which occurred from time

            to time.'

            A pupil who came rather later than those mentioned,

            and in whose success his teacher greatly rejoiced, was Mr.

            Robert Bellamy Clifton, now Professor of Physical Science

            in Oxford. My husband early perceived talents in Mr.

            Clifton which had been ignored by former teachers, and

            the result justified his advice and predictions. Professor

            Clifton continued a valued friend through Mr. De Morgan's

            life, and gave me much kind assistance with the library,

            &c., after his death.

            The work in the Mathematical lecture room, and the

            Professor's manner of doing it, are also well described by

            his pupil and friend, Mr. Sedley Taylor of Trinity College,
            Cambridge -- one who, like himself, held conscience to be

            above all things, and gave up his position as a clergyman

            of the Church of England because he could not assent

            with his whole heart to her doctrine. The following is

            extracted from Mr. Taylor's notice of his old teacher in the
            Cambridge University Reporter : --

                 ' As Professor of Pure Mathematics at University

            College, London, De Morgan regularly delivered four
            courses of lectures, each of three hours a week, and last

            ing throughout the academical year. He thus lectured

            two hours every day to his College classes, besides giving

            a course addressed to schoolmasters in the evening during
DESCRIPTIONS OF LECTURES.                     99

a portion of the year. His courses embraced a systematic      1838.

view of the whole field of Pure Mathematics, from the

first book of Euclid and Elementary Arithmetic up to the

Calculus of Variations. From two to three years were

ordinarily spent by Mathematical students in attendance

on his lectures. De Morgan was far from thinking the

duties of his chair adequately performed by lecturing only.

At the close of every lecture in each course he gave out a

number of problems and examples illustrative of the sub

ject which was then engaging the attention of the class.

His students were expected to bring these to him worked

out. He then looked them over, and returned them

revised before the next lecture. Each example, if rightly
done, was carefully marked with a tick, or if a mere inac

curacy occurred in the working it was crossed out, and the
proper correction inserted. If, however, a mistake of
principle was committed, the words ' show me ' appeared

on the exercise. The student so summoned was expected

to present himself on the platform at the close of the

lecture, when De Morgan would carefully go over the point

with him privately, and endeavour to clear up whatever
difficulty he experienced. The amount of labour thus

involved was very considerable, as the number of students

in attendance frequently exceeded one hundred.'
     ' De Morgan's exposition combined excellences of the

most varied kinds. It was clear, vivid, and succinct -- rich

too with abundance of illustration always at the command

of enormously wide reading and an astonishingly retentive

memory. A voice of sonorous sweetness, a grand forehead,

and a profile of classic beauty, intensified the impression

of commanding power which an almost equally complete
mastery over Mathematical truth, and over the forms of

  2

                           it,
language in which he so attractively arrayed  could not

fail to make upon his auditors. Greater, however, than

even these eminent qualities were the love of scientific

truth for its own sake, and the utter contempt for all


   1838.    .....100 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.
Mr. Sedley
Taylor's    counterfeit knowledge, with which he was visibly possessed,
tions!60    and which he had an extraordinary power of arousing: and
            sustaining in his pupils. The fundamental concepti.ons of
            eacn m&in department of Mathematics were dwelt upon

            and illustrated in such detail as to show that, in the judg

            ment of the lecturer, a thorough comprehension and mental

            assimilation of great principles far outweighed in import

            ance any mere analytical dexterity in the application of

            half-understood principles to particular cases. Thus, for

            instance, in Trigonometry, the wide generality of that

            subject, as the science of undulating or periodic magnitude,

            was brought out and insisted on from the very first. In

            like manner the Differential Calculus was approached

            through a rich conglomerate of elementary illustration, by

            which the notion of a differential coefficient was made

            thoroughly intelligible before any formal definition of its

            meaning had been given. The amount of time spent on

            any one subject was regulated exclusively by the import
            ance which De Morgan held it to possess in a systematic

            view of Mathematical science. The claims which Uni

            versity or College examinations might be supposed to

            have on the studies of his pupils were never allowed to

            influence his programme in the slightest degree. He

            laboured to form sound scientific Mathematicians, and, if

            he succeeded in this, cared little whether his pupils could

            reproduce more or less of their knowledge on paper in a

            given time. On one occasion, when I had expressed regret

            that a most distinguished student of his had been beaten,

            in the Cambridge Mathematical Tripos, by several men

            believed to be his inferiors, De Morgan quietly remarked
            that he " never thought
                                      likely to do himself justice
            Iin the gkeat writing eace." All cram he held in the
            most sovereign contempt.  remember, during the last

            Iweek of his course which preceded an

            mination, his abruptly addressing his
                                      annual    Cfoolllelogwes:ex"a
                                      class as

            Inotice that many of you have left off working my examples
            this week.  know perfectly well what you are doing ;
        COLLEGE LECTUHES.          101

TOU ARr CRAMMING FOR THr rXAMINATION. But T will Set             1839.
allyou such a paper as shall make
                                   your cram of no

use."'

His pupils' affection was not gained by any laxity of Enforce-

discipline, for he was strict, especially as to quietness and punctu-
punctuality. His own morning lecture began at nine. alitv.
That on Natural Philosophy followed it immediately, and
punctuality in the first comers, to secure its full time, was

important. Some of the pupils had fallen into the
slovenly habit of coming into the theatre a few minutes

after the bell had rung, and in this way lost, and prevented

those present from hearing, the first sentences of the
lecture. For the want of punctuality they could hardly

be blamed, as an example was set by several of the Pro*

ftfssors, whose entrance was delayed, as they said, 'to givethe

lads time to assemble.' Mr. De Morgan, after duly enjoin

ing punctual attendance, gave notice that if the pupils

came in after he had commenced, they would find the
door locked, which threat after two or three days' trial was

put into effect. A few enterprising youths kicked and

knocked at the door, trying to burst it open, but on the
appearance of a policeman, and a threat of ' the Council,'

which might mean removal, they were brought to order.
    At the end of this session nine pupils presented their

Professor with a handsomely bound copy of Macaulay's
Essays, with a letter begging his acceptance of it as ' A

small expression of gratitude for the liberal and most

efficient assistance which his course of mathematical lec

tures had afforded them in preparing to pass the examina
tion for the degree of Bachelor of Arts in the University of

London.' Among these nine gentlemen were three of the
insurgents, and among the other six names were those of

Jacob Waley and James Baldwin Browne. Some time had

always been given after each lecture to clearing up diffi

culties, and rather more than usual was necessary after

the outbreak, as those concerned in it were in greater
need of help to make up for lost time.
           102 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

    1839.  Very soon after the establishment of the London

Jacob      University, young men of Jewish parentage began to
Walev.
           distinguish themselves by their rapid acquirement of

           knowledge, thus justifying the hopes of their co-re

           ligionists who had contributed so liberally to the founda

           tion. During the years in which my husband was Professor,

           many Jews took the highest honours ; and among his
           most attached and valued Jewish pupils, the late Mr.

           Numa Hartog was the last, and Mr. Jacob Waley the

           first. Mr. Hartog's career, unhappily cut short before

           he had applied his talents to the work of life, was a bril

           liant one. After taking all the honours that could be

           given in University College, he went to Cambridge, and

           took his degree as Senior Wrangler. But the mental

           work was too much for his strength, and an attack of

           small-pox in 1872 left him too weak to rally.

           Mr. Jacob Waley, afterwards Professor of Law, was

           one of the first Jewish students, after my husband's return

           to his Professorship, of whom the College had reason to be

           proud. He was not only a successful student in class, but

           Ia diligent private pupil, and from the time of which

           write till his death in 1873 a valued friend. His lessons

           at our house in Gower Street were pleasant to both teacher

           and pupil, and even to myself, for he would come to me

           when they were done, for a little talk about books, or

           a reading of his favourite writer Macaulay's Lays or

           Essays. Mr. Waley was the first M.A. of the University

           of London, which in 1836 was ready to confer degrees on

           students of its affiliated Colleges in London and else

           where. Some of us now living may remember Lord

           Brougham's reference to this pupil in a speech made at a

           distribution of prizes at the time, and possibly too some

           may remember how the speaker dwelt upon the fact (which
           was a fact then, and we had heard it so often that we were

           tired of hearing  it)  that within those walls men of every

           religion were received, whether as teacher or student,

           without any reference to their beliefs or non-beliefs. The
GEORGE LONG.                                    103

time at which these assertions were made was spoken of 1839.
by my husband as ' before the Fall.'

    At the time of our marriage Mr. George Long, who had George

resigned his Professorship of Greek in the University when ong'
Mr. De Morgan retired, was living with his family in

Camden Street, Camden Town. He was editor of the

Penny Cyclopaedia, and others of the works of the Diffu

sion Society, and the work brought him and Mr. De Morgan
much together. The two had several qualities in common, --

integrity of purpose and simplicity of character, indefati

gable industry, and a love of fun which brightened hard

work and kept us always amused. Mrs. Long took great

credit to herself for the fulfilment of her predictions on

the subject of our marriage, which she declared she had

foreseen from time immemorial. I believe her prophecies

really dated from the year 1831, when my acquaint

ance with her began. It lasted as warm friendship till

the year 1841, when to the great sorrow of all her friends

she was taken from us.

     Among other visitors not connected with the College
was Mr. Leslie Ellis, who left on my mind the impression of

an almost perfect moral nature. This impression was

confirmed when, some time after, his scientific studies

were interrupted by an illness, which he bore for years

with unexampled patience, trying to alleviate the intensity
of his sufferings when possible by mental work, and when

that was impossible, awaiting the end with perfect resig

nation. Dr. Logan, a learned Mathematician and after

wards Professor at the Catholic College of Oscott, was

among our friends. When Mr. Leslie Ellis's sister left

him on the occasion of her marriage with Dr. Whewell,

the Master of Trinity, our friend Dr. Logan took her

place near the sufferer, and attended him with unremit
Iting friendship and affection till his death.
                                                have none
of my husband's letters to Dr. Logan, but I know that

the correspondence was large. Mr. De Morgan was in

debted to him for the volume of Ploucquet which was
            104 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

183?. afterwards of such essential service in his logical contro
          versy with Sir William Hamilton.

Rev. James  Another and an older friend not connected with the

            College was James Tate of Richmond, Yorkshire, who

            at this time was living with his family at the residence

            as Canon of St. Paul's, Amen Corner. His own story

            was nearly connected with that of my mother's family.
            Mr. Tate, like so many of his own scholars -- ' northern

            lights,' as they were called --was of obscure or rather

            poor parentage. Archdeacon Blackburne,1 who lived at

            Richmond, wanted a lad to act as amanuensis, and to

            read to him. Mr. Christopher Wyvill, his friend and

            contemporary, a noted Whig reformer of the time, re

            quired a young man in the same capacity. Two lads
            were recommended by Mr. Temple, the head-master of

            Richmond School. These were James Tate and Peter

            Fraser, the last a poor boy, but a lineal descendant of the

            beheaded Lord Lovat. My great-grandfather engaged
            young Tate, and Mr. Wyvill took Fraser. The two lads

            proved well deserving their appointments. Archdeacon

            Blackburne became greatly attached to his young amanu

Pupils of   ensis, and found the means of sending him to Cambridge,
            where he gained honours as a classic. Mr. Wyvill sent his

School!"1   proUge to the University, with nearly the same success.

            In due time young Tate was ordained, and afterwards

            appointed to a tutorship in the school at Richmond, of

            which at Mr. Temple's death he became head- master.

            Some of the most distinguished men of the beginning of

            this century were his pupils ; many of them, like him
            self, owing all to their own ability and industry. Of

            these were Dean Peacock, Professor Adam Sedgwick,

            Professor Whewell, Richard Sheepshanks, and many

            others.

                1 Archdeacon of Cleveland. His work The Confessicnuil gave him
            a distinguished place among the writers on Divinity of his time. Mr.
            Fraser afterwards married his granddaughter, and died rector of Keg-

            worth in Leicestershire.
ARRANGEMENT OF STUDY.  105

     Many as were our friends, we had but very little 183U.
visiting, my husband's time being so fully filled with Qrd .
his work. The last was done with exceeding order and h«biu."

punctuality. He has himself described Mr. Baily's habits
of order ; and his own, though less apparent, were equally
characteristic. He had the faculty of arrangement in an
unusual degree, but it showed itself more in classification
than in tidiness. In looking at any undertaking for scien
tific or practical purposes, he could not go on till all
his materials were ready and arranged. This faculty is
seldom so well proportioned to the power of carrying out

the work projected. Mr. Baily had order of every sort,

from the classification of formula? or facts to the perfect
arrangement of his house and appointments. In Mr. De
Morgan it showed itself differently. Not having the
means to indulge in the luxuries enjoyed by richer and
more affluent writers or experimentalists, he could rot
furnish his library with all the writing appliances and
handsome bindings that ornament rich men's studies,
and his old table and desk, and other cheap contrivances,

looked shabby enough. Any one who went into his room
would be struck at first by the homeliness of the whole,
and the quantity of old and unbound books and packets of
papers. But when it was seen how the books were ar

ranged and the papers labelled and put into their proper

places according to subjects, the adaptation of means to

ends became as apparent as in the clearness and precision
with which he laid down principles, and showed what
was to be done before making a beginning on his work.
His contrivances in the way of inkstand, penholder, and

blotting-block, had none of them a new or unused look,

but all showed that every contingency had been carefully
provided for. After gutta-percha came into use he
employed it in every possible way, moulding it into pen
holders, caps, covers, and all sorts of fastenings. He

says, in The Budget of Paradoxes, ' I never could spell
the word, but if cowchoke goes, I go too ; ' and being
           106 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1839.   once disrespectfully told that he would fasten on a head,

Cavendish  Ian arm, or a leg, if he lost one, with gutta-percha, he said,
ment?
           ' should like to see you do as much.'
                When the repetition of the Cavendish experiment was

           undertaken by Mr. Baily in the year 1837 at his house
           in Tavistock Place-- a house thereby rendered memorable
           -- Mr. De Morgan gave so many clear descriptions of it

           Iand its object, that Mr. Baily's work in 1838 and 1839

           requires a longer notice than have given to those Astro
           nomical achievements with which my husband had less

           to do. A grant of 500J. had been made by Government,

           at the representation of the Astronomical Society, for
           defraying expenses. The forerunners of this effort to
           ascertain the mean density of the earth are mentioned by
           Mr. De Morgan in the Life of Maskelyne, written some
           time before, and will give some idea of the nature and
           objects of the undertaking.

                 ' The labour of deducing an approximation to the
           earth's mean density was undertaken by Dr. Hutton. By
            getting the best possible estimate of the materials of which

            Schehallien is composed, and comparing what we must

           call the weight of the plumb-line towards the mountain
           with its weight towards the earth, it appeared that the
           mean density of the latter is about five times that of

           water. This, considered as a numerical approximation,

           alone and unsupported, would have been worth little,
           owing to the doubt which must have existed as to the

           correctness of the estimation of the mountain's density.

           It would prove that there was attraction in the mountain,

           but would give no very great probability as to the value
           of the earth's density as deduced. But a few years after
           wards Cavendish made an experiment with the same

           object, and by an entirely different method. By producing
           oscillations in leaden balls by means of other leaden balls,

           and by a process of reasoning wholly free from astro
           nomical data, he inferred that the mean density of the
       REPETITION' OF CAVENDISH EXPERIMENT.  107

earth was five and a half times that of water. The ex-        1839.

periment of Cavendish was published in 1798. It is much

to be wished that it should be repeated on a larger scale,
but the expense of the apparatus will probably deter in

dividuals from the attempt.'

   IIn a pencil note in the margin of the same page

find--                                                        First ,ng-
                                                              gcslion.
   ' This was, I believe, the remote cause of the repetition

of the experi·ment. Being, a f*ew months afmterwards, in

the year 1 335, on the Council of the Astronomical Society,

I Isomething was said about the mean density of the earth,

and happened to say, " wish Cavendish's experiment

could be repeated." Mr. Airy immediately said, "Ah,

that would be a good thing." Others agreed, and a
committee was appointed on the spot " to consider of the

practicability," &c. The result was the repetition of the

experiment.'

     The history, the nature of the formulae for the calcu
lations, and the results of the discovery, are all given
by Mr. De Morgan in the articles ' Attraction,' ' Caven
dish Experiment,' ' Weight of the Earth,' and others,
in the Penny Cyclopa-dia, and in a sufficiently popular
form in an article in the Companion to the Almanac for

1838.

Mr. Baily's repetition, commenced in 1838, was carried

on in a small upper room twelve feet by twelve, as
far removed as possible from the noise and shaking of

street traffic. It was, of course, an object of interest to

all scientific friends, and Mr. Baily's genial kindness in

explaining his beautiful apparatus and showing his pro
gress was one of the pleasant accompaniments of his

important work. The apparatus designed and con
structed by Mitchell, who did not live to use it, had

been used by Cavendish, and afterwards by Mr. Baily,

bat to greatly improved and added to by the last ex
perimenter that it could hardly be called the same. I saw
            108 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

    ·1839.  the progress of the experiment, and my husband's visits
1840.       were frequent to the little room in which the world was

            weighed.

                 The Life of Maskelyne, from which the mention of
            my husband's suggestion is taken, is one of a series of
            lives of Astronomers written by him for the Gallery of
            Portraits, published by C. Knight two or three years
            before this time. They are those of Bradley, Delambre,
            Descartes, Dollond, Euler, Halley, Harrison, W. Herschel,
            Lagrange, Laplace, Leibnitz, and Maskelyne. They are
            bound up together, and illustrated in his own way, under
            the title of ' Mathematical Biography, extracted from the
            Gallery of Portraits, by Augustus De Morgan, H.O.M.O.
            P.A.U.C.A.R.U.M. L.I.T.E.R.A.R.U.M.' The letters of
            his literary tail were only B.A., F.R.A.S., besides those
            expressing membership of one or two lesser Scientific
            societies. On account of the declaration of belief at that
            time required by the University he never took his M.A.

            degree.

                 In November our eldest son, William Frend De

            Morgan, was born.

            I We had spent five weeks at Boulogne in the summer.
                hoped that, as my husband always liked the sea,
            a French watering-place would be less irksome to him
            than English country or sea-coast; but he soon got tired
            of and felt glad to get back to his work.

                 He bore a few weeks at Blackheath next year with
            equanimity. He was near the Observatory, and Mr. and
            Mrs. Airy were good neighbours, so were Mr. (afterwards
            Lord) Wrottesley and Mrs. Wrottesley, the former being
            on the Council of the Astronomical Society, and, be
            sides his other excellent social qualifications, being a
            good musician. My husband liked the steamboats, of
            which he made much use but the heath, which he called
            desolation, was trial to him. After this summer he

            begged me to take the children without him and found
            that this arrangement, which disliked, was the best.
            it,
                                   a

                                                                          ;

                                       I
                                                                                                                               ;
                                                               I
DEATH OF AUTHOR'S FATHER.  109

He required a letter, reporting health, &c., and sent me 1840.
one in return, every day.

    On our return to Gower Street I went with my two little

children to Highgate for a very short time to be near my
father, who had had a stroke of paralysis.

     He died early in the next year, 1841, at the age of iwi.
84. His Cambridge life and early difficulties on the
subject of religion have been slightly referred to. He
had taken his degree as Second Wrangler, and had after
wards had a Fellowship and a College living till scruples
of conscience led him to leave the Church ; and his sub

sequent publication of a pamphlet entitled Peace and
Union was the cause of a prosecution by the University.

He was tried and sentenced to non-residence, but he re

tained his Fellowship till his marriage with my mother, a
granddaughter of Archdeacon Blackburne. He had been
a pupil of Dr. Paley, for whom he always retained an
affection ; and among his own pupils were Dr. Edward
Daniel Clarke, the traveller, Lord Lyndhurst, afterwards
Lord Chancellor, and Mr. Malthus, in whose social tenets

he entirely disclaimed any share. My father's political
opinions, as set forth in Peace and Union, were held
to be extreme eighty years ago ; they are as milk for babes
in comparison with the strong stimulants given by the
Liberal party now.

     He was after he left Cambridge a friend of Sir Francis
Burdett during the reforming portion of his life, of Home
Tooke, and of other reformers. What place he would have

Itaken in politics had he lived till now can only conjecture.

He was a good Hebraist, and was trustee for Mr. Robert
Tsrwhitt's Hebrew Scholarship at Cambridge. His largest
work was on popular Astronomy as it was known then.
This book, entitled Evening Amusements, came out, a

volume every year, for nineteen years; each volume show
ing the relative positions of all the heavenly bodies for
every month in the year.

     My father's ideas on Algebra were peculiar; his re-
             110     MEMOIH OF AUGUSTUS DE MOKGAN.

1841.        jection of the use of negative quantities in algebraic
             operations being probably the result of the same straight

             forwardness and clearness rather than great depth of

             intellect, which had led him, with more show of reason, to

             reject the doctrine of the Trinity in the form in which he

             had received it

                 lie was an upright and noble-minded man, generous
             and disinterested to a fault, if that can be, with a vigorous
             perceptive mind, but little imagination. His religion was

             real and practical ; and his death was an event to which
             he had always looked forward with cheerfulness and happy
             anticipation. My husband wrote a short biography for

             the Athenamm, and a longer one to the Astronomical

             Society's Obituary Notices.

                 Mr. De Morgan was at this time, I think, consult

             ing actuary to the Family Endowment Assurance Office,

             which afterwards merged with another office in the

             Mutual. I do not think he held this place more than two

             years.

Accident to  During this summer an accident occurred which nearly

Bail;.       proved fatal to our friend Mr. Francis Baily. He was

             crossing Wellington Street, Strand, when a man on horse

             back, riding furiously, knocked him down and stunned
             him. He was taken in an unconscious state totheCharinc

             Cross Hospital, and was found to have a severe scalp

             wound and to be a good deal bruised. As soon as he

             could bear the removal he was taken home to Tavistock

             Place ; and after a few weeks his recovery seemed to be

             complete, though he remained weak for some time. But

             the injury to the head left more serious results than were
             expected, for it is most probable that the disease of which

             he died three years after, and which is now believed to be

             often the result of a shock to the nervous system, was

             caused by this blow. My husband was, as were all Mr.

             Baily's friends, extremely anxious as to the possible con
             sequences ; but their anxiety was allayed when he got up
             again, received his friends, resumed his work on the
HALLAM'S I1IST0RY OF LITERATURE.                 Ill

Cavendish experiment, and even took some part in the                 1841.
Report on the Commission for restoring the National
Standards, to which he had devoted so much time and

thought. This Commission was appointed in 1838. The
Report was sent in in 1841. On the appointment of a
new Commission in 1843 to reconstruct the Standard

Scales, Mr. Baily recovered sufficiently to undertake the
Standard of Length, but did not live to complete it.

     Mr. Hallam's History of the Literature of the Middle
Ages was at this time coming out, and after the publica
tion of the first edition Mr. De Morgan sent the author
some observations on the history of the Mathematicians
of the period embraced in the first volume. What his

criticisms were can only be guessed by Mr. Hallam's reply,

Ias have not his own letter.

                                                 Dec. 12, 1841.

I am much obliged by your correction of some inaccuracies

in the first volume of my History of Literature, which will be
I Iof use to me in the new edition which
                                         am now preparing.

am always thankful for such communications, which are at least

a sign that the book is thought worthy of them.

     In reply to further criticism, further correspondence
took place two years later, Mr. Hallam's letter touching
on the subject of Logic, which had assumed so definite
and important a form in Mr. De Morgan's thoughts,
and which was afterwards treated in connection with

points of original discovery in his Formal Logic.

I shall pay all attention to them (your remarks) in any new          H. Hallam.
Iedition, and will look again at some of the works in which your
more expert eye has detected my errors.  certainly searched
in vain for the triangle of forces so called in Stevinus, and I was

                                         as Montucla says, be
             it
                                    ;
                                     it,
                                   I
a little more led to doubt of his using

cause the only demonstration with which          am acquainted

involves the third law of motion but that, according to the

general opinion, was not laid down till long afterwards. Perhaps

Stevinus might assume on metaphysical principles without

experiment.
       112 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1841.     I IThe early history of algebra is a very interesting subject,

       and shall be glad to return to it again with more leisure.
       was forced to copy writers of credit, not always seeing the full

       force of what they said. But it seemed to me that a sound

       mathematician would find that field not exhausted. . . .

            As to your observation about logic-- that is, the syllogistic

       Ilogic -- perhaps was a little influenced by the impression that
       Imore attention was paid to it at Oxford. That, believe, is now
       Imuch less the case. But though what have written on it is

       I Iinconveniently concise, and leaves more for the reader than an

       ordinary author has a right to expect, thought had given to

       that logic what it can best claim, its quality of perfect demon

       stration ; all geometrical demonstration being, in fact, one species,

       or rather one application, of the fundamental principle. Nor
       did I distrust the usefulness, to a certain degree, of an acquaint
       Iance with syllogism, though
                                        have not found that the best
       Ireasoners are very familiar with it. However, if have gone
       Itoo far in lowering this art or science -- for it is not settled which

       -- am very willing to retract. Let me add that I have received

       much pleasure from some of your writings, such as are most

       familiar to me, especially that on the ' Connection of Number

       and Magnitude.' You need not fear going ultra crepidam, for

       your crepida is very extensive.

       Believe me, dear sir,

       Tour much obliged servant,
                                   Henry Hau.am.

           In October our second son, George Campbell, was
       born. We lost him at the age of twenty-six, not before

       his mathematical talents were developed sufficiently to

       Ientitle him to notice in his father's scientific history. Of

       this must speak later. He was a lovely and seemingly
       healthy child, sweet-tempered, quiet, and thoughtful ; and
       though sound and certain in all, he was not quite so
       quick in learning as his sister and brother.

            Our society was diminished by the loss of Mr. Sheep
       shanks, who left London to live at Reading with his

       sister.

            The correspondence with Dr. Whewell, which had
       begun soon after the pupil left Cambridge, related at first
               DIFFERENTIAL CALCULUS.              113

to Mathematical questions. But when Mr. De Morgan 1841.

began to make  the application     of Mathematical principles   £*TM^idB6
to Logic, Dr.  Whewell was         naturally one of the first

to whom his ideas were communicated. In many in

stances the letters were written on the occasion of sending

tracts to the Cambridge Philosophical Transactions. The
first of these, ' On the General Equation of Surfaces of

the Second Degree,'   is dated 1830 ; '  On   the  Foundation
of Algebra,' No. I.,  read 1839; Nos.         and
                                         II.       III., 1843;

No. IV., 'On Triple Algebra,' 'On the Structure of

the Syllogism, and on the Application of the Theory of

Probabilities to Questions of Argument and Authority,'

1846.

The work on the Differential and Integral Calculus, 1842.

which had been published by the Useful Knowledge

Society, appeared in 1842 in his complete work, a

closely printed octavo volume of 770 pages. The series,

which had commenced in the year 1836, consists of

twenty-five numbers, each containing thirty-two pages,
and to the book is added an appendix and two num
bers of elementary illustrations which had been pub
lished by the Society before. Of the work he says in
the pref toe : --

    'The method of publication in numbers has afforded

time to consult a large amount of writing on the different

branches of the subject; the issue of the parts has ex

tended over six years, during two of which circumstances

Iwith which had nothing to do stopped all progress. The

first number was preceded by a short advertisement, which

I Ishould desire to be retained as part of the work, for

have no opinion there expressed to alter or modify, nor

Ihave found occasion to depart from the plan then con

templated.
     ' The principal feature of that plan was the rejection

of the whole doctrine of series in the establishment of the
fundamental parts both of the Differential and Integral

Calculus. The method of Lagrange, founded on a very

                                i
       114      MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1842.  defective demonstration of the possibility of expanding

            + in whole powers of had taken deep root in
       <fi                                                   a h,
                                                          was the sacrifice of the clear and
            (x

                  h)

                                                       ;

                                 it
       elementary works

       indubitable principle of limits to phantom, the idea that

       an Algebra without limits was purer than one in which

       that notion was introduced. But, independently of the

       idea of limit being absolutely necessary even to the proper

       conception of convergent series,                            it  must have been
                         a

       obvious enough to Lagrange himself that all application

       of the science to concrete magnitude, even on his own

       system, required the theory of limits. Some time after

       the publication of the first numbers of this work, four

       different treatises appeared in the French language, all of

       which rejected the doctrine of series, and adopted that of

       limits.  have, therefore, no occasion to argue further
                I

                                           it

                                                         is
       against the former method, which has been thus abandoned

       in the country which saw its birth, and will certainly lose

       ground in England when                                no longer maintained by a

       supply from abroad of elementary treatises written upon

       its principles.'

       The doctrine of series in opposition to that of limits

       was practically overthrown before the completion of the

       work, and the new principle had engaged the attention of

       Mathematicians. As might be expected, a volume embody

       ing them, important in its bearing upon metaphysical

       as well as mathematical thought, excited great interest

       in the minds of the few who could enter into the question.
       Of these Dr. Whewell, who had written on in 1838, was
                            1

                              it,
                                                             it it
       one of the most pronounced. But with one exception the

       ideas of cotemporary thinkers must be gathered from the

       letters.1 A full review of the subject, if were within

       my power to make                                   would not be in place here, and an

       imperfect one would be useless. But some of the bearings

       of the principles developed in my husband's Differential

       Calculus were thus referred to by Mr. John Stuart Mill,

                            See next Section.
         INFINITELY SMALL QUANTITIES.             115

thirty years later, in an admirable article ' On Berkeley's               1842.
Life and Writings : ' 1--

    It is difficult to read without parti prls 'The Analyst,' and
the admirable rejoinder to its assailants, entitled ' A Defence

of Free-thinking in Mathematics,' and not to admit that                   JMJ.ril-l  J- s-

Berkeley made out his case. It was not until later that the                          on
Differential Calculus was rplaced on the foundation it now stands
                                                                          Differential
on -- the conception of a limit, which is the true basis of all
                                                                          l-alculus-
reasoning respecting infinitely small quantities, and properly

apprehended, frees the doctrine from Berkeley's objections.

Nevertheless, so deeply did those objections go into the heart of

the subject, that even after the false theory had been given up,

the true one was not (so far as we are aware) worked out com
pletely in language open to no philosophical objection by any

one who preceded the late Professor De Morgan, who combined

with the attainments of a mathematician those of a philosopher,

logician, and psychologist. Thongh whoever had mastered the
idea of a limit could see, in a general way, that it was adequate

to the solution of all difficulties, the puzzle arising from the
conception of different orders of differentials -- quantities infinitely

small, yet infinitely greater than other infinitely small quantities
-- had not (to our knowledge) been thoroughly cleared up, and

the meaning that lies under those mysterious expressions
brought into the full light of reason by any one before Mr. Do

Morgan.

     My husband died shortly before this was written. He ^J'01",8.
had, as his letters show, a sincere respect and regard for
the writer, though they had met only on one occasion, and
he had corresponded with Mr. James Mill, his father. But

though, as was truly said, his mathematical reasoning

had deprived Berkeley of an argument drawn from the
mystery of infinitely small numbers, his sympathies were
in many ways more on the side of Bishop Berkeley than
on that of Mr. Mill.1 The works of Berkeley had been, as

I1Foriniyhtly Review, Nov. 1871.  of  Berkeley's  philosophy have
    am aware that the principles
'

been found by mime thinker* to lead to a pantheistic materialism.

Mitch depend* upon words, but more on the minds of those who use

tl«n. and a spiritual pantheism must be a near approach to truth.

When the words spiritual, material, theistic, pantheistic, and atheistic

         l2
        116 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

184:?.  aforesaid, among his earlier studies, and his absolute con

        viction, or, as he said, consciousness, of the fatherly care of

        God was directly opposed to the scepticism (I use the
        word as expressing doubt, not disbelief) of one whose work
        in many directions he valued highly. He wrote with

        great respect of Mr. Mill's Logic, and the essay on
        Liberty had his cordial admiration. The essay on
        Comte, too, he thought very valuable. His own ideas

        Iabout this great fabricator of society may easily be con
        jectured.  should like to give them in his own words,

        but can only remember their import. Just in proportion

        to the strength of that part of a system which is founded

        on the principle of love to the neighbour is the weakness

        of that part of it which sets aside the Divine Disposer of

        I Ievents, and puts an arbitrary classification in place of the
        natural order of the world.  hope have not mis

        represented the principles of Comtism ; T know, however,
        that this fairly represents my husband's interpretation of

        them.

        Our third son, Edward, was born about Midsummer in

        this year. His father gave him his second name, Lindsey, to
        perpetuate that of my mother's uncle, Theophilus Lindsey,
        a good man, and one of the earliest English Unitarians who,

        like my father, seceded from the Church, and who gave
        up the lucrative living of Catterick, in Yorkshire, where

        he was much beloved, because he could not conscientiously
        carry on the duty in accordance with prescribed doctrines.

        Such secessions, united with such strong religious belief,

        do not often happen in these days ; but we cannot judge
        of the motives of those who do not feel them to be neces

        sary for conscience' sake. Many distinguished clergymen
        who hold the doctrines of Christianity far more loosely,

        find their proper places, there will be an end to these confusions,
        which result from the various ways in which the great subject is

        looked at by speculators whose mental eyes are differently placed in
        relation to it. This is only saying that the true knowledge of words

        will be the true knowledge of things.
             FRANCIS BAILY'S DEATH.  117

and give a far less literal assent to the New Testament 1843.

narrative than either my great-uncle, my father, or my 5$^"TM^
husband, remain in the Church with a belief that their

moral influence will be of greater use than their intel
lectual scruples. In this case the possibility of the Church

becoming too broad to hold together is not felt to be an
evil, as even should it through this cause die a natural

death, its work will have been well done. Mr. De Morgan

felt that the profession of belief of every clergyman im
plies so absolute and entire an adhesion of the whole

soul to the doctrine which he undertakes to preach, that

should that animus be altered, membership, in the sight of
God, has ceased with it; and the outward and visible sign

can really stand for nothing when its inward and spiritual
essence is gone. But he judged no one rigorously but

himself, though he was happy in knowing that he had
been connected with the memories of men of worth and

learning, who never hesitated when their choice lay be
tween truth as it appeared to them and any other con

sideration.

     Shortly before Edward's birth we lost our old friend               1844.
Francis Baily. Early in this year his usually fine robust
health had given way, and a disease of the kidneys, pro

bably the remote result of the shock given to the brain by

his accident, declared itself. He lingered some weeks,

always cheerful and hopeful, but perfectly ready for what
ever turn his illness might take. His friends were less
prepared to lose him than he was to go. His death
occurred in June, and was a loss to Science 1 which could

not well at that time be filled up. Sir John Herschel
wrote that he was a man sui generis; and the letters

    1 I have throughout this memoir used the word science in reference

to Mathematics and Logic, and those branches of knowledge in which
processes of reasoning are applied to subjects of observation. This is

the older meaning of the word. It is generally, though of course not

exclusively,' used now to express knowledge gained by observation

alotM. I remember the time when, in reference to Dalton 's atomic

theory, it was said that chemistry had Ixromt a Scieiirt.
          ]18  MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1844.  which passed among his friends contain a repetition of
          this feeling, with an expressed determination to do by
standard  their united effort what he had done for so many years.
          This refers especially to the Astronomical Society, of
Baily's   which he had long been President, and the members of
epitaph.  which found it difficult to appoint a successor. Mr. Airy,

          ISir J. Herschel, Mr. Sheepshanks, and Mr. De Morgan

          composed his epitaph. It was, think, drawn up in the
          first instance by Sir J. Herschel or Mr. De Morgan, and

          carefully revised and altered by the others.1

               Mr. Sheepshanks, who had accurate knowledge and

          experience of scientific instruments, undertook to complete

          the construction of the Standard of Length. In a letter
          to my husband he says :--

          I think Airy's paper on the supports of the standard scale

          should be printed forthwith. . . . This naturally leads me to

          the final clause, the inscription Regula mensurarum in perpetuum

          definita. One would not (where Baily is concerned) even in a
          Lat,in epitaph (and the language and mode of employment are
          Inot mendacious)
          Iscale hoped and
               use exaggerations.    When        undertook  I  the
               believed a good deal  was done ;  but when      got
          Ifrom Airy a precis of facts found that it was chiefly of a nega

          tive character, viz., that our scale had changed its form, &c.,

          and the only positive advance (beyond preparation) was, that

                1 There is a bust of Francis Baily in the apartments of the Astro

          nomical Society in Burlington House. If the time should ever come

          when observations of the form and size of the different parts of the
          head and face are systematically made with a view to determine the
          elements of character, any conclusion drawn from this bust would be

          a great injustice to our dear old friend. It was taken from the por

          trait, which is weak and inadequate, and has exaggerated these
          defects. While it was in progress. Mr. Baily the sculptor asked my
          husband and myself to see the clay model at his studio. He invited

          criticism, and at my suggestion added so much to the forehead that it

          bore a strong likeness to the subject ; and Miss Baily when she saw
          it burst into tears, exclaiming, ' It's himself.' But the sculptor after
          wards found that the penthouse brow and large forehead were not
          ' ideal ' enough. He said his work had been spoiled, removed all the

          added clay, and left the weak and characterless head which professes

          to be a likeness of Francis Baily.
        CHANGE OF RESIDENCE.                         119

two iron bars prepared by Colby had maintained their difference.  1844.

There were, indeed, some good measurements of expansion, but
Ithese were by Simms and his nephew, and intend repeating
Ifthem with, if possible, greater v.icety.
                                            this subject is men

tioned (and it should be), say that he was unhappily arrested in

the act of definitely fixing the national measures.

In the execution   of his work,  which was carried   on  in       Richard
                                                                  Sneei,-
a cellar under the chambers of the Astronomical Society snanU's

in Somerset House, Mr. Sheepshanks recorded 89,500 observa-

micrometer observations. Only those who understand the

nature and object of these can estimate the enormous

labour involved. He had to make frequent visits to

London for this purpose. We saw him often at the time,

Ibut have only my own memory for the statement that

much discussion on the experiments and observations

passed between him and my husband, and that when

difficulties occurred, Mr. De Morgan was often able to
assist
        in their solution.

We moved in July from Gower Street to Camden Camden

8treet, Camden Town. My husband walked to the College

in time to be there every morning at 8.30, that he might

look over the pupils' papers before giving his lecture. He

could not come home, as before, in the middle of the day,

and on this account         was sorry for the change; but
                   it
in other respects
                     I
                            was far better, as the house was

roomy and convenient for a young family, and the air     I

thought fresher than in Gower Street.

His readiness to serve his pupils and the College

had brought him some extra work, and some pleasure

in consequence. The Professor on whom the teaching of

Mathematical Physics devolved proved quite unequal to

his task. The pupils who came to him from the Mathe

matical class were already much his superiors in know

ledge, and in their strait they appealed to my husband.
With the approbation of the Council, he at once undertook

to meet the difficulty. He gave, during the remainder of

the session, extra time and instruction to these young
           120 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

    1844.  men, who at the end of the session presented to him a
           handsome copy of Wilkinson's Ancient Egyptians. The
M.-uby's   letter accompanying the gift is signed with names of
globe      Henry Robert Reynolds, Joseph Rees, Richard Holt
           Hutton, and C. Howard.

                In this year the Useful Knowledge Society came to an
           end, having completed its work. Its farewell address has

           been already mentioned. Mr. De Morgan's last under
           taking for it was a book entitled The Globes Celestial and

           Terrestrial, written as a description of the Society's globes,
           published in 1844.

                The Society, which had already brought out the ' Maps
           of the Stars,' had turned its attention to the want of accu

           rately made globes of the heavens and the earth. These
           were constructed by Mr. Malby, under the direction of
           several men of Science. The celestial globe needed most

           revision and improvement. Up to the year 1823 the
           21-inch globe by Cary and the 18-inch globe by Bardin
           were the best in use ; and of these two, Cary's, ' having
           annexed to every star its proper numerical or charac
           teristic valuation,' 1 was judged to be the best. Both
           were founded on Wollaston's Catalogue of 1789; and

           Cary's globe contains the stars extracted from Flamsteed's

           Catalogue by the two Herschels.
                Mr. Baily had laid down, though not with the full

           alteration which he thought necessary, the lines which

           bound the constellations. Sir J. Herschel, being appealed

           to by my husband on behalf of the nebulae, wrote : --

                Why globe-makers will persist in laying down nebulae of

           Classes II. and [II. is to me astonishing. There are but half

           a dozen of Messier's and my father's 1st class which can be seen
           with the naked eye, and the 2nd class ones are for the most part
           invisible with a 3 inch object-glass. The per-centage of Dunlop's
           nebulae which can be seen with the naked eye is still smaller.

              1 Letter from Mr. J. W. Woollgar, of Lewes, to the Philosophical

           Magazine.
MALBY'S GLOBES.  121

Indeed, with the 20-foot reflector, out of 629 ' of which his cata-    1814.
logne consists, I have succeeded in observing only 207, and of
these I have great doubts of the identity of between twenty and
thirty. What sort of objects Mr. D. has set down as nebulae in

the other 422 cases I have no idea. All I can say is, that out of

1,700 more or less observed by myself at the Cape, the above
are all of Dunlop's which have not proved coy. You will judge
by this whether or not to recommend your globe-undertakers to

map down Dunlop's catalogue in its integrity.
      As to double stars, I think Struve's great catalogue will go

far to saturate a 36-inch globe.
      Let me know whether you are very much interested in Mr.

Malby's undertaking, as in that case I would send you the list
of those Nos. of Dunlop's nebulae which I either know certainly

to exist in or near his places, or have found nebulae which, by a

stretch of good-natured identification, I should be disposed to

admit as observed by myself.

      Some large and showy globes had been made in 1823,
the trustworthiness of which was not guaranteed by the

name of any scientific authority. As Mr. Woollgar, in
writing of these, said, ' globes are oftener purchased as
articles of furniture than as philosophical instruments,'
and these large globes fitted the purpose. Mr. Malby's
globes could not lie under this reproach, for even as
articles of furniture they were not showy enough to suit
the upholsterer, while their accuracy was beyond question.
But as a globe can never be even quite up to the amount
of astronomical or geographical knowledge at the time of
its completion, it must from time to time require additions,
if not corrections, and in course of discovery will at length
be superseded for practical use, as the globes made in
1844 may be at this time.

     From their improved construction, great accuracy,

and careful measurements, questions concerning ancient

Astronomy, depending for the most part on the preces
sion of the equinoxes, could be determined by these

     1 The figures are slightly blotted in the letter, and I have not
Dunlop's Catalogue to ascertain the number.
           122 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

    1844.  globes. One who rejoiced greatly in them was Mr. John
Tay"or.    Taylor, known for his inquiry into the authorship of

           Junius, and for his speculations on the Great Pyramid.

           IHe had made some suggestions on the formation of the

           Astronomical globe, and wrote to my husband : ' can

           now call up all the phenomena recorded by Aratus or

           IHipparchus, not to forget Homer, Hesiod, Virgil, Ovid,

           and Columella, and may even venture to correct the

           great constructor Ptolemy, when he makes a slip in his

           notations. Ulugh Bey, too, and Tycho, and old crusty

           IFlamsteed, may come in their turn to the spherical ordeal.

           All this owe to you, for had it not been for your friendly

           Iinterference and sanction, might never have seen my

           attempt submitted fairly to the world.'

           Mr. Taylor's large claim to original suggestions in

           this work might not perhaps be fully acknowledged by

           the Astronomers who helped to complete it. Notwith
           standing his practical and extensive dealings with the old

           philosophers, and his satisfaction in correcting Ptolemy's

           slips, he was himself far from sound in his scientific

           knowledge, and subjected himself to a severe castigation

           from Mr. Sheepshanks for meddling with the Liverpool

           Observatory and its manager. He also set Astronomers

           right about the comet of 1848, which he declared to be the
           same as that of 1556. ' This,' Mr. Hind says in a letter

           to Mr. De Morgan, 'is the last of Mr. John Taylor's

           Astronomical extravagances.' The motion of the first

           comet was direct, that of the one observed in 1848 retro

           grade. Mr. Taylor's announcement was made in the
           ILiverpool Mercury, and corrected,
                                                    think, by Mr. De

           Morgan in the Athenceum. But his researches on the

           Great Pyramid are of value. Mr. De Morgan said of
           him : ' He is by temperament a discoverer of hidden

           things, and has employed much ingenuity in discovering

           what we may call two crack secrets, because they have

           never been fairly cracked.' The other crack secret was

           Junius.
ASTRONOMIC AT, TEACHING.                                                                                                       123

     The moving picture of progress in any study has for 1845.
its background a series of ignorant guesses and foolish

conclusions. A specimen of what was taught as Astronomy
in the fourteenth century is not more grotesque and is

less simple than what was called teaching within our
own memory, and perhaps may still be so called in some

remote young ladies' school. Referring to the works of Astronomy
a class of authors who seem to think that the pretext nfty^yeara
of writing for the especial instruction of young ladies is back-

more than a sufficient excuse for any amount of nonsense,
Mr. De Morgan adduces the following examples. The

book from which the extracts are made had reached its

fourteenth edition.

     Among the questions on Sagittarius are the following : --
' To what sin were the Athenians addicted ? What reflection
does Dr. Doddridge make on the occasion ? ' Apropos of the
constellation of Ursa Major is this question : ' Who drove stags
in his phaeton instead of horses ? ' and the answer is, ' Lord
Orford, who died in 1791.' The concatenation is that bears

can be tamed, and that Prince Radzivil drove them in his
carriage at Warsaw. On Musca the questions are, ' What are
the distinguishing characteristics of flies ? In what manner,
demonstrating his propensity to cruelty, did Domitian treat
them ? Hence what sarcasm was passed upon him ? How has

Sterne represented the humanity of a feigned character to a
           How did contrary behaviour in a female (according

to Darwin) break off an expected matrimonial connection
fly
   ?
                                                                             a

                                                                                                                           ?'
     There were a few other books of a better sort pub
lished, but they did not reach fourteen editions, and,
we may believe, seldom found their way into girls'

schools.

     There had existed from the year 1817 Mathematical Old lfathe-
Society, or club, which met in Crispin Street, Spitalfields. society.

It was originally composed of working men, many of them

silk weavers, and among the early members had been
some men of known name. The conditions of member

ship were that each member should have his pipe, his pot,
           124 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1845.   and his problem. A short account of this society is given
Rev. s.
Muitlund.  in the ' Budget of Paradoxes.' It gradually declined as the

           harder life of the working man deprived him of leisure time,

           or perhaps as the pot took the place of the problem ; and

           in this year 1845 a proposal was made to incorporate what

           was left of it into the Astronomical Society. Only nine

           teen members remained, and they were not working men.

           Those who were not already members of the Astronomical

           were received without payment of fees, and it only re

           mained to convey the books and other property of the old

           society to the rooms at Somerset House. Mr. De Morgan

           undertook to look over and to superintend the removal of

           the books, which now form a small portion of the library

           of the Royal Astronomical Society.

           Two or three years before this time, some gentlemen,

           interested in the history of Science, had projected a
           society to be called the ' Historical Society of Science.'

           Mr. Pettigrew, Mr. Richard Taylor, the printer, and

           Mr. De Morgan were among the first of these. Mr.

           J. O. Halliwell, the archaeologist, had taken a prominent

           part in the scheme, and became the secretary. My hus

           band, who had looked forward to useful results from the

           work of this society, found in this year that it was be

           coming extinct for want of attention in collecting sub

           scriptions, and from general neglect. He immediately

           called the attention of the other members to this state of

           affairs, and the society came to an end without undue

           pressure on the Secretary, who was not in circumstances

                      it,

                                                         a
                                                                   a

                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                  '
           to meet but who incurred some blame from one or two

           of the persons concerned.

           When my husband was boy, living at Taunton, the

           Rev. Samuel Maitland, not then in orders, was his mother's

           friend and neighbour. He afterwards became friend and

           correspondent when the subjects of his works formed part

           of those   oevsesar yws h"ichOnmtyhehuDsabarkndA'sgesstu"diwesasexttheendmedo.st                         His
           series of
                                                                                                                   read

           of all his works. He was one of class of whose writings
REV. SAMUEL MAITLAND.  125

it must be said that wherever they take they bite. They 1845.
are imbued, but not in excess, with a kind of humour

which seems almost their own. It has more likeness to

the peculiar humour of Pascal than is seen in any writer

of our day.'i Though Dr. Maitland was not a Mathema

tician, the subjects of mutual interest were manj', and
their correspondence touches upon all kinds of questions,
from those of Dr. Maitland's works which involve much

sound learning on the theology of the dark ages, to his
latest little volume, Superstition and Science, in which
the phenomena of spiritualism and the miracles of the
Catholic Church are considered in relation to Scientific
inquiry. The attention which Mr. De Morgan had Pntcof
given to the question of Easter was shared with Dr.
Maitland. My husband had contributed an article to

the Companion to the Almanac for 1845, giving the
reasons why then, as in 1818, Easter Sunday had fallen
on, instead of after, the first full moon after the Vernal

Equinox. There had been much fruitless discussion on
this in 1818, and to avoid a repetition of it-- for the
question was already agitated in Parliament -- a full expla
nation was given, in the above-mentioned article, of the
cause of deviation from the rule, and the relation of the
whole subject to the Christian and Jewish calendars. In
the next year, 1846, an article On the Earliest Printed
Almanacs gave further information, and his Book of
Almanacs, published in 1851, left no means of knowledge
wanting. Dr. Maitland's letters at this period showed
his interest in the Easter question. He was then librarian
to the Archbishop of Canterbury, and the library at
Lambeth Palace afforded him means of research in it,

and experience on another question, which was valuable a
f.-w jears later, when the British Museum Library Cata

logue occupied the thoughts of scholars.
     My husband's acquaintance with Lord Brougham,

     1 From an obituary notice by Mr. Dc Morgan on the Royal
Sucicty'i Memoira.
           126 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1845. who never visited us, arose out of the business of the

Lord Useful Knowledge Society and of University College.
Brougham. The corre8pondence, which lasted from 1830 to Lord

           Brougham's death, is chiefly on Scientific subjects, on

           many of which the statesman consulted the Professor.1
           One of these was the properties of curves in Optics, on

           which Lord Brougham had experimented and written.

           He was also the author of a life of Newton for the

           Society. Mr. De Morgan had, in this year, brought out

           a memoir of Newton (to be noticed further on), in Charles
           Knight's British Worthies; and many of Lord Brougham's

           letters refer to the claims of Newton as set forth by dif

           ferent writers.

                When, shortly after this time, the injuries inflicted
           on Guglielmo Libri by an unjust accusation of the

           French Government aroused the indignation of most

           English men of Science, Lord Brougham expressed his
           sympathy, and tried to help M. Libri's cause by commu

           nicating with his own friends having influence in France

           as well in politics as in Science. He, like others, found

           and acknowledged the unjust bias of M. Arago wherever his

           national prepossession could come in. This showed itself
           in political antagonism (supposed, in M. Libri's case, to

           arise from his Italian birth and proclivities), as well in

           scientific questions as in the case of the simultaneous

           discovery of the planet Neptune by Adams and Lever-

           rier.

Discovery  The year 1846 was made famous by the announce-
0 ' ep un°- ment to the world of this discovery. From every point

           of view its history is an interesting one, but it is so

           Ifamiliar to most readers that must ask pardon for

           reverting to its principal points, that the part taken by

           I1 regret that I have none of Mr. De Morgan's letters to Lord

           Brougham on the subject of Newton, or on any question of general
           Iinterest.
                       am greatly indebted to the present Lord Brougham for

           Ihis kindness in sending me a few letters, but the mass of documents

           is, understand, so great at Brougham Castle as to render a thorough

           search exceedingly difficult.
DISCOVERY OF NEPTUNE.  127

my husband on the reception of the news by Astronomers         1846.

may be understood.

This discovery was an instance of that law of progress

by which we find that a truth, when the time has come

for its reception, is seldom the prize of one mind only : it

may be that some far-seeing solitary minds have early

anticipated the knowledge for which the world is not pre
pared, but in its full advent a new truth has more than

one recipient. It was so in the case of Neptune. In

observing the place of Uranus early in this century, Aberra-

Astronomers had found that the observable course of the Uranus.

newly discovered planet did not coincide with that given

by mathematical calculation. This appeared from M.

Bouvard's tables of Uranus from 1781 to 1821. Other

irregularities were found, but the idea of a large dis

turbing body was not generally entertained ; and M.

Poinsot, who had called the attention of the French

Institute to the observation of a star, supposed to be

a new planet, by Messrs. Wartmann and Cacciatore,

was laughed at. It is true that in 1834 Dr. Hussey

wrote to Mr. Airy that he had conjectured the possibility

of some disturbing body near Uranus, and that he had
found that MM. Bouvard and Haussen had corresponded

on the subject. Mr. Airy, however, was doubtful of the

possibility of determining the place of the planet until

the nature of the irregularity should be better known.

Eight years before the actual discovery Bessel gave it as
his opinion to Sir John Herschel that the disturbances in

question could be due only to the action of a large body

beyond the orbit of Uranus. The direction of investi

gation was thus to a certain extent pointed out ; it was no
less, when attained, ' the greatest triumph of inductive

Science which Astronomy has yet to record.' This great

ness consisted in the fact that the exact place of the planet

was obtained not by actual observation, but by mathema

tical calculation, founded upon the elements furnished by
the action of the disturbing forces. ' Two Mathematicians
       128    MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1846.  had worked out the problem, the English Astronomer
       communicating his results in November 1345 to the

       highest authorities in the astronomical world, by whom
       they were reserved for further confirmation ; the French
       Astronomer, with more confidence in his work, making it
       known to the world at once. Mr. Adams' calculations
       antedated M. Leverrier's by eight months, but M.

       Leverrier's promptitude of publication secured for him
       the honour of the discovery.' ' Mr. Adams,' adds Mr. De
       Morgan, ' furnished Mr. Challis with the means of actually
       securing two observations of the planet previously to any
       announcement by M. Leverrier.'

            M. Leverrier's communication was followed immedi

       ately by recorded observations of Neptune by M. Galle,
       the Berlin Astronomer, who wrote in September that the

       planet had been seen by him as a star of the 8th magni

       tude not marked upon any chart.
            There could be no question of M. Leverrier's discovery ;

       it remained to be seen why, when the English discoverer

       was so nearly the first known to be such, he had been

       anticipated by the French Astronomer. Mr. Airy explained
       that in answer to the letter in which Mr. Adams had
       announced it to him, he had requested Mr. Adams to give
       him some further explanation. This letter of inquiry had
       not been answered till long after ; hence the delay, deeply

       regretted by all. On these facts, and on the discussion

       which followed in the Astronomical Society, Mr. De
       Morgan wrote : --

       No blame need be attributed to any one; but I think it

       will turn out that the Mathematicians of this country had not

       faith enough in their own Science. And, most assuredly, we

       may    look forward to seeing the     wise  men who never believe
       until                                 men   to whom everything that
              the thing is done-- the sober
       is to be is a figment in the brain of a visionary --the practical

       men who are not sure that there is a future until it comes to

       them in the shape of time present, all loud in their outcry, some

       against one, some against another, for not having done that
ADAMS AND LEVERRIER.                              129

which, six months ago, they would have been the first to have              1846.
                                                                        The planet
laughed at them for doing.1 . . .

That M. Leverrier is to all intents and purposes the dis

coverer of the new planet is beyond a doubt. No evidence in

his favour could be stronger than that of Messrs. Adams, Challis,

and Airy. It is quite within probability that it might have been

discovered in November 1845. from the true elements given by

Mr. Adams in October, as stated by Mr. Airy. That it was on Mr.

Challis's papers before it had been seen abroad is certain. Why,

then, is this remarkable discovery French, and not English ?

Simply because there is not sufficient faith in Mathematics
Iamong the Mathematicians of this country. I should not say
this upon one instance involving only three men;  know it

otherwise. Our men of science too often think it wise and

practical to doubt results of pure Mathematics, and the French

who run into the other extreme have a decided triumph in this
instance. The results will do much good among us. Few of

our philosophers are deep Mathematicians, and those who aspire

to the character without laying the foundations of exact science,

are apt to take a tone with respect to it to which its culti

vators have deferred until their deference has acted on their own

minds, and affected the rising generation. In one sense, we may

rejoice at the check which this spirit has received. For a long

time to come, in every instance in which it shall show itself, it

will be put down by the magic word Leverrier.
     Sir John Herschel, who declared at the British Association

that the movement of the planet had been felt (on paper, mind)
with a certainty hardly inferior to ocular demonstration, is

precisely the person who thirteen years ago (Cabinet Cyclo-

padia, ' Astronomy,' p. 5) published what there can be no doubt
was meant for a rebuke to this want of faith, and also to the con

fidence of those who made themselves judges of what they could

not possibly understand.

     The history of this discovery, and of the way in which
it was received, is a notable illustration of national cha

racter.

    At first, on hearing how nearly Mr. Adams had anti

cipated him, M. Leverrier felt some apprehension that his

    1 Athenctum. I have changed the editorial we in one or two places;

he never allowed these articles to be altered by the editor.

                                                      K
            130  MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

    1846.   glory might be taken by another. These apprehensions
The planet  were soon quieted by the generous and graceful statements
            of the three persons most concerned -- Mr. Adams, the
            Astronomer Royal, and the Cambridge Astronomer. But
            there appeared violent articles in some of the French
            newspapers, which, however, were disclaimed by MM.

            Arago, Leverrier, and others. There was, nevertheless,

            some amount of irritability displayed on the first an
            nouncement to the Institute, though the more forbearing
            majority concurred with M. Libri, who said : ' En atten
            dant, il est essential de proceder avec la plus grande
            calme a l'examen de cette affaire. Plus on y mettra de

            reserve et d'urbanite, plus nous en avons l'assurance
            l'effet sera favorable aux Astronomes Francais.'

                 The Academy itself suppressed any feeling of jealousy,
            and showed itself perfectly ready to discuss the question
            of the relative merits of the discoverers with fairness. But

            M. Arago refused to allow the Englishman's claim, saying
            that Mr. Adams ' was not entitled to the slightest

            allusion in the history of the discovery.' In reference to

            this access of national feeling, which was afterwards
            carried out by M. Arago's persistent effort to have the
            planet named Leverrier, Mr. De Morgan wrote : --

Arago.           Let M. Arago refrain. There will be one part of this matter
            the less subjected to his distorting mirror of national bias, in

            which the distortion is rendered less perceptible by brightness of
            style and clearness of illustration. We shonld be the last to
            deny the varied talents, deep knowledge of present science, ad
            mirable enthusiasm, and concentrated power of producing effect,
            which the distinguished Secretary of the Institute brings to his
            part. But as an historian of science, he may be held to be the
            Bailli of the day, his mania, however, being French and not

            Hindoo. And we may be satisfied that among the French them
            selves this Bailli will some day find his Delambre. His ideas

            are so confused by the state in which the fear of an English

            claim has put him, that he styles his own determination to call
            the new planet by no name but that of Leverrier, an undeniable

            proof of his own love of the sciences, and an adherence to a
            legitimate sentiment of nationality.
ADAMS AND LEVERRIER.                            131

But on this feeling of nationality there were other 1846.
voices raised. Mr. De Morgan himself says : --
                                                                       TMe,pUnet

     All the elements of M. Leverrier's discovery were laid else
where, as well as in France ; let it be enough for his satisfaction,
as it is for his fame, that he worked out the problem first. Wo
may wish that the complete honour of this great fact had fallen

upon the English philosopher, but far beyond any such merely
national feeling is our desire that philosophers should recognise
no such distinction among themselves. The petty jealousies of
earth are things too poor and mean to carry up amongst the

stars. Light and unmeaning as they are, they would be found
heavy incumbrances on a voyage so long as that to Uranus.

     M. Biot, writing of the address in which Mr. Airy m. Biot.
narrated the facts, says : --

     Thus, in the first week of October, 1845, precisely eight
months before M. Leverrier's first announcement, the new planet
was predicted by Mr. Adams, and he alone was in the secret of

its position. . . .

    I do not speak here in accordance with the narrow sentiments

of geographical egotism, improperly called patriotism. Minds
devoted to the culture of science have, in my opinion, a common
intellectual country embracing every kind of polar elevation.

     Professor Striive threw in his vote of equal justice: --

     Far be it from me to have any intention of withholding our Profeuor
sotire admiration from the eminent merit of M. Leverrier. But Striive.
impartial history will in the future make honourable mention of
the name of Mr. Adams, and recognise two individuals as having,
independently of one another, discovered the planet beyond
Uranus. In the same way it attributes the discovery of the
Infinitesimal Calculus at once to Newton and to Leibnitz. . . .
In Mr. Airy's report we see th it, in September 1815, Mr. Adams
arrived at a result, and in October he transmitted to Mr. Airy a
paper containing the elements of the present planet, so nearly
approximating that it might have been found in the heavens ten
months before it really was.

     Mr. De Morgan's belief that the failure -which is
almost too strong a word -- on the English side was due to

                                                                   B2
          132 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1846.  the want of confidence in their science among Mathema
          ticians, received confirmation from the report, by Mr.
Mr.
ohserva-  Challis, of observations at the Cambridge Observatory,
tions.    founded on Mr. Adams's calculations. The statement was
          laid before the Senate in December, and in it was men
          tioned a memorandum made in 1841, and shown by Mr.
          Adams to Mr. Challis, recording the writer's intention to

          solve the problem as soon as he had taken his degree
          of B.A.

                The unusual character of the question is adverted to
          in this first statement of Mr. Challis : --

          The usual character of perturbations is to find the disturbing

          action of one body on another by knowing the positions of both,

          In the case of Uranus, Mr. Adams's problem was the inverse one ;

          ...from known disturbances of a planet in a known position, to find
          the place of the disturbing body at a given time.  It will

          appear by the above account that my success might have been

          more complete if I had trusted more implicitly to the indications
          of the theory. It must, however, be remembered that I was

          quite in a novel position; the history of Astronomy does not

          afford a parallel instance of observation undertaken entirely in

          reliance upon deductions from theoretical calculations, and those,

          too, of a kind before untried. . . . We may certainly assert to

          be fact for which there is documentary evidence, that the problem

          of determining from perturbations the place of the disturbing

          body was first solved here ; that the planet was here first sought

          for; that places of it were here first recorded, and that approxi

          mate elements of its orbit were here first deduced from observa

          tion. And that all this, it may be said, is entirely due to the talents

          and labours of one individual among us, who has at once done

          honour to the University and maintained the scientific reputa

          tion of the country.

               Both discoverers in due course received every possible
          distinction at home and abroad. M. Leverrier, besides

          other honours given to him, was elected an Associate of

          the Royal Astronomical Society, and, immediately after the
          discovery, proposed for the medal. And here a difficulty

          arose. It was usual to give only one gold medal at any
ADAMS AND LEVERRIER.  133

time, and iu order to secure the certainty of merit in the 1 847.
candidate, this could not be adjudged by a smaller ma- Jijj^JjJ64
jority than three to one on the Council. On the present The Astro-
occasion the Council, which for the adjudication of the Society's
medal met always in January, was so divided in opinion In a '
on the question that the requisite majority was not ob

tained. It was felt that although M. Leverrier's claim

was unquestionable, the acknowledgment of it in this form
would be a manifest injustice to Mr. Adams, whose claim
in one way was possibly greater, though it failed in the
requisite element of success -- that of its being publicly
made known. On this arose a great difference of opinion
among members as to the right steps to be taken. All
were anxious that full justice should be done to both dis
coverers, and all were naturally desirous that the Astro
nomical Society should not be behindhand in its acknow
ledgment of the great gain to Science of the discovery,
made, as it had been, by Mathematical calculation.

     No decision was come to, though the discussion had
been long and anxiously carried on in the Council, and
the time for the award went by. But the great body of

the members could not readily submit to leave things as
they were without further explanation, and a special
general meeting was called to consider the propriety of
suspending the by-laws and of reconsidering the whole

question.
     There were some members of the Society who took no

part in the usual work, but attended meetings on great
occasions, when it might be expected that their names
would give weight to their opinion. One of these was
Mr. Babbage, who was known to have a strong predilec
tion for French science, and as strong a feeling against
that which had any connection with Cambridge. He also
attached much importance to the distinction of a medal,

and thus was led strongly to support the claim of M.
Leverrier, to the exclusion of that of Mr. Adams. Not
succeeding in his efforts to reverse the decision, or rather
            134 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1846. no-decision of the Council by proposing a vote of regret

fThe planet Upon its measures,' he wrote to the Times ogivinge his own

.\<'|,tuni*.
            views of the matter, and thus complicating the difficulties

            of the position. The most active members of the Council

            declared that they would not work on the possible con
            dition that a vote of ' regret,' or, which was the same
            thing, ' censure,' should be passed upon their measures.

Mr. Sheep-    Mr. Sheepshanks, on the occasion of the South and
shankB's
opinion.    Troughton arbitration, had given offence to Mr. Babbage,

            and his strong desire that justice should be done to Mr.

            Adams only increased Mr. Babbage's displeasure at the

            non-award of the medal. Mr. Sheepshanks was happily

            more prudent in his expressions, and though amusingly

            sarcastic in his letters, temperate in his public behaviour.

            If he had not been so at this time, the concussion in the

            Society might have ended in a complete disruption. He

            was a fellow of Trinity, with a strong love for his own

            University, and a desire that the glory so fairly earned by

            one of its members should not be quite lost to Cambridge.

            He says, in a letter to my husband dated November 20,

            1846 :--

              IAs to the medal, will tell you my mezzo-termine.  To give
            the medal in due course to Leverrier, and, if the Council think

            fit, after due deliberation, to grant, by means of a special meet

            ing, a medal to Adams, who did undoubtedly discover the planet
            nine months before Leverrier, and it was by no fault of his that
            we did not catch it first. His communication to the Astronomer

            Royal and to the Plumian Professor on an astronomical subject
            is surely a publication so far as Adams is concerned -- according,

            at least, to all rules hitherto recognised. He saves us, I think,
            all real difficulty by waiving his claim to the discovery ; for if we

            were called upon to decide by Waring's rule we should be

            compelled to decide in his favour, at least, after verifying the
            postmarks of the letter quoted by Airy.

                 Now, as he has not raised this very thorny point, it seems to

            me that quiet and good-tempered and sensible people, who have

            not committed themselves to a positive opinion before they had
            heard all the story, may come to some conclusion satisfactory to
            all parties except the ultra-French or the anti-Cambridge.
                THE ASTRONOMICAL MEDAL.       135

     On the part taken by his three friends, Mr. Adams,              1846.

Mr. Airy, and Mr. Challis, Mr. Sheepshanks says : ' I am

far better pleased with the perfect candour and simple

Igentlemanlike feeling of these men, than by anything

have heard of for a long time.'

     The writer conceded his opinion on the medals when
he found how utterly impossible it would be to bring all

Ifparties to unanimity. He soon after wrote, ' we don't

get rid of the medal, it will capsize us.' And Mr. Airy,
who had expressed his feeling that if no medal was given
on this occasion the Society could never give one here
after, also yielded to the present necessities of the case.

My husband, from having given close attention to the

whole question from the beginning, and seen its great
difficulties and complications, advised a course which was

taken. After the meeting, while the matter was pending,
he wrote :--

This question of medals is almost the only one that can              Mr. De
                                                                     0p£§TM'
come before the Council, into the discussion of which may

enter that question of right and wrong on which an honest man

never allows his opinions to be overruled by considerations

of expediency. On the knowledge of this, a wise by-law

was enacted, which requires a majority of three to one in favour

of the award of a medal. The consequenceif    that when

                                         is,
opinion  it is  much divided no decision can take place. It was an

unwise thing to force back upon the consideration of those who

had long and anxiously deliberated without coming to any con
clusion, the discussion of a question involving so many disputed

points. It would have been better the meeting had taken the

matter into its own hands, and called a special meeting, not to

enlarge the powers of the Council, but to do the thing itself.

The meeting, however, showed, on more points than one, a strong

feeling that so large a body, and so mixed, was not a proper

court for the hearing of such a case. It does not follow that the

special meeting when called need of necessity adopt the conclu

sions of the general meeting which called it. No one Parliament,

though          may send business to its successor, can dictate how

that business shall be done. And  if  the Society will take a

little advice very respectfully offered, they will allow the matter
            136 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1846.    to rest where it is, and not compromise the working utility,
            perhaps the very existence, of their very useful body by persist-
The planet  jng jn (jemanding a decision from those who have the best
    P »°e-  possible reasons to know that they cannot agree.

                And afterwards : --

                 The Society has given to both M. Leverrier and Mr. Adams
            the full value of twenty medals, or rather, a prize of a higher
            order than any medal. All the bases of the discussions take for

            granted that both those gentlemen possess much more than the

            ordinary share of merit to which, under usual circumstances,

            medals are awarded. All the varieties of opinion are formed
            upon this nucleus, and could not have existed without it. In all

            but the mere gold which goes to the manufacture, the dis
            coverers have had their medals over and over again.

                 But, as was natural, the Astronomical Society could
            not feel quite satisfied to do nothing, and though gold
            medals were not given in the year to the two discoverers,
            their merits were not long afterwards acknowledged by

            Testimonials from the Society to each gentleman, 'For

            his Researches in the Problem of Inverse Perturbations,

            Ileading to the Discovery of the Planet Neptune.' 1
                    have said more of this discovery than may be thought
            to belong to my husband's work in the Society. But all
            that he said and wrote on the question was strongly
            characteristic, expressing his high estimation for all the

            intellectual and, I may add, moral qualities of the parties

            concerned, and his exceeding disregard of distinctions.

            IBut besides this have heard that the way in which

            many of the impediments were surmounted was due to his

            counsel.

                 Other questions connected with the Astronomical
            Society had arisen during the year 1846 in which Mr.

            De Morgan was involved.
                 The old difficulty of organisation was strongly felt at

            1 Testimonials were given in the same year to the Astronomer
                                                        J. Herschel, Prof.
            Royal, Prof.  Argelander,  Mr. Bishop, Sir                      Haussen,
            Mr. Hencke,   Mr. Hind,                     and Mr. Weisse.
                                       Sir J. Lubbock,
PRESIDENCY OF ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY. 137

this time, because the real working men had done their 1846.

parts so long and so thoroughly in the face of many em

barrassments caused by the more officious but less prac
tical members, that their time of rest was overdue.

     My husband never slackened in his exertions. What 9^\d°f
others could not do he undertook ; but when in this year *° Mr. d«
the place of President was vacant, and there were good Morgan.
reasons outside of the working part of the Council and
one or two turbulent spirits within which made it neces-

aary that a useful President should be secured by those
who could work with him, my husband was entreated, as
he had been before, to take the chair. His reasons for

refusal will be found in his letters to Sir J. Herschel and

Mr. Sheepshanks. The latter, who had the organ of

firmness fully developed, but who considered himself
' anything but obstinate,' replied to the programme and
refusal thus : --

    Dur De M., -- One evening after supper John Hind of Sydney

addressed Whewell thus :-- ' I don't quite hear what you say, but

I beg to 'differ entirely with you.' Now I have heard and do

Iunderstand all tliat yon say, and more that yon would say, and
   differ with you. But 1 have given up trying to convince
people against their will, ' 'cos I never found no good come of it.'

So, just beholding your countenance as your wife painted it
(decidedly obstinate if wrong, which most people are who are re
solute when right), I give up all hope that my first best mode

of combination will answer. I see and have seen for a long
time a little cloud or two rising. Poor S-
                                            has risen and

pelted, and is, I suppose, now exhausted. We have excellent

men, who don't understand or make allowances for others (I ex

Ifcept self and you), and we have no sufficient bond of union.
          you and others can prevail on Herschel, well and good.

You certainly can do a good deal as Vice, though by no means

so much as if you were President. I shall look twice before I

consent to continue Secretary, not merely for the trouble which

this occasions to a man disliking all work (except such as he

takes a whim to do), living forty miles from town, but really

because a more methodical and resident person is actually re

paired jost to keep things in order.
1846.  138 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

            a. few days after the writer added some exhortation

       and remonstrance to his former missive :--

           ' Omne ignotum '--how can you fancy that a practical or
       gazing Astronomer is wanted for our Pres. ? Airy and Main and
       Challis and Johnson are the only members within reach who are
       strictly practical Astronomers, though several have, each in our

       Iway, practical knowledge. But don't remember any instance
       Iwhere this knowledge was required in a Pres., nor can well

       conceive a case wherein it would be required.

           I say, as a nailer, how dare you report the proceedings of the

       R. A. S., not having sufficient knowledge, as you say, for Presi
       dent? Answer me that, good man, 'and thou shalt be to me a
       very stout Apollo.'

          I may just ask here, with reference to my old friend's

       allusion to my husband's Athenaeum reports -- did Mr.
       Sheepshanks credit all the reporters of the learned So
       ciety's proceedings with knowledge which would qualify
       them for the President's chair? But Mr. S. at length

       gave in.

          If Sir J. H. will take the Presidency, it being understood not

       merely that he is not required, but really not wanted, except on
       anniversaries and when he can make it convenient, it is the best

       move we can make. Pearson would do very well if we could be

       sure he would never come at all. Lord Wrottesley is a capital
       fellow, but, considering some of your arguments, is scarcely the

       person you should choose. Airy will take it if necessary, but
       I don't like to propose him for several reasons, one of which
       is that I dislike tasking his time and health so severely.

            Sir John Herschel terminated the embarrassment by
       consenting to the wishes of his friends. Mr. De Morgan's
       views of the subject will be found in his letters.
                                  139

            SECTION VI.

Correspondence from 1836 to 1846.

                To hit Mother.*

Mt dear Mother, -- I have read yonr letter carefully ; and the         1836.

paper*, and as much of the book as was necessary to show that

If Iit contained no argument, and was in fact addressed to those who
already believe all it contains.       can make you see clearly

that our modes of arriving at what we believe to be true are so

I Iftotally different that an attempt to discuss the subject together
would be an impossibility, it is all expect.      your knowledge

of the .New Testament had been of your own getting, unwarped

by the devices of a Church of which it has always been the

avowed doctrine to use every means which the age will allow to

force men to agree to its own interpretations, I could go much

farther, and could show you that taking every book of the New

Testament to be an authority to that extent only in which it was

recognised as an authority in the first three centuries, and taking

the words in their most probable meaning, there is no ground of

fear for any honest man who uses the best means in his power to

come at truth.

But between us there is in this matter no common ground on

which to argue. Nothing is more easy than to be positive and

certain, or to affirm the perdition of all who cannot see any par

ticular system of doctrines to be true : but before you declare

that you must be right and I must be wrong, consider the

following points, and ask yourself what part of the whole New

Testament has more right to a literal interpretation than this :
' In the measure which you measure with, you shall be measured.'

I take the most literal translation, and not what your misleadera

are pleased to call their ' authorised version.'

1. You have a number of books bound up into one, which

you call the New Testament. You never meddled with the

                1 See p. 86, ant*.
       140  MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1836.  question whether all these books are genuine, and were really

       written by the persons whose names they bear. Still less with

       the question whether being written by different persons, at

       different times, to different persons, &c., they can be used in

       Iinterpreting each other in the same manner as the different parts
       of a book written by the same person.  have been obliged to

       consider this.

       2. These books are written in a foreign language, and

       more than that, in a dead language, of which every one knows

       that it is utterly impossible to render any phrase exactly into

       corresponding English. This question no way concerns you.

       You dwell upon a single English word in the translation just as

       much as if it were the original itself. To me your version is
       useless, as I know that those who made it were utterly incom

       petent to take that view of the original language which the sub

       ject requires.

            3. These books have come down to us in manuscripts which

       differ from each other repeatedly, and in one or two instances, if

       not in more, there is proof, which theologians of all parties

       unite in admitting, that additions have been made to the writers'
       I Itext. You care nothing for this ;  doubt if you knew the fact.
          have been obliged to know it.
       4. Your expressions amount to the following :-- If you do not

       take it for granted that King James's translators chose the

       right Greek, and turned it into the right English, and more than

       that, drew all their inferences correctly, God Almighty will

       punish you to all eternity.

            5. Out of all that precedes you have got a complicated creed,

       on implicit belief in which you insist. I recommend you to follow

       the plan adopted by Locke, when he wanted to ascertain what

       the Christian religion was. He looked carefully through the

       Acts of the Apostles, and collected every single instance in which
       a Christian was made by the Apostles ; for, he argued -- and in so

       Idoing he upset every church which has existed since A.D. 300-- if

         can become as much of a Christian as the first converts of the

       Apostles, I shall certainly obtain the essentials of Christianity.

       Do this yourself. Construct a creed out of all which the Apostles

       required, without adding a single word, and compare it with your

       own. For what else was so precise an account given of so many

       admissions into the Church ? And this not with a view to

       Ichanging your own opinions, for if your creed gives you comfort
         would not change a letter of it ; but with a view to the follow
CORRESPONDENCE, 1836-40.  141

ing question : Do yon believe that the God of truth has so mis-      1836.
led the world as to give it a religion the essential parts of which
cannot be gathered from the manner in which those who first

taught it admitted proselytes ? Certainly a newly baptised

Christian, if sincere, did not perish everlastingly if he died the

moment after his baptism. Bat your Church positively declares
he did unless he believed what they call the ' Catholic faith.'
Now ask of yourself in sincerity, where is it set down in such a

manner that a wayfaring man, though a fool, could not err, that
the Apostles taught this creed, or anything like it ?

     Again, take another test. Certain of the Apostles wrote
accounts of the life and doctrines of Jesus Christ. Matthew

wrote in Hebrew, no doubt for the Jews ; Luke in Greek, for
the Gentiles. These books were never collected into one till

centuries after Christ, nor is there any proof that the earlier
Jews ever saw the Greek Gospel, or the Greeks the Jewish one.

It is most obvious that each of these accounts must contain the
essential parts of the Christian religion. It is also most obvious

that an epistle of Paul to a town in Greece must not be joined
with one written to Romans, both of which were never seen for
many years in Judea (so far as can be shown), to make up a doc
trine essential for the salvation of Jews. Now try again. Make

up your creed out of any one of the Gospels, if you can. Surely

two fairer tests cannot be proposed to any person who knows
what reason is; and still more when it is merely a question

whether one person ought to be'ievo that another must suffer
eternal punishment because he will not treat as one book a
number of different books in a manner which would be laughed

at if applied to Livy and Tacitus. And yet they both wrote

Roman history at periods as near to each other as those at which

the books of the New Testament were written.

    All this has no reference to the question whether the creed
could be got out of the whole New Testament together if per

mitted. Before God I declare that I have examined closely the
history of the early Church, together with abundance of contro-
teny on both sides, not forgetting the books of the New Testa-
Bent on which they are written, and can find nothing like the
creed of the Churches of Rome or England. The former does not
pretend to find what you call the essential doctrines of Christi

anity in the New Testament, but appeals to tradition. It is easy

to rail at them, but to the best of my knowledge and belief,

derived from historical reading and actual observation, the
       142 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1836.  Church of Rome contains as much honesty as that of England,

       and a vast deal more knowledge. It would not take one quarter

       as much evidence to make me a Catholic as to make me a

       Church of England man.

          I should have no objection to be better acquainted with Mr.

       Baptist Noel, but you are grievously mistaken if you think any

       discussion with him could have any effect on me.

       1. Because he has never studied either side of any contro

       versy, or at least of those on which such a discussion would

       turn, as he himself avowed to me, though he must have been at

       that very time meditating a controversial work, or one meant

       for such, which he shortly afterwards published, and which took

       the point in dispute for granted on his own side in the title-page.

       2. Because he would be better employed in meditating how to

       Ireply to the complete and conclusive reply which he received

       from a Unitarian minister, whom blame very much for replying
       to so weak an attack. Your letter, my dear mother, was quite

       as good logic as the Rev. B. Noel's book, and indeed would

       make a pretty abstract of it. And yet you could see that you

       did not profess to be able to argue the question ; but the Rev.

       B. Noel was not able to see so much. He       if        nevertheless, a

       liberal and amiable man, but he mistook his ground altogetheris,

       when he thought he was a fit match for the head of a body so

       learned (compared with Church of England clergy) in the

       history of his own creed as the Unitarian ministers. If you

       want an opponent for me, take some one,               you can find him,
       who has studied both sides of the question.           But even then
       should object to discuss with him--                     I
                                                                      I
       Because never saw or heard of any one who was made to
       1.
                                                Because such subjects are
             is

                I

                                      a
       achange his opinions by discussion.  2.

       best discussed between man and himself in retirement, and

       with the real original accounts before him.   4. 3.   Because see in

       all that orthodox a lack of that charity which Paul considers

       as more essential than everything else, coupled with what

       virtually amounts to claim of infallibility.          Because number

       less unanswered arguments lie before me, which the Established

       clergy have left off attempting to answer. Instead of attempting
       to drive me, an individual with little time on his hands, to go
       through the oft-repeated job of cutting the flimsy web of an

       Athanasian Christian, move your own clergy to print their

       assertions, and leave those who have leisure for answering to

       deal with what they shall advance.   I   shall then be able with
                CORRESPONDENCE, 1836-46.  143

little trouble to verify both sides ; and as what is called Christ i-        1836.

anity by the Church of England has never failed to meet with

Iits answer, even when it was declared felony to answer it (for

such were the arguments used at one time), have little doubt

any person who shows a respectable knowledge of the history of
the Church will meet with a speedy reply if he will venture into

the field.

      Now with regard to these matters, you may surely, my

dearest mother, collect from what I have said, that there will be

little wisdom in attempting to revive this subject. Appeals to
my feelings, whether from the bitter stroke we have lately had,

or from your distress that I cannot believe as you believe, are
Itrying to wound the wrong parts. It is impossible you can be in

earnest when you think that who have been for the full half of

my animal, and the whole of intellectual life, accustomed to con
sider doubtful things by help of reason alone, should be moved

to any opinion because any person alive believes it so strongly

that he or she is grieved that I do not believe it also. Such

appeals might be made to induce a person to examine that
opinion, but I have examined
                                it,

                                      it I

                                                                     ?

                                                                      if
                                and conscientiously believe

more than most of the clergy on whom you pin your faith.
Still more weak are your implied assertions that my late illness,

&c., are chastisements from God. How could you know this

were true or how can a very slight consequence of that want
I it
                            ?

                            it
of tendency to inflammation which  has pleased God should

preserve me from colds, fevers, cholera, &c., and which forms a
constituent part of my power to sit at work many hours without

headache or pain, be considered as a chastisement Believe me,

see nothing in                  but a very slight and easy composition for
the want of liability to many worse things. In the name of

common sense let the Almighty manage His own world. The

presumption with which modern Christians explain all that
happens, and point out the intention with which all came,
                                   it
                                                   it

                                                        I

                                                                         is
Ifone of the strong marks by which the perversion of the system
may be known.                   the tower of Siloam were to fall precisely

upon one hundred people, all Calvinists, would never enter my

head to suppose that they were thereby declared to be objects of

God's particular displeasure. As long as my reason lasts shall

never want a better argument than that.
        have looked over dear Eliza's papers with the interest with
I

which everything that concerns her affects me at this moment.

They relate to points which have now been in discussion fifteen
       144 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1836.  hundred years, and on which she had to form her"own opinion
       with such means as she had ; as have you and myself. But such

       matters are not with me matters of feeling, they are to be tried

       Iby reason and evidence -- that is by me, for do not object to any

       Ione who thinks he can find truth by another method trying what

       he can do. You are to judge yourself, myself, and it^ is" im
       possible that any two people can usefully discuss any"subject,
       one of whom believes that a conviction of the truth of opinions
       is an argument in their favour. Yours most affectionately,

                                                                                        A. D. M.

                                To Dean Peacock.

                                        69 Gower Street, Nov. 13, 1838.

            Dear  Sir, -- I would not trouble  you,   generally  speaking, to
       notice an                                      think my   young friend
                  undergraduate just arrived,  but I

       M., the bearer of this, has merit enough to be an exception. He

       has gone through a good course of reading, and is something like

       a low wrangler in his present attainments, or rather higher, with
       very good chance of being made into a high one. He stood a

       stiff examination for our Flaherty scholarship, as we call at
                                                                 I
       Univ. Coll., and though second came off with great honour.         it,
                                                                         I
       is I   remember with great gratitude and pleasure the notice

       used to receive myself from those in high station, when was an

       undergraduate, having no other claims than of the same de

       scription as those which M. now has.    I      should have left him

       to find his way in his own College, not doubting that his acquire

       ments and industry would soon make him marked but find
       he almost entirely without acquaintance. If, then, you will
       introduce him to one or two of your good men, as we used to call
                                                                 ;

                                                                      I

       them, his future competitors, you will do a service where
                                                      is
       well deserved, and shall feel very much obliged.
                                                           I

                                                                           it
                                                                                  is
                      I                                          should like

       him early to know some reading men out of his own College,
       from whom he may learn that its system
                                                      not necessarily
       that of the University.

               do not doubt you found a letter from me containing my
       proposed test of convergency and divergency.
       A
          You are, of course, interested in all that concerns Dr. Young.
         I
       publisher in London has bought or will buy the plates of the

       Lectures. He proposes to republish them (catalogue excepted) in

       parts, transferring the copper to lithograph. My colleague
                      to put notes, which with reading he will do very
       Sylvester  is

       well.  I   am now proposing  it  to the Soc. for the Diff. of Useful
         CORRESPONDENCE, 1836-48.                            145

Knowledge. Do yon think favourably of the plan ? My own                              1838.

opinion is that Young's lectures are an nnsearched mine of good

things, often very happily expressed. But two quarto volumes

frighten most people. It is of course a work which any one

would like to see republished, but should your opinion be as
Istrong as mine the expression of it would materially forward the
object.  remain, dear sir,

                                  Tours faithfully,
                                            A. De Morgan.

60 Gower Street, Nov. 13, 1838.

                               To Francis Baily.

    Mt dear Sir, --The word rapa or rapum means a turnip, or

any small white root. There is in Italian rapa, a turnip, and in
English the same word is seen in rape-seed.

     Raparium and rapina (both words are used) mean a collection
of many rapae, a turnip-store, or turnip-field. Consequently
your rapina must mean a cluster of stars.

    What a capital new word for the starry heavens -- a turnip-

field !

                                                                Yours truly,
                                                                      A. De Morgan.

    6d Gower Street, Monday Morning.

                  To Sir John Herschel.

                            69 Gower Street, Nov. 22, 1842.
   Mt dear Sir John, --Thanks for your
                                            letter  and  the compli
ments -- non omnis moriar -- with that big  book.        shall be the
                                                      I

tenant of some old book-stall a hundred years hence, and some

         myself,   Lethed and transmigrated, will        give half a
                  have done for others, or perhaps        for myself
         --as                                            down in a
Ione, perhaps

crown for me
again in some pre-transmigration -- and will put me
bibliographical list, with a slight mistake of the name (non
omnis moriar), and of a hundred years or thereabouts in the

date.
IAs to Lardner's ' Cyclopaedia,' you must address direct to Long
man, who is the real editor now.  think a second edition stuck                       /r

full of southern plums, with some nice nebulae, neat as imported,
would be a capital dish. When shall we begin to see the
southern heavens through your spectacles P
       146  MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1842.  II forgot my hieroglyphic of Uranus ; told yon, I think, that

       the baronetage draws Mars instead of Uranus in your shield.

          I pointed out the mistake of latitude to Charles Knight's

       people to-day. They told me they were partly aware of it

       already. What is meant by being partly aware of the pole-star

       not being exactly on the pole ?

            ' In order to be sure that a general proposition is true we

       must be sure that all its particular applications are true.' If ' in
       Iorder ' means previously deny the assertion. Certainly, to be

       sure that a general proposition is true we must be sure that all

       its particular cases are true, for a general proposition=2 (par

       ticular case).

          I suppose it is meant that there is no surety without exami
       I Ination of all the particular cases ; this admit too, but suppose

       it is farther meant that there is no surety without enumeration

       Iof the particular cases : if so, this deny.
          I IFor example, the angles at the base of an isosceles triangle

       are equal. In the proof have moral certainty that examine
       every isosceles triangle ; any one whatsoever is every one. Ab

       straction and rejection of all that distinguishes one particular
       case from another is the mode of induction, if people like to call

       it so, which general reasoning employs.
       I' Consequently it is reasoning in a circle to include the truth
       of the particular from that of the general.'  deny the conse
       Ifquence.
                  any one likes to say, on the preceding view, that
       Igeneral reasoning is induction of particular cases, which do not
       Iin a certain sense deny, he must not say that conclude or infer,
       I Ibut only that go to a drawer in which have laid up all the

       cases ready for use, for this must be the correlative meaning of

       Iinference. But shall the very man who found out that had

       Igot my drawer full be the one to deny me liberty to take out
       the contents, because the etymology of the words  use to

       describe such out-taking rather seems to describe making the

       goods, as wanted, by a machine, than taking them out ready

       made from a receptacle ? No, if he goes and alters my words of

       first process, he must allow mo cither to resist or to alter the

       words of second process to match.
            Again, how dares any one say, ' To be sure of the general, we

       mnst be sure of all the particulars ' ? Epimenides said all the

       Cretans are always Ham. Now Epimenides was a Cretan him

       self; how could he establish his proposition ? If it were true, it

       was therefore false.
                         CORRESPONDENCE, 1836-46.                        147

     ' Has he examined all the particular cases of his proposition ? '                                           18*-«

He either knows this a priori or he has examined (that is, if he

Iknows it to be true) ; if he knows it a priori, then he opens the

net, and out we jump; but will answer for it he has not

examined all the possible cases.

Is there not a confused way of talking about truth ? When

                         is,

                            if

                                               is

                                                                          ;
                                                                             '

                                                                    it

                                                                                                       '
we prove a truth, that                give ourselves certain knowledge of its

being a truth, we talk as we had made a truth. We say one

,proposition             the consequence of another           when should bo
              '

                     is
oor knowledge of one proposition                    the consequence of our

knowledge of another.'

He who said peace among men forbade Metaphysics. When

their cloudinesses the axioms of mental philosophy declare war

against two straight lines can't enclose space they remind me
                                      -J
                                           I 1,

                                                                 :

                                                                   a

                                                                                           ;
                                                                                               '

                                                                                                              0
of the Chinese trying to take an English battery.

Here are some undoubted truths --

                         sin oo =0,   --  cos oo =0
                         tan oo = Hh      cot 00= + */---L

xAa to soc oc and cosec                   am doubtful. They are either

or oo .  I  suspect the former.                 Yours very truly,
                                                              A. 1)e Morgan.

                         To Sir John Eenehel.

                                          60 Gowcr Street, Dec. 30, 1842.

Mt dear Sir John, -- Many thanks for the reduction of

Schiller's observations to the            latitude  of London.     dare say
you have applied the correction                                 I
                                          --
                                                                      I
                         if I      (English -- German)

                                +
cry akilfnlly, but am so ignorant of that language that shall
not find you out you were to err in the first place of gutturals.

When your missive arrived,                was engaged with a young
                                          L!

                                            2I

                                                          is

                                                          it
Turk whom indoctrinate in differential equations and matters
             I           gave him jour wafer as a sort of auto

                     I
arising thereout.
graph, whereupon the following dialoguo took place --
                                                                :

He. Oh, Sir John Herschel what                                he has done with the
       148     MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS PE MORGAN.

       I IMoon at the Cape of Good Hope ?
1842.                                           have got his book, and

       have read it with the greatest delight.

       I. It's a hoax.
       IHe. A hoax ! Well, was so delighted to think it was all
       Itrue.  told our Ambassador of it yesterday, all that had been

       seen in the Moon, and his Excellency only laughed at me and

       said it must be a hoax.
       Depend upon it there are thousands in the condition of this

       young man.

                                                Yours very truly,
                                                              A. De Morgan.

                        To Sir John Herschel.

                                                                              Camden Street, Oct. 7, 1844.

1844. My 'dear Sir John, -- A certain man, named Malby, who

           makes and edits globes, has procured the copyright and plates
          of certain 36-inch globes, on which he means to lay down
          nebulae, to wit, --.

       Messier,

       W. Herschel (1786, 1789, 1802),

            Dunlop (1828),          Now it strikes me that if by waiting

          J. Herschel (1833) ;

       also double stars, &c., Ac.

       any reasonable fraction of a revolution of the equinoxes he would
       have your southern patches to dig into his copper, it would be

       wisdom in him to wait. Can you tell me within two or three

       revolutions of the Moon's node when the world is likely to have

       your work ?

            To tough jobs long periods ought to be applied, both for

       safety and solemnity. But if yon are able to reply that you will

       be ready in a jiffy, or a crack, or less than no time, or a brace

       of shakes, or the twinkling of a bedpost, or before you can say
       Jack Robinson, or even the sum of them, of course he must wait.

                                                Yours very truly,
                                                            A. De Morgan.

                                 To Sir John Herschel.

                                                                   7 Camden Street, October 1844.

          My dear Sir John, -- I take much interest in Malby's globes.
          I1. Because am writing a ' Use of the Globes ' for them, of
       which I send you an old proof to destroy at your leisure.
          CORRESPONDENCE, 1836-46.                              149

     2. Because Baily's htst printed work is the set of revised      1844.
boundary lines for constellations which appears on them.

    3. Because Mal by is a very spirited fellow. A man proposed
a feasible way of mounting the globe so as to adjust it for any
era, giving in fact the pole of the equator a motion round the
pole of the ecliptic. Malby immediately set to work, got the

Iglobe made with an additional contrivance for solar apogee, and

have a specimen now in my hands. They are soon to be adver

tised. If I were your mortal enemy I should like nothing better

than to dispute with you about heliacal risings, &c., of 3,000

years ago. How I should grin to think that you were at your
spherical trigonometry while I was getting within more accuracy

than an heliacal rising is good for, by two or three motions of the
hand, and a squint or two along wooden horizons and brazen

meridians !

     Malby has also a very neat planisphere with one revolving
surface and one fixed, and on bringing the hour of the day
on the edge of the revolving surface to the day of the month
on the edge of the fixed, the hollow part of the revolving
surface shows the visible heavens for that hour and day.

These planispheres usually have three surfaces and two adjust

ments.

    But whether I shall in a month or two claim your kind offer

about Dunlop's nebulae depends upon Malby 's decision about the

whole scheme. I shall recommend him to defer it altogether

till your work appears. What can Dunlop have been at ?
Your optical power must have been incomparably greater than

his.

      Are there any atmospheric minutiae which last long enough

for a careless observer, who never looks for a thing a second

time, to note as nebulae ?

BasfHo.   The air hath bubbles as the water hath,
MarkcfA.  And these are of them -- whither are they vanished 1

          Into the air, and what seemed nebultr melted

          As breath into the wind ; would they had stayed I

No more at present from

                         Yours very truly,

                                    A. Dr Moruan.
      150  MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1845                            To Sir John Herschel.

                                                          7 Camden Street, May 19, 1845.

         IMy dear Sir John, -- As gave you rather a bad impression
      Iabout the Mathematical Society from their old clay and pewter

      days, feel bound to tell you that Captain Smyth, Galloway,
      and myself went down and examined their library and them
      selves, and saw a good many, and got the names and occupations

      of all. We found an F.R.S., an F. Ant. S., an F. Linn. S., a
      barrister, two silk manufacturers, a surgeon, a distiller, &c. ;
      and we found that all had really paid attention to some branch

      of Science. One Mr. Perrott is, I am told, a man of note as a

      chemist. We certainly shall not lower the average knowledge

      of our Fellows by accepting their proposition. I went down
      Irather against the scheme, but was perfectly changed by what

         saw and heard.

           Their library is a good one. The matter will soon be dis

      cussed at a Council.

                                                               Yours very truly,
                                                                             A. De Morgan.

           To Sir John Herschel.

                                                     7 Camden Street, May 28, 1845.

      My dear Sir John, --No difficulty at all. Our by-laws

      permit a general meeting, called by the Council, with a week's

      notice, to destroy every by-law, and make a complete new set.

      The Charter is liberty itself in this particular.
          A general meeting will be called after the next ordinary
      meeting. Of course, we could not depart a hair's-breadth from

      Ithe statutable mode of election without.  have not got them,

           As to the Cambridge Transactions,
      and know little of them as a whole. In addition to what you

      name there are Murphy's papers, which are remarkable, particu

      I Ilarly those on definite integrals ; but were you, should consult

      Hopkins, the secretary, on the details.

      The transactions generally may be described as having had a

      tendency to bring forward discussions of principle among the

      members of the University. There is, you may safely say,

      sufficient proof in them that the ordinary system of University

      reading, which crams details of methods, put together in exami

      nation form, with fearful rapidity upon the young student, does
                 CORRESPONDENCE, 18.50-ie.                                                        151

not destroy the power of reflecting upon the basis of mathe-                                           1845.

Imatical knowledge, or physical. Strongly objecting, as do,
Ito that system in many points, should admit the Cambridge

Transactions as a decisive fact against me if there were more of

it, so that the contents could be cited as a proof of the general

consequences of the system.
You should not forget the Cambridge ' Mathematical Journal.'
It is done by the younger men. Four octavo vols, are published.
It is full of very original communications. It
I                                                                          as natural
                                                                                    is,
                                                                                              is
in the doings of young mathematicians, very full of symbols.

The late Dr. F. Gregory, whom you must notice most honour
ably -- send you a mem. of him, which please to return -- gave

his extensions of the Calculus of Operations what used to be

the separation of the symbols of operation and (quantity) in it.

He was the first editor. He was the most rising man among

the juniors.                                    Yours very truly,

                                                                        A. De Morgan.

                 To the Master Trinity.
                 I
                                             7
                                       of
                                             Camden Street, June 1845.
Mt dear Sir, -- am much obliged to you for the misprint
                                                                           9,
and the supposed misprint.1                                                           '

Nineteenth century            bad misprint and ought to have
'                      '                                                I

         it               is
                              a

                                                        '
                                                                     ;
detected by the absence of the words march of intellect in

the immediate neighbourhood, for how can the first phrase come

in without the second
                 I?

                               it

                                     I
                                                                       '

                                                                        it

                                                              I if it,
As to the second, may say with Fouchy, C'est pire qu'une

crime, c'est une faute.' For  ww Rheticus who published

the work being Copernicus's. But have phrased                                                     as

Raeticus wrote a work of his own with the title cited, whereas

meant to say that he had published one of Copernicus's, who
was like Newton, and wanted a kind of half-godfather, half-mid

wife, for all he published.
    There another misprint which vexed me more, because context

will not help. It the old accusative decenniom for decennium

in the title of the canon. This was the printer's doing, after

revise returned, fully believe, for know that read the title
    is                        I
                                 I
            I
                                                  I
                   is

most carefully.

           have not found these misprints.I1    suppose them to be in one
of his Cambridge tracts. -- Kd.
1845.  152 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

          II have not anything to retaliate upon the Hist. Math. Sc.

       at present, but if you are preparing a new edition will look at

       it in the vacation quoad Mathematics and Mathematical Physics.
            Yon duly acknowledged the receipt of my corrections about

       Milboume and Horrocks. I remain, dear sir,

                                                               Yours very truly,
                                                                       A. De Morgan.

       To Sir John Herschel.

                                              7 Camden Street, July 21, 1845.

       My dear Sir John, -- I hope you have found rest agreeable

       after your Cambridge labours.

          I have had a book by me for years called ' An Original Theory
       or New Hypothesis of the Universe,' by Thomas Wright of
       IDurham, London, 1750, 4to, 30 mezzotinto engravings.
                                                              had
       always supposed it to be Ocular and Elizabethan,1 if yon know

       what that means, and so put it among my curiosities of that

       kind. But overhauling my limbo to write an article about

       Iquiddities I began to examine this book, and find it is at great

       length the true theory of the milky way as a resolvable nebula,

       with distribution of the universe into patches of starlight.

           It was a book published by subscription, and therefore not
       much repandu. It was seeing Dr. Smith's (Harmonic Smith's)

       name among the subscribers which first made me suspect it was

       not a heaven-born genius who wrote it.

       Yours very truly,

                                               A. De Morgan.

                                        To Captain Smyth.

                                                           7 Camden Street, Nov. 3, 1845.

          IMy dear Captain Smyth, -- find there is a circumstance

       about ' Poliphilus ' which Brunet does not mention. The
       author's name is Francis Colonna ; if the thirty-eight initial
       letters of the thirty-eight chapters be written down, they make
       Folium frater Fra7iciscus Columna peramavit.

                                                                    Yours truly,
                                                                     A. De Morgan.

            1 Those accustomed to the writer's expressions will see in this a
       paraphrase of the slang, ' My eye and Betty Martin.'
         CORRESPONDENCE, 1836-46.            153

                                                                     1845.

                  To Sir John Herschel.

                  7 Camden Street, Nov. 29, 1845.

    Mr pear Sir John,' --First as to things in general, that yon
may have a piece to tear off about life insurance, if you like, and

send to the managers. I have undertaken the Annual Report

again. Have you any subjects to suggest ? Have you anything

to say abont yonr own printing ? Have you actually put metal

to paper in anything more than a steel pen ? Do you know

anything more than mankind in general about Count Cassini,

who is gone, leaving you the sole hereditary Astronomer ?
Will the fourth Herschel start as he did, and go and be a

botanist? Ask H' what he thinks H" will do.

I hope you are using proper means for your cold, and getting

rid of it accordingly ; when it comes to loss of sleep and appetite

it must be dealt with sec. art. It is not true that a man of forty

is either a fool or a physician ; he may be both, or neither. But
according to that rule, I am '0854 of a physician 1 myself, and in
that capacity I beg you to take care of yourself. . . .

   If you want a laugh read Sheepslianks's pamphlet, if you
have not read it already. A man who acknowledges his own
Ifname to be an ugly one mnst bo a hero of moral courage.
                                                           he

had lived in the Middle Ages he would have been vir clarissimus

rrudiiistimusqnf Ricardus de Ovium Cruribus, which would not

have sounded common at all. There was one Middle Age name

which I could not make out. I searched and searched, you can't
think how much. It was Jacobus Ilumw-i, Scotiu Tkeagriut,
James Hume, a Scot --of what ? I tried every part of Scotland,
and endeavoured to Latinise it into Theagrius. At last I hap

pened to mention it to a Scotchman (they all know all their

lairdships), and he said, 'Oh, of course, Hume of Godscroft, petty

estate.

         1 I omit the correction for folly.

                  To Captain Smyth.

Mt ifeAK Captain  Smyth, -- Sheepshanks        Nov. 26, 1846.        L«t«'c,
                                         has written to me on        C,pc

                                                                     Smwh.

the same subject, and 1 have given him at length reasons why I will
not be President. I will vote for and tolerate no President but

a practical astronomer. Besides which, the chair would bring
       154 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1846.  me more in contact with certain parts of our glorious constitution

       than I could any way stand.
          But I have offered either to do the work of a Vice-President,
       if Herschel or some other good man will be President, or to

       take every duty of Secretaryship except the editing of the
       IMonthly Notices and Memoirs.
                                             sent Sheepshanks the following
       Iprogramme, which amend for your use :--

       President : Herschel, absent.         QWu.ietHe.noSumgyhthw--hetnooprfeosnednt.of
       Acting Vice-President : Capt.

       cigars and black-puddings, but otherwise a capital quarter

       master.

           Secretaries : Rutherford, for the Memoirs. A. De Morgan --
       well enough in his way, but cranky--for all miscellaneous work,

       from wax candles to Council minutes.

       Foreign Secretary : Rev. R. Sheepshanks (composition
                                             A President overdue, but won't
       Ifunpot--woauxghbt ytoangyo  means.                                        dub
                                    through  the court) for the Monthly Notices.

       Galloway would take Rutherford's place, who wants to get

       off, we should be in capital force. And we look forward to Hind

       being a famous man.                                 I will work,

           II n'y a que moi qui a toujours raison.

           Think of the above, and see if it won't work.

       but in my proper place. The President must be a man of brass
       -- a micrometer-monger, a telescope-twiddler, a star- stringer, a
       Ifplanet-poker, and a nebula-nabber.
                                             we give bail that we
       Iwon't let him do anything if he would, we shall be able to have

       him,1 hope. We must all give what is most wanted, and his

       name is even more wanted than his services. We can do with

       out his services, not without loss, but without difficulty. I see

       we shall not, without great difficulty, dispense with his name.
       Kind regards all round.

                                             Yours truly,

                                                 A. De Morgan*.

                               To Sir John Herschel.

           My dear. Sir John, --We have just been making our arrange

       ments for the Society for the ensuing year, and one thing is
       that you are not to be asked to do anything, or wished to do
       anything, or wanted to do anything. But we want your name,

                              1 Herschel (understood).-- S.E.DeM.
              CORRESPONDENCE, 183C-46.                                                      155

Iand when you hear the precise state of things hope you will                                      1840.

see that you can give and can see that you will give it.

     Baily, as you know, was the fly-wheel of the Society there
was an inexhaustible fund of momentum in him, which he im
D                                                                              I;
         ; is
                                                                                        it
                                     it,
parted as wanted, and to the amount wanted. Since his deathis
there nobody of whom we can say that he always good for
                                                          V
  -- V D being the duties of any office, and the amount of

them which the holder happens to discharge. And we find
necessary to put our shoulders to the wheel, and to bestir

ourselves.

      Certain persons wanted to make me President, which posi

tively refused, holding that to appoint person who has never
                                                a

promoted astronomy otherwise than as promoting mathematics
is indirectly doing so (there wants a word more strong than

indirectly, and less strong than directly --say directly and in
directly) -- would be io1ut (direct and indirect) confession of
weakness. But have proposed plan of administration which

  am sure of as to the working part, and which hope you will
I                                               a

                                   :                          it

                    I                                        is ^I

                                                                            a
sanction as to the proemium. Seriously,                                      diijnus vindice

      IfPresident Sir J. Herschel. No duties.                                  he likes to

attend anniversary meetings all the better, but nobody expects
even this, except quite convenient. Work all parcelled out.

None left for him. Name the thing wanted.                                                   with
    Acting1 Vice-President: Captain Smyth. Will do
              if ;

                                                                                        it
pleasure ascertained.

      Secretaries: Galloway takes the printing of the Memoirs.

Consents the plan holds. Has been Sec. some years.

     De Morgan takes the routine management of the Society, all

but Memoirs and Monthly Notices. Has had eight years of
routine, Memoirs, and Notices, all three, and would not meddle

with again except for the conviction that the Society would
      1
go to pieces forthwith something energetic were not done at
          it                          if

once. On condition that the President              is   a man of practical
                                                       a
astronomy.

      Foreign Secretary Sheepshanks. Takes the Monthly Notices.
                                      :
Has had the Secship. for the last year.   :

      Assistant Secretary Williams. Seems working man, but

«-- w.

         Includes making up                  a  party for the cigar divan after every

      SMT.
       156 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

       7

                   I
                                            ·"·
                                    I
184C.  ^n t*"s case hope 7ou wiH consent to your part of our
                    The rest of the  Council         fill      in
       Cabinet.   great difficulty.              we        up      the  best  way  we

       can -- no
       If you feel able to consent, am tolerably sure that we are

       safe for two years, during which time we must keep our eye

       upon the future.

       Trusting to the iiascitur nam, fit principle will give the Society
       a fit of moritur.  remain,

                                                 Yours very truly,
                                                               A. De Morgan.

       Camden Street, Nov. 29, 1846.
               157

               SECTION VII.

               From 1846 to 1855.

I, In the year 1846,' Mr. De Morgan wrote, ' had begun to 1846.

collect various matters which had suggested themselves at the'sT1-0'
different times, connected with the theory of the Syllogism iositm-
in Logic.' In the year 1847 the Formal Logic was published.
                                                 II., III., IV.,
   The memoirs On the Syllogism, Nos.    of I.,

and V., are Mathematical workings of the principles

developed in the Formal Logic; and the tracts On the

Structureof    the Syllogism, and On the Applicationof      the
           of                                           of
Theory       Probabilities to Questions        Argument and

Authority, immediately preceded it.

   The first chapter of Formal Logic consists, with a few

alterations, of the tract entitled First Notions          Logic

preparatory to the Study Geometry London, 1839. Theof;
work as a whole, and in its higher parts, original, but
                                         is

the author has been careful to distinguish between what

he claimed as exclusively his own and the work of others

by printing in italics, in the Table of Contents, the head
ings of those articles which refer to his peculiar system.

A  reference to this table will show how large and essential

a portion was claimed as entirely new. After working

these points out in his own mind, the author found that

he was able to explain by their means passages of Aristotle

till then obscure to himself as well as to others. The

two principal features of his own system were the intro

duction of contraries or contradictories, and the idea of

definite quantity, into the syllogism. Where all, none, or

   had been the utmost quantification employed before,
          158 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1847.  the ideas of more or less with their contradictories formed
Formal
 """"     an essential part of the Formal Logic.

          The tract On the Syllogism, &c., read at Cambridge in

          November 1846, excited great interest in the minds of

          those Logicians who were following out the application of

          Mathematics to Logic. Dr. Whewell had wished the

          writer to read it himself, and kindly begged him to visit

          Ihim at Trinity Lodge for the time. This he was not able
          to do.  wish it had been practicable for him to mix

          more freely and frequently with the friends who shared

          his interests ; but on looking back to the great variety of

          subjects he treated, and the work he was engaged in at

          the time, it is evident that this would have been impos

          Isible. The memoir On the Dispute between Keill and
          Leibnitz was printed in this year.      hoped, on first con

          sidering in what way to mention the Logical works, to be

          able to supply some of my own deficiencies by inserting

          the letters which were addressed to him both on the re

          ception of the tract and the publication of the volume.

          But they are too numerous to form a part of this work.

          I am, however, very thankful to be able to insert here
          Isome excellent strictures on that which dare not myself

          have attempted to describe -- the relation of Psychology

          and Mathematics in my husband's mind. These remarks

          were kindly given to me by Mr. De Morgan's friend and
          former pupil, Mr. Cecil Monro : --

               Snch attention to Logical method is not to be confounded
          with mere accuracy and explicitness of statement and demon
          stration. These are vital qualities, indeed, of Mathematical

          exposition, qualities which every one sees to be characteristic of
          Mr. De Morgan's work ; which are, in fact, characteristic of it
          in an extraordinary degree ; but it is in a more important sense

          than this that he was at least as great in Logic as in Mathematics.
          Even in his most strictly Mathematical writings the examination

          of mental processes is visibly an end in itself, as distinguished
          from the exhibition of mental products. In its psychological
          aspect his end is pursued through historical and even bibliogra
          phical inquiries, which, independently of their value as informa
NEW QUANTIFICATION OF PREDICATE.            159

tion, are perhaps still more interesting as episodes in that pursuit.  1847.

Upon its Logical side the end may be said to have been attained,       Letter of

Iand with a completeness upon which believe high authorities           J.1',',,,TM1

would not as yet be forward to pronounce, in a series of works

of which the well-known Formal Logic is but a part. If, as is

certainly true, his other works could only have been written by

a Logician, these last could only have been written by a Mathe

matician. Everybody knows that Mathematics are an admirable

model of exactitude ; but not everybody knows that they also

furnish an admirable type of generalisation. Indeed, generality

is often confounded with vagueness, and therefore treated as

incompatible with exactitude.

The fact is known that, having very thoroughly worked at

the generalisations of Mathematics in theory and practice, Mr.

De Morgan was enabled to establish with perfect precision the

most highly generalised conception of Logic, perhaps, which it
is possible to entertain. It is no new doctrine that Logic deals

with the necessary laws of action of thought, and that Mathema
tics apply these laws to necessary matter of thought ; but by

showing that these laws can and must be applied with equal

precision and equal necessity to all kinds of relations, and not

only to those which the Aristotelian theory takes account of, he

so enlarged the scope and intensified the power of Logic as an

instrument, that we may hope for coming generations, as he

must have hoped,1 another instalment of the kind of benefit

which history shows we ourselves owe to the Aristotelian theory,

not merely in the analysis of one mental operation, but in the

every-day practice of them. Mathematics are, meanwhile, and

perhaps will always remain, the completest and most accurate
example of the generalised Logic. At any rate, in the mind of
the author, Logic and Mathematics as ' the two great branches of

exact science, the study of the necessary laws of thought, the

study of the necessary matter of thought,2 were always viewed

in connection and antithesis.               C. J. Monro.

     Mr. De Morgan had written to Dr. Logan in Sep- c«n*-
tember 18-Ki that he was 'making a vigorous onslaught on l<yi".
·Tl the Aristotelian syllogism, which, ' he says, ' I find has

' 8yUabaa, $ 06, note.   v.    ic.  (Camb.  Ph. S. vol. x., Part  11,
* Oh (Mr Syllogitm, No.

1863), the last i»gu.
           160  MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1847.   wanted the interference of a Mathematician very much.'

con?ro^°n  He asked Dr. Logan to tell him of any place in which the
versy.     history of the syllogism is given --anything about Barbara,

           Celarent, &c., their birth, parentage, and education. He
           also gave him some of the results of his recent inquiry

           into the application of the Theory of Probabilities to ques

           tions of argument and authority. In reply to this, Dr.

           Logan sent him a short note on the history of Logic.
           On September 30 he wrote to Sir William Hamilton, the

           Professor of Logic in the University of Edinburgh,
           ' inquiring about the history of the Aristotelian theory

           of the syllogism.' 1 This was answered in a friendly
           tone, Sir William Hamilton sending Mr. De Morgan
           ' a copy of the requisites for a prize essay,' given out to

           the students at the close of last session, and offering

           further information if required. But in all the state
           ments of what had been taught by the Edinburgh Pro

           fessor my husband did not find any reason for believing
           that his own discoveries on the syllogism, J}ad been antici
           pated; and he was able to bring forward distinct proof
           that, even on the quantification of the predicate, which
           had been taught in a form less complete than his own
           by Sir William Hamilton, he had himself never had the

           opportunity of gaining a suggestion from the Edinburgh
           lectures. However, after the Cambridge tract had been
           in Dr. Whewell's hands, and in answer to a letter on the
           subject from Mr. De Morgan, Sir William says that he
           (Mr. De Morgan) is wholly indebted to himself for infor
           mation on the subject; and in his own words, 'should
           you, though recognising always my prior claim, give forth
           that doctrine as a speculation of your own, you will be
           guilty -- pardon the plain speaking --both of an injurious
           breach of confidence towards me and of false dealing

           towards the public.'
                To this the following reply was sent : --

               1 I have always used, as far as possible, Sir William's own words

           from his subsequent letters on the transaction. -- S. E. De M.
                  FORMAL LOGIC.                161

IDur Srn William, --Yonr letter of the 13th inst., which          1847.

have read with astonishment, shows me the propriety of abstain-   Hamilton
injr from correspondence upon the subject in question. When       contro

Imy paper appears, which I expect it will do in a few days,       versy.

shall have the honour of requesting your acceptance of some

copies, that you may be able to put them into the hands of those

with whom you may think proper to advise.

    I will not further allude to the hasty manner in which you

have expressed your suspicions of an odious charge, except to

state that it does not diminish the sincere respect with which I

subscribe myself  Your most obedient servant,

                                 A. De Morgan.

     These few lines show the temper in which the contro

versy began. I purposely refrain from attempting to

record in detail the arguments used on both sides. The
statement appended to the Formal Logic will give to
inquirers a full insight into my husband's reasons for
believing himself the originator of those Logical pro
cesses which he claimed as his own. So far as the dis
cussion assumed a personal character it is his biographer's
duty to record it ; but the questions raised were of too

technical a nature to be dealt with in a work like the

Ipresent, even if were competent to discuss them. Besides

the statement in the Formal Logic, Mr. De Morgan made
some mention of the controversy in the Budget of Paradoxes.

     Sir William returned, unread, the copy of the Formal
Logic which Mr. De Morgan presented to him; but in

the year 1852 controversial warmth must have abated,

fur hooka and courteous letters were then exchanged
between the Logicians.

     I cannot deny that he rather enjoyed such encounters,

but no one ever engaged in them with less feeling of

personal animosity. It was like a game of chess -- a pas-

«ag«* of arms. But he did full justice to Sir William's

splendid metaphysical powers, and says, in reference to

the controversy, ' of which I suppose that the celebrity of
my opponent, and the appearance of parts of it in a

                                                     H
           162 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1847.   journal so widely circulated as the Athenaeum, has caused
Hamilton.
           many students of Logic to hear or read something.' He
           himself was a mathematical Logician. Sir William's
           Iphilosophy might be called poetical.
                                                           have heard his

           pupils speak  of  him  as ' inspired    '  and  the  clear mental

                                                 ;

           sight which enabled the one to develop the doctrine of

           limits in the Differential Calculus was more at home in the
           quantification of parts of the syllogism than the genius

           which enabled the other to bring out his admirable

           analysis of cause and effect. After Sir William's death

           Mr. De Morgan wrote an obituary notice of him in the

           Athenwum, in which his intellectual powers and great

           research were set forth so luminously as to excite wonder

           in persons not acquainted with the writer's character.1

                1 Readers of Mr. Herbert Spencer's volume on Sociology may
           have been puzzled by a passage (p. 412) in which the subject of this
           memoir appears to be accused of a misquotation, in his own interest,
           of some matter relating to priority of Logical discovery. It runs as
           follows :--

               One further point only will I name. Professor Baynes says : ' Professor De
           Morgan's emphatic rejection of Mr. Bentham's claim after examining the relevant
           chapters of his "outline" is in striking contrast to Mr. Herbert Spencer's easy
           going acceptance of it.' Now, though to many readers this will seem a telling
           comparison, yet to those who know that Professor De Morgan was one of the
           parties to the controversy, and had his own claims to establish, the comparison will
           not seem so telling. To me, however, and to many who have remarked the

           perversity of Professor De Morgan's judgments, his verdict on the matter, even
           were he perfectly unconcerned, will go for but little. Whoever will take the
           trouble to refer to the Athtnteum, November 5, 1864, p. 600, and after reading a
           sentence which he there quotes, will look at either the title of the chapter it is
           taken from or the sentence which succeeds it, will be amazed that such recklessness
           of misrepresentation should be shown by a conscientious man, and will be there
           after but little inclined to abide by Professor De Morgan's authority in matters
           like that here in question.

               The reader who ' takes the trouble ' to search out the passage in
           this Athenxum a quarter of a century old will not find a 'matter like
           that here in question.' But he will be enabled to form a juster estimate
           of the above passage when he learns that the victim of Professor De
           Morgan's inaccuracy or unconscientiousness was neither Bentham nor
           Hamilton, but Mr. Herbert Spencer himself.

               The quotation itself occurs in a brief notice of Mr. Spencer's

           IPrinciples of Biology, which here reprint in full :--

                This is one of two volumes, and the two but part of a larger w ork : we can
                                         FORMAL LOGIC.                     163

   I have mentioned my husband's early interest in 1847.

Berkeley's philosophy, and Mr. J. S. Mill's opinion of the ^jj^6^y

manner in which some of Berkeley's arguments were
affected by Mr. De Morgan's enunciation of the principle

bat announce it. Biology means the Science of Life. As to what con

stitutes life, we expected to have to remain in the dark. Schelling says it is 'the
tendency to individuation.' Richarand says, 'Life is a collection of phenomena

which succeed each other during a limited time in an organised body:' a very Rood
·Vnaitmo. Bat in champagne alive as long as it fizzes, and a top as long as it
                                         says, ' Life is the twofold internal movement of composition
s,pruint sde?comDpeosBiltaioinn,vilalet  once general and continuous.' Mr. Spencer formerly defined
life as ' the co-ordination of action.*.' Mr. Lewes says, ' Life is a series of definite

and successive changes, both of structure and composition, which take place

· uhrn an individual without destroying its identity.' Mr. Spencer ends with
. 7», definite combination of heterogeneous changes, both simultaneous and

unwiw.' We have heard other definitions. Time was when life, ion tnn, ami

·W tkimg, were synonymous terms ; and, according to the City lady, it consisted

                        drlnktaf tea. on summer afternoons.
           At Bacnittgv Wells, with china and Kilt sioons.

     All the definitions we have given apply to the life of organised matcriil beings.
7 has restricted, our definition is, that life is that state of a material being in which

structure which performs functions is maintained by matter which the living being
ba power to draw from without, and which, when a man and an Englishman, he

rails sslrrwtrst.

In a later edition of the Sociology Mr. Spencer has, in answer to

remonstrance, added a note of self- justification. This note is to the
[.<iTT>«e ao far as that it will enable readers to discern the real
gravamen of Mr. De Morgan's offence. Whether Mr. Spencer had
;oat cans* for annoyance in his reviewer's evident want of respect
           a

                   it
                                          is,
for the science of Biology (that               so far as undertakes to define the
                                                     '
nature of life) may be an open question. But with respect to the
mis quotation, reading of Mr. Spencer's chapter containing his definiit

tion will show that was the result of a simple oversight.
                                                            I              appears
                                                              I
that the quotation should have stood the definite combination of
                                                                       It
betel* a^eneou changes, both simultaneous and successive, in orre-
m»rynAmet teith rxUrnal a,-rsistenct3 ami trquencei).'
                                                             do not pre-
to enter here into any discussion of the definition, and therefore

only cite that those who understand
    it it                                            it  (which do not profess

to do distinctly) may know the nature and extent of the injustice

done to in the review.                   I  abstain from expressing an opinion as t<,

th* pn,priety of Mr. Spencer's mode of presenting his case, preferring

to leave the decision to my readers.

    It proper to add that Mr. Spencer has in private correspondence
is

disclaimed all intention of imputing unconscientiousness. All that
cm >« aaid of this is, that better ways of not imputing uncouscien-

tv.ua nsss might be suggested.

                                               M  2
             164      MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1847.     of limits in the Differential Calculus. But his views of
             the rpsJychology                     as compared with his own are
Berkeley's                     of Berkeley
philosophy.  more generalfliy  i·nt4e. restuing.

             In the chapter On Objects, Ideas, and Names in the
             Formal Logic, the writer says : --

             That our minds, souls, or thinking powers, use what name

             we may, exist, is the thing of which of all others we are most

             certain, each for himself. Next to this nothing can be more
             certain to us --each for himself -- than that other things also exist ;

             other minds, our own bodies, the whole world of matter. But

             between the character of these two certainties there is a vast

             difference. Any one who should deny his own existence would,

             if serious, be held beneath argument ; he does not know the
             meaning of his words, or he is false or mad. But if the same
             man should deny that anything exists except himself -- that is, if

             he should affirm the whole creation to be a dream of his own
             I If Imind --he would be absolutely unanswerable.
                                                                (who kvoto
             he is wrong, for am certain of my own existence) argue with
             him, and reduce him to silence, it is no more than might happen

             in his dream. . . .

             A celebrated metaphysician, Berkeley, maintained that with

             regard to matter the above is the state of the case ; that our

             impressions of matter are only impressions communicated by the

             Creator without any intervening cause of communication.

             Our most convincing communicable proof of the existence of

                           not the appearance of objects, but the necessity
             other thingsit

                               is,

                                                                                        :

                                                                                       is
             of admitting that there are other minds beside our own. The

             external inanimate objects might be creations of our own

             thought, or thinking and perceptive functions. They are so

             sometimes in the case of insanity, in which the mind has fre

             quently the appearance of making the whole or part of its own

             external world. But when we see other beings performing

             similar functions to those which we ourselves perform, we come so

             irresistibly to the conclusion that there must be other sentients

             like ourselves, that we should rather compare a person who

             doubted  to one who denied his own existence, than to one

             who really denied the external existence of the material world.

                  In his interleaved copy of Formal Logic                                  a pencil
             note alongside of the foregoing --

             To read Berkeley so as to give him a fair chance, some one
OEOROE ROOLE.                                165

else should turn the page over ; for, unphilosophical as it may       1847.
be, the touch of the paper periodically intervening is a snake in
                                                                   Berkeley's
the grass --an nuphilosophical snake. It is hard to make philo-    Ph"0"°Pll.r-

ophers of the fingers.

    No doubt it would favour Berkeley's scheme if no

appeal to the external, through the senses, were possible
to his reader. But surely this would be giving him more
than a fair chance. Another interleaved note : --

    Personal identity is what evory one has a clear conception of
until he reads physiology and metaphysics. In that process he
learns that the knife sometimes (gradually) gets a new handle,
and sometimes a new blade, and all his notions of identity
vanish, with nothing but memory left to puzzle him. ' Mais
quand je me tate, et qnand je me rappelle, il me semble que je

suis moi.'

    If physiology teaches that we are automatic, it ought

to find a new name for the nightingale and chess-player,

which can be wound up when they have run down.
     Dr. George Boole,1 author of The Laws of Thought, had

introduced himself in the year 1842 to Mr. De Morgan by
a letter on the Differential and Integral Calculus, then
recently published. His character and pursuits were in
many points like those of the author, who found great

pleasure in his correspondence and friendship. He was a
Mathematician as well as a profound and original stadent

of Logic and Metaphysics. In 1839, the same year in

which the First Notions of Logic appeared, he had sent his
Mathematical paper, Researches into the Theory of Ana
lytical Transfer, to the Cambridge Philosophical Journal,
and in 1844 received the gold medal of the Royal Society
for a paper On a General Method in An* lynxs. In the
course of these speculations he was led to consider the
possibility of constructing a calculus of deductive reason
ing; and he found that logical symbols conform to the

same fundamental laws which govern algebraical symbols,
while they are subject also to a special law. 'Mental

1 Professor of Mathematics in Cork College.
            1G6  MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   ] 847.   science,' says his biographer, ' then became his study,
Dr. Boole.  Mathematics his recreation ; yet it is a remarkable fact
            that his more important and valuable Mathematical works

            were produced after he had commenced his Psychological

            investigations.' 1 In 1847, his attention having been
            drawn to the subject by the publication of Mr. De

            Morgan's Formal Logic, he published the Mathematical
            Analysis of Logic, and in the following year communicated
            to the Cambridge and Dublin Mathematical Journal a paper
            on the Calculus of Logic. His great work, An Investigation
            into the Laws of Thought, on which are founded the Mathe
            matical Theories of Logic and Probabilities, was a develop
            ment of the principle laid down in the Calculus, its design
            being ' to investigate the fundamental laws of those opera

            tions of the mind by which reasoning is performed ; to
            give expression to them in the symbolical language of a

            calculus, and upon this foundation to establish the Science

            of Logic and construct its method ; to make that method
            itself the basis of a general method for the application of

            the Mathematical doctrine of probabilities ; and, finally,

            to collect from the various elements of truth, brought to
            view in the course of these inquiries, some probable inti

            mations concerning the nature and constitution of the

            Ihuman mind.'
                     have given Dr. Boole's own statement of the design
            of his work at length because it conveys in few words, not
             only some idea of the aim of his investigations, but of the
            relations between the three sciences of Psychology, Mathe
            matics, and Logic. An estimate of his mental work and
            its value to science was given in a few words, after his
            death in 1864, by my husband :--

                 ' His first paper in the Cambridge Mathematical
            Journal contains remarkable speculations which can here
            be described only in general terms, as extensions of the
             power of algebraic language. These papers helped to

                 1 Taken substantially from a notice of Dr. Boole in the Obituary
            Notices of the Royal Society, by the Rev. R. Harley.
OEORGE BOOLE.  167

give that remarkable impulse which algebraic language                                                                                       1847.
has received in the interval from that time to the present.
. . . That peculiar turn for increasing the power of
mathematical language, which is the most characteristic
point of Dr. Boole's genius, was shown in a remarkable
way in his writings on Logic. Of late years, the two great
branches of exact science, Mathematics and Logic, which

had long been completely separated, have found a few

common cultivators. Of these Dr. Boole has produced
far the most striking results. In alluding to them we

do not say that the time is come in which they can even

be generally appreciated, far less extensively used. But

if the public acknowledgment of progress and of genius

be delayed until the whole world feels the results, the last

century, which had the lunar method for finding longi
tude, ought to have sought for the descendants of Apollo-
nius to reward them for his work on the Conic Sections.'

      ' Dr. Boole's system of logic shows that the symbols

of algebra, used only to represent numbers, magnitudes,
and their relations, are competent to express all the
transformations and deductions which take place in

inference, be the subject what it may. What he has

added may be likened to a new dictionary, by consultation
of which sentences written in the old grammar and syn

tboanoxethoisnf eaigwnsyaosnrtadenmttrutteah,ka"etisethaaecphecroafemcnmteweoqnuainavdsasleetnrrtutioeno,mf "e"aENnvionetgrhy.itnhginNgios

is either old or false, or both." Dr. Boole showed that

a schoolboy who works a certain transformation, such as
occurs in many a simple equation, has the form, though

applied to very different matter, of this logical passage
from one of two equivalents to the other. Taken alone,

this is a pretty conundrum, if any one so please. But when

looked at in the system of which it is a part, and when
further considered as the produce of a mind which

applied the same power of thought with rare success over
the whole of the higher Mathematics, those who so look,
           108 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

    1847.  and so consider, are justified in presenting it as a type of
George     genius, and as a specimen which may give those who are
           not mathematicians a faint notion of an originality of
Sir
Pollock.   speculation which, applied to the progress of science, has

           attained most useful results, and made a lasting name.' 1
                My husband's regard for Dr. Boole was founded

           not only on admiration of his originality and power,
           but on sympathy with the moral and religious basis of
           his psychology ; for Dr. Boole, like Mr. De Morgan,
           believed that every system which rejected the existence of
           God as a constantly sustaining cause of all mental as well
           as physical phenomena, was like a consideration of the

           nature and growth of a tree without reference to the root.

           They did not often meet, for Dr. Boole's life was passed
           in Ireland after his appointment to the Mathematical

           I Ichair in Cork ; but when his visits did occur, they were a

           real enjoyment to both -- believe I may say to all, for

           shared in the pleasure of his conversation, ranging as it

           did over a wide field of thought, and touching poetry
           and metaphysical as well as mathematical science. My

           Ihusband was, believe, instrumental in some degree in

           obtaining the appointment at Cork, where Sir Robert
           Kane, who had married our friend Mr. Baily's niece, was

           Principal.

                My husband's friendship with Sir Frederick Pollock,
           then Lord Chief Baron, had begun some time before this.
           Sir Frederick, who had been Senior Wrangler of his year,
           kept up his mathematics in the midst of his legal avoca
           tions. He was a good Mathematician, among other

           Imatters interested in the properties of triangles and in

           magic squares, and, believe, made some original dis
           coveries. He often communicated these to Mr. De Morgan,
           who occasionally gave him a lift when any stumbling-
           block came in his way --at least, so he told me. He was

           Ia most agreeable companion, full of interest in all sub

           jects of thought, and of all men ever knew he seemed to

                 1 From a MS. unpublished paper, drawn up by Mr. De Morgan.
COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION.  169

 me to have highest value for talent of all kinds ; and of 1847.

 all well-read persons no one was so ready with an illus
 tration or a quotation, either in prose or poetry, suited to

 the occasion.

      The Introductory Lecture given by the Mathematical iwa.
 Professor on the opening of all the classes in University tory
 College at the session of 1848, was on a question in Lecture.
 education on which he had thought much, and on which
 his opinion had strengthened as his experience in teaching
increased. He considered competition -- the striving one
against another for the highest place among boys or young
men -- to be among the crudities of an imperfect system,
and to be as ineffectual in gaining the end either of making
the best scholar or showing the best scholar, as its moral

tendency is bad.

     It is quite true, as he himself has said to me in talking
of this subject, that the boys are generous and sharp enough
to see who deserves the prize, and very little ill-will or
jealousy ever comes into the competition; but they do
not know, any more than their teachers, how much easier
the work is for some than for others ; and as the teacher
cannot take this into account, injustice in one way can
hardly be avoided. Hence his objection to marks in look
ing over examination papers. He said he could judge of
the merits of the competitor from the whole work, but he
could not reckon it up by marks, and he always refused
to examine in this way. But he also felt and often ex
pressed his opinion of the terrible mischief to health done
by urging a young man to go a little beyond what he
could accomplish with interest and success if no undue

      Mire were put upon him, and by the 'cramming ' to
      rer questions set at the pleasure of the examiners, in
place of the natural and well-directed effort to learn the
subject which an enlightened teacher can always evoke
in an intelligent pupil. He himself, a most successful
teacher, to whose instructions his pupils always looked
back with the consciousness that to him they owed the
             170  MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1848. habits of sound thought and correct reasoning which were

Education, among their best mental possessions, believed and said
            that it is owing to the imperfection of the teacher, not to

             the want of effort in the pupil, that the boy or young man

             fails to make progress. There are doubtless cases in

             which the capabilities are naturally wanting, and when a

             strain to do what cannot be done is useless ; but this only

             shows the necessity of discernment. Some of his friends,

             who greatly liked the lecture of this year, saying that

             all his arguments were unanswerable, still hesitated to

             give in to all his conclusions. His old friend and fellow-
             collegian, the Rev. Arthur Neate, among others, asked, if

             the stimulus of competition were taken away, what would
             Ibe put in its place.
                                    do not know what he replied to
             IMr. Neate, but know what he said to me at the time.
             ' With such young men as those who struggle to be

             highest, and who suffer in the struggle, no stimulus

             is needed beyond their own pleasure in learning ; and if a

             teacher cannot make them feel this, he does not deserve

             the name of teacher.'

Rev. Baden   Among those who fully concurred with him was our

competitive  friend the Rev. Baden Powell. His thoughts on the
tums.ma
             Isubject were suggestive. He wrote : -- ' Accept my thanks

             for a copy of your admirable Introductory Lecture.
             wish it could be more widely circulated among our

             candidates here and at Cambridge. Perhaps there

             was something in this respect better in the system of

             our ancestors' Disputations, in lieu of examinations.

             I have often wished there were something like making

             a man read a dissertation on a subject of his own

             choosing, and then cross-examining him on his own argu

             ment. Many would be plucked from not understanding

             their own meaning.' And Sir John Herschel wrote, ' I was

             greatly delighted with your protest against the cramming

             system in your opening lecture.' So also Dr. Whewell :

             I' see you have been kicking against examination read

             ing. So far good. But is your College going to do
           COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION.                  171

Ianything which will really diminish it? should like to 1848.
Ihear how any attempt of this kind prospers.
                                              think the (^'^j",
object an excellent one, and have some notions of my own

as to the way in which it may be forwarded.' Such

declarations of opinion from such men ought to have

weight with their successors.

Mr. De Morgan, while fully agreeing with Mr. Baden

Powell on the wisdom of letting the student show what

he can do by his original work, did not disapprove of
examinations, not competitive ones, to test the amount of

knowledge really gained. At that time his arguments

were unheeded. The torrent of competition carried all

        it,
                   is
before and not seldom swept down its victims to de

struction. Wiser notions are coming into men's minds,

and the evil acknowledged, though, from what hear
of the state of things at Cambridge, better methods are
                                              is
not yet found. Educators have to learn that the aim of
                                               I
education  to develop power, not to cram knowledge
           is                                                          ;
                   is
and also, what now never thought of, that mental and

moral faculties come into activity at different times in

different individuals, and that talent which inert or
                               a

unnoticed in a boy of twelve, may be a brilliant element

of the mind at twenty, not forced up or crushed out by
                       if

mismanagement.

The Astronomical Society's difficulties in obtaining Astrono-
good and efficient chief officers were not over. It
                                           it                      so <.iety.
                                               is

                                                              :

                                                        is
long ago that can betray no confidence by telling of
these embarrassments in Captain Smyth's language --I

              I
Sis AXD Sec., -- am but a temporary V.P.,     true, and

therefore have little authority to shove my oar into others' row

locks, but the Sulus Iii-ipublic<K shakes me to the centre. . . .

The anniversary approaches, and so do our difficulties. The

last time saw friend Galloway he swore like a Flanders soldier
        I

that he would not serve another year! This oath fills me with

consternation, and my eloquence having failed, will you exert

yours?

Then, again, there's the Council Did you ever Prny
                                  !           ?
         172 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1 8-i8.  think of these things, exert your energies, and preserve us. So
         shall you deserve well of your contemporaries, of posterity, and
         of yours very truly, --W. H. Smyth.

         The writer had filled the President's chair after Sir

         John Herschel and since the last difficulty, but it was

         again vacant, and Mr. De Morgan was very earnestly

         begged to take it. But he refused, for, while working

         harder than ever, if possible, to keep up the character

         and usefulness of the Society, his old reasons were still in

         force. He always feared the love of rank and money

         finding its way among the honest, useful workers who

         had hitherto composed it. He held up the example of

         the Royal Society as one in some ways to be avoided, and

         resisted every measure that would tend to bring in the

         sort of influence which had fettered its scientific work

         during the last century. His commentary on the Royal

         Society 's history in times past will be found in the Budget

         of Paradoxes, as well as some allusion to the fact of
         his never having sought for membership. Touching the

         charge against Sir John Hill, that his animus towards

         the Society was occasioned by his failure to obtain admis
         Ision to its ranks, he says, ' Whether could have been a
         IFellow,
         Iwhether                                                             asked
          cannot   know    ;   as  thveiolginen, t"lemnanevesraidtriwehde."n  ' On
         he could    play     the
         the last point, however, Admiral Smyth gave evidence : --

            IKnow that dined yesterday with the Philosophical Club,

         where was an ominous growl about your not being in the Royal

         Society, and, on the entreaties of several warm friends, I under

         took to state the same to you. My own regret you are fully
         aware of. Pray, therefore, reconsider the case, for it is declared

         to be no favour at all to you, but a signal one to the Society,
         to allow your name to be hung up. Pray grant this, and your
         Petitioner will ever pray, &c.

             At this time a good many friends used to meet peri

         odically at our house, and my husband enjoyed the
         opportunity they gave him of seeing them in an informal
            VARIOUS FRIENDS.  173

Iway. Besides several of those have named, many of the 1848.

Professors of University College and their families of
course visited us. At this time the Rev. Alexander Scott,

afterwards Principal of Owen's College, Manchester, filled

a chair in University College. Mr. Arthur Hugh Clough
was Principal of University Hall. M. Libri and his wife,
Dr. Westland Marston, Miss Mulock, now Mrs. George
Craik, Mrs. Follen, the abolitionist, and Mrs. Catherine

Crowe, of ghostly renown, were among our guests. As

my husband was connected with the Alhenceum, his vic

tims and co-reviewers were a lively element in these

mixed assemblies, and we found in the meeting of persons

of very opposite pursuits, that some who seemed the

farthest removed from each other would often rejoice to

meet, and were found in unexpected connection. Several

friends addicted to what are called mystical studies,

found their way to us, drawn partly by my own love of

trying to unveil mysteries, partly by the sounder know

ledge which my husband, who did not quite despise

Ithe obscure sides of early science and mediaeval philo

sophy, could bring to the subject. Of these, think
the Rev. Jas. Smith, author of 'The Divine Drama

of History,' was the most learned and the least appreci
ated by the world at large ; for his estimate of Sweden-

borg as an authority on spiritual questions, and his
admiration for Joanna Southcote as a ' typical woman,'

were thought to throw discredit on his good sense.
Swedenborg is not held utterly contemptible now -- though,

as Mr. Smith said then, he is least understood by his own

followers.

     A not infrequent visitor on these evenings was Mrs.    The L«ii<-,
Klizabeth Beid, a widow lady of property, whose father
had been an influential Nonconformist, and who had long     RMf^V"

                                                            s<i""rs-

sought for coadjutors in her design of establishing a

model ladies' College. She had written to Lady Byron
and to me of it fifteen years before, but her plans were

not as practical as her intentions were good, and it wus
   1849.  174 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.
i.adies'
          not until she found herself among a number of sound-
Bedford   thinking liberal men that she gained help and advice to
          carry her wishes into effect. Some of the Professors of
          King's College --among them the Rev. F. D. Maurice and
          the Rev. W. Nicolay -- gave her the best advice and
          encouragement, and when the plan was matured, their
          experience drawn from the Queen's College in all techni
          calities respecting the arrangement of classes. Mrs.
          Reid took the house in Bedford Square, paid the rent
          and much of the expense during the first years, and
          otherwise endowed the Institution. She was among our
          friends, and we were able to interest many friends of
          education in the undertaking. Prof. Scott kindly promised
          his aid as Professor of English, Mr. Francis Newman took
          the Professorship of Latin, and my husband gave lectures
          or lessons on arithmetic and algebra for one year, to give
          as good a start as possible to the new college, which

          Iopened at the end of 1848. Of my own work in the

          formation of the Ladies' College will only say that it was
          the means of ensuring his interest, and thus obtaining
          for the place an advantage which it could not otherwise

          have had.

               For some years there had been a growing desire that
          the education of girls should be brought out of the state
          of absolute inanity in which it existed in ladies' schools.
          A specimen of the instruction has been given at p. 123,
          and from the Astronomy we may have an idea of the
          other branches of science, and form a guess at the History

          and Language. It was seen that something a little more
          efficient was wanted-- some system which, if not ap

          proaching in extent, should yet be equal in soundness to

          the teaching given to boys and young men. To meet this
          want a few enlightened clergymen and others had some
          time before established the Queen's College in Harley
          Street. The orthodox King's College had grown up
          shortly after the establishment of the heterodox Uni
          versity College -- as some persons thought, in rivalry and
FEMALE EDUCATION.         175

hostility to it -- as wiser ones saw, another step in the 1849.

right direction under different conditions. The Queen's
College for ladies, which owed its origin and success to

some of the Professors of King's College, was based on

the same principles, but as being designed at first for

members of the Church of England, was objected to by

parents who did not wish their daughters either to join

the prayers and Bible teaching, or to feel excluded from

what their fellow-learners partook of. The growing num

ber of this class showed that there was yet room for

another College, founded, like University College, on

principles of absolute neutrality as to doctrinal teaching.

     These high-class day schools 1 have increased in num- Overwork,

ber from that time ; but I am told that those of the

present day share the faults of their predecessors, for each

teacher or Professor sets what task he likes irrespective

of those imposed by his colleagues. The amount of out-

of-school work was formerly excessive, and young girls
Isuffered in proportion.
                          have known cases of illness for

life, insanity, and even death from this cause, and as the

finances of the school depended on the number of classes

entered by pupils, young girls were often recommended

to take ten, twelve, fourteen, or fifteen ; and their parents,

knowing no better, consented. I have heard entreaties

on the poor girls' part to have their lessons at home
shortened met by the answer, ' You have so many hours

here and so many at home, there is time for all.' Strength

for all was not thought of, and time to think over and

assimilate what had been learned still less. Many hard
working girls became ill, many heedless ones quite in

different, but, as a remedy for either evil, the idea of

fitting the kind and amount of work to the kind and

amount of power never entered the teachers' heads. It is

too ' advanced ' a notion, but when we have overtaken it

the 'school master abroad' will be a beneficent genius,

     ' CUUgts, siich as Newnhsra or Girton, are of course not included
in these remarks. I believe they are more wisely manured.
           176 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

    1849.  scattering blessings in his path, instead of, what he has
Book       been made by over-driving, a rampant lion, seeking what

postage.   he may devour.1
                 Although not among our frequent visitors, Sir Rowland
Gaglielmo
I.ibri.    Hill was an old acquaintance of my husband's. Before

           the time of which I am writing he had brought his

           great scheme of penny postage into operation, having
           grappled with and overcome gigantic obstacles. Mr. De
           Morgan had corresponded with him on this work, and in

           1848 made many suggestions for the postage of books and

           MSS. Sir R. Hill, after stating the conditions of posting,

           and the amount of writing allowed in the address, requests
           him not to refer in writing to the source of his informa
           tion, saying, ' You will perhaps think all this ridiculous,
           but there are real as well as imaginary difficulties in doing

           Imore --at present, at least.' My husband gave a good deal

           of help anonymously to this great reform, and, think,

           suggested the book postage.

               At this time he was actively interested in the

           Iquestions raised by the proposed compilation of a com

           plete catalogue of the British Museum Library.
           need not enter into the discussion which this subject

           excited, further than to note that some expressions made
           use of by Mr. T. K. Hervey, then editor of the Athenaeum,
           led to Mr. De Morgan's discontinuing his contributions to
           that journal for some years.

                During the agitation of the catalogue question he
           often visited the British Museum, and on one occasion
           met Count, or Professor,2 Guglielmo Libri, who had come
           to England in a state of utter despair, owing to the
           charges of theft made against him by the French
           Government. Mr. De Morgan was at once favourably

                1 January, 1878. Only yesterday a friend told me that while
           walking in the street, violent and frightful screams startled her, and

           on inquiring at the house from whence they came, she was told that
           a young lady was dangerously ill of brain fever, having just pasted a

           College examination.
                2 He preferred the latter title.
GUGLIELMO LIBRI.  177

impressed by M. Libri, but from his agony of mind and -.g^
imperfect knowledge of English, it was a difficult matter M. Libri
to get at particulars of his case. Gradually facts were French Go-

broogbt forward and documents produced. The one most verument-
patent fact, attested by M. Guizot, then Prime Minister,

that M. Libri had offered all his books and manuscripts to
the French nation, on condition that they should be kept

together and called by his name, was a sufficient pre
sumption of his innocence to lead to the belief that

further proof would be forthcoming; for no one would
believe that books, stolen from a public library, would be

openly placed there by the very man who had abstracted

them. M. Libri became our attached and valued friend,

always recognising a firm and able defender in my
husband, whose articles in the Athenwum and elsewhere

were the means of establishing a belief in his innocence in

England. Some reference to the political relations of
France and Italy will throw light upon the persecution
he, an Italian, experienced from the French Government;
but the political condition of France, on which he expressed
himself very openly, helped to determine the events of
his life.

      He was born in 1800, of a noble Tuscan family, and
was made Professor of Mathematics in the University of
Pisa when twenty years old. Being looked upon as a

Liberal by the Government, he was forbidden to remain
in Italy, which he had left on a visit to Paris in 1830.
He returned to Paris, where he was naturalised, and in

1833 was made a member of the Institute, holding
among other appointments that of Inspector of the
Royal Libraries and Mathematical Professor in the
Sorbonne. His History of the Mathematical Scimces m
//u/y, in four volumes, is spoken of by Mr. De Morgan
as a great work. But he did not confine himself to
scientific work ; he helped the cause of Louis Philippe
by his writings, opposed the Jesuits both in their
French and Italian schemes, and gained the enmity of

                                     s
                178 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1849.         the opposite party, by whom he was denounced as a
                monarchist, and as an Austrian traitor to the cause
Gugiielmo
Libri.          Italy. Whether he was right or wrong in his politics is
                matter of opinion. He had expressed his own very freely,
             .
                and thus had become an object of suspicion to the Govern

                ment of the time. But there was another reason for his
                unpopularity in France. ' In science he would not be a
                Frenchman, but remained an Italian. One of his great

                objects was to place Italian discovery, which the French
                historians had not treated fairly, in its proper rank. This
                brought him into perpetual collision with M. Arago at
                the Institute, and personal enmity was the consequence.
                Those who know French science, and how little it attends
                to history and to the learning which aids history, will

                guess what a nuisance must have been the presence of an

                able scholar and a profound Mathematician, with every
                thing that the French ignore at his fingers' ends, carrying

                the fire of reason and the sword of reference into their
                most sacred haunts; and worse still, the small shot of

                ridicule, against which few Frenchmen have any armour.
                When they were establishing showers of toads by second
                hand citations from old authors, M. Libri went to the

                originals and got them a shower of oxen upon the same

                evidence ; maudit Italien. At the same time we must do
                the French savans the justice to say that M. Libri is a
                warm nationalist, and that we will by no means guarantee

                his having been always in the right. Neither can the

                insinuation about stealing books be traced to the Institute.

                We suspect that political animosity generated this slander,
                and a real belief in the minds of bad men that collectors

                always steal, and that the charge was therefore sure to be

                true.'
                     ' Every one who becomes acquainted with M. Libri

                soon learns that the restoration of Italian fame is always
                in his thoughts, and, though learned in the history of
                other sciences, his interest in collecting is that of a propa-

                gandist, who would gladly, if he could, furnish every
GUGLIELMO LIBRI.  179

 library with the means of verifying Italian history. . . . 1849.
 He specially collected Italian books, and the thefts Offer of his
 charged are mostly of that kind of literature. He offered the French

 his whole collection, books and manuscripts, as a present ment.
 to the French nation on condition that they should be

 kept together and called by his name, which was refused.
 The offer was made to M. Naudet, of the Royal Library.

 When difficulties arose as to the stipulation, M. Libri
 complained to M. Guizot, the most influential of the
 Ministry in literature, always his firm friend, and a firm
 believer in his innocence. M. Guizot certified this fact to
 the editor of an English journal in 1849, and gave it in
 evidence to a commission sent from Paris to examine

 him, as we learn from his handwriting. This shows the
 state of things in Paris with respect to M. Libri at the

 time of his escape to England in the year 1848. It had

  been rumoured that he, who was well known as having

  bought rare books and as having sold a large collection,
 had robbed the public libraries of a number of books to

  the amount of several hundred thousand francs, and a

  note was one day put into his hands at the Institute by
 the editor of the National, threatening him with popular

 vengeance, and advising him to disappear if he hoped to
 escape. A report was drawn up by M. Boucly, the Pro-

 cureur da Roi, founded upon anonymous accusations, and
 soon after M. Libri's escape to England -- a step recom
 mended at once by his friends in France -- this report was
 published in the Moniteur. To it he replied, so com
pletely proving his innocence, that no more was heard of

the document. In a letter to M. Falloux he continued
his defence, which produced no effect. His books and
furniture were seized, and a commission was appointed to
examine them. This commission made its report in
1850, and in 1852 the Acte d'Aecutation was passed.'

      During the time he had been in England he had
gained some steady, energetic friends, many of whom
gave him sympathy and assistance. Scholars and biblio

                                                              x2
      1849.      180 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.
  Guglielmo
   .Libri.      graphers were convinced of his innocence, but no defence
                of him in France was permitted, where he had lost all
      lK.r)0.   property and position. But the facts of the case became
                evident to all who chose to examine them. M. Guizot, Lord
Mr. Th os.
baliowny.       Brougham, Mr. De Morgan, and other judicious friends
                found from careful inquiry in Paris that the Acte a" Accu
                sation in this case implied summary conviction. They
                recommended him not to return to Paris for trial, and

               judgment went by default, though after some years the
                accusation was withdrawn. Mr. De Morgan said of the ac

               cusation that it involved a new form of syllogism : ' Jack
               lost a dog ; Tom sold a cat; therefore Tom stole Jack's
               dog.' And it was discovered, after all, that in several
               cases the editions sold by M. Libri were not those which
               the library was reported to have lost. In several cases
               the library had not lost the book at all. In several cases

               the lost book had been found elsewhere, and in no one

               case was it proved that a book once belonging to a public
               library was found in M. Libri's possession without proof
               of having been honestly come by.

                    M. Libri had every social quality to secure regard and
               friendship. He was a fine classical scholar and an original
               thinker, having the sparkling merry humour of his
               countrymen, and, like an Italian, was simple and affec
               tionate, but hasty and irascible. He had been in youth
               exceedingly handsome, and at this time, when of middle

               Iage, was one of the noblest-looking men ever saw. In

               1850 he married Madame Melanie Colin, a generous,
               self-devoted woman, who made great efforts to procure
               justice for her husband. She went to Paris, consulted
               with his friends, and appealed to his enemies, but the

               anxiety and exertion were more than her strength could
               bear, and it was thought that her subsequent illness and
               death were caused by the strain upon her powers.

                    The death of our friend Mr. Galloway, who had been

               living in Torrington Square, occurred in the following

               year. It was preceded by some months' illness from spasms
            DEATH OF THOMAS GALLOWAY.                 J 81

of the heart, which he bore with calmness and patience.       jg-g

Mr. De Morgan, who had a warm regard for him, spent what
time he could gain in the intervals of his lectures in his
friend's sick room, and his visits were looked for as afford

ing some alleviation in a difficult nursing, not only as to
such difficulties as arose in Mr. Galloway's absence from

business, but, I believe, with the patient himself, who was

sometimes induced by his quiet persuasion to take a

Iremedy for which he felt disinclined. ' can never,' Mrs.

Galloway writes, ' cease to remember with love and grati
tude how tenderly your beloved husband watched his

downward progress, sitting day by day by his bedside,
and talking to me in a low tone in the hope that it might

induce sleep, and anxiously trying to get him to take
food, on the amount of which the doctors said his life

depended.'

Mr. Galloway had been more than once my husband's

colleague as secretary of the Royal Astronomical Society,

and had in many ways done service to Science. He would

in all probability have been Professor of Natural Philo
sophy in the University of Edinburgh if he had not been

elected registrar or actuary of the Amicable Life Assurance

Office in 1833, as before mentioned. He had in early life

intended to enter the Church, but, like Mr. De Morgan,

found the teaching of Mathematics a more congenial em

ployment than preaching, and held for a few years the

appointment of Mathematical teacher at Sandhurst. His

interest in the welfare of the Astronomical Society was

strong and lasting, but he was very unassuming in bis

<-«timate of the work he had given to and begged my
                         is
husband during the last days of his life to prevent anyit,

thing likp eulogium on his service. This arose partly,

no doubt, from his own simplicity and humility of cha
racter, partly from the consciousness that Mr. De Morgan

was always anxious to do full justice to all his friends.

In the little memoir written by Mr. De Morgan for the

Royal 8ociety this wish  recorded, but the biographer
   1850.     182 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

      1851.  adds that it was scarcely possible to comply with it, for a
slavery      true account of Mr. Galloway's services to Science was in
             itself a eulogium.

                  Those of us who can look back more than thirty years
             w^ remember the feelings excited in England on negro

             slavery by ' Uncle Tom's Cabin '--how it brought to a

             climax the sympathies and efforts of those who had long
             worked in the same cause, and how it stimulated those
             who had been inactive, because ignorant of what was
             going on, to consider how she or he could contribute
             towards diminishing the sufferings of the negroes. My

             Ihusband felt intense interest in this question, and pity

             for the sufferers on both sides. remember his sitting
             up the greater part of one night reading ' Uncle Tom's
             Cabin,' and it was evident that the subject pressed
             heavily on his mind. We found several friends, among
             them some active abolitionists from the United States,

             who liked our idea of a National Address from Great
             Britain to the United States of America, to be signed by
             ever}- one who could think and feel upon the subject. Mr.
             De Morgan drew up an address such as appeared to these

             friends calculated to encourage a wise effort at gradual

             but certain emancipation. It claimed for us, the writers,

             a right to offer sympathy and assistance, inasmuch as our
             countrymen and women had, until very lately, been accom

             plices in the enslavement of the negro. It invited mutual

             consultation and counsel, and promised what help could
             be afforded by one nation to another in the tremendous
             work of getting rid of the burthen of slavery with as little

             injury as possible to slave-owners and slaves. One or two

             Ifriends, men of worth and learning, gave some suggestions

             in the writing of this document, of which have not now

             a copy. Had it been sent in its original form, and ac

             cording to the wishes of its promoters, its influence would

             have been hardly a drop in the ocean ; and, as it after

             wards proved, the time for remonstrance and argument
             was nearly over. But our design was not carried into
         COMPETITIVE EXAMINATION.  183

effect as we intended. Before it could take form other 1851.  °°

^^influential opponents of slavery heard of it, and drew up
an exhortatory address from the women of England to

their sisters in America. This address was in the main

moderate and good ; the feeling it expressed was unexcep

tionable, but it was couched in slightly religious terms,

which gave it the appearance, as we thought, of an

assumption of spiritual superiority over those addressed;

and we, who had hoped for the concurrence of thoughtful

and influential men, felt that our effort lost strength by

being made exclusively a woman's movement. Accord
Iingly the original promoters of the plan withdrew.
                                                     do

not think the Address of the Women of England, which

was well introduced and signed, did either good or harm

in America. Our abolitionist friends lamented our failure,

but beyond causing some slight irritation among the

American ladies, who did not like its tone, and did not

see in it the good feeling of the writers, it had no effect

at all.

     In the Introductory Lecture on the opening of the 1853.
session of 1848 my husband had distinctly stated some ^London
of his strong objections to competitive examinations, and examina-
their preparatory cram, with other parts of the educa

Itional system as it was (I wish could add, and is no

longer) carried on.
     He had strongly expressed his disapproval of the

course proposed by the University of London on its first

establishment, and refused to take part in the examina

tions.

    At that time the enormous variety of subjects on
which a young man was required to answer questions,
without reference to any special ability, was stultifying

and confusing even to the brain which could receive them

all without damage to physical health. Apropos of this
reckless and fruitless waste of mental effort, my husband
wrote an illustrative ' Cambridge examination : '--
            184 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1853.         Q. What is knowledge?
                 ^, ^ thinga to be examined in.
University       Q. What is the instrument of knowledge ?
of London       A. A good grinding tutor.
examina-        Q. What is the end of knowledge ?
                A. A place in the civil service, the army, the navy,

            &c. (as the case may be).

                Q. What must those do who would show knowledge?
                 A. Get up subjects and write them out.

                 Q. What is getting up a subject ?
                A. Learning to write it out.
                Q. What is writing out a subject ?
                A. Showing that you have got it up.

                 His objection to the methods pursued by the Univer
            sity of London will be found in his letter (p. 222) written
            in answer to a request.

                 In his strictures on the teaching of Physiology he

            had evidently not contemplated the possibility of the
            dissection of living animals for demonstration, now hap
            pily forbidden by Act of Parliament. Had the question
            of its expediency for the sake of Science been put to
            him he would have said, as he always did on such occa

            sions, that no imaginary end could justify means which
            were opposed to a positive law of humanity.

                 And his own words on the subject of vivisection show

            what he thought of it. A surgeon had been describing

            to us some of Majendie's atrocities (since equalled by those

            Iof English and Scotch physiologists), and after our friend

            was gone referred with horror to what he had said. My
            husband, who had been silent some time, said, ' Don't talk

            it;'of then, in a minute or two, pausing between the

            sentences, he added, 'They will learn nothing by it. It's
            all of a piece. There is no God in their philosophy.'

                 Some few years after this time he came home one day
            from the College evidently amazed, and told me that some
            pupils had applied to him to interfere in the following
                  UNIVERSITY COLLEGE.                             185

Icircumstances. A cat had been poisoned ' for Scientific                     1853.
purposes ' before one of the classes.  asked him whether
                                                                         £**£nJn
a repretition   of this could not  baegapinre. venIttewd.as  He   said,  living
               it must not happen                            too  bad.   animals.
* Certainly :
I shall speak to
                  ,' another Professor on the medical

side, 'and he will see to it.' Accordingly he spoke to            ,

who satisfied him somehow that the thing would not

recur. He had little notion that the Professor appealed

to was and had been performing experiments before his

pupils on living dogs and cats. These were of so cruel a

Inature that will not describe them. They were detailed

to me by a highly respectable surgeon, who had been a

student of the class referred to.

     In November a circumstance which showed an un- Dt- Pm"c's
                                                                                                                                                 egsfv.

 certain interpretation on the part of the College Council
 of the main principles of the foundation, made my
 husband look forward with abated confidence to the
 future of his Professorship.

      During the first years of University College, its prin
ciple of non-interference with religion had been well

 adhered to ; indeed, we received so many assurances on
 the subject at distribution speeches, opening lectures, and

 in many other ways, that no fear was felt, and my husband
worked on in the happy conviction that he was aiding the
great cause which he had most at heart. But for some

little time before this he observed indications that the

monetary success of the classes would be held a stronger
motive in deciding questions connected with the working
of the College, than its fulfilment of the pledges given of
thoroughness in instruction and adherence to principle.
He told me of these things with some anxiety. He saw,
or thought he saw, a more decided tendency to temporise
to secure the monetary success of the Institution in other

directions; and in the year 1853 an occurrence fraught
with danger to the principle on which it had been esta

blished proved that his fears were well founded.
             186 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1853.          Dr. William Gurdon Peene, of Maidstone, left seven-

legac^*1""1  *een hundred pounds for the purchase of books for the
             library of University College. These books were to be
             works on foreign literature and science, and the choice of
             them was to be entrusted to the Professors of Greek,

             Latin, and Mathematics, provided these three were
             members of the Church of England ; ' Otherwise ' (as
             expressed in the will), 'one or more shall complete their

             Ifnumber by choosing qualified persons from the other Professors,

             private teachers, or quondam alumni resident in London.

             Inone of the three named be members of the Church of Eng

             land, beg the Council to appoint.'
                  On hearing of this bequest, and learning that some

             members of Council were inclined to accept it with the
             prescribed conditions, Mr. De Morgan wrote to the chair
             man of the Council as follows : --

                                                                  University College, Nov. 5, 1853.if,

                 Sir, --A proposal now before the Council, and to be discussed

             this day, involves the application of a religious test to certain
             Professors, with a view to their exclusion from a certain office to

             be founded, in the event of their opinions not being of a certain

             class.

                I beg you will draw the attention of the Council to the

             following personal statement. The matter in question may

             never come before the Senate ; and if it did, I conld not expect

             the Senate to convey to the Council remarks which refer entirely

             to my own personal position. If, when I first sought the honour of
             a chair in this College, I had asked what security existed for my
             Inever being excluded from anything on account of my opinions,

             should have been told, and with reason, that if so many public

             declarations as had been made, both printed and oral, uttered
             with every mark of sincerity and received with every appearance

             Iof enthusiasm, were not sufficient guarantees, should do well

             to reconsider my intention of acting under those whom it was

             clear, by my question, that I mistrusted.

                  Again, admitting that the College, corporately, would never

             institute a test or create a disqualification, if I had asked

             whether it would allow any one else to do so within its walls, or
                 giving credit for the full determination to maintain a perfect
PEENE LEGACY.  187

Ireligious equality among the students, had asked whether it was                        1853.

possible a Professor might be placed under disqualification, I                       Lettertothe
should have been told, and with reason again, that if the length                     Council.
and breadth of the declarations I have alluded to were not

sufficient to contain these and any other possible cases, all the
lawyers who ever varied the counts of an indictment, or reckoned

up the rights which pass with a freehold, would not be able to

frame anything which would satisfy so suspicions a person.

    I joined the College in the full conviction that the plain

English of scores of declarations would have warranted the pre
ceding replies. To my utter surprise, on the very first occasion

on which money is offered on the condition of establishing a

religious test, all I hear seems to indicate that it is far from

certain that the offer will be rejected. What the Council has
ever done to warrant such a want of certainty I cannot imagine;

for if ever any Institution in this world honoured its faith and

practised its professions, University College has done so, up to

this moment, in the matter of religious equality. I myself should

never have imagined the necessity of stating that my connection

with this College was the consequence of the good and sound

and religious principle shown in its leading maxim, but for the

doubt to which I have referred. No one is so humble that faith

need not be kept with him. In the name of all the declarations

which the College has put forth from its first institution, I claim

the performance of the obligation therein undertaken to maintain

every student, every Professor, every officer in perfect religious

equality with the rest, from the President of the Council down

to the sweeper of the floor.

    This I claim with the most perfect respect for the Council,
which, among many other reasons, I feel because the principle

of the College has always been maintained, and, I fully believe,

will still be maintained. But I think it possible that the strength

of the individual claim of those who have trusted the College,

and have spent the best years of their lives in its service, may be

overlooked, and for this reason only I trouble you with these
remarks. -- I am, sir, your most obedient servant,

                                                                      A. De Morgan.

    P.S. -- The only precedent which bears on the matter, within
my recollection is as follows : At the opening of the College,

each student was desired to state whether he was Churchman or

Dissenter, and the answer was affixed to his name in the list.

The motive was the most innocent in the world ; it was the
   1853.  188 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

Peene     statistical one. Great objection was raised. It was affirmed
 egacy'
          that the College on its principle could have neither need to
          know nor right to inquire the religious status of any student.
          In deference to this objection, the force of which could not be
          denied, the practice was discontinued.

               This letter was laid before the Council. In reply to
          it a copy of the resolutions passed in the following month
          was received. My reason for giving them here will be
          found in the first resolution, which contains a full ac
          knowledgment of the principle of religious equality.

            Copy of Resolutions passed by the Council on December 10, 1853.

               1st. That the Council cannot but regret that the late Dr.
          Peene should have accompanied his valuable legacy by a direc
          tion with regard to the function of choosing the books, which
          can, by any construction, be supposed to infringe that principle
          of religious equality to which the present Council and their pre
          decessors have invariably adhered, as well in the appointment of
          Professors,1 the admission of students, and the award of honours,
          as in the general administration of the affairs of the College.

               Considering, however, that the function in question is totally
          unconnected with the ordinary duties of the Professors, and
          might have been assigned by the testator to persons unconnected
          with the Institution, and that it is to be regarded as a trust
          under Dr. Peene's will, and not as a duty imposed by the
          authorities of the College ;

               Considering, also, that any Professor will have the power of
          declining the trust altogether if he should for any reason think
          proper so to do, without being required to make any profession

          of his religious opinions ;
               And, lastly, considering that the value and utility of the

          proposed annual addition to the library are not likely to be in
          any degree impaired by the terms of the bequest --

               The Council have determined to accept Dr. Peene's legacy,
          being of opinion that in so doing they do not violate that prin
          ciple of religious equality on which the College via* founded}

               2nd. That, as some difference of opinion has existed on this
          question, the Council, being anxious to prevent any misappre-

                                  1 The italics are mine.-- S. E. De M.
PliENE LEGACY.                                        189

henaion as to the grounds of their decision, have thought it          1853.
right to record their reasons in the foregoing resolution.         The prin-
                                                                   "P!e of .
     3rd. That the Secretary be directed to communicate the fore-  College.

going resolutions, together with a copy of the extract from Dr.
Peene's will, to the three Professors named in the will.

    It will be seen by this that the principle of religious

equality was still fully recognised twenty-six years after
the foundation of the College, as having been that ' on
which the College was founded,' and as having been ' in
variably adhered to by the present Council and their
predecessors, as well in the appointment of Professors,

the admission of students, and the award of honours, as

as in the general administration of the affairs of the

College.'

    I wish I could find, for the reason advanced for passing

by a principle so distinctly acknowledged, any other word
than that which my husband applied to it-- ' a shuffle.' The

determination to accept the books on the prescribed terms

confirmed his fears, and on hearing of it his first impulse

was to resign his chair. He was induced to remain by

the consideration that the classes were not numerous,

and that he wished to see the College in a more pros
Iperous state before quitting it altogether.
                                              did not, for

my part, endeavour to influence him in this matter.

Indeed, at this time my whole thoughts were filled most

painfully by the illness of our eldest child, whose danger

was not at first realised by her father. I think that when

he spoke to me of the condition of affairs at the College,
I did not strongly urge his leaving
it                                   for knew that his
              ;
                   it,
                            '
                 I

                                                   a
doing so would be a trial, and that he was then unpre

pared for the one already hanging over us. But, with

reference to the resolutions, he said, They have got in

the thin end of the wedge the next move will be a

stronger one.' And so proved.
     The end of this year was the beginning of long

period of sorrow and suffering to us. Our eldest dear child,
Alice, who had caught cold after a severe attack of
             190 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1853.     Imeasles, died before Christmas.    had feared the termi-
             Ination of the great weakness and delicacy which had
Death of     vainly tried to prevent. Her father di.d not reali.se the
eldest
daughter,

             degree of illness till the end was near, and the blow fell

             heavily upon him. He was not then so used to death and

             sorrow as we afterwards became, and his want of sight

             and natural hopefulness of disposition made him unaware

             of the degree of danger in this and in other cases. This

             hopefulness left him after repeated sorrows. He always

             dwelt on the belief that those whom God loves are the

             early taken, but after we lost Alice his cheerfulness

             Idiminished, and do not think he ever laughed so heartily,

             or was heard whistling and singing merry snatches of

             Isongs as he used to do when all our children were with

             us. cannot write of these events. A few references to

             them will be found in his letters.

    ism.          The next year passed with scarcely any incident
             worthy of recording. After our loss my husband re
   1855.     mained very much at home, seeing scarcely any one but his
*haI1ks'?P"  fellow- Professors in his daily visits to University College.
death
                  An application was made to him to examine and give
             certificates in the City of London School, but this he de
             clined on grounds connected with the methods and subjects
             of examination.

                 In July he gave a lecture to the Society of Arts on a

             kindred subject, namely, On the Relation of Logic and
             Mathematics to other Branches of Science. This lecture,
             which was rich in argument and illustration, was only
             reported in abstract in the Society's Journal. One of its
             strongest positions was the insufficiency of Mathematics

             as a mental discipline for inducing logical habits of
             thought, unless in conjunction with some amount of

             direct Logical teaching.

                 In the autumn of 1855 our dear old friend Mr.
             Sheepshanks died at Reading. For the last few years
DEATH OF RICHARD SHEEPSHANKS.                         191

we had seen him but seldom, for he came to London only          1855.

for the Royal Astronomical Society's meetings after the

work on the Standard Scale was completed. This work

had been very severe, and probably reduced his strength,

which was never great. His death was a blow to many

friends, to none more than to my husband, who went to
Reading to the funeral -- a painful duty, made less pain

ful by his habitual manner of looking at death. He

wrote afterwards to me (for I was with the children at

Eastbourne) ,--                I saw the body of my good old
     I returned this evening.

friend safely into a bricked vault, specially made for him and

his sister, in the cemetery a mile out of the town. There
                                                       saw
Iwere Airy, Johnson, Simms, myself, and some others.

Miss Sheepshanks for a few moments. . . . S. has, of course,

made her his sole heiress and executrix. She intends to give

all his books and instruments where they may be most useful
-- perhaps to the Astronomical Society. The house is a very
nice one, with a garden so full of rich coloured flowers as to

make me almost admire it, with greenhouses, which I did not go

into, and a little observatory.

Miss Ann Sheepshanks, who had lived with her

brother since the time he left Cambridge, lost with him

her great interest in life. She devoted all the energy of

a vigorous and self-sacrificing nature to the perpetuation

of his name and memory, and the honour due to his

unostentatious but most useful efforts to promote Astro

nomical knowledge. There was much self-denial as well

as exertion in her efforts to attain her end. She gave

10,000/. to the University of Cambridge for an Astro

nomical scholarship, to be called by his name. She pre

sented his instruments and books to the Astronomical

Society, being in return elected to an honorary fellowship,

and she collected materials for a memoir, which was

Idrawn up by Mr. De Morgan.              have before

    At this time the phenomena to which

slightly referred began to attract general notice, chiefly

under the form of table-turning ; and natural philosophers,
192 MEMOIK OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

to whose experience this and all its kindred manifestations
were so completely opposed, sought for explanation in the
credulity and inability to observe of the believers. Mr.
Faraday combated the influx of superstition in a lecture
On Mental Training, given in the spring of 1 854, at the

Royal Institution. In this lecture he affirmed a principle,

which Mr. De Morgan commented on two years after in a

review of the printed lecture in the Athenwum. Will
the time ever come when the reviewer's caution will be

needless ?

     The lecturer has laid down in the strongest and plainest

terms the principle of Physics, which was the bane of what is

known as the Philosophy of the Schoolmen. It occurs in a

lecture On Mental Training, delivered May 6, 1854, at the Royal
Institution. These are his own words :--

     ' The laws of nature as we understand them are the founda

tions of our knowledge of natural things. Before we proceed to

consider any questions involving physical principles we should

set  out with clear ideas of the  naturally possible    and impossible.'
     We stared when we read                             physical investiga
                                  this, -- 'set out in
tions with a clear idea of the naturally possible and impossible ' '

We thought the world had struggled forward to the knowledge

that a clear idea of this was the last acquisition of study and

reflection combined with observation, not the possession of our

intellect at starting. We thought that mature minds were

rather inclined to believe that a knowledge of the limits of

possibility and impossibility was only the mirage which constantly

recedes as we approach it. We remembered the Platonic idea, as

clear as the crystalline orbs it led to, that the planetary motions

must be circular, or compounded of circular motion, and that

aught else was impossible. We remembered with how clear an

idea of the impossibility of the earth's motion the first opponents

of Galileo started these maxims into the dispute. We doubt if in

any mediaeval writer the principle on which they acted has been

so broadly laid down as by our author in the phrases above

quoted. The schoolmen did indeed make laws of nature the

foundation of their knowledge, and clear ideas of possibility and

impossibility helped them in the structure. But they rather did
it than professed it. -- Athenaeum, March 1855.

     Mr. Faraday believed that a full explanation of the
SCIENCE AND SUPERSTITION.                          193

movement of tables might be found in the unconscious        1855.

action of the muscles of those present, and devised an

instrument which he believed adequate to detect it, and

to bring to the involuntary operators the conviction that

the phenomena, imagined spiritual, had been caused by

themselves. I remember hearing him at an evening

party at Sir John Herschel's explain the action of this
instrument, the indicator. A number of ladies and gentle

men listened with interest and attention ; the explanation

seemed satisfactory, and was received with the respect

due to the great fame of its author. Mr. De Morgan, who

was known to be one of those whose credulity required

Ia check, stood by with some amusement on his face.

almost wished him to tell some of those things which

he had seen which made him doubt the sufficiency of

the explanation. But he said it would be useless.  but it
    This occurred before the lecture was printed,

had, I think, been delivered.
       194    MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

                               SECTION VII.

                        CORRESPONDENCE 1846-55.

                               To Rev. Dr. Whewell.

                                          Camden Street, Oct. 21, 1846.

1846.  IMy dear Sir,-- First, am     very much obliged   I  by your   kind
                                    are imperative, and       cannot
       invitation, but my lectures                                    leave

       town in November.
       Next, as to Athenoeum police report, you have made worse
                      indeed you never were mistaken    in your life.1
              unless  the papers. The only wish        have for them
              as to
       guesses,                                                          to

          INow
       I Igabdpoeeeptinsetgahnrefoumitnlfidlmoliensaedptot,eisstreh,dtehayaontfdarweimtphaariygnortnegeeedettrwiomniutybhthleec.yoofpouireWmsthhaaoetfltlhttewahrtoe, yotpnhaeaipsreetcrimsodneiosd,rtiitanoinoncdnet
       Ienough to be two, and might better be so.
                                                       which, as I told you,
              am going to publish a work on Logic,
       will appear soon after the paper. This is       sufficient reason for
       not developing in the paper. Indeed, the        Society must know

       that fact, and take it into consideration in deciding on the
                        is of  course an advantage in new    things going
       Iprinting. There usual  channels in which scientific   matters are

       first through the            like the Transactions to have them.
       propagated, and so should    Society may think otherwise, par
       But, tola re perspecta, the                            speaking, on
                                                             subject will
       Iticularly if there is heavy matter, typographically

       hand already. Your suggestion about taking a
               of, but what                run           thickly in  syllogisms?
       think  are mostly full   subjects  of a   very  few. Some      of Butler's
       They                    of proof         very

       mipAlnitrnooeaomrtldhaoi)eglsliyyninfgon.rootmhtrehaiTlnPahgeesnycmnhlylsoaoyrpgCleltoiyescgtrmlhiosap--tnocicefIdteiagCre,mahxvaisalemlriotnpifscgloleewmosnoeeSritynehwllxooagbrmdiowsopmookluesrlsd-swoo(hfopsniecuLerhbohsgaotpii(fctsauetfeaaebdrcweeh
       1 The ' Athenaeum police report' was a humorous skit upon the

       discovery of the planet Neptune.
                CORRESPONDENCE, 1846-55.                        195

kt least of tbem) are more like ordinary sentences involving a              1846.

syllogism.

   IAs to subjective and objective (I shall say ideal and objective,

as subject-ive will not do for logic) see your difficulty, and must
consider whether I have not shown that I see it when the proof
sheet comes. I have a great fear of not using the word in the

sense of anybody else. The object itself, as far as we can think
of it, is the idea of an object. The first step I make is the exist
ence of my own mind ; the next, that of other minds. If every
thing in existence be a dream of my mind, a thing of which I
Ifhave ideal possibility, there are no objects.
                                                     you attempt to

argue me into belief of your existence and beat me (not argue
by beating me, which is the sort of argument by which Berkeley

has been answered before now), I may not be able to answer

you ; but all that is no more than might happen in my dream.

I might sleep, as it and dream that was arguing with some
                I                    A
body who proved to me most satisfactorily that was awake.is,it
                                                   ; is
But getting by the argument of analogy the existence of otherI
minds, then begin to know objects --other minds get the sameII
I
      I                                 source of ideas to more minds

         I
as get, from somewhere.

than one, or to all minds under the same circumstances, would

be what should call my definition of an external object,           ; I if,

unfortunately, an external object under the same circumstances did

not imply objects already. Call then a test of objects material
                                                         ;
or not, of no consequence. Hence the idea of external objects.
is                                                         is

By the idea merely mean that which                   in the mind.

should distinguish a horse in the mind from that which in the

mind about from whence a horse comes into the mind; idea of
mental state produced, and idea of producing external cause

idea of idea, and idea of object. When speak objectively, refer
    I                                                    I

           ?

          I
                                        ;
                                       I
to my idea of the object when ideally, to my idea of the idea.

But should not objects be divided into external and internal?

What am to call an idea, looked at as presenting me with the

idea of itself  talked of the idea of a horse spoke then of

my mind in the state of looking at itself picturing a horse;

another mind would have done.                        have put down
                                                         is it
     All this, believe, common enough.
            I                              if
                                                  I
                 is
                                 is
that you may see how far our language agrees. Now as to my

paper, pray observe that my notion, such must be inferred

of the case of the words subjective and objective, refers to the

case in which all they have to do with formal Logic stated.

And my paper wholly on formal Logic. The writers on this

                                     o  2
      196         MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1846  subject, so far as their confusion on this point entitles one to say

      tNtitBme'nhhhneuaeiteevunoytymyend,rwcs'ygmpishaoiwoevobevcmeaernoleekeelrl,,atefwouintcnnferhaditdenvienosecydtnwosaamakne'sayeoveouerefteobvnhntrejteooecwrtracyohdodtaleelmpkeAnaopictinnittotlaiyhiddsolcenocrLeBts,nooowx,tnfs'cgorpteaoirdecepdafiexastidcnckttitwfceciooaiiotvpdorline,otyethtnarna'e'lanlaipsydsdmowr,ilmocipeoktpaterilrweooynok,nsdpoAiine.t''onidrsgo;toleyhntnnwesaAioorracacsebtolnac.hjnetsoinsvcbnroietydgdiotrTvietfnehwiBnabgluoty'illhslteln.syyh.e,'
      existence ; necessary non-existence, or contingent, as the case

      I Imtcaaocrononraanriidymmntaiiscnanatbgllyi;sseoet,,.na'hn.nbtinnduWogtntshooTeebbnlhfsyny-aeeur.xssswiaaasesytyIeoidinnbansegjgcpeaueeclnltaytiitvhkc,hpeaoaeltryotrnbfetjtaehchisdcteelmtryrniedveoietetd,n,laayiysrrs,ueetoninittfcuhnhcaonaoetrrtirncfeirssotour'mancmcahsallarneydnoweobuabnhtjneeiniiacccibhlmtodesrebananaysalrsnisae;ilmcuonamanbnroliey,yt
      Inotion is the notion of animal.
                distinguish, then, denial       of  the  terms  from  denial  of  the

      copula.

           A is B ideally, objectively, or (say) x-itively.
           No ! for A has no x-itive existence.
           No ! for B has no x-itive existence.
           No ! for the x-itive existence of A           and    B  belongs to is not,

      not to is.

          Formal Logic usually is made only to treat of the copula. To

      I IowbtthitenoauecnsxlttdiirEositcnndetgonlylicinasefshopirmwmraaepncalldlit.leicdFer,eBnaneuasectndhdb,idenebloaoalstanl cgintkiaontnrgaodandsdutosocbewejrethtcihoititdeinevee,ateolxirrsmaadnnstehddnebiyroao.iblmu,jegTpschowottirvotfaefaon,srtrpwmeacdaosiirreseds

      wantI                  easy.
            it,
                is
               should now ask you to consider some phraseology.                 do not
                                                relations of term and term.      x and
           There are seven definite             consists equally well with   I

      call x                 definite, for  it                               y
      y                                                                        )

               1

                  2. )
                          y
      . *. Start with identical and contrary, complete co-exi.stence
           complete mutual exclusion containing all things            between them.
      or    (man being the universe) North Briton and                  Scotsman, or
      As

      Briton and alien.
CORRESPONDENCE, 1846-55.  197

       3, 4. Sub-identical and super-identical, complete content or  1846.
complete containing. Thus Londoner is a sub-identical of man,
man a super-identical of Londoner (man being itself a sub-
identical). The case in which the super-identical is the universe
 may give rise to the extreme super-identical and its extreme case
of extreme identity.

      5, 6. Sub-contrary and super-contrary. The first complete
exclusion of one term from the other, both terms not filling up

the universe as (man being the universe) Englishman and
Frenchman. The second contrary overlapping, or where every

thing in the universe is either one or the other, and some things

are both. As (terrestrial object being the universe) man and
irrational being, if madness and idiocy be included under irra

tional.

      7. Mixed (what ought to be the name ?), where eac h term
has part in common with the other part not in common, and
both terms do not fill up the universe. The usual form of asser
tion, as : -- Some animals are dark-coloured. I want the word
for mixed, and better ones for the others, if any. Mixed is :--
Both have part in, part out, and there are which are neither.
There is no hope of a word for all this. Some word formed
to contain the idea of common part must do, and it should be
Latin like the rest.

     I tried an experiment yesterday with my daughter of 8J years

old as to the ideas of necessity, and there was a dialogue as
follows:--

    IfQ. you let a stone go, what will happen '<

     A. It will fall, to be sure.

      Q. Always ?
     A. Always.
      Q. How do you know ?
     A. I'm sure of it.

      Q. How are you sure of it ? Would it be true at the North
Pole, where nobody has been ?

     A. Oh yes, people have been to the North Pole, else how
could they know about the people who live there, and their
kissing with their noses ?

      Q. That's only near the North Pole. Nobody has ever been
mi Use Pole.

      A. Well, but there's the same ground there and the same air-
 Hotter or colder can't make the air heavier so as to make it keep
       198 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1846.  up the stones. Besides, I've read in the Evenings at Home that

       Ithere is something in the ground which draws the stones.    am

       quite sure they would fall. Now, is there anything else you

       want to be a little more convinced of ?

       Q. How many do 7 and 3 make ?
       A. Why, 10, to be sure.

       Q. At the North Pole as well as here ?

       A. Yes, of course.

       Q. Which are you most sure of, that the pebbles fall to the

       Iground at the North Pole, or that 7 and 3 make 10 ?

            A. am quite as sure of both.

       Q. Can you imagine a pebble falling upwards ?
       A. No, it's impossible. Perhaps the birds might take them

       tip in their beaks, but even then they wouldn't go up of them

       selves. They would be held up.

       Q.  Well, but can't you think of their falling up ?   going  up     if

       A.  IOh yes, can fancy three thousand of them

       Iyon like, and talking to each other too, but it's an impossible

       thing, know.

       I IQ. Can you imagine 7 and 3 making 12 at the Pole ?

       A. (Decided hesitation.) No, don't think can. No, it

       can't be ; there aren't enough.

       Here her mother came into the room. As long as the ques

       tions were challenges from me it was all defiance and certainty,

       but the moment Mrs. De M. appeared she ran up to her and
       said, 'What do you think papa has been saying ? He says the

       stones at the North Pole don't fall to the ground. Now isn't it
       very likely they fall just as they do here and everywhere ? ' But

       Ishe did not mention the 7 and 3=12 question, nor appeal to her
       mother about it.  remain, dear sir,

                                        Yours very truly,
                                                            A. De Morgan.

                           To Rev. Dr. Whewell.

                                                    Camden Street, Camden Town,

                                                                                                   Oct. 26, 1846.

          IMr dear Sir,-- have intended for some days to be at you
       Ionce more in enunciation, on the remaining point of your letter.

       But have been hindered by the necessity of looking sharply at

       Ithe proofs of an account of Newton, which will appear shortly.

       In this matter am the avvocato del diavolo, as he is called, who

       is the ex-officio opponent at Rome of canonisation. There is
                       CORRESPONDENCE, 1840-55.                                199

only one matter in which the facts, in the most objective sense,                    1846.

come out differently with me from other people. The Biog.
Brit, says (copied by Brewster) that Whiston says that Newton
was so offended by being represented as an Arian, that he

therefore refused W. admission into the Royal Society. Refer
ence is made to the edition of W.'s memoirs of 1753, which

    bibliographers know to contain additions. This edition is scarce,

    but on consulting     find that the representation an absolute
            I
                I;

                          iIt,
                                                                 it

                                                         I is

                                                                            I
    falsification for W. gives the same reason as in the edition of

    1749, which has nothing to do with any ism at all, or arian either.

        Sir D. Brewster has had a lucky escape. It was by mere

    accident looked at the Biog. Brit., a work which never trust

    in the life of Newton. He gives the same account, with the

    same reference, without saying he has taken    from anywhere

    els*. Had not happened to have found his source, should

    have left him to clear himself by confessing copying without

    verification, or otherwise at his discretion. This failing of copy

    ing references without acknowledgment has cost me hundreds

    of hours uselessly employed.

        Now to enunciation. We must define. If carry a mes

    sage out of my mind into yours, and you receive it, and know
    that meant to send and moreover, did mean to send --
I                         if it,             I                                 it
      if I                                           I
                                    if,
    certainly enunciate,      the etymology be to give the meaning.

    But      logical enunciation in pure form be required, there

    must be subject, predicate, and copula (is or  is   not), all duly

announced.

      According to Aristotle there must be in enunciation either

    truth or falsehood. Thus prayer, he says,      not enunciation.
                                             If '
    say there truth or falsehood, may be either.
'j I         is is                                is
                                                    it, it is
                I
                     I                                     I

                                  ?                            I is

                             if

                             iIf I I
         Are we on a question of definition of words, or on one of

    separation of things If shut up my window, meaning to

    have yon believe am out, enunciate A. De Morgan not at

    home;' not verbally,      by enunciation   meant what call

    verbal enunciation. So            know you to be searching for, say

    oar hat, and point to the chair on which lies, do not say,

     Your hat on that chair,' but        II  convey, or mean to convey,
                                             were to chalk an X on the
    the message to your mind. If

    great gate at Trinity, meaning to charge the management

    with peculation, and others so understood      the Judge would
                          if

    leave to the jury to say whether both facts were proved,
         it

    my intention and others' reception.       they were satisfied on
       200          MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1846.  these points, he would instruct them that the X was a libel, and

       would leave them to find damages accordingly.

           There is no doubt that in law the enunciation of a libel is

       wholly independent of the symbols used. The rule of law is

       very distinct ; writing, signs, pictures, &c., are equally libels,
       when intention is proved ; and in the civil matter the law

       decides, not the jury, whether the matter is libellous.

           IThe message intended, and received as intended, constitute
       with me enunciation. If others object to the word,                        must
       Ichoose another word ; but this is the thing mean. Provided

       always that there is in reality subject, predicate, and copula.

       Whether message intended but not received is enunciation, that

       If Iis, whether the difference should not have been a distinctive
       term, is matter of convenience.           understood Arabic, to make

       jjwhat the French call  a fiere supposition, and                    thinking you did,

       wrote you L ,i ^         or whatever it might                       be (if more dots

       are wanted pray stick 'em in), and if you did not understand
                                                                           it
       Ifthere might well be a word to denote this imperfect message.                it,

                   were only to raise an image or single idea, not affirma
       tion of agreement or disagreement -- as,'I I
                        by                                                 were merely to call

                                                iIf
       your attention   uttering the single word book, apropos of
       Ifnothing, could not be said to enunciate.
                                                                           yon took as my
       Ifsaying, It my pleasure to say a word, viz. book,' you take
                    is

       an enunciation.  that were what meant, the enunciation
                                                 I

       is  perfect. But if meant nothing but to set you wondering
                        I
       what meant, there would be nothing going between us. This' is I
           I

       mere utterance would, suppose, be the Xoyos <rqfiavruuK of Aris

       totle, as distinguished from the a7roi£asTucos. What contend        I
       for is, that that which absolutely considered semantic may be

       apophantic by the understanding of the parties.
              do not see how A
       I                           is  'B        in any other way more apo

                                             is

       phantic than ^^~^-^^^-    which  is  no   Tehnisunciaetniounncitaotioynou,tobumt ef--or
       what you know may be    to another.
                                                                       is

       and to all who understand Mavor's short-hand. If prayer be

       not enunciation, as Aristotle says                              not, how does the other
       I

                       it
                              is

                                                          ?

                                                         it
                                                                   is
       party know       prayer         Does not the pray-er say -- pray
                                                                              I

       this?

              have got some further development of my Logic in definite

       syllogisms, derived from the classification in my last; with some

       curious entrance of a principle corresponding to that of like
CORRESPONDENCE, 1846-55.                                      201

signs give plus, unlike minus. Common a fortiori reasoning will                                  1840.
take its place in a class of distinct syllogisms.

                        I remain, dear sir,

                                                     Yours very truly,
                                                                A. De Morgan.

                         To Sir Rowland Hill.                                                    1848.

                                               Camden Street, Camden Town,

                                                                                   May 5, 1848.

    IMy dear Sir, -- am much obliged to you for the notice.
I believe you when you say there are difficulties, because you

 get over them. Still, to my untutored mind, it is wonderful the
 Post Office should imagine that anybody would write in a book

Iat 6d. a pound to save postage.

       hope that the end of it will be that anybody may write

Ianything, and have reason as follows : --
    IThere is an old book want ; for example, the first edition

of Wingate's Arithmetic, 1630. If one of my country friends

finds it, what will be in the inside of an old Arithmetic ? A
hundred to one, something like --

                            Ann Price, her booke,
                            God give her grace therein to looke,1

scrawled over the inside of the cover and the fly-leaf--that is,
over more than one page. Now it does not consist with the fit
ness of things that Ann Price's aspirations after Arithmetic in
the seventeenth century should prevent a professor of Mathematics
in the nineteenth from ascertaining the exact share of Wingate
in the invention of decimal fractions.

   You stop the circulation of old books. IHowever, as said,
if you say it can't be, I will believe you, provided the impossi

bility may be interpreted as temporary.
   But for the love of order, and the Constitution, and the other

things that were dusted on the 10th ult., don't compel all the
old-book people to stand up for equal rights and against class
privileges. You'll make Chartists of Sir H. Ellis, and Hallam,
Ac., Ac, to say nothing of,

                                                      Yours truly,
                                                                     A. De Morgan.

1 Ann Price's (probable) handwriting imitated.-- S. E. De M.
       202 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

       To Dean Peacock on his Marriage.

1847.                              I7 Camden Street, Oct. 21, 1847.

           Mr dear Sir, -- This morning found two cards for me at

       Ithe College, which informed me of your marriage, of which I had

       heard nothing. In fact, for anything knew, yon might have

       been as confirmed a Benedict as any Pope of that name. But

       Iowing to the practice which ladies have of not putting the name

       they leave as well as the one they take, had no guess who Mrs.

       Peacock had been ; and the theory of probabilities does nothing

       in the way of inferring the probable name which a bride quits,

       Ihaving given that which she takes. So resolved on writing

       hearty congratulations and warm good wishes on the existing

       d priori (or if you will have it that priors are out of question by

       their vows, say a diaconiori) presumption that you were well able
       to know what was good for yourself. But it so happened that

       an Ely man saw the cards in my hand, and, as the phrase

       Igoes, told me all about it ; and was enabled to conclude from
       Iother evidence that might just keep my good wishes, and put
       good prophecies in their place. Take them both, however. As

       to this practice of putting only one value of the variable on
       IIwedding cards, object to it altogether ; in fact, I denounce it,
       and will prove my objection good.  suppose no one will deny

       that the cards represent the instant of the ceremony at which

       the contract becomes indissoluble ; for before that moment the

       announcement would be presumptuous, and to suppose that any

       time elapses after it would be to suppose that a man takes that

       AMtime to consider whether he will acknowledge his marriage,

       which is absurd. This being granted, let A B represent the
       duration of the lady's life, and let M be that moment of the
       JI                                 I
                                          B

       ceremony at which the contract becomes indissoluble. Let the
       lady's name during A M be Solwyn, and during M B Peacock ;

       then, because by common courtesy a lady is not a discontinuous

       fraction, it follows that what is true up to the limit is true at
       the limit, therefore at the moment M her name is Selwyn. But

       for a similar reason her name at the same moment is also

       Peacock ; therefore at the instant M she has both names, whence

       both ought to appear on the wedding cards. Q.E D.

           I have your books on arithmetic in safety and memory, and
       Iam only waiting to return them till have put a copy of my
CORRESPONDENCE, 1846-55.                                  203

Logic into the parcel, which I hope to do in about a fortnight.                      1847.
As matters are, I feel no compunction at having kept them so                         1848.
long. I beg to offer my best compliments to Mrs. Peacock, and

my apologies for introducing myself by inserting her name into
a demonstration. But first principles must be carried to their

full extent ; and I remain, my dear sir,

                                            Yours most sincerely,
                                                                      A. De Morgan.

To T. K. Hervey, Esq.

....Dear Hervet, --                                             Dec. 1848.

                     A man named Lacroix, a French

bibliomaniac, has been over here. He came over with strong

prevention against Libri, but examined his case here, and is gone

itback very angry with his accusers. He is preparing a pamphlet

    $rm cfwf in defence of Libri, of which the latter promises me

an early copy, or proofs if he can get them. So far good. But
if you could light on any information about Lacroix (nicknamed

Jacob Bibliophile in his own country), or any one of his biblio
graphical publications, so much the better ; for this Lacroix

must be looked after. Panizzi and Libri unite in declaring that
of upwards of 1,700 manuscripts, sold by Libri to Lord Ash-
burnham some years ago, Lacroix named them all, with a few

exceptions, and described where they originally came from,
merely from his knowledge of existing manuscripts and their

localities, thus negativing from his own personal knowledge the
charge of theft as to very nearly the whole lot. This story is

so extraordinary that, if true, as I cannot doubt it must be in

the main, this same Lacroix should be brought forward in Eng

Iland and his works noticed. I can believe such a story, for

have heard such things well attested of people who pass their
Uvea in studying the physics of books and MSS.

                     Yours truly,
                                 A. De Morgan.

To T. K. Hervey, Esq.

                                                          Dec. 1848.

' And serve it with Hi-rvey's s»uce.'
                                                Jerda.n.

     Dear Hervit, -- That unconquerable mania which you have
for thinking your puns as good as mine (yon say better, but I
don't believe you think that -- the most singular fancies are
       204 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1848.  Isometimes carried further than they go, out of mere bravado)
1849.  is a study for the psychologist.  shall forward a statement to
       Sir W. Hamilton.

       IPray when within two years have yon mentioned Lacroix ?

       However, since you know him, which didn't, yon now know

       that he has a memory.

           And what makes you say that I never read any papers but

       those of a mathematician ? Mathematica ! quoth he-- are you a

       mathematician ? and did I not read all the we-shonld-gladly-

       forget-them-if-you-wonld-let-us articles, which procured you the

       Imemorable rebuke (which you will never get over) with which
          have headed this letter ?
           IAnd as to preventions, was not talking of a Frenchman ?

       Iand if he had described himself, would he not have used the

       word ? And did not get the word from Panizzi, and was I not

       assured of an Italian borrowing a Frenchman's phrase --who

       deniges of it ?                   Yours truly,
                                                         A. De Morgan.

                         To Capt. Smyth.

                                                                  7 Camden Street, Dec. 19, 1848.

          IMy dear Captain Smyth, -- Pray what is the matter with

       yon ? Pray write and say you are quite well ; but mind,
       detest lying of all things, so be sure you speak the truth.

          I took a solitary glass of porter yesterday to your recovery,
       Ifor did not choose to admit any of the profane dogs about me

       to the ordinance, which is quite above their appreciation.

           Airy gave us a very good telegraph lecture. I mean on

       telegraph, not by telegraph. But time may come when we
       shall sit down in our own room and hear him lecture from

       Greenwich.1                               With kind regards to
                                                       A. De Morgan.
           ISeriously, let me know how you are.

       all, am yours truly,

                         To Sir John Herschel.

                                                                                    March 18, 1849.

           My dear Sir John, -- Sir H. N. is as correct as his authori

       ties. Censorinus, who gives the most distinct account, says that

           1 I do not suppose the writer had the smallest conception of the
       wonderful literalness with which his prediction would be fulfilled. It

       must be remembered that the telephone was not even dreamed of
       thirty-three years ago. -- S. E. De M.
              CORRESPONDENCE, 1846-^55.                    205

there wu leap-year every fourth year, bat does not say from            1849.

whence the years were reckoned.
     We have no authority for saying which particular years

were leap-years-- either in the pre-Augastan piece of the Julian

Calendar, or at the start made after the Augustan reformation.

    Nevertheless, I think a little train of reasoning will bring us

to the following theorem.

The Julian Calendar starts with what, by reckoning back, we

should call January 1 of the year --45, on the supposition that 0

does not exist, but that we pass from +1 to --1 consecutively,

on the supposition that every fourth year is leap-year.

There is much reason to suppose that Ctesar began his year

on January 1 because there was a now moon on this day. Other

wise it is likely he would have commenced it on the shortest day

preceding. He is thought to have gratified the feelings of the

Romans by making his start on a new moon day, and Macrobius,
in the words ' Annum civilem Caesar habit is ad unam dimensi-

onibus constitntum, edicto palam proposito publicavit,' is held
to have alluded to this. Now the fact is that January 1, --45,

back-reckoned as before noted, is found to have been a day

of new moon. Dr. Smith's       Dictionary   of Greek     and Roman
Antiquities (a book you ought              there is a    good article
                               to have--

on the Calendar)      says it was at  6h. 16m. p.m. My rough
calculation gives  lOh. 55m., which
                                      I take to be within a quarter

of an hour.

     Now, as our tables reckon back (old style) upon the suppo

sition of uninterrupted leap-year every four years, I take it that,

as to the interval, we may depend upon knowing the exact

number of days that have elapsed.

But how are we to explain the dropping into leap-year

at +4?
       Diagram I. shows us --

                J. Julian leap-year.

              P. Priests' mistaken leap-years.

              A. Augustan leap-year after the suspension.

At the end of the year 4, the priests' leap-years and one

Augustan make 13, just what there ought to have been by our
back-reckoning. If, then, +4 was Augustan leap-year, we are

all right. I assume that the first year of the reckoning was cer

tainly not a corrected year. Accordingly the first priests' leap-

year waa --42 J., showing the Julian intention was never carried

into effect.
       206 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1849.  Diagram II. shows how, according to the well-known Roman

       mode of counting, the edict of Augustus in --8, there shall be no

       Ifleap-year for twelve years, would be accounted to make +4 leap-
       year.    a man had been sentenced on Monday evening to six

       days' imprisonment, he would have been let out on Saturday

       morning. This seems to me to explain how we may reckon

       intervals from our January 1 --45, but from thence to +4 inter

       vals must be corrected, though not after. The dates --45 and

       -- 8 are well fixed by the consuls being named.

       The general impression is that the first of Caesar's years,
       -- 45, itself was his bissextile. This seems to me absurd.

       Caesar did not care about equinoxes. All he wanted was to

       keep an average of 365^, and correcting before the error had

       accrued would surely never have struck him or Sosigenes.

       Moreover, the preceding theory accounts for 4n, and shows

       how the new moon may be made to fall where we know it did.

                                    Yours truly,
                                                        A. Oe Morgan.

       Dear Heald, --  ....To the Rev. Wm. Heald.
                       Talking of curious powers, tell me
       what you think of the following story. It quite beats me.
       I have seen a good deal of mesmerism, and have tried it my
                for the removal of ailments which required much
       self on

       medicine, but which mesmerism met without medicine from the

       Itime it was employed. Of the curative powers of this agent
       have no more doubt than one has of things which he has con

       stantly seen for years. But this is not the point. I had fre

       quently heard of the thing they call clairvoyance, and had been

       assured of the occurrence of it in my own house, but always
       Iconsidered it as a thing of which had no evidence direct or
       Ipersonal, and which could not admit till such evidence came.
          IOne evening dined
       I--a house in which my
                        at a house about a         mile from my   own
                       wife had never been         at that time.   left

       it at half-past ten, and was in my own house at a quarter to
       eleven. At my entrance my wife said to me, ' We have been after
       you,' and told me that a little girl whom she mesmerised for

       epileptic fits (and who left her cured), and of whose clairvoyance

       she had told me other instances, had been desired in the mes

       meric state to follow me to  Street, to          's house. The

       thing took place at a few minutes after ten.     On hearing the
       name of the street the girl's mother said, --
                    CORRESPONDENCE, 1846-55.                                                      207

        ' She will never find her way there. She has never been so                                            1849.

        far away from Camden Town.'
        The girl in a moment got there. ' Knock at the door,' said
        'Imy wife.  cannot,' said the girl ; ' we must go in at the gate.'

        (The house, a most unusual thing in London, stands in a garden ;

        this my wife knew nothing of.) Having made the girl go in and
        knock at the door, or simulate or whatever the people do, the
                                                it,

                                                          !
        girl said she heard voices upstairs, and being told to go up,

        exclaimed, What comical house there are three doors,' de
          is is
        scribing them thus.1 (This was true, and not usual in any
        but large houses.) On being told to go into the room from'
        whence voices came, she said, Now see Mr. De Morgan, but'
                                                '            is
                               a                                       is is is
                                        is            I
                                                                                           '
        he has a nice coat on, and not the long coat he wears here;

        and he talkiug to an old gentleman, and there another old

        gentleman, and there are ladies.' This was a true description

        of the party, except that the other gentleman was not old. And

        now,' she said, there a lady come to them, and beginning

        to talk to Mr. Dc Morgan and the old gentleman, and Mr. De

        Morgan pointing at you and the old gentleman                                              looking at

        me.' About the time indicated happened to be talking with
                                                I

        my host on the subject of mesmerism, and having mentioned
        what my wife was doing, or said she was doing, with the little

        girl, be aaid, Oh, my wife must hear this,' and called her,
                    '
                                                                                               ;
and she came up and joined us in the manner described. The

girl then proceeded to describe the room stated that there

        were two pianos in it. There was one, and an ornamental side

board not much unlike a pianoforte to the daughter of a poor
charwoman. That there were two kinds of curtains, white and

        red, and curiously looped up (all true to the letter), and that
        there were wine and water and biscuits on the table. Now my

wife, knowing that we had dined at half-past six, and thinking

it          impossible that anything but coffee could be on the table, said,

      1 * Yon must mean coffee.' The girl persisted, Wine, water, and
        >,i*rnits.' My wife, still persuaded that must be coffee, tried
       A                                                     it

                                                                     '

ia every way to lead her witness, and make her say coffee. But
till the girl persisted, wine, water, and biscuits,' which was
                    it
                                             '
literally true, not being what people talk of under the name

of a glass of wine and a biscuit, which means sandwiches, cake,

Ac., but strictly wine, water, and biscuits.

          little diagram  is  given of these doors (she counted three, but

indicated more) in the letter. -- S. E. De M.
            208    MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1849.            Now all this taking place at twenty minutes after ten, was

            Itold to me at a quarter to eleven. When heard that I was to
            Ihave such an account given, only said, ' Tell me all of and

            will not say one word and assure you that during the narration
               took the most especial care not to utter one syllable. For
       I                    I                                     I
           I                         ;                                      it,
                                        '                                    I
                                 I
                                       it I
                                               I it
            instance, when the wine and water and biscuits came up, my

            wife, perfectly satisfied that must have been coffee, told me how

            the girl persisted, and enlarged on as a failure, giving parallel
            instances of cases in which the clairvoyants had been right in all

            things bat one. All this heard without any interruption. Now

            that the things happened to me as have described at twenty

            minutes after ten, and were described to me as above at a

            quarter to eleven, could make oath. The curtains ascertainedis I
            next day, for had not noticed them. When my wife came to

            see the room, she instantly recognised a door, which she had

            forgotten in her narration.
            All this no secret. You may tell whom you like, and give
                                                           Will the never-failing
            my name. What do you make of
                                         it

                                             ?

                                                it

                                                        ?
            doctrine of coincidence explain
                   find that there are people who think that the house in the

            garden, the number of doors on the landing, the two gentlemen

            beside myself, and ladies, the red and white curtains, the
            singularity of the loops, the two so-called pianos, the lady joining

            myself and one old gentleman apart from the rest, the wine, water,

            and biscuits, the truth of the whole and the absence of any

            thing false, are all things that may reasonably enough arise

            by coincidence, when the daughter of a poor charwoman

            (twelve years old1) undertakes to tell a lady all about where
            her husband     dining, in
                                         house where neither has ever
            I
            been.
               is
                                 is
                                                               a

                                                                                                                                                           ;
                     have seen other things since, and heard many more but
            this my chief personal knowledge of the subject.

                                               Yours very sincerely,

                                                                  A. De Morgan.8

                   She was turned eleven -- in her twelfth year.
            2 1I

                                I

                                                                  it
                                                                              is

                                                                                                                                   ,

                                                                           I

                                                                                                  it
                   heard all about the house and furniture, &c. before the girl
            told me what was going on. Mr. De Morgan has represented
                                                                                                                                                              to

            Mr. Heald as occurring after, and              quite possible that told
            him in this order. But never heard of this letter till after his death.
            -- S. E. De M.
CORRESPONDENCE, 1846-55.  209

                           To Sir John Herschel.                                       1850.

                                                41 Chalcot Villas, March 26, 1850.

     Mt dear Sir John, -- I never heard the polar axis approxima-

tion. Pray throw it out in type, for it is quite a funny thing
that we beat the French after all. And the polar axis is the
only sensible diameter the earth has got. He keeps snug and
quiet, and lets all the others spin about him. I think a dialogue
might be written between the polar axis and an equatorial
diameter -- quiescence against restlessness.

    And so Logical systems are bothersome. I have got sixty-

four more syllogisms symbolised, in which terms take quantity
fn<m other. As --

                 For every Z there is an X, which is not Y.
                 Some Y's are Z's.

            Required the inference.

            Symbol (·(().

                  Inference (. ( .
                Some X's are not Z's.

These are really hard. To give an instance.

     ' To say nothing of those who succeeded by effort, there were
some who owed all to fortune, for they gained the end without
any attempt whatever, if indeed it be not more correct to say
that the end gained them. But for every one who was successful
with or without effort, at least one could be pointed out who
began, but abandoned the trial before the result was declared.
And yet so strangely is desert rewarded in this world, there was
not one of these faint-hearted men but was as fortunate as any
of those who used their best endeavours.'

    I will answer for it that if this were presented to any writer

on logic without warning, he would pass it over as not self-
contradictory at least. But for all that, it contains the same
error as the following : -- ' All men are animals, and some arc

not."
                                                             Yours very truly,
                                                                        A. De MOKtUN.

                          To the Rev. Dr. Whetcell.

                                                     7 Camden Street, May 25, 1850.

    Mt dkar Sir, -- I am much obliged to you for the continuation

of the chain of events. I see you are propagating an undulation

                                                 P
       210     MEMOIR OF AUCUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1850.  Ithrough the College --a very elastic medium.       hope the matter

       will not lead to a gown and town dispute -- a nominalist and

       realist discussion ; the gown being nominalist, or dealing in

       words, while the town is realist, or, as the French say, proceeds
       I Ipar voie du fait.
                          mean to approfound the matter when get
       I Ian evening clear, as far as can.
                                            am loth to believe the text
       Iof Aristotle to be unimportant anywhere.
                                                           suspect that he
       shares the fate of Euclid in modem times --to wit, that every

       body believed him to be so near perfection as to be willing to
       give him the finishing touch --to bring him quite up to it.

       Ptolemy has escaped this fate ; but then Ptolemy, the real
       original, was comparatively little read --his explainers traded on

       their own bottoms. Compare the number of editions of Ptolemy

       I Iwith those of Euclid and Aristotle.
               am sorry   you are all against the Royal    Commission.    --
       think   that such  a Commission as would certainly   be appointed
       properly supported by the Universities -- would much tend to

       open the public eye to what the Universities really do. So very

       little is known about them that something of the kind is much
       wanted. If it had been a Parliamentary Commission, it would
       have been another thing. Yon might have said ' -- .
                                                            .1 We

       do our work better than you do yours, at any rate.'
            Listen to my last brand-new definition of metaphysics : --

       ' The science to which ignorance goes to learn its knowledge,

       and knowledge to learn its ignorance. On which all men agree
       that it is the key, but no two upon how it is to be put into the

       lock.'

                                            Yours very truly,
                                                      A. De Morgan.

           1 Fill up with the rptas TtTpaypapparav, which it would not be

       canonical to write.

                                To T. K. Hervey, Esq.

                                                                          July 3, 1850.

          Dear Hervey, --If you read again the articles2 which have

       appeared in the Athenaeum, you will see that it is not merely that
       as long as no proof is offered the presumptions are in favour of
       M. Libri, but that he, M. Libri, has actually overturned by
       documentary evidence -- which you, speaking editorially, saw--
       every specific accusation mentioned as capable of being brought

           3 The writer's own articles in defence of M. Libri. --S. E. De M.
CORRESPONDENCE, 1840-55.  211

against him. As far as I understand the matter-- I mean the                  1850.

recent matter -- it is this. M. Libri not appearing is declared

guilty, par contumace. No evidence is offered in such a case;
an indictment only, making allegations, is enough. He can still

return atnl statid hig trial, if he should be mad enough to trust

himself in a country in which his witnesses would be prevented
from appearing by intimidation.

     This is the reason why you saw no evidence in the Gazette
det Tribunanx --because none was offered, or could be. All this

you will find on inquiring into the French law; and you will

find that the trial and sentence par contumace are provisional. I
believe the appeal would be the real trial if he went to France.
I have never communicated with you on this matter (though I

confess 1 rather longed to do so), because I did not feel at liberty
to try to make use of the Athen&um in a matter in which I felt

personally interested, when I had, for reasons discussod between

us, felt obliged to withdraw from general contribution. This
would have been making a convenience of you, as /should have

thought, even if yon did not.
    You will remember that I was neither friend nor acquaintance

Iof Libri, but strongly prepossessed against him, when, as was
Igoing to treat the subject in the Athentrnm, demanded of Panizzi

the proof-sheets of his forthcoming defence against the allegations

of M. Boucly's report, and access, which I got, to the original

documents on which he founded his refutation. Being fully

satisfied as to his innocence, I cultivated his acquaintance ; and

since that time much collateral evidence has reached me, not only
as to his innocence, but as to his being in truth a high-minded
and earnest employer of first-rate talents and learning in first-

rate pursuits -- far above what the time-serving French savans1
can imagine or appreciate. As being now proud to call myself

a personal friend of his, I am hardly so well qualified to treat
his case in a public journal as I was when my only knowledge of

him (as to his character) referred to his means of meeting the
allegations made against him.

    If he should entertain the idea of demanding his trial in

/ IFrance, trill do all can to hinder such a piece of insanity.
     The idea that there has been discussion of evidence in this

proceeding and conviction par contumace is very common, I find.
I have no doubt that M. Libri will take some public steps to

1 1 mean those of them (a majority, not all) who are time-serving.

                                                                       i .-
       212 MEMOIK OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1850.  inform the English public how the matter stands. All this is

       written without communication with him.

           You will, of course, take care to be well informed as to the

       nature of the above proceeding. That being the case, I think

       Ifyou will probably find that the matter stands, to any reasonable
       mind, just where it did.  you ' state the position in which
       the case stands,' I think it most likely that you will do nothing
       which any friend of M. Libri can regret.

           On casting my eye over your note, I marked the words, which

       I II missed at first, ' That proof has been given in a court of law ;

       on what amount of valid evidence cannot say.' Now say that

       you will be able to ascertain that there has been neither proof
       nor evidence -- only indictment -- allegation and judgment by
       Idefault of appearance. Of course, a tender of evidence is implied

       in the indictment, and, for aught know, in the recital.

                                              Yours truly,
                                                    A. De Morgan.

               To the Rev. Dr. Whewell.

                                                         July 12, 1850.
       My dear Sir, -- I have got my paper on logic out of hand,
       and have begged the Pitt Press to retain one of my copies for

       Iyou, and to send it to you ; which if they neglect, shall be much

       obliged by your reclaiming, as the French say.

           I have to-day got Sir W. Hamilton's system for the first time

       in a full and acknowledged form. His pupil, Spencer Baynes,

       has published the essay on it which got the prize in 1846 ; the

       very essay, the requisites for which, sent to me, made the founda
                                                It
       tion of Sir W. H.'s charge of theft.      I  has  appendices and
       a note by the arch-syllogist himself.        and  Boole come in,

       without being named, for a lecture against meddling with logic

       by help of mathematics. Pray get this work and read it care

       fully.

            My next thoughts about the subject will be on the relation
       between the laws of enunciation and the laws of thought, and
       particularly with reference to certain invasions of each other's

       Iprovince which I imagine to exist.

               shall return to an objection of yours to my assertion that

                                 is                      but have all
                                                     a

                                                I it,

                                                          I
       prayer enunciates. (You may have forgotten

       my logic correspondence together, and have been looking over

       it.) You say that under such an extension man who shuts up
       his window enunciates that he not at home.
                                                            dispute your
CORRESPONDENCE, 1846-55.                                     213

example as to matter, though not as to form, if you choose a                 1850.

better one. Closed windows may denote death or absence, &c.

But change it thus. A man who ties a white glove on his knocker
enunciates that a child is born in the house. I believe there is
no ambiguity of meaning here. I hold that he does enunciate.
IHowever, this is all for consideration.
                                          remain, dear sir,

Yours truly,

                                          A. Dr Morgan.

       ....To Sir John Herschel.          Oct. 15, 1850.

Dear Sir John, --
I always advance the following as the infinitely small quan
tity which is the most puzzling of all. All others are mental

creations, but this one seems different.

     Let it be granted that a target which must be hit can be con

ceived. It may be the whole enceinte of the room, ceiling, floor,

walls, &c.

     Let it granted that the fixing of an arrow with a mathemati

cal point can be distinctly conceived. I don't ask for workman

ship.

     Let A be a point in the target. Since some point must be hit,
and all are equally likely, there is some chance of hitting A -- that

is, it is not impossible to hit A, which is synonymous.

But the chance of hitting a given point is certainly less than

any that can be assigned.
     Therefore there does exist in the mind an idea of a quan

tity which, not being nothing, is less than any that can be

assigned.

     In geometry we do not meet the same difficulty, because we

learn (how correctly I give no opinion on) to know the point, line,

surface, and solids as different species of magnitude, but belief
cannot be subdivided into different species. Is not an expecta
tion of hitting A homogeneous with that of hitting some point

within a given area ?
     I do not know whether you have returned. I hope all your

clan are well, and you yourself not disposed to give any hints

about your scientific life being terminated, as you did a while ago.
                                                          Yours very truly,

                                                      A. Di Moroan.

     From my examination room, where I shall sit two hours and
a half more, without anything to do except just what I pie
       214        MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1850.  Iso don't say write in a hurry. University College, London,

       October 5, 9h. 30m. am. ± the error of my watch, 1850, the last
       year of the first half of the nineteenth century, let who will call
       it the first year of the second half.

                  To Rev. W. Heald.

1851.                                                      7 Camden Street, Aug. 18, 1851.

           Dear Heald, -- It has become quite the regular thing for the

       depth of vacation to remind me--not of you, for anything that
       carries my thoughts back to Cambridge does that, --but of in

       Iquiring how you are getting on, of which please write speedy word,

       according to custom, once a year. For myself have nothing

       Iparticular to report. My wife and seven children are all at

       Broadstairs -- as they were when last wrote --so that the in
       Iformation is that they really came back in the interval.
                                                                  pre

       sume you really have not come to town to see the Exhibition,

       Isupposing that you would surely have let me know. Are you

       not coming ? Whether with my short sight should know you

       Iagain after a quarter of a century, plus a quarter of a year, is
       a problem  should very much like to solve. But you seem

       determined not to furnish the data.

          IIt seems to me that must have written to you just before

       the Pope made his onslaught, which has occupied people ever
       Isince.  remember, soon after the Catholic Emancipation Bill

       was carried, reminding a friend of mine, a Catholic barrister,
       that that Bill was an experiment --a very proper experiment --

       one it was disgraceful not to have tried before ; but still an

       experiment, in trial of whether it really was practically possible

       that people with any foreign allegiance, call it spiritual or any

       thing else, could permanently exercise the rights of citizenship

       here. The occasion was his speaking very seriously and earnestly

       of it being a matter of discussion among the Roman Catholic body
       whether they had not in right of the E. Bill a right to proceed

       in Chancery against the Colleges at Oxford and Cambridge, which

       were founded on condition of praying for the souls of the

       founders, to make them either so pray or give place to those who

       would. It gave me at the time (the man being neither a san
       guine man nor a fool) a fixed idea that from the very time of the
       Emancipation Bill passing there was a settled purpose of legal

       Iinvasion. And have never since faltered in the opinion that,

       be it settled how it might, the time would come when, on poli

       tical grounds, the question would be reopened ; and I prophesy it
               COURESPONDENCE, 1840-65.                                              215

now within a few years -- that               is

                                                iIs,

                                                         a
                                                                        a
                                             foretell discussion whether                      1851.

the mere circumstance of owning foreign power in any sense

and manner whatever or not to be an absolute disqualifica
I
           is

                                  is
tion from even voting for a member of Parliament.

          have just heard from Arthur Neate, who with a wife and two

children       doing near Alvescot what you are doing at Leeds,

saving that his two parishes put together would not soul tenth
                                                                              is
part of the bodies in your one. His father and mother are still both
                                                                                 Ia
alive, though both very old and failing. Of other people know

nothing, mean of your and my contemporaries. It long since
III
           I                                 met Farish the other day, old and deaf.

                                          1

                            I
have seen any one.

am not sure do not remember his father looking younger.

   dare say you, like myself, look not very old of your age, for wo
U.th looked older than we were at Cambridge, so that you have
                                                     P
a provincial synod, you will hardly look ancient enough to beI
one of the patres cotnerijiti. But you have not a Bishop, am
                                                              I

                                                                      if
                                                                           II
afraid, who will bring your part of the world abreast of H. Exon.

Peace be with him, was going to say, but know she won't.
               a
Resolve mo this. If our old friend                                         were alive, would
                     I it I
he be Puseyite or not The only one Cambridge man that ever'f
annoyed by taking for granted that he was not Puseyite when
he really was strong one, was man of whom could tell the
                                             a
                                                 is
following story, but won't (that to say, you are not to repeat
it, for might get round).B                                                 a
   I
         knew him at Cambridge when he was great friend of
          whom you perhaps have met at Neate's. A few days after, it

he was ordained he came to see me, and being fresh off the anvil

he could not but talk little theology. So as he got over the
                    a

ground he came at last to the following sentence, which brought
him up all standing, as they say at sea -- you are to imagine a
                                                             having stared at --
sudden start of recollection at the    is                                     ;f
                                                                                    :
                                                :

                                                         *,

                                                       aI
But you see those Catholics made sacrament of baptism
f'
          Oh, by-the-bye, so do we.' Fact, upon my honour no
    I ,.
exaggeration. But he                         now with the Bishop of Exeter on the

point.                                                                        I
        wish you would do this run your eye over any part of those

of St. Paul's Epistles which begin with IIovXo?-- the Greek, mean
-- and without paying any attention to the meaning. Then do
the same with the Epistle to the Hebrews, and try to balance in
your own mind the question whether the latter does not deal in

longer words than the former. It has always run in my head
       216 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MOllGAN.

1851.  that a little expenditure of money would settle questions of

       Iauthorship in this way. The best mode of explaining what
       Iwould try will be to put down the results I should expect as if

       had tried them.

           Count a large number of words in Herodotus --say all the
       first book --and count all the letters ; divide the second numbers
       by the first, giving the average number of letters to a word in

       that book.
       IDo the same with the second book.
                                           should expect a very
       close approximation. If Book I. gave 5-624 letters per word, it
       would not surprise me if Book II. gave 5'619. I judge by other

       things.

          IBut should not wonder if the same result applied to two

       books of Thucydides gave, say 5-713 and 5'728. That is to say,

       I should expect the slight differences between one writer and

       another to be well maintained against each other, and very well

       agreeing with themselves. If this fact were established there, if

       St. Paul's Epistles which begin with IIovXos gave 5'428 and the

       Hebrews gave 5'516, for instance, I should feel quite sure that the

       Greek of the Hebrews (passing no verdict on whether Paul wrote

       in Hebrew and another translated) was not from the pen of
       Paul.

          If scholars knew the law of averages as well as mathema

       ticians, it would be easy to raise a few hundred pounds to try
       Ithis experiment on a grand scale.
                                           would have Greek, Latin,
       Iand English tried, and should expect to find that one man

       writing on two different subjects agrees more nearly with himself

       than two different men writing on the same subject. Some of

       Ithese days spurious writings will be detected by this test. Mind,

         told you so. With kind regards to all your family, I remain,

       dear Heald,

                    Yours sincerely,
                                    A. De Morgan.

1852.                            To Sir John Herschel.

                                                           7 Camden Street, Aug. 29, 1852.

           ^Y dear Sir John, -- . . . Induction seems to lead to the
       conclusion that an astronomer who is Master of the Mint gets
       some odd mode of chronology. The first cut a great piece off
       the beginning, the second will cut a great piece off the end, and

       Idoom us all to be squabashed in 1865. The next, suppose,

       will cut a great piece out of the middle, which will be the most
              COKRKSPONDENCE, 1840-55.               217

singular job of the three. What if he should say that the 8th,                          18o2.

I9th, and 10th centuries never existed 5* wish they hadn't.

When De Gasparis gets his next planet, he and Hind will be

six of one and half a dozen of the other. Do you mean to say that

just as we have got the place snug, drained, lighted, and electro-

wired and railed, that as soon as we shall just have learnt to have

an idea of behaving to each other like people whose posterity

may in time be Christians, we shall have to become fossils, and

megatheriums, and such like, for smarter chaps than ourselves

to write books upon ? I will never believe it till I see and
              is
                   is

                        it
                              is

                                                                                   it,
then only half. Why,        only just four hundred years since
printing was invented. A book, with ordinary care, will last a
thousand years. It astonishing what good condition those of

1480 are in, even after a course of bookstalls. Surely the

nature of things to live their lives out. . . .

                                       Yours truly,

                                                 A. De Morgan.

                      To Dean Peacock.

                      .            Camden Street, Aug. 30, 1852.
                                 know about Young personally is,
                          I

                               I7
Mt dear Sir, -- . . All

that one evening in 1828, when first pushed my nose into the

scientific world, was presented to Young, Davies Gilbert, and
              I

Wollaston.

Wollaston said, when        was introduced as Professor of
                          I

                                ?'

                                 I
Mathematics in the University of London, Are they to have'

a Professor of Mathematics             told him they had one, and

that was he. Nothing more passed. Young lifted his eye
I

glass, and made his bow serve the double purpose of ocknow.

lrdging the introduction, and bringing his eyes to the lenses.

He made me certain that he saw me, and impressed me with an

idea from his manner that he was fine. Perhaps he was only shy
-- shyness takes every other form to avoid its own.

Davies Gilbert was the only one of the three who had the

manners of a man of the world.         believe never saw the two
                            is          I
first again.                                 I
                                a
                                                I
I  never knew till many years afterwards that was wellI

acquainted with some members of Young's family. His brother,

Robert Young, was a Quaker, who married, as was told when

a boy, a lady, who was not Quakeress, and was disowned

by the sect. This lady was a most intimate friend of my
mother, and Robert Young one of the earliest persons can
                                                     I
       218           MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1852.  remember. He was a banker, and something else, I think, at

       ITaunton ; he afterwards went to Bristol, and was in some

       business. When was sent to school near Bristol in 1820, 1 was
       consigned to R. Y., who especially warned me not to walk
       in my sleep, as there were no leads outside the window -- they

       Ihad been removed. The consequence was that, though never
       I Iwalked in my sleep before or since that remember, was

       awakened by the wind blowing on me, and found myself before
       Ithe open window, with my knee on the lower ledge.
                                                             crept

       back to bed, leaving the window open, and the family, being

       alarmed by the noise, came into my room, found me asleep and
       the window open ; so that as their fenestral logic did not reason

       Iboth ways, they forgot that the leads were not there, and

       searched the whole house for thieves. Long afterwards met
       R. Y. in Stratford's room, negotiating about some papers of Young

       Ireferring to the R. A., and there 1 learnt whose brother he was.

       John Young, am pretty sure, was a brother, if not a cousin.
           You will remember that it has been said that Somersetshire

       Ithas been very deficient in great men ; and the exceptiones fir-
       mantes regulam have been Roger Bacon and John Locke.             is

       time that Young should make a third.

          I do not know whether you have all your information about
       Young's family. If you want any inquiries, I have some old

       friends still at Taunton, and will ascertain what you want.

       Milverton, Young's birthplace, is a few miles from Taunton.

          I hope you will not overwork yourself; and remain, dear

       sir,

                     Yours sincerely, &c., &c.

                     To Rev. W. Heald.

                                                                 7 Camden Street, Sept. 11, 1852.

          Dear Heald, -- I make my annual renewal of correspondence,
       Iwhich have got into a habit of doing when my wife and chil

       dren leave town. They have gone this year to Heme Bay -- not

       so far from London as last year, when they were at Broadstairs.

       By the way, a scientific friend of mine directed to me at Broad-

       stairs, near London, when near Ramsgate would have been

       nearer the mark. On my asking him what he meant, he said he

       remembered some very broad stairs down to the river just below

       London Bridge, and he had a vague idea that they were the

       Broadstairs.  Doubtless there are very broad stairs there

       abouts. This put me on asking the etymology of Broadstairs,
      CORRESPONDENCE, 1840-56.                            219

Iand find that by stairs are meant passes down the cliff--                                                          1852.

natural passes. What are you and yours doing ? Do not fail
to tell roe all about yourself, without my drawing it all out of

Iyou by specific questions. By the way, is the Mr. Prickett see

in the papers on whom somebody bos been forging, any relation
of our old friend ? Of myself and family, nothing particular.
IWe're all about a year older since I last wrote to you.
                                                          have

been looking over and sorting correspondence of more than

twenty years, and I do not see any particular marks of growing

old in your handwriting. Are you not seriously contemplating

the necessity of calling yourself 50 years old if things go on as

Ithey have been doing ? By my estimate of your age, you will
be saying 49 next birthday.    am 46 past, but, between our

selves, 1 have two of my wise teeth still to cut.

   I looked out in the papers to see if you were moving or

seconding anybody into Convocation, or being done the same to

yourself. What do you think about the revival of Convo

cation ? Did it ever happen to you to study any of their old pro

Iceedings ? Where are they all ? remember that, a propos of
the Easter Question, I wanted the acts of the Convocation

which met next after the Restoration ; but, though Maitland

did all he could for me in the Archbishop's library, the return

was non est inventus. Maitland is now settled at Gloucester

Iagain ; what doing don't know. He is now well stricken in

years : thirty-five years ago he had completed Cambridge, had
been educated for the bar and practised, had got sick of had
it

  I
     I

              I

                              a

                   I
                          I

                                                                     ;

                                    if
                                                                                                                 '
                                                                                                   it,
retired, had married, and sat himself down comfortably at

Taunton, next door but one to his father, my mother being the

intermediate. doubt his being less than thirty-five then, so that
he must be seventy, should say, at least --and he looks it. At

Taunton he used to collect books and play the fiddle, and my first

acquaintance with Haydn's twelve was made through him and
liia sister-in-law. He also bound his books himself, and he bound

the upright of his bookshelves, and lettered them Maitland's

Works,' at which his friends used to pull with great curiosity to

know what he had written and those who did not pull thought

very odd that he should write so many thin volumes on

equidistant subjects.          you knew who A. E. B. of Leeds
        wrote you note to see

was.  suppose you do not. He shines in a publication called

Notes and Queries, which take in, and find a great deal of mis

cellaneous in it. Did you know James Parker, the vice-chan-
       220 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1852.  cellor, who is just dead ? He was a great friend of Parish's. Of
       our old friends I know but little. Neate is thriving. His father

       and mother are still living, which few men of forty-five or

       Ithereabouts can say. He vegetates, am afraid ; his parishes are

       Inot very populous, and though he does everything in the way of
       looking after them, his grasp is not full. For aught  know

       Iyour parish would make fifty of his in number of souls.

            August 31. -- see to-day that Maitland has published a new

       ittle book, combining several tracts with mediaeval pictures.

          I bought an auctioneer's lot the other day for one book, and
       Ifound, among the rest, Hone's Trials, which had never read
       I Ithrough, though, when was a boy, had my curiosity greatly

       whetted by the sharp way in which they were kept out of my

       Isight, while was admiring the presence of mind of the defend

       ant, and the circumstance of a man not regularly educated sticking

       logically to one point (a great rarity), namely, that the non-pro
       secution of parodies in favour of ministers proved that the ani

       mus was political, and that religion was a pretext. There came

       into my head a long-forgotten story told me by Place, the cele

       brated political tailor, more than twenty years ago, which shows

       that Cobbett, with all his pen-assurance, had not the nerve of poor

       Hone. When Place and some friends went to consult with

       Cobbett about his defence to the action for seditious libel which

       was coming on   (on   which   he was  convicted   and imprisoned),
       Place told him  that         wanted   to escape  conviction he had
                             if he

       only to produce the letters which public functionaries had written
       to him on points of his paper --bar, judges, the Speaker of the

       H. of C, Ac. ; that if he did this he would prove that he was not

       considered a common libeller even by the friends of Government ;

       and that having thus made a locus standi he could deal with the

       specific charge as a fair political comment, and compare it with
       others. Cobbett was hardly able to speak of this plan, so great

       was his agitation at the boldness of producing these letters, which
       would have made a great sensation, for there were very curious
       private applications for his good word. He did not dare to do
       was regularly browbeat by the judge, even in what he did ven
       I
                                                                 is

                                                                                                 '

                                                                      I

                                                                                                        it,
       ture, and was convicted. Such         the difference between pen-

       courage and tongue-courage.                           am sorry
            Pray present my best compliments to Mrs. Heald.

         cannot say remembrances. There ought to be a prospective mode

       of address. It would sound very odd to say, in the case of a

       person whom the writer had not seen, Present my most san
        CORRESPONDENCE, 1846-55.                                               221

guine  anticipations     '  but  what  would         be so odd as       ' compli-    1852.
                       ;
ments ' if used for the first time ?

Surely the time must come when the vortex of London will
suck you in for a few days. In the meantime let us speculate
on the question whether we should know each other if we met

in the street after twenty-seven years of non-visual intercourse.

                                       Yours most sincerely,
                                                     A. De Morgan.

                       To Rev. W. Heald.

                                        7 Camden Street, July 1853.

        · ····*

I remember giving you my experience in regard to clairvoy-                           1853
Iance.  will now tell you some of my experience in reference

to table-turning, spirit-rapping, and so on.

    Mrs. Hayden, the American medium, came to my house, and

we had a sitting of more than two hours. She had not been
there many minutes ' before some slight ticking raps were heard

in the table apparently. The raps answered by the alphabet

(pointing to the letters on a card), one after the other (a rap or
two coming at the letter), to the name of a sister of my wife,

who died seventeen years ago. After some questioning, she

I(I speak the spirit hypotheses, though have no theory on the
subject) was asked whether I might ask a question. ' Yes,'
Iaffirmative rap. I said, ' May ask it mentally ? ' ' Yes.' ' May
Mrs. Hayden hold up both her hands while I do it ? ' ' Yes.'
Mrs. H. did so, and in my mind, without speaking, I put a

question, and suggested that the answer should be in one word,
HESS.which I thought of. I then took the card, and got that word
letter by letter -- C                  The question was whether she

remembered a letter she once wrote to me, and what was the

subject ? Presently    came      fomllyowfasth:--er  (ob.  1816),  and  after  some
                       on as
conversation I went
' Do you remember a periodical I have in my head ? ' ' Yes.'
' Do you remember the epithets therein applied to yourself ? '
' Yes.' ' Will you give me the initials of them by the card ? '

    1 This is true. About ten or fifteen minutes elapsed after we sat
down before the raps came ; but Mr. De Morgan has not mentioned in
this letter that for a few, perhaps five minutes, we sat waiting for them.

On his leaving the room they were heard at once, and went on when
he returned. --S. E. De M.
            222 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1853.       ' Yes.' I then began pointing to the alphabet, with a book to

            conceal the card, Mrs. H. being at the opposite side of a

            round table (large), and a bright lamp between us. I pointed
            letter by letter till I came to F, which I thought should be the
            first initial. No rapping. The people round me said, ' You
            have passed it ; there was a rapping at the beginning.' I went

            Iback and heard the rapping distinctly at C. This puzzled me,

            but in a moment saw what it was. The sentence was begun
            I Iby the rapping agency earlier than intended.
                                                             allowed C to
            Ipass, and then got D T F 0 C, being the initials of the con

            secutive words which remembered to have been applied to my

            father in an old review published in 1817, which no one in the

            room had ever heard of but myself. C D T F 0 C was all right,

            I Iand when got so far gave it up, perfectly satisfied that some

            thing, or somebody, or some spirit, was reading my thoughts.

            This and the like went on for nearly three hours, during a great
            part of which Mrs. H. was busy reading the ' Key to Uncle Tom's

            Cabin,' which she had never seen before, and I assure you she

            set to it, with just as much avidity as you may suppose an
            American lady would who saw it for the first time, while we

            Iwere amusing ourselves with the raps in our own way. All this
            I declare to be literally true. Since that time have seen it

            in my house frequently, various persons presenting themselves.
            The answers are given mostly by the table, on which a hand or

            two is gently placed, tilting up at the letters. There is much

            which is confused in the answers, but eveiy now and then comes
            Isomething which surprises us.
                                            have no theory about it, but
            Iin a year or two something curious may turn up. am, how
            ever, satisfied of the reality of the phenomenon. A great many

            other persons are as cognizant of these phenomena in their own

            houses as myself. Make what you can of it if you are a philoso

            Ipher.

                 Now must shut up. Give my best regards, &c.

                                            Yours very sincerely,
                                                               A. De Morgan.

University                           To Professor Michael Foster.

Examina-                                                                            November 15, 1853.
tions.
                Dear Sir, -- You have asked me for a sketch of my chief
            objections to the system pursued in the University of London.

            This is a matter into which I have not time to enter in great
            detail ; nor would it be necessary. I have always looked forward
CORRESPONDENCE, 184G-55,                                 223

to the time when the graduates of the University would them-                     1853.
selves feel that their Alma Mater will not take its proper place

among the Academies of Europe until its requisitions are based

upon higher views of education than appear to have prevailed at

its foundation. I say at its foundation, not among its founders ;

for the first institution preceded by several years that revival of

serious thought upon mental subjects in which we now live, and

which is far from having attained its full development.

With great respect for many who have been and are mem

bers of the Senate, I do not feel the slightest diffidence in

opposing my opinion to the results of their collective delibera

tions. No man who has thought on a subject for a quarter of a

century, with daily power of testing his opinions, need fear to

oppose himself to a system which has not emanated from one
            Solomon said that in the multitude of councillors there

        ifety ; safety, not wisdom. A numerous body always

compromises, and never works out a sound principle without

limiting its application by considerations drawn from the ex

pediency of the moment; practicability is the word, freedom

from present difficulty is the thing.

The plan of the Universities of the Middle Ages, to which in

a great degree we owe both the thought and the operative ability

of the last two centuries, rested on a simple principle, which

stood ready for any amount of development which its own good

consequences might make possible. All existing knowledge, the

pursuit of which could discipline the mind for thought and

action, was collected into one system, and declared to be avail

able for the purpose of a University. And in this manner reason,

language, and observation were cultivated together. Every

means was employed for forming the future man in his relation

to himself, to other men, and to the external world. The worst

thing, if not the only thing, that can be said against them
is
    it
         is

                                                                            is,
that at some periods they thrashed the chaff after the corn had

been beaten out. The worst thing that can be said against their

successors in England that they have not sufficiently allowed

the development of the old principle in reference to branches of

knowledge which progress has converted into disciplines, and

that, each in its own way, they have given undue prominence to

one of the ancient disciplines.

The sciences of observation occupied rather a subordinate

place, because in the disciplinatory sense they had attained but

little efficacy. To which        to be added, that the very wants
       224 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1853.  of daily life, in a rude state of co-operative power, made daily

       life itself such a discipline of observation as we have now no

       idea of. Every savage has all the knowledge of his tribe in
       matters to be drawn from observation and applied in practice.

       The man of the fifteenth century, much nearer to the savage

       than ourselves, had a considerable share of it. The man of our

       day has just as little as he pleases, and no more than his indi

       vidual temperament and opportunities may lead him to acquire ;

       the temperament not being fostered by education, and the oppor

       tunities being mostly subsequent to it.

       The great point, then, in which the old Universities ended by

       ignoring the progress of the world around them, the great point

       on which it might have been the privilege of a new one to show

       them that the world could teach them something even on the

       fundamentals of education, was the neglect of the discipline of

       observation, of language as connected with and of inference?

                                                      it,
       as immediately derived from it. And how has the University
                                                         It has granted the
       of London fulfilled its especial mission

       existence of the deficiency, proclaimed its own intention to

       provide remedy, and set its alumni diligently to work to read
                a

       words and to look at diagrams about the way in which other

       people have used their eyes and their hands. This no ex
                                                                                                      is

       aggeration. Because observation of phenomena had been neg

       lected, and ought to have been a part of all sound discipline,

       the University of London demanded of its candidates a knowledge

       of the manner in which those who have seen things for them

       selves describe them to others.

       For example, a candidate for the B.A. degree required,
       I

                      it is

                                     a

                               I
                                                I

                                                                                                  is
       in addition to matters which enter the ancient disciplines,

       to be examined in animal physiology. And he may pass this

       examination without knowing more from his own observation

       of what     under the skin of any animal, than he learns from

       the words of a book or the lines of a drawing, which no one

       can understand except he be familiar with the original object.

       will venture to say that a large majority of those who

       have passed the examination in physiology know nothing about

       the interior of the body from their own observation except that

       blood follows  cut in the finger.        appeal to the examiners

       whether     be not as say, and whether the answers given do

       not clearly show it.

       Thus, for the first time in the annals of liberal education, a

       University has proclaimed that mere words, as words, with no
            CORRESPONDENCE. 1rM*-S6.                                                    225

meaning attached, are a worthy discipline. In learning languages                             1853.

words are things ; they are the things to be studied, and the

student compares the unknown with the known, the strange

language with that which he has spoken ail hi* life. In the

exact sciences the notions treated of are present and living

realities. In the common branches of physics the student has a

daily knowledge of the species of phenomena which he is to
study in their systematic relations ; he knows air and water, and
his stick is a lever. But in the physiology of the University of

London he has only words descriptive of what he neither knows

nor can know by words alone ; if there be any shadow of ad

vantage to be gained, it is that species of advantage which he

gains to better purpose from ordinary physics. The great thing

wanted, the training of the faculty of observation in connection

with language and reason, is wholly left out of sight.

Will it be replied that students cannot dissect ? that they have

no opportunities, that they have no skill r that without such

teaching as they cannot get, and such time as they cannot

give, their researches into the textures would be of as much

avail as those which are made with a carving-knife upon the
roast or boiled joint ? I freely admit it all ; but I deny the con

clusion that therefore the University of London should supplant

observation by reading. I say nothing is proved except thai

            a very unfit subject for the purpose, as seems to
phvsiology  i-*
                               ;

                                       I

                                                                                     ;

                                                                              is
me clearly proved on other grounds.

The proposal for reform which should submit that actual

examination upon natural objects should be a part of the trial

for the B.A. degree and that the objects should be of the vege

table world. These are accessible to all and the matter to be

tried should be, not whether the student has this or that amount

of acquirement, but whether he has gained the powers of

observing for himself, and stating and reasoning of the results.

There are various reasons why vegetable structure better fitted
                                              it
than animal for the commencing observer; but      is is  enough that

the newly gathered plant  always within his reach, and that
            I

                       is
                            is

                                      is
the newly killed animal not.

     The next point will mention that of the examinations for
honours. There are two systems in this country, -- that of

Oxford, in which the candidate for classical honours examined
                                              ;
against his subject that of Cambridge, in which the candidate
            ;                                         is
for mathematical honours  examined against his corn |,eti tors.
                           is
                                       Q
At Oxford, his class determines his qualification at Cambridge,
       226 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1853.  his place determines whether he is above or below any given

       competitor. At Oxford his mind may, though not without

       certain wholesome restraint, develop itself in reading and
       thought dictated by its natural bent. At Cambridge the exami

       nation realises the bed of Procrustes. The Oxford system has a

       tendency to develop the useful differences between the varied types

       of human character. The Cambridge system is an unconscious
       Ieffort to destroy them.
                                 shall not be suspected of any original
       Ibias against the Cambridge system.
                                            once thought that the

       race for the place in the list was a valuable part of that system,

       Ibut have slowly arrived at the full conviction that the Oxford

       plan is greatly superior. The system of private tutors, the drill

       in writing out, and the mode in which so many of the elementary

       books are got up, are well worthy the attention of all who are

       interested in the subject of this letter. They are the natural

       consequences of the personal competition for honours ; and if

       ever the number of candidates in the University of London

       Ishould bear any considerable proportion to that in the University

       of Cambridge, the same cause will produce the same effect.
       hope this subject will receive some attention. Why, because

       political tendencies have thrown the University of London

       almost entirely into Cambridge hands at the outset, should all

       that is from Cambridge be received as of course, and without a

       discussion of what is to be found at Oxford ?

       Probably it will be objected that the medals and honours

       Icannot be awarded without a competitive examination. To this

          answer that the existence of medals and scholarships is of

       Ivery small importance compared with that of the evils have
       alluded to. If I am right, they had better be abolished than

       allowed to introduce the evils of competition into the main

       examinations for honours. And the natural consequence would

       be that they should be given, not for general proficiency, but on

       special grounds, to be tried some time after the elementary

       career has closed.

       My view of the advantages of a liberal education is most

       assuredly not peculiar to myself. Let it be supposed that the

       former student has forgotten everything, that not a word of

       Latin is left, and not a proposition of Euclid. What remains to
       Ifhim ?
                little or nothing, then his education has not deserved

       its name. But in spite of the loss of all that acquirement
                if,
                                                                          a
       which he has had no daily need to recall, he be man of trained

       mind, able to apply vigorously, to think justly, to doubt dis
                   CORRESPONDENCE, H546-o5.                             227

erectly, and to decide wisely, he has been well educated, and the                               1853.

Iloss of the positive knowledge which suppose him to have lost
is comparatively a small matter. I do not underrate knowledge ;
I would educate for even
                     it,     if  is itgave no powers but am sure
                                                              ;  I

that we take care of the habits, the acquirements will take         is
if
care of themselves.
     a
Throughout the whole of the requisitions runs a tone which

would give any one the notion that the study demanded sought

only for its results, and that will be tested only by the know
                             by
ledge of results shown.   I  look at the programme of the mathe
                               it
matical propositions required, and find the implication that as
long as certain list of truths known, matters not how.
                                             1          I it            I

admit that the examiners         setting this list at defiance, by prois

posing questions which try the knowledge of principles, and

which necessarily require them to travel out of the list, have done

much to neutralise its evil tendency. But cannot suppose the

necessity for a complete alteration                     thereby done away. We

are informed that the principal properties of triangles, squares,

and parallelograms (when did the sqnare cease to be a paral

lelogram are to be treated geometrically. Among the principal
          is ? ?)
properties of parallelograms are those of similar parallelograms

their study involves doctrine of proportion. But only the first
of the six books of Euclid are demanded. Must similar paral
                     a                                        I is
                                         is  called a geometrical theory ofby
Iflelograms be treated by what                                             is
proportion           not, how are the principal properties of                               ?;
parallelograms to be treated geometrically, as demanded? If

yes, what          that geometrical theory of proportion, other than

Euclid's, so well known that may be trusted to implication
                                 it

The only proportion alluded to in any part of the list                  alge-

hrnisal proportion, which, as usually understood,                the doctrine

of the ratios of commensurable quantities, expressed                    letters,

with either every possible amount of gratuitous assumption
about incommensurable quantities, or else a total refusal to

consider them.

Might not what we may well hope, and what am inclined

to believe, will be the greatest University founded in the nine

teenth century dare to promulgate definite views on the mode

in which study should be conducted, its ends, its uses, and the
                             Is not the duty of that University to
proofs of its efficiency  ?

                                   it

                                                 q
                                                     2
make  it    apparent that she receives and cherishes the sound

principle so long maintained by her predecessors without pledg

ing herself to the abuses which time and negligence have allowed
       228  MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1853.  Ito creep in ?  hope the graduates will show that their colleges
       Ifhave trained them to ask these questions.
                                                    they be not asked,

       and asked to good purpose, the University may gain a parlia
       mentary voice, but it will not gain the respect of that highly

       educated world to which the common sense of common people

       teaches them to look up for opinions on the higher education.
       And the old institutions which are rousing themselves into

       activity will have it delegated to them, a century hence, to teach
       the University of London what it was hoped by some the

       University of London would teach them.

                                              I am, dear sir,

                                                 Yours truly,
                                                       A. De Morgan.

                              To Admiral Smyth.

                                     7 Camden Street, January 5, 1854.

1854.       My dear Admiral,  --You  probably know why   your note has
       remained unanswered.          Mrs. De Morgan are  just beginning
                              I and

       to recover the shock it has given us. Your sheets may come as
       usual if you have any to send.

           I congratulate you on the news you conveyed to me, though,
       Ihaving mislaid your note, cannot remember the name. You
       Ihave twice had to bear a loss similar to mine, and hope you

       will depart yourself in the course of nature before the distant

       time comes when you would have to face it a third time.

          If you have anything to contribute or to suggest for the

       Annual Report, now is the time. Our kind regards to Mrs.

       Smyth and the young ladies.

                                     Yours sincerely,
                                               A. De Morgan.

                                 To the Rev. Dr. Whewell.

                                                                                   January 24, 1854.

            My dear Sir, --Your book on the ' Plurality of Worlds '

       Ireached me at a time when could only throw it by for better
       Idays, and believe it would have remained on one side as an

       anonymous attempt to prove what every one believed -- without

       knowing anything about the matter -- if I had not been told,

       casually, that you were the author, and that the title ought to
       have been ' On the Singularity of the World.' Accordingly,

       Iknowing whom to thank, I thank him ; and learning that the

       argument is singular, read the book.
                CORRESPONDENCE. 18-lfi-55.                                              229

      I have always held that when the phrase 'there is a good                               1854.
deal to be said on both sides ' applies, it means that we do not
know much about the matter. Your book is a converse instance ;

that when we do not know mnch about the matter there is

always a good deal to be said on both sides. Not that I mean

to give up the poor dear lnnglcss lunarians, or the jovial cinder-
sifters, altogether, quite yet. I admit the argument from time

to space ; but, granting that the human world is only d t out of

t of the whole of time existence, we may grant it to be d s out of
i, of space existence ; and all the stars and planets may be in

their several progresses from -- oo to + <x, ami every one at a
different part of it, with at least the chance of two given ones
being within m of each other, only m =00 -- (-- oo). And this
on the supposition that there is but one kind of progression ; it

being more likely, however, that this progression is infinitely
varied in space, so that, instead of diminishing the immensity
of creation --as usually taken --namely, for one time, the idea of

one mode of existence infinitely varied in space, you have made
prominent a system of triple entry, time, space, law of pro

gression.

    I find in your book the germ, or more, of a notion which I

have had for twenty years-- and which may have occurred to

many others, and probably has. I have been laughing all that

time in the sleeve at the clergy, for not seeing that the infidel

                         in truth the most unanswerable proof
geology, as they callof
                          it,
                              is

                                                           ;
of supernatural ma that ever was propounded. Between an un

intelligibly self-existent Creator, and an unintelligibly self-
                things -- self-reproductive nalura renim, -- my
existent order

reason never saw a priori choice not having the slightest idea

which of two wholly inconceivable things was most conceivable.
But the straightforward impossibility of human existence at

some calculable time brings us to the alternative of an absolute
creation -- or the growth of some lizards or fishes into men --

through various stages.  do not read controversies about the
II

                       ;I
                          I

                                             it
pros and cons, of the Book of Genesis, and this argument may for

anght know be common but never oozed into any conversa

tion in my hearing, though have frequently looked out for                               it

when heard the orthodox and the heterodox fighting about the

matter.

                                                              Yours very truly,
                                                                         A. De Morgan.
       230        MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

                          To Rev. Dr. Whewe.ll.

1854.                                                                                   May 21, 1854.

          IMy dear Sir,-- I have to thank you for the dialogue. If

       you deny a plurality of worlds presume you admit a plurality
       of opponents -- to judge by the letters.

            You seem to be expressing your anti-pluralism more posi

       tively than before. Your work seemed to say --don't be so sure ;

       your dialogue seems to maintain something more like a leaning

       to the other positive conclusion. I suppose you will not object

       to the conclusion that the stars either are inhabited, or that they

       are not. This is mine, with a leaning to the affirmative of this
       kind :-- Let it be granted that each planet has upon or in it, or
               it,

                             I
                                        I

                                            I
                                                                                        it,

                                                             I
       around       some things which have a destiny of their own, for

       which they might be conceived to exist independently of the

       other planets or stars. These things should call inhabitants of

       that planet, but whether conscious or unconscious, intelligent or
       unintelligent, &c., &c., could have no opinion. But cannot

       divest myself of the idea that they have uses independent of us--

       and these uses are inhabitants.  strongly suspect that, to use

       law phrases, these uses are also trusts, and therefore suppose

       responsibilities.

                                        Yours very truly,
                                                    A. Dr Morgan.

                          To Admiral Smyth.

                                                    Camden Street, July 16, 1854.
            My dear Admiral, -- Here you see the balance of blue queen's
                                        7

                                                        I
       heads forwarded to me on a special service.         hope a larger

       proportion of Napier's blues will find their way home again from

       the Baltic.
            All going on well as to the Government proceedings.1 We
       1
       shall not be stirred these ten years, augur. You know the
              is                        I

                                                is
                                                      a
       story of the birds in the nest listening to the farmer plotting

       how to cut the corn. Now Government               man who cannot

       work for himself. He acts through people who report. Deep
       calleth unto deep -- that
                                  is,  one office reports to another, and the

       other refers back, and then they consider, and red tape becomes

       grey before they have settled how to proceed. And you then
                                            a

                                                            if
       give them six months' start, and set snail after them, the

               Referring to a proposed removal of the Astronomical Society from
       their rooms at Somerset House.
             CORRESPONDENCE, 1846-55.                         231

nail beats them by a thousand lengths ; and then there is a                          1854.
change of ministry and a new report to ' my lords,' and ' my

lords ' make a minute which means in time a year, and so on

ad infinitum.
     Kind regards all ronnd.
                                                     Yours very truly,
                                                                      A. De Morgan.

             To the Rev. Dr. Whewell.

                                         October 27, 1855.

Mt dear Sir, -- M. Biot presses for the meaning of Newton                            1855.

buying a supersedeas. He wants to give it in a forthcoming

Iarticle. (Brewster, vol. i. p. 18.) Could you ask any one in
college to see what it may have meant ?  am pretty sure no

such thing was for sale in college in my time, for freshmen or

any other.

    IExcuse my troubling you again. The world has so passed by

that am not sure I know the name of any office-bearer in
college. I have only an indistinct remembrance that Prof.

Sedgwick is Vice-Master.

    I told Biot that China ale was tea, and reinforced it by tell

ing him that water was often called Adam's ale in England.

This, he says, has amused the French philologers very much.
      Pray come to the rescue of a Frenchman in a fix about a

college phrase. I must send the French philologers the phrase

Henry Soph.

             Yours very truly,
                       A. De Morgan.

             To Sir J. Herschel.

                                                                 November 10, 1855.

IMt LiFar Sir John, -- am glad to see your signature, failing

more, and also that yen are in pretty good spirits. We shall see

you come out in chemistry yet, with the discovery of a new prin

ciple, Unecmmonly-impostible-lo-get-ine, obtained by treating the
singular Talces-a-ieeek'i-cookingic Acid with all the salts in suc

cession of your new metal Detcribable-in-iix-foliopagetium.      I

     I shall not bother you with the proofs of your memoir.1
shall respect the text as if it were Horace-- and there are no

             1 Memoir of Francis Baily.
       232 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1855.  I Ilections that am aware of--and shall add a few editorial n oes ;

       one must notice the new moon-bobbery which has upset the

       Ieclipse of Agathocles and every other, and perhaps some other
       little matters.  made a few additions to the biography in a
       Isubsequent Annual Report, which shall append, but not incorpo
       rate. You shall have revises --not to correct, but to protest

       against, pro re nata, and your protests shall meet with more

       attention than such things usually meet with.
            The Sheepshanks inscription is now in Whewell's hands.

                        Yours very truly,
                                      A. De Morgan.
          233

          SECTION *»S \X~

          1856-65.

Mt mother-in-law died after a long illness this year, to 1856.

the great sorrow of her three sons. Though there was Mr. i*

great difference of opinion, chiefly on doctrinal matters,

between my husband and herself, there was strong mutual

affection, and some resemblances of character. He shared

with her the quality which he used to find troublesome

when he lived in her house ; namely, anxiety to a morbid

degree about those she loved when they were out of her
Ifsight.
          he came home an hour later in the evening

than she expected, she conjured up all kinds of terrible

accidents which he might have met with. One reason

of this, on Augustus's account, was his want of sight on

the right-hand side. He was very like her in this morbid

anxiety, so that those who left the house in the evening

had to be punctual in the time of their return if they

wished him to be easy. From his mother he inherited his

musical talent, and most probably his mathematical

power, for she was the granddaughter of James Dodson,

the author of the Mathematical Canon, a distinguished

Mathematician, the friend of Demoivre, and of most other

men of science of his time, and an early F.R.S. But he

was Mathematical master at Christ's Hospital, and some

of his descendants seem to have thought this a blot on

the scutcheon, for his great-grandson has left on record

the impression he had of his ancestor. When quite a boy
he asked one of his aunts ' who James Dodson was ; ' and
received for answer, ' We never cry stinking fish.' So he

was afraid to ask any more questions, but settled that
            234  MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1856.       somehow or other James Dodson was the ' stinking fish '
            of his family ; and he had to wait a few years to find out
            that his great-grandfather was the only one of his
            ancestors whose name would be held deserving of record.
            My husband also inherited his love of a city life from
            his mother, who declared that a night in a country house,
            with 'the dreary trees moaning all round,' made her

            sleepless.

                 Mrs. De Morgan's death occurred while she was living
            in the house of her second son, Mr. George De Morgan,
            the barrister and conveyancer. My husband, of course,
            visited her almost daily, and was struck with the reality
            of her conviction, constantly asserted, of the presence of
            Jesus Christ. He spoke to me of the frequency of this

            appearance, or supposed appearance, to the dying, and
            wished that the instances should be always carefully

            recorded.

                 Mrs. De Morgan was one of eleven children and nine
            daughters of Mr. John Dodson, of the Custom House.
            Eight of the daughters married officers of either the

            Military or Civil service in India. At the time of her

            death there was living, besides her sons Augustus and

            George, Campbell Greig De Morgan, who was Senior
            Surgeon to the Middlesex Hospital -- a man much beloved
            and highly distinguished in his profession. He survived
            his brother Augustus four years, dying in 1875.

Dislocated     IA few days before our return from Eastbourne in the

            autumn, was startled by receiving a long letter from my
            husband, written in pencil and in the middle of each page.
            He always wrote every day, but it was often not more

            than to ask after me and the children, and to tell me

            whom he had seen, with occasional information about the
            cat or the canaries. This pencil letter was a dramatic
            description of how he had the day before fallen off the
            ladder in his library and dislocated his shoulder; how
            the doctor had been fetched and had replaced the
DECIMAL COINAGE.                           235

shoulder in the socket, which the patient said had given                   1856.

him no pain. His account would have amused me if it

Ihad not frightened me so much. On hurrying to London

found him reading comfortably in his arm-chair. Happily
he neither suffered from pain nor fever, and the weakness

in the arm caused by the accident did not last long.

As early as the year 1824 Sir John Wrottesley, father Decimal

of the first Lord Wrottesley, had introduced the question of History 'of
                                           His pro                         the roovi
Decimal Coinage in the House of Commons.1                                  ment.

posal was to retain the pound as the unit, dividing it by

tens until it reached 1,000 farthings. The motion was

not pressed to a division.

     In 1832 Mr. Babbage's work On the Economy of Manu
factures was brought out. In this the plan of a decimal

system was advocated, and lesser attempts by other

writers followed. In 1833 the first number of the Penny

Cycloptedia was published, and Mr. De Morgan in the

article Abacus gave a good summary of the advantages of

the proposed change.

    It [the abacus] never can be much used in this country

owing to our various divisions of money, weights, and measures.

     1 A very early suggestion on this subject is to be found in a little
book of my father's, long out of print. Speaking of the abacus, the
use of which he had described, he says, 'The Chinese use this toy
in the common concerns of life ; and they can do it with great ease,
since in their nation the decimal arithmetic is preserved in the
weights, measures, and money. The French and Americans have
returned to their ancient and best mode of counting ; but it will be
difficult to establish it in this country on two accounts : first, it
would be considered an innovation, and it is almost incredible how

great is the number of persons who prefer their father's mumpsimus
to a modern tttmpsimiu. Secondly, it is a question of mere public
benefit, without reference to party politics ; and it must be a fortunate
concurrence of circumstances to produce an individual resolute enough
to bring forward a motion that would get rid of our troublesome

modes of numbering, and introduce that which is the simplest, the
best, and the most ancient.' (Tangible Arithmetic, by W. Frend,

1806.)
            236 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1856.       We should need one abacus for pounds, shillings, and pence,
            another for avoirdupois weight, a third for troy weight, and so
            on. In China, however, where the whole system is decimal --
            that is where every measure, weight, &c., is the tenth part of the
            next greater one -- this instrument, called in Chinese schwanpan,

            is very much used and with astonishing rapidity. It is said

            that while one man reads over rapidly a number of sums of

            money, another can add them so as to give the total as soon as
            the first has done reading.

First Com       General Pasley tried to bring forward the question in
mission on  1834 in a volume On Coinage, Weights, and Measures, and
            on the Advantages of a Decimal System. Four years after,
weights     Mr. Spring Rice, then Chancellor of the Exchequer,
and mea     obtained the appointment of a Royal Commission on
sures.      weights and measures. In the Companion to the Almanac
            for the year 1841, Mr. De Morgan showed the advantages

            that would arise from the adoption of a decimal coinage.1

            He insisted on the introduction of an entirely decimal
            system of accounts, in combination with such change in

            the coinage as should be best adapted to, and be the

            means of introducing such a system of accounts. He

            showed how easily our present system might be changed
            to a decimal one by retaining the pound sterling, and
            dividing it into 1,000 parts ; and recommended the reten

            tion of as many of our coins as bore a relation to the

            pound, and the very small alteration in the value of six
            pences and shillings needed to bring them into the new
            system. The plan of the proposed change is explained,
            and names of coins suggested. He strongly advised that
            the change be made first in the coinage, believing that
            the complications which would arise from carrying it into
            weights and measures would throw everything into con
            fusion. He saw that the minds of the mercantile and

             working classes must be made familiar with the decimal

                 1 ' On the Use of Small Tables of Logarithms in Commercial Calcu
            lations, and on the Practicability of a Decimal Coinage.' Companion f*
            the Almanac, 1841.
DECIMAL COINAGE.       237

reckoning in money in the first instance. 'Education,'      1856.
he said, ' must promote the demand for a complete decimal

system, but the application of the principle to coinage
only must first promote education.' In answer to the
question, ' how much of the time spent in education in

Great Britain and Ireland is spent in overcoming the

disadvantage of our present system of coinage?' he said,
' I believe that five per cent, is under the mark, taking
in all classes ; that in purely commercial schools it is a

great deal more ; but that in all together, from Oxford

and Cambridge down to the lowest village school, more

than one-twentieth of the whole time passed in every kind

of learning and practising is lost, by the having two

systems of Arithmetic to learn, the common decimal, and

the monetary.'

    At the end of the year 1841 the Report of the Commis- Report of

sion of 1838 was made. In it the Commission strongly aion.

recommended the adoption of a decimal scale of weights

and measures preparatory to a change in the money ; than
which, the Report says, ' no single change which it is in

the power of our Government to effect would be felt

as equally beneficial when the temporary inconvenience
attending it had passed away.' The details of the change
recommended are those set forth by Mr. De Morgan in

the Companion to the Almanac.

     In the year 1842 he gave more extensive information

on the subject in the same work, and in the next year

(1843) another Commission to inquire into weights and

measures was appointed. It consisted of the Astronomer

Royal, Lord Wrottesley, the Dean of Ely, the Speaker, Sir

John Herschel, Sir J. \V. Lubbock, Rev. R. Sheepshanks,

and Professor Miller.

     The next step was taken in 1847 by Dr. Bo wring,

afterwards Sir John Bowring, who brought forward the
subject in the House of Commons. The florin, or one-
tenth of a pound, now in circulation, was in consequence

issued by Government, but no further attempt was made
       238 MEMOIE OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1856.  to decimalise the money, and Sir John Bowring soon

       after went to China.
            There is an article in the Companion to the Almanac

       for 1848 by Mr. De Morgan.1 He describes the state of
       feeling at that time on the question as compared with
       what it had been when it was first agitated. Referring
       to the debate on Sir John Bowring's motion, which re
       sulted in the introduction of florins, he says ' the Chancel
       lor of the Exchequer, in yielding the first step, rested his

       non-acquiescence in the whole extent of the motion on
       the want of public interest in favour of the question, and
       the slow growth of belief adverse to existing usages. He
       said, as plain as a Chancellor of the Exchequer could

       Ispeak, " Force me, and here am ready to be forced." '

            Since issuing the florin Government had taken no

       further steps towards the complete decimalisation of the
       coinage, but Sir John Bowring, who was in England in
       1853, was still hopeful for more, and many of the most
       enlightened friends to the measure, both mercantile and
       scientific, were anxious that the efforts already made
       should not be lost. In 1852 Mr. William Brown called

       the attention of the Liverpool Chamber of Commerce to
       the importance of the question as regarded currency and
       accounts, and a memorial was presented by the Chamber
       in favour of the proposal already made. About the same
       time the Royal Commission last appointed made its re
       port, which confirmed all the recommendations that had
       been made by the Commission of 1838. The Com
       missioners expressed their hope that no new coins should

       be issued except such as should be expressible by one
       figure in the decimal scale, descending from the pound
       sterling, and that every new coin should have marked

       upon it its value with reference to the pound sterling.
            Early in the year 1853, Mr. (afterwards Sir) William

           1 In this article the Commission of 1838 is spoken of as the Uul

       Commission on the subject, but it must be remembered that that of
       1843 was still sitting, and did not report till 1853.
DECIMAL COINAGE.  239

Brown, M.P., as representative of the Liverpool Chamber 1856.
of Commerce, had interviews with the Chancellor of the of houm
Exchequer and the President of the Board of Trade, to C0"""0""-
suggest the appointment of a Committee of the House of
Commons to consider the whole subject of decimalising the
money, weights, and measures. Mr. Gladstone saw, with
the most practical of those who had dealt with the
question, that to include the subject of weights and
measures at that time would throw needless difficulty in
the way. Taking up one subject at a time, it would be

more easily understood ; and when the plan should be
adopted and its advantages felt, the difficulty of securing
a uniform system throughout would be removed. This

Committee was appointed, with Mr. William Brown for
Chairman.

     My husband's correspondence at this time shows how
large a share he had in the uphill work in which he was
at once expounder, adviser, and referee. He was applied
to for information on every part of the question -- on

weights and measures, on foreign money, on the history
of the change to a decimal coinage in other countries,
and on the changes that would be required to decimalise

our accounts and coinage in such a way as to cause least
difficulty in our money transactions both at home and
with our neighbours abroad ; for references to books of
authority ; -- in short, for every sort of information that
would enable the advocates of the reform to support their

cause. All this he gave freely and readily, more perhaps

in answer to private inquiries even than in print ; and the
amount of work done by him in this way -- all extraneous
to his lectures and other occupations -- can only be guessed
at by those who were with him at the time, or who have
seen his correspondence since.

     Here is an instance. Sir John Herschel asks --

     What book, report, or resume contains what yon would refer
aajf imr to, who wanted to get a clear view, in a short time, of
the history of the change to a decimal system of currency in
          240        MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1856.     IFrance, and more especially in the United States ?  shonld

          like to have a reference to some authentic report as to the latter,

          Iand indeed to anything official as regards the former ; but what
            chiefly want to be able to point ont is an historical view of the
          origin of the thing, the order of procedure, the course of action

          of the Governments, the way it was met on the part of the

          countries, and the steps by which it ultimately rooted itself.

             I know you are as full of information as an egg is of meat.

          On receiving the answer: --

          I Iam really sorry have plagued you about but thought
                     is
                        is

                              !

                                                     if

                                                                               it,

                                                                                                  a

                                                                 I
                                                                    Ia
          you would very likely have been able at once to name work

          which, referred to, would do the needful. Such work now

          perceive     yet to be written, unless Dr. Bowring's now forth

          coming one be that work.

          He has called twice on me about it. What an ardent

          creature he  He seems to me as he lived on live birds.

interna-        Many people who had pet schemes of their own as to
Auods-
tion.     *^e ProPose<i coinage brought them to my husband, and
          several of these had influence enough to get their plans
                       I
          considered by statesmen. These formed impediments in
          the way. The various views on the change of coinage;
          were numerous, and shall only refer further on to that
          which, though well meant, formed the greatest obstacle
          --the International Association for a Decimal System in

          Weights, Measures, and Coins.

              In the year 1854 the Parliamentary Committee

          reported in favour of the decimal plan which had been
          proposed by scientific men, and, on the issue of this
          report, the Decimal Association was formed. Its first

          meeting was held in July 1854. Sixteen members of

          Council were chosen, all influential in Parliament or

          commerce. Their number was afterwards increased by

          seven, one of whom was Mr. De Morgan.

               The Association recommended the adoption, or reten

          tion, of the pound as the unit of account the only new

          coins which would be required to complete the scale being
          the cent, a silver coin ten to the florin, and the mil, a copper
DECIMAL COINAGE.  241

coin ten to the cent : the decimalisation of weights and 1856.

measures to be afterwards considered.

    A deputation from this body (among whom were Lord Deputation
Monteagle, Mr. Cobden, Mr. Bright, General Pasley, Gladstone.
and others) waited on Mr. Gladstone, the object being to
urge the coinage of a sufficient number of cents and mils
to circulate with the present money, of which the coins
which did not come under the system should be gradually

withdrawn.
     Mr. Gladstone ' saw in the deputation a great deal of

power, as well as of intelligence, represented,' but hesitated
as to the adoption of the pound as the unit of account,

and believed the nation was hardly ready for the change.

Mr. William Brown, who was the commercial leader of
the movement, wrote to Mr. Gladstone, showing how all

the various objections had been met.
     1. As to the adjustment of railway fares, by the fact

that several directors of leading lines were members of

the Association.

    2. As to the Post Office, by Mr. Rowland Hill, who

was an advocate of the measure.

     3. As to the turnpike tolls, by Professor Airy.
     4. As to the Customs and Excise duties, which had

been supposed to be a great difficulty. Mr. Brown pointed
out that nowhere would the convenience of the change

be more rapidly felt, both in saving labour and securing
accuracy, than in the accounts and returns of the national

income and expenditure.

     5. In the wages of working men, wherein the difficulty

was shown to be imaginary.
      But Mr. Gladstone still thought the time not ripe for

the change.
      Another deputation waited on the President of the

Board of Trade. It consisted of men who represented

every phase of the subject, each one taking his own
special part in the discussion. The recommendation in
which all concurred was that the sovereign should be re-

                                                      B
1856.  242 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

       tained as the unit, the florin one-tenth of the sovereign,
       the cent, a new silver coin, one-tenth of the florin, and
       the mil, or old farthing, one-tenth of the cent. There
       would be no difficulty as to the change of value of the

       farthing, for, as the copper coin is circulated at a nominal
       value far beyond its intrinsic worth, its current value

       might be declared each time by proclamation.
            Among other things it was said that ' men with the

       rare facility of explanation possessed by Professor De
       Morgan might fix the attention of meetings of the work
       ing classes upon the value of the easy road that would be
       opened to a knowledge of Arithmetic by the proposed
       change ; but by those who had to legislate for the people
       the fact was known, and there was no need to withhold
       the advantage until the masses, becoming informed of its
       value, should seek it for themselves ; it was, on the con
       trary, precisely a case in which the Government, supported
       by those best informed, should take upon itself the
       responsibility of conferring a practical boon upon the
       people in advance of their knowledge.'

            These proceedings of the Decimal Association, of

       which I have only made a slight mention, were printed

       with an introduction by Mr. De Morgan, which touches

       all the most important points of the subject. It concludes

       with these words : --
            ' The Chancellor of the Exchequer says that Govern

       ment holds an impartial position, and is ready to be guided
       by the decision of the public. Every one knows that, in his
       own circle, the opinion in favour of a decimal coinage,
       based on the pound sterling, is that of a very large
       majority of all who know what it means. What, then, is
       left ? Nothing, but that the public should let the Chancellor
       of the Exchequer know that it has decided, and what the de

       cision is.'

            The writer was over-sanguine as to the adoption of the
       measure. Delays, unfounded objections, and, more than
       all, the obstacles created by injudicious reformers of the
DECIMAL COINAGE.                                      243

whole, put a stop to the work, and rendered all the efforts     1856.
which had been spent on it of no avail.

     After more meetings and much correspondence it was         Renewed
agreed to bring the question again before Parliament,           p^fj" ol

This was done on June 12, 1855, by Mr. Wm. Brown, who           ment-
moved, after referring to the recommendations of the

Commission of 1838 for restoring the standards, to those

of the subsequent Royal Commission, and the Committee

of the House of Commons, that an address be presented

to her Majesty, praying her to complete the decimal

scale (already existing in the pound and the florin) by
authorising the issue of silver coins to the value of l-1 00th

of a pound, and copper coins to represent 1-1 000th part of

a pound, to be called respectively cents and mils, or such

other names as to her Majesty should seem advisable.

The motion was seconded by Lord Stanley, now Earl

Derby, who cited the authorities of Babbage, De Morgan,

Pasley, and Huskisson, on the practicability and advantage

of the change. After showing the defects of several plans

proposed, he advocated that supported by the Decimal
Association, and introduced to the House by Mr. William

Brown.

    Mr. J. B. Smith moved an amendment that a humble

address be presented to her Majesty, praying that she

would be pleased to invite a congress of all nations in

some convenient place, with the view of considering the

practicability of adopting a common standard of money,

weights, and measures.

     Mr. Lowe (then M.P. for Kidderminster) made a very
amusing speech, to show, first, that the present system of

coinage did very well, and that the mischief of a change

would be greater than any good which could result from

it. Secondly, that the method proposed of decimalising

by division and not by multiplication was fallacious. He

would have a low unit, and multiply by tens. He

made humorous illustrations and allusions, and caused

much laughter. The then Chancellor of the Exchequer,

                        2
                      244  MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

               1856.   Sir G. C. Lewis, expressed his belief that the time was not

/VikrlO*J[             come for the change, and recapitulated other plans as

                       possibly preferable to the one before the House. He spoke

                      of the opinion, already reported, of Sir J. Herschel, the

                       Master the Mint, as involving great difficulties.
                           Finally two resolutions were carried :--
                            ' That in the (rpinion of this House the initiation of the

                      decimal system by the issue of the florin has been eminently
                      successful and satisfactory.'

                           And--
                           ' That a further extension of such system will be of great

                      public advantage.'
                            But the practical resolution for an address to her

                      Majesty, praying for the completion of the scale by the
                      issuing of cents and mils, was withdrawn. The question

                      was therefore left by the House of Commons much as
                      it had been before, with the exception of the greater

                      publicity given to the arguments on both sides by the
                      debate. But a Commission was appointed to investigate
                      the whole subject of weights, measures, and coinage.

                            ^n an arti°le m the Westminster Review, in which a sum
                      mary of the question was given, Mr. De Morgan, writing
                      of the Chancellor of the Exchequer, 'the chief of our
                      financial Arithmetic,' says, --

                            The right honourable gentleman, after saying that 'there
                      are differences of opinion,' proceeds to give ' some of the
                      plans ' which have come under his observation. One is
                      the tenpenny plan; others are as follows: -- 1st. 10 farthings
                      or mils, one cent ; 10 cents one dime ; 10 dimes one prime.
                      2nd. 10 farthings or mils one coin unnamed; 10 of these a
                      florin ; 10 florins a Victoria. 3rd. 10 farthings or cash two
                      pence; 100 cash a cent; 10 cents a mil. 4th. 10 farthings a
                      lion ; 10 lions a florin ; 10 florins a queen. To these four
                      ' plans ' we beg permission to add two of our own invention,
                      as distinct from the above as the above are from one another.
                      Our first plan is 10 farthings a what's-his-name ; 10 what's-his-
                      names a how-d'ye-call-it ; 10 how-d'ye-call-its a thingembob.
                      Our second plan is 10 farthings a George ; 10 Georges a Corne-
                      wall ; 10 Cornewalls a Lewis.
                   DECIMAL COINAGE.              245

All the old arguments were considered, and the 185G.

answers to them    repeated and enlarged. As     to the       M^ 1j"we
witticisms of Mr.  Lowe, they had been answered               appie-
                                                 by Mr.

De Morgan in a paper published by the Decimal Associa- argument.

tion, Reply to the Facetiae of the Member for Kidderminster.  ^f^       0
* Mr. Lowe is of opinion,' the Westminster Review says,
' that if a poor man owed another a penny, for which four

mils is too little, and five mils too much, this mil between

them would lead to a mill between them ; and some of the

conscript fathers cheered him.' In the ' Reply,' a

dialogue between an orange boy and the member for

Kidderminster shows, in the method of the latter, how the

supposed difficulties in a money transaction with an old

apple woman might be overcome.

     The Review takes in the substance of the two Reports
of Commissioners, 1841 and 1853; the Report of the

Committee of the House of Commons, 1854; the debate

of June 12, 1855; the publications of the Decimal

Association, and the Journal of the Society of Arts, with

a list of about one hundred publications on the subject in

1853, 1854, and 1855. At the end of this year 1855 he wrote

for the Companion to the Almanac of 1856, Notes on the

History of the English Coinage, giving many particulars of
the history and origin of money in England and other

countries, both as to coins and accounts. Speaking of

the ruined and confused state which the coinage had

reached at the time of the Restoration, he describes the

reform projected by Montague, afterwards Lord Halifax,

and carried into effect during his administration by Sir I.

Newton, who only added to the pieces already in circula

tion the quarter-guinea, which was found too small for

use. A note in the author's handwriting states, 'The

next Scientific Master of the Mint coined a quarter-
sovereign, which was never circulated.' Sir John Herschel

gave my husband one of these pretty little gold coins,

which he valued greatly. It was lost, in moving, after

his death.
1856.  246 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

            Many sanguine persons had been withheld from join
       ing the Decimal Association, in the hope of establishing
       an International Currency ; ' a proposal which,' Mr. De
       Morgan said, ' unites the millennial and decimal systems.'
       They also contemplated the universal decimalisation of

       weights and measures. Mr. J. B. Smith's resolution for

       an Address to the Queen, praying her to invite a congress
       of all nations for this purpose, had not been carried, but
       shortly after, in the autumn, the Paris Exhibition took
       place, and the difficulty of harmonising the various
       weights, measures, quantities, and prices of the articles
       brought by contributors from twenty-two different states
       or countries, led to the consideration of the possibility of
       making a uniform system throughout the world. The
       advantages of such uniformity would be felt both morally
       and socially, in making free trade more easy, and war

       between nations more difficult. All these, as well as the

       benefits to commerce and merchandise, were fully acknow
       ledged by all the advocates of decimal coinage. The only
       question was as to the first step. The mutual advances
       made by the French and Americans by interchange of
       specimens of weights and measures were followed by
       memorials and petitions to their respective governments
       in favour of a congress of delegates from the leading

       nations of the world. In Tract No. 12 of the Liverpool

       Financial Reform Association, all the evils of the present
       confused state of the means of effecting commercial ex
       changes were shown, and all the arguments for a complete
       decimal system throughout brought forward. Shortly
       after the Paris Exhibition an ' International Association '
       was formed, ' for obtaining a uniform decimal system of
       weights, measures, and coin throughout the world.' The
       proposals and arguments of this Association caused a
       great deal of extra work to the active members of the

       Decimal Association. Among my husband's letters are
       several like this from the secretary -- it enclosed some new
       tract or report of speech : --
                      DECIMAL COINAGE.                          247

     Pray take charge of the ' International,' Sec., &e, &c., Asso-            1856.
ciation, and blaze away from time to time, rifle-shot being better

than 60-pounders in such a cause.

     The 60-pounders and small shot were cast and fired with
out thought of time and labour, by one who, besides his
expenditure of both in daily lectures, &c., at University
College, did more work than would have filled the time of

an ordinary man.
    His next public effort was the delivery of a lecture in jf*0(,?TM. at

the large room of the Society of Arts, at a meeting, to «t Art*.
which the advocates of the various plans were invited, of

the Decimal Association. The lecture was On the Ap-
yrtxiching Simplification of the Coinage. We move very
slowly in good and useful directions. The ' approach '
of twenty-seven years ago remains in 1882 just where it
was. The lecturer said : --

     The various systems 1 which had been proposed had all sunkit,
out of notice but two-- the ponml-ani1.mil system, and the ten-
              :
penny system. These terms were used sarcastically, which was
                '
no disadvantage, but then they must be correctly given. Some
4opponents on the tenpenny side had called themselves ' Little- a
endians,' and the pound-and-mil people ' Big-endians.' These                a
had got hold of the poker by the wrong end. Samuel Gulliver,
on whom all relied except the Irish bishop, who, when the

voyage to Lilliput appeared, declared he did not believe half of
     stated that the Endian dispute arose out of the following

dogma -- True believers break their eggs at the convenient

end.' Now, the pound-and-mil people believe that the small end
was that at which the coinage ought to be broken, and small
crack of per cent, in the copper served their purpose. But

the real Big-endians, tho teupenny people, smashed the sovereign
into tenpenny bits, making such a hole as let out all the meat
in getting rid of the pound and shilling.

    The lecturer showed how very small a change in the

present coinage need be made to introduce the new system.
He had been supposed to look at the matter from
scientific rather than a practical point of view, and many

                   1  Referring only to coinage.
       248 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1056.   writers had objected to his having a voice in the question.
        But these writers did not know or had forgotten that he
        was an actuary of twenty-five years' standing, besides
        being a teacher of monetary Arithmetic. He had also
        a position which made him better able to judge than he
        would have been either as a Mathematician or as an
       actuary. He had been for twelve years 1 a manager of a
        savings bank, and in that capacity had had, scores upon
        scores of times, to receive and pay out from two to

       three hundred pounds in a couple of hours, and in all

       kinds of coins, from a shilling and some halfpence up
       wards. When he looked at the banker's clerk, with his
       luxurious table and his convenient scoop, and all his other
       paraphernalia, he at the pay-table of the savings bank
       looked upon that same clerk as an aristocrat, who knew
       little of the difficulties of humble life.

            The lecture was followed by a discussion, Mr. De
       Morgan in the chair, which lasted two evenings, and in
       which the members of the International Decimal Asso

       ciation, who wished to adopt the French system entire,
       and the ' tenpenny people ' defended their respective
       plans. The sense of the meeting was ultimately taken,
       when, with one exception only, the opinions were declared

       to be in favour of the pound-and-mil system. At this
       time some articles by Mr. De Morgan On the Approach

       ing Simplification of the Coinage, intended to make the
       subject clear to all classes, were published in the Metro

       politan.

            In the spring of 1857 Lord Overstone, one of the
       Commissioners for inquiring into the subject of decimal

       coinage, communicated sixty-five questions to the Decimal
       Association. Those questions were answered by Mr. De

       Morgan, Sir J. F. W. Herschel, the Dean of Ely, the

       Astronomer Royal, Professor Miller, Mr. W. Miller,

       Mr. J. B. Franklin, and others. Those which were

           1 During our residence in Camden Street. He thought this the
       best way in which he could be useful to his poorer neighbours.
DECIMAL COINAGE.                                       249

piven by the above members in October were printed by                1856.
the Decimal Association in November 1857.

     Answer 1 No. 1 (Mr. De Morgan's) is preceded by some
remarks by himself. He says, --

    These questions are the first attempts I have seen to bring the  Lord Over-
                                                                     questions,
advocates of the pound-and-mil system to a close hand-to-hand

controversy with the existing system. In such a trial of strength
the weak points of both systems may appear, but the weak
point of the assailant's system is sure to be discoverable from his
mode of attack.

    After pointing out some of the weak points         (those
implying statements or opinions held by him            to be
essentially unsound), he says :--

    It must be conceded that the questions are wholly free from
some absurdities very common among opponents of the pound-
and-mil scheme. They do not bring forward the usual dirge upon
the fraction of a farthing which the possessor of some copper
pieces must lose, for once, on the day when the change takes
place. The only question asked on this point is a sensible one,
fully deserving of consideration and answer. They do not

enable us to amuse ourselves with the supposition that we mean *
apple women to transact business by help of ·0041666066666 ad

infinitum.

    The ' Answer ' runs through forty-one pages of small
print, a portion being taken up by repetition of the
questions. They are amusing and instructive even in
subjects only indirectly related to coinage. The questions

included references to authorities believed to be un

answerable. These were easily dealt with. Here is a
specimen slightly abridged :--

     9. In an old treatise on coin and coinage (Vaugban,
I67o) this passage occurs : --

     Of all the numbers, twelve is the most proper for money,
being the most clear from fractions and confusion of accompt, . .

1 I give them in the order in which they are printed.

* Referring to Mr. Lowe's ideal apple woman.
       250 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

Id56.  by reason that of all the other numbers it is most divisible, being
       divisible into units, as all numbers are ; into two parts, as no odd

       number is ; into three parts, as no even number is but six, and
       the numbers that consist of sixes ; into fourths, into which six is

       not divisible ; and into sixths.

            In the memoir dictated by Napoleon at St. Helena is
       this passage :--

            On avait pr6fer6 le diviseur 12 au diviseur 10 parceque 10 n'a
       que deux facteurs, 2 et 5, et que 12 en a quatre, savoir 2, 3, 4, et

       6. II est vrai que la numeration decimale . . donne des

       facilites aux astronomes et aux calculateurs ; mais ces avantages
       sont loin de compenser l'inconveuient de rendre la pensee plus
       difficile. Le premier caractere de toute methode doit titre
       d'aider la conception et l'imagination, faciliter la memoire, et
       donner plus de force a la pensee.

            To the quotations from Vaughan and the Emperor
       Napoleon this answer is given : --

       When an old writer is stript of his conceits, translated into

       correctness, and under those changes presented as a sage of

       antiquity, the only way to meet his authority is to restore his

       true form, and to allow his whole character to be judged.

       Whether the divisors of 12 gain anything by Mr. Vaughan's

       advocacy may be ascertained by reading the whole passage. . .

       The punctuation may be excused, since the work was printed

       after the author's death by his crotchety brother, Henry

       Vaughan, the SUurist. He is speaking of the proportion of gold

       to silver in value, which he would have 12 to 1, because          12 has
       many divisors. -- (Pp. 73, 74.)
                                                                         that I
            ' But the most, and the most judicious propositions

       have seen, both at home and in other parts, do agree upon twelve

       for one as the most equal proportion ; and it agrees with the
                                                                         ought prin
       proportion   of Spain, upon which     in this  supbajretctI  we    the rather
       cipally to  have onr eye fixed ; and   for my                 do

       incline to this proportion, because 12 of all the numbers is the
       most proper for money, being most clear from all fractions and
       confusion of an accompt, by reason that [here the divisors
       enumerated as in the question]. And to the sixth this proportion
       seems like to square with the conceit of the alchemist, who

       called gold Sol, and silver Luna, whose motions do come near upon

       the point of 12 for 4.'
DECIMAL COINAGE.                                   251

Lord Overstone had wisely left Vaughan's Sun and 1856.
Moon out of his question. The answer goes on : --
                                                                      stone'?TM'"

                                                                      questions.

Vaughan was a clever attorney, who had read more out of

law thaw he was able to digest. Sir William Petty will be

allowed to have a much better judgment by all who have read
iu both. In his Quantulum-cunque, reprinted in 1856 by the

Political Economy Club, it has been pointed out to me that he
speaks as follows :--

'The use of farthings is but to make up payments in silver'

(N.B. Copper farthings and silver pence were then in circula

tion), 'and to adjust accompts, to which end of adjusting accompts
let me add that if your old defective farthings were cryed down

to five a penny you might keep all accompts in a way of decimal

arithmetic which hath been long desired for the ease and

certainty of accompts.'

Decimals were not well understood in Petty's time. His

system would give 1,200 farthings to the pound. But his main

point evidently was that the multiplier 5, by its relation to 10,

is an easier multiplier than 4.

     Mr. Vaughan lived at a time when decimal fractions were

not familiar to the mass of arithmeticians. It would be easy to

show that, up to the year 1700 at least, the mastery over decimal

fractions which is common in our day was almost confined to

high mathematicians. Mr. Vaughan's statement merely amounts

to this, that 12 is better than 10, because it has more divisors.

The answer is that 10 is better than 12 because it is the radix

of our present system of counting. Mr. Vaughan's objections
would be exceedingly valuable if a new system of numeration

were to be under contemplation.

     Napoleon at St. Helena is no authority. He had never been

a shopkeeper or a money calculator; and if he had been, his

position at St. Helena was not favourable to sense or candour.

He was grumbling at all creation ; nobody knew his own

business, not even the General who commanded against him at

Waterloo. He is very unfortunate in his expression. He

adopts the erroneous supposition that the decimal system is only

useful to scientific calculators, and styles them astronomes et cat.

rmlateurs. Now the Astronomer is the only scientific calculator

to whom, as such, decimalisation is impracticable. He is in

such continued connection with the records of his science that

he cannot afford to decimalise angular measure. He is a
       252 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1856.  merchant who wants all his ledger for 2,000 years past. The
       French tried it and failed ; it is the only part of the metrical

       system which is not in nse at this day, except indeed the tenth
       day of rest, which, being an attack on religion, disappeared with
       the retnrn of Christianity. Scientific calculators in general use
       decimals, and they want the world at large to have the advan
       tage which they feel every day of their lives. -- (P. 7.)

            These appeals to the authority of Vaughan and the
       French Emperor were answered by some of the other
       members of the Association. The Astronomer Royal's
       reply is much to the point:1 --

            Napoleon's infantry, cavalry, guns, rations for troops, re
       quisitions in francs for their support, were all expressed on a
       decimal scale ; and he never failed in ' distinctness of conception,'
       ' facility of recollection,' ' readiness and ease in mental calculations,'

       Ior in ' making fractional parts,' in dividing an army, from these

       circumstances. So far as see, the same applies to smaller

       numbers.

            Sir J. Herschel's answer to Lord Overstone's questions

       filled thirty-seven pages. Those of the Astronomer Royal,

       the  Dean  of Ely, Professor Miller,  JM. r.B.MFilrlearnk(lCina,shibereinogf
       the  Bank  of England), and Mr.

       much shorter than the other two, were collected in one

       pamphlet of fifty-five pages. The preliminary Report of

       the Commission of 1855 was published about the same

       time (1857). It contains, besides the answers given by

       advocates of various schemes to Lord Overstone's questions,

       a great deal of evidence obtained from well-informed

       witnesses, of the operation of the decimal system in other

       countries. It is a very large blue-book. The Govern

       ment was now in full possession of all the information

       that could be gained upon the question.

            Much discussion was naturally excited at this time,

          1 It will be apparent that the work of other friends to the decimal

       cause is not made so prominent in this memoir as that of Mr. De
       Morgan. Space would not allow of my mentioning it at any length,

       Ieven if my husband's share were not that with which am concerned.
       IBut believe that his share was the largest.
         DECIMAL COINAGE.              253

and the clear-headed advocates of the measure, and those             1857.
who ' darkened counsel,' all contributed their share. In           Article in
                                                                   Literarium.
a long article in the Literarium of October 7, 1857, Mr.
De Morgan sums up the history. He says, ' the Decimal

Coinage discussion is now in its third phase.' After nar

rating what had been done up to the year 1855, he

adverts to the penny scheme, the plan of counting by tens

and hundreds of pence, leaving the shillings and sovereigns

in which the pence were to be paid, to take care of them

selves. After the debate of 1855 had been followed by

the Royal Commission, the penny scheme came fairly into
discussion, ' for such, in a manner, is evidence with cross-

examination. The preliminary Report of the Royal Com

missioners shows the result. One of the chief advocates

for the penny fairly bolted out of the course, and declared

himself for remaining as we are ; another did nearly the

same thing. This was the end of the second phase.

Lord Overstone completed the downfall of the penny
scheme by proposing sixty-five questions, mostly in

advocacy of the plan of remaining as we are, and led the

way to the third phase of the discussion, thereby doing
the best possible service to the cause.' At this time the

dispute turned upon the question whether it would be

best to adopt the pound-and-mil system, or to remain as

we are.

Mr. De Morgan again set forth the nature of the

change in the currency which would be necessary on the

adoption of the pound-and-mil system.

    It would be embarrassing to have two sets of coins not fairly

interchangeable. No such thing is proposed. The penny, even

if still called a penny, would be lowered four per cent., and

would become 4 mils ; the halfpenny would become two mils.
The cent, 2^ of old and extinct money, would be five halfpence,
and ten farthings, if the mils were called farthings. The poor
would know it as 2\d. from the outset, for they would never
know the difference between a penny and 4 mils.

The paper concludes, speaking of those who had
        254  MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1 856.   believed our present system to be better than a decimal

        one: --

            If this school be a logical one, it ought to be prepared to

        maintain that a country with a decimal system already established
        ought to abandon its coinage, and to introduce the succession of
        4, 12, 20. This is a conclusion at which all parties would have
        laughed three years ago, and at which those who are to come
        after us will well laugh when the objections to this salutary
        reform are written down in histories after the happy, and we
        hope speedy completion of the change.

            It is now 1882, and our reckonings and payments are

        Istill made in pounds, shillings, pence, and farthings.

             Let me add one argument, which have never seen

        used, in favour of decimals. It touches the morality

        of the question. Small shopkeepers, especially haber
        dashers, find the full benefit of the present system by the
        use they make of farthings, and the difficulty of bringing
        them fairly into the calculation. At this time articles in
        small retail shops are often priced \d. less than an even
        sum of pence. The result is that to persons unaccus
        tomed to reckoning they appear cheap, while in reality
        the impossibility of halving and quartering farthings in
        accounts where farthings are of frequent occurrence gives
        a gain over the professed prices of some halfpence on every
        bill. The shopman cannot be expected to do a difficult
        sum in small fractions for every customer, and each cus
        tomer loses very little, but where these customers in each
        day count by hundreds, as in many of the large retail
        ready-money shops, the gains in this way must be con
        siderable, as those who understand business well know.

             The Commission sat through the years 1857, 1858,
        and 1859. From resolutions passed on March 1, 1859, it
        appears that nothing had been ascertained which ren
        dered the change desirable ; that while the weights and
        measures remain as at present the coin could not be
        touched ; and as the weights and measures could not be
        interfered with, the coin must be left alone. These, iu
DECIMAL COINAGE.  255

few words, were the substance of the decisions of Par-           1856.

liament.

      The energetic promoters of what would have been

both morally and socially a most useful measure were
naturally disappointed. Their efforts did not entirely
cease at the time, and Mr. William Brown, Mr. De

Morgan, and others, still did their utmost to keep the public
interest alive on the whole question. Mr. Brown, whose
philanthropy showed itself in many ways, died in 1864.

Of him my husband says,--

      ' The agitation for a decimal coinage was put to rest
by the illness and retirement of Sir Wm. Brown, whose
recent death has revived the memory of his splendid
benefaction (a fine library) to the town of Liverpool. A
parliamentary leader of weight and energy is absolutely
necessary to the success of any public measure ; and as

soon as the man shall be found who combines with
William Brown's great energy his interest in the subject,
the agitation will be revived. All the work that has been
done is good material for a new attempt, and a new
beginning will be made under great advantages. All the

discussion about the metrical system works to the same

end. We may be well assured that our system of calcula
tion will not always be cramped by counting in one way
and measuring in another. And our firm belief is that

the way to work the change will be by beginning with
the coinage, in which decimals are most wanted and

most easily obtained.' 1
      We have now to help us in this work the aid of the

Board schools. There is no reason why the strong efforts

of the Decimal Association should be lost ; and in the hope
that the revival to which my husband looked forward

Imay not be far off, have given this history. All his

writings on the subject are instructive, and the series of
articles in the Penny Cyclojxpdia on Weights, Measures,

· AOmueum, review of ' Battle of the Standards,' April 9, 1864.
           256  MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1856.   and Coins, would form a large volume, containing infor
Sir Isaac  mation on every part of the question in all its relations.1

                The memoir of Newton by Mr. De Morgan, which
           appeared in 1846 (Knight's British Worthies), was, after

           Baily's Life of Flamsteed, the first English work in which
           the weak side of Newton's character was made known.

           Justice to Leibnitz, to Flamsteed, even to Whiston, called

           for this exposure ; and the belief that it was necessary did
           not lower the biographer's estimate of Newton's scientific

           greatness, and of the simplicity and purity of his moral

           character. Francis Baily's discovery of the correspond
           ence between the Rev. John Flamsteed, the first Astro

           nomer Royal, and Abraham Sharp, as well as between
           Newton, Halley, and Flamsteed, on the publication of

           Flamsteed's catalogue of stars, had thrown a new light on

           the character of Newton. It appeared that the practical

           astronomer had been treated ungenerously by Newton,

           who failed to observe the conditions of publication agreed

           to by all parties; and afterwards when remonstrated with
           omitted the name of Flamsteed in places where it had

           formerly stood in the earlier editions of the Principia.

           My husband entered into the inquiry with keen in

           terest, and with a power of research possible only to one

           who was fully master of the history of Mathematical disco

           very.2 With reference to Newton's character he says : -- 'We

              I1 am told that a movement in this direction is now thought of.

           Whatever documents on this subject were left by my husband are still

           in existence.

               2 Several of the works in which the questions relating to Newton's
           Mathematical discoveries were treated are as follows :--

              1. ' Memoir on Newton,' by J. B. Biot. Biographe UniteneBe,

           1794.                                          Family Library, No.

               2. ' Life of Newton,' by Sir D. Brewster.

           24, 1831.

               3. Life of Flamsteed, by F. Baily, 1835. Article in Quarterly
           Review by Barrow, No. 109. Remarks on the same by Dr. Whewell.
           Article in Edinburgh Review by Mr. Galloway.

               4. 'Life of Newton,' by Lord Brougham. Library of l-.s«;/W

           Knowledge.
                 SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                 257

roust differ in some degree from our guide,1 as well as from                          1857.

all those (no small number) whose well-founded veneration                          j,,^"1 "
for the greatest of philosophical inquirers has led them                           p«ull,r".v-

to regard him as an exhibition of goodness all but perfect,

and judgment unimpeachable. That we can follow them

a long way will sufficiently appear in the course of this
sketch.' Later on he says, ' The great fault, or rather mis

fortune, of Newton's life was one of temperament ; 2 a
morbid fear of opposition from others ruled his whole life.

When, as a young man, proposing new views in opposition

to the justly honoured authority of Descartes and lesser

names, he had reasons to look for opposition, we find him

disgusted by the want of an immediate and universal

assent, and representing, as he afterwards said, that

Philosophy was so litigious a lady, that a man might

as well be engaged in lawsuits as have to do with her.

    5. (Art.) ' Newton,' by A. De Morgan. Penny Cycloptrdia, 1840.
    6. ' Life of Newton,' by A. De Morgan. Knight's Cabinet Portrait

Gallery (British Worthies), 1846.
    7. Tract upon Keil and Leibnitz, by A. De Morgan. Cambr.

Phil. Trans., 1846.
    8. ' A Short Account of Recent Discoveries in England and Ger

many relating to the Controversy on the Invention of Fluxions,' by

A. De Morgan.    ACuotmhop.rshtoiptheoAf lmthaenac",   1852.   of  the Commercium
    9. ' On the
                                                      Account
Epistolicum," ' by A. De Morgan. Phil. Magazine, June 1852.
    10. ' On the Early History of Infinitesimals in England,' by A. De
- organ. Phil. Magazine, November 1852.

    11. Life of Newton, by Sir D. Brewster, 1855.
    12. Review of Brewster's Life of Newton, by A. De Morgan.
North British Review, 1855.

    13. Articles in Notes and Queries by A. De Morgan, 1853 and 1856.
    14. Correspondence of Sir Isaac Newton and Prof. Cotes,
J.  Edleston, Fellow of Trin. Coll., Camb. 8vo., London, 1850.     by

    15. Historical Essay on the First Publication of Sir Isaac Newton's
' Principia,' by Prof. S. P. Rigaud. 8vo., Oxford, 1838.

    16. Gentleman's Magazine, lxxxiv., p. 3.
    17. Weld's History of the Royal Society. 2 vols. 8vo., London.
    1 Sir D. Brewster, from whose ' Life of Newton ' in the Family

Library the facts are taken.

   I3 My husband always used this word for what should call ori

ginal character or inborn disposition.

                             8
       258 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1857.  How could it be otherwise? What is scientific investiga

       tion except filing a bill of discovery against nature, with

       liberty to any one to be made a party to the suit ? Newton

       did not feel this, and, not content with the ready accept

       ance of his views by the Royal Society, a little opposition

       made him declare his intention of retiring from the field.

       He had the choice of leaving his opponents unanswered,

       and pursuing his researches, committing it to time to

       show the soundness of his views. That this plan did not

       suit his temper shows that it was not the necessity of

       answering, but the fact of being opposed, which destroyed

       his peace. And he steadily adhered, after his first

       attempt, to his resolution of never again willingly appear
       ing before the world. His several works were extorted

       from him ; and, as far as we can judge, his great views on

       universal gravitation would have remained his own secret
       if Halley and the Royal Society had not used the utmost

       force they could command. A discovery of Newton was
       of a twofold character --he made
       is                                 and then others had

                                       ;

                                  it,
       to find out that he had made it. To say that he had a

       right to do this allowable that is, in the same sense in

       which we and our readers have a right to refuse him any

       portion of that praise which his biographers claim for

       him. In the higher and better sense of the word he had

       no right to claim the option of keeping from the world

       what was essential to its progress that the world should
       it
               it

                                               it

                                                                             is

                                                                      if
       know, any more than we should have a right to declare

       ourselves under no obligation to his memory for the ser

       vices he rendered. To excuse him, and at the same time

       to blame those who will not excuse him, to try the first
       question in one court and the second in another. A man

       who could write the Principia, and who owed his bread

       to a foundation instituted for the promotion of knowledge,

       was as much bound to write as we are to thank him for

       when written.'

       The principle here expressed governed the writer's

       own life. What he knew belonged to the world, by the
          SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                                                     259

knowledge the world could benefit ; and no sooner had it                             1857.
become his own than he felt as much bound to give it to

whomsoever could receive it, as he did to repay to the

uttermost farthing, and with interest, a debt that he

believed himself to have incurred.
    Newton went to Cambridge as a sizar -- ' a student Newton «

whose poverty compels him to seek to maintain himself in "nd"«to'
whole or in part by the performance of some duties which

were originally of a menial character. By this means a

youth could live by the work of his hands while he pursued

his studies. In our days there is little distinction between

the sizars and those above them ; except in college

charges, none at all. Those who look upon Universities
as institutions for gentlemen only -- that is, for persons who

can pay their way according to a certain conventional

standard-- praise the liberality with which poorer gentle

men than others have gradually been emancipated from

what seems to them a mere badge of poverty. But those

who know the old constitution of the Universities see

nothing in it except the loss to the labouring man and the

Ifdestitute man of his inheritance in those splendid founda
tions.    sizarships with paid personal services had not

existed, Newton could not have gone to Cambridge, and

the Principia might never have been written. Let it be

remembered, then, that so far as we owe this immortal

work and its immortal work to the University of Cam

bridge, we owe it to the institution which no longer exists,

by which education and advancement were as much open

to honest poverty seeking a maintenance by labour as to

wealth and rank. Let the juries, who find on their outhg
tbal scoret of pounds' worth of cigars are reasonable neces
ifsaries for young students, think of this,              they can

tJkink."

Proofs of all the writer's assertions on the jealousy

and even vanity of the man whose intellectual work he

          1 Note to Memoir of Newton.                    The italics are mine.
                                                      a
       260 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1857.   prized so highly had been brought forward in the memoir

        with a distinctness that left no room for doubt, though
        the question was not entirely set at rest at that time.

             Another question, that of Newton's religious belief, is
        discussed in the Life ; ' not,' the writer says, ' from any
        particular interest in it, for there are too many great

        minds on both sides of the controversy to make one more

        or less a matter of any consequence to either ; but because
        we have a curious matter of evidence, and an instructive

       Iview of party methods of discussion.' Notwithstanding

        this disclaimer believe my husband felt more interest in

       Ithe question, from its own nature, than he was himself

       aware of. Whether am mistaken in this may be sur

       mised by those who have read his own letter to his mother
        in this volume. He says, ' Whatever Newton's opinions
       were, they were the result of a love of truth, and of a
       cautious and deliberate search after it.'

            That Newton was a firm believer in Christianity as a

       revelation from God is very certain, but whether he held

       the opinions of the majority of Christians on the points
       which distinguish Trinitarians from Arians, Socinians,
       and Humanitarians, is the question of controversy.

            The generic name Unitarian, with the specific names
       Arian, Socinian, and Humanitarian, are ' bandied about
       in interpretative discussion until they are so misused
       that the chances are many readers will need explana
       tion of them. An Arian believes in the finite pre-exist-
       ence of Jesus Christ before His appearance on earth ;
       a Socinian believes him to be a man who did not exist
       before His appearance on earth, but who was a proper
       object of prayer ; a Humanitarian, with all others who come

       under the general name Unitarian (the personal unity of
       the Deity being a common tenet of all), believes him to be
       a man, and not an object of prayer.' Having given the

       arguments on all sides, and taken into consideration
       Newton's great fear of discussion and of opposition, the
       biographer shows that the weight of evidence goes to
SIR ISAAC NEWTON.                     2G1

prove that Newton, the devout Christian believer, was an 1857.

Arian at the least. Besides this evidence, he was the

friend of Locke, Clarke, and Whiston, all distinctly

Antitrinitarians.

    It is to be remembered that during the whole of New- Newton's

III.ton's life the denial of the doctrine of the Trinity was beiiff°Us
illegal, the statute of King William  (which relaxed

the existing law) making the offender ineligible for any
position of trust for the first offence, and liable to three

years' imprisonment with other penalties for the second.
In these days, when few men of science do more than

tolerate the idea of the existence of God, we may dwell

with satisfaction on the fact that the world, if not

wiser, is better. For whereas in 1696 a man was hanged

for denying the Trinity, in 1881 men deny their Father

in Heaven, and their fellow-men, instead of hanging

them, are content to leave the opinion of each to find

its own place in philosophy. If our intellectual con

clusions are chaotic, our moral sense, in this respect at

least, is clearer than it was 200 years ago.
    The ' Life of Newton ' concludes with these words in

reference to the failings which truth compelled the
writer to disclose : --' Surely it is enough that Newton is

the greatest of philosophers and one of the best of men ;

that all his errors are to be traced to a disposition which

seems to have been born with him ; that, admitting them

in their fullest extent, he remains an object of unqualified

wonder, and all but unqualified respect.'
     In the year 1855, three years after the appearance of Brewster's

Mr. De Morgan's tracts on the Fluxional Controversy, logni, -%'
Sir David Brewster's Life of Newton was published. Some
of the statements of the biographer in the British

Worthies were controverted, though not strongly ; some

were softened, and some ignored. Sir David, in his great

veneration for his subject, had fallen into hero-worship,

and my husband's critique of his Life of Newton in the
North British Review, No. 46, 1855, shows this very clearly.
       262 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

I857.  In this review 1 Brewster's objections and omissions were

       refuted and supplied. The faults of Newton in the matter

       of Flamsteed and Leibnitz are proved, and in relation to

       the order of the discovery of Fluxions the character of
       Leibnitz received its due testimony: --

            ' We shall not stop to investigate the various forms in

       which Sir D. Brewster tries to make him out tricking and

       paltry. We have gone through all the stages which a

       reader of English works can go through. We were

       taught, even in boyhood, that the Royal Society had made

       it clear that Leibnitz stole his method from Newton. By

       our own unassisted research into original documents we

       have arrived at the conclusion that he was honest, candid,
       unsuspecting, and benevolent. His life was passed in law,

       diplomacy, and public business ; his leisure was occupied
       mostly by psychology, and in a less degree by mathe

       matics. Into this last science he made some incursions,

       produced one of the greatest of its inventions almost

       simultaneously  with one of its  gcreaalltsestthenam"egsr,eaant drimvaalde"
       himself what    Sir D. Brewster

       of Newton in Newton's most remarkable mathematical

       achievement.'

            The reviewer speaks of the pleasure he derived as a
       boy from Brewster's invention, the kaleidoscope : --

            ' The two deans of optical science in Britain and in

       France, Sir David Brewster and M. Biot, are both bio

       graphers of Newton, and take rather different sides on

       disputed points. Sir D. Brewster was the first writer on

       optics in whose works we took an interest ; but we do
       not mean printed works. We, plural as we are, remember

       well the afternoon, we should say the half-holiday, when

            1 Speaking of the titles of all the parties concerned, Mr. De Morgan
       says, ' Sir David never neglects the knighthood of Newton. . . . Should

       we survive Sir David, we shall Brewster him. We hold that those
       who are gone, when of a certain note, are entitled to the compliment
                simplest nomenclature.' In the tracts
       of the                                           "onInathsme uCcohmmaserkcniuimghtEhpoiosd-
       tolicum   he reverses the usual phrase, saying,

       was not honoured with Newton until," &c.'
SIR ISAAC NEWTON.  263

the kaleidoscope, which our ludi-magister (most aptly 1857.
named for that turn) had just received from London, was North
confided to our care. We remember the committee of j^'j^,.

conservation, and the regulation that each boy should, at
the first round, have the uninterrupted enjoyment of the

treasure for three minutes ; and we remember, further, that

we never could have believed it took so very short a time

to boil an egg. A fig for Jupiter and his satellites, and
their inhabitants too, if any ! What should we have

thought of Galileo when placed by the side of the in
ventor of this wonder of wonders, who had not only made

?'....his own telescope, but his own starry firmament
     ' Since his own scientific sensibilities are keen, . . .

we hope they will make him fully feel that he has linked
his own name to that of his first object of human rever

ence for as long as our century shall retain a place
in literary history. This will be conceded by all, how

much soever they may differ from the author in opinions
or conclusions; and though we shall proceed to attack
several of Sir D. Brewster's positions, and though we
have no hesitation in affirming that he is too much of a

biographer and too little of an historian, we admire his

earnest enthusiasm, and feel as strongly as any one of his

assent ients the service he has rendered to our literature.'

     The two biographers had differed in their estimate of
Newton's religious belief, Sir David Brewster, in the first
instance, maintaining his orthodoxy, ' by which,' Mr. De
Morgan says in his Review, ' we mean a belief of as much
as the Churches of England and Scotland hold in common.'

He himself believed Newton to be an Arian, and the MS.
creed of Newton found in the Portsmouth papers showed
that he was right. M. Biot, who had been a worshipper of
Newton early in the century, wrote to Mr. De Morgan at

the time, expressing his satisfaction and concurrence in
the statements of the North British Review. He received

from my husband a copy of the memoir, with which he
       greatly pleased. The author and M. Biot had met
       2G4  MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1857.  in Paris twenty-five years before, but this M. Biot, now in

       his eighty-second year, had forgotten.

           In the course of the inquiry a question had arisen,

       which my husband felt to be an important one, nearly
       concerning Newton's moral rectitude. Catherine Barton,
       the niece of the philosopher, was known to have kept the

       house of his friend Lord Halifax. It was, however, never

       publicly known whether they were or were not privately
       married. From all that Mr. De Morgan could gather on
       this subject, which amounted to a great deal of presump

       tive if not quite conclusive evidence, he was convinced

       that, except as a wife, Newton would not have counte
       nanced his niece's connection with the Prime Minister.

       This conviction was strengthened by the production of a

       MS. letter of Newton's bought by our friend M. Libri at

       a sale, in October 1856. But the opinions of scientific and

       literary men were not unanimous.

           All the facts and arguments connected with this ques

       tion were carefully embodied in an article for the Com
       panion to the Almanac for 1858. This article was objected
       to by the publisher, Mr. C. Knight, on the ground of its

       not dealing with a subject of general interest. It was

       suggested to Mr. De Morgan to alter or curtail his
       writing, or to furnish another article, and he refused to do
        either. This was the cause of his discontinuing his con
       tributions to the Companion to the Almanac. His reasons
        will be found in the correspondence.

1858.      My husband's time was too thoroughly filled to allow of
       his taking an active part in many public movements,

       but he was always glad to give what help he could to
       benevolent schemes. He has mentioned, a propos of de
       cimal coinage, his work at the Savings Bank. Another

       design which he much wished to see carried into execution
       was the opening of playgrounds for poor children. Our

       friend the Rev. David Laing, well remembered in his
       parish of Trinity, St. Pancras, N.W., for incessant efforts
REV. DAVID LAING.        265

to improve and assist his parishioners 'in mind, body, 1858.

and estate,' devised a plan for opening playgrounds grourMr"
wherever land could be obtained in London, in which poor moven,ent-

children might play harmlessly and happily, uncontami-

nated by street influences. Mr. Laing asked me to join

his committee, and my husband fully shared the interest

felt in the scheme. We had a dinner at the Freemasons'

Tavern, at which Mr. Charles Dickens presided, and

spoke as warmly as he was known to feel for the little

vagrants, who, like the dweller in Tom Ail-alow*s, were

always being 'chivied' away. A meeting, too, was held

for the same object, when Lord Shaftesbury was in the

chair, supported by Lord Ebury and Mr. De Morgan, who

both spoke warmly in our favour.1 Our object was not

attained, partly from the difficulty of exciting general

interest, partly from the want of workers on the committee,

for Mr. Laing's health gave way, and the society ceased

to exist. The want is now in some measure but not

entirely supplied by the playgrounds of the Board schools.

    It was a few years before this time that Mr. Dickens

and Mr. De Morgan had met at the house of Mr. Charles
IKnight at Broadstairs.
                         heard that the meeting gave
pleasure to both, but I was not myself of the party. It

was in the autumn, on one day of which the forty drowned

bodies of cattle were heaped on the little pier, as described

in the volume of letters recently published.2 I well re-

    1 I wrote in Household Words ' A Plea for Playgrounds,' and a
longer article in Good Words some time after for Miss Octavia Hill's

playground.

    1 Some little time ago I came upon a letter from Mr. Dickens to us
both, dated 1840. A difference of opinion had arisen between my hus

band and myself on the meaning of one of the illustrations in Nicholas
Nickleby, that in which Mrs. Kenwigs, her four daughters, with Miss
Peiowker tho fireman's daughter, and the reciter of the Blood-
drinker's Burial, appear. Mr. De Morgan believed that the stout
lady was the fireman's daughter, and the thin lady the mother of the
little girls who were ' too beautiful to live.' The dispute ran so high
that it could only be settled by an appeal to head-quarters. Accord
ingly Mr. De Morgan sent a letter to the author from ' a lady and
1858.  266 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.
1859.
       Imember Mr. Dickens's active interest in the scene, and

       heard the proposal to make the dead cattle into sausage

       Imeat, which probably was carried into effect ' uubeknown,'

       for several of the carcasses were bought by butchers.
       was strictly enjoined not to let ' sassingers ' come into the

       house.

            Our three youngest daughters had been born in
       Camden Street, and there were many associations with
       the house which were, with the sad exception of our
       eldest child's death, pleasant to my husband and myself.
       But we wanted a more roomy house, and it was thought
       that my severe illnesses might be averted by a better
       air.

            After we were settled at No. 41 Chalcot Villas, Adelaide
       Road (at that time nearly surrounded by fields, and
       fully two miles from the College), he left the house

       always before eight o'clock in the morning, and met the
       omnibus in the Hampstead Road, which took him to
       Grafton Street a short time before the lecture began. He
       returned to dinner at five o'clock ; and as he only gave
       himself about half an hour's rest after dinner before going
       to his library, where he wrote or read for four or five hours,

       gentleman who, being husband and wife, seldom agreed about anything,
       though they were in one mind in admiration of the novel,' entreating
       the author to adjudicate the question. We received the following
       reply :--

                              ' 1 Devonshire Terrace, York Gate, April 12, 1840.
            ' Mr. Charles Dickens sends his compliments both to the gentle
       man and the lady who do him the honour to differ upon an illustrated
       point in Nicholas Nickleby, and begs to inform them that the lady sitting
       down is intended for Mrs. Kenwigs, and the lady standing up for the
       designing Miss Petowker. But Mr. Dickens begs the gentleman and
       lady unknown to take especial notice that neither of their portraitures
       is quite correct, Mrs. Kenwigs being constitutionally slim and
       delicate and of a slight figure (quite unimpaired by her frequent
       confinements), and Miss Petowker a young female of some personal
       attractions, set off by various stage effects and professional captiva-
       tions.'

           IThis was according to my husband's impression, so he was trium

        phant and crestfallen.
URINKWATER BETHUNE.                 2G7

he seldom gave up an evening to friends without feeling 1859.

that his work for the next day had accumulated. When

he had nowhere to go to between the lectures he spent an

hour or two in the Professors' room with some of his

colleagues in the middle of the day, and this was his chief

rest and recreation. I cannot record any of the conver
sation held there, but I know that for many years it was

very pleasant and sociable, and many a good anecdote
and riddle (generally traceable to Dr. Sharpey) have come

to me from that little conclave.

    One day my husband told me that he had only been
in the Professors' room for a few minutes for two days,

for that a poor man driving a cab had been thrown from
his seat just as he was himself crossing the road. ' They

picked him up,' he said, ' quite insensible, but he recovered
Iwhen we got him home.
                        saw him comfortably in bed,

and that he did not want anything. Yesterday he was

much better.' I found that the injured man's home was

more than a mile from the College.

Mr. De Morgan's friend Mr. Drinkwater Bethune held Emjj m

a high Government appointment in India. Besides being ty.

a statesman and a distinguished scholar, he was a philan

thropist, and was active in promoting the education of

Hindoos and Mahomedans. The lives of Galileo and Kepler

in the Library of Useful Knowledge were by him, as was also
an essay On Probability, which he wrote in conjunction

with Sir J. Lubbock. On the back of this little book the

binder had by mistake printed Mr. De Morgan's name,
and the attribution to himself of a work to which he had

no claim troubled the reputed writer, who, of course, was

uneasy till he had thoroughly disowned it. On the cover

of his own copy he substituted for his name those of the
real authors, adding after the printed words ' by Augustus
De Morgan ' the comment, ' the last named is homo

irium litcrarum.' 1

                     1 F. U. R.
              268  MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1859.          In 1850, shortly before Mr. Drinkwater Bethune's
          U"
              death, he had sent to England some copies of a work by
drsnC         Ramchundra, a native teacher, and head master of Science

              in the school at Delhi. A copy was presented to Mr. De

              Morgan, who saw in this treatise on problems of Maxima
              and Minima ' not only merit worthy of encouragement, but
              merit of a very peculiar kind, the encouragement of which

              . . . was likely to promote native effort towards the restora
              tion of the native mind in India.' With his lively interest
              in all that belonged to India, the land of his birth, and with
              his still wider interest in every effort of original thought,

              especially where, as bearing the impress of national charac

              ter, it had place in the history of mental progress, he called
              the attention of the Court of Directors to the work of the

              Hindoo teacher, suggesting that Ramchundra should
              receive a reward for his work, and that the work itself

              should be brought under the notice of Mathematicians in
              Europe. After some correspondence with the authorities
              and with Ramchundra himself, the Court expressing
              entire concurrence in his views, his offer to superintend

              the reprint of Ramchundra's work was accepted. It

              was a work of some labour, because it was done so
              thoroughly. His preface, consisting of twenty-three
              closely printed pages, gives a short but scientific history
              of the rise and progress of Mathematical science in

              Greece and India, and an analysis of the mental character

              of the two nations in their respective leanings to geo
              metrical and algebraic thought, with the causes of the
              entire extinction of Mathematical speculation in India,
              while it remained to some extent active in Greece as long
              as that country existed as a nation. The extinction of
              active speculation, and its replacement by a taste for
              routine, ' to which,' he says, ' inaccurate thinkers give
              the name of practical,' he shows to be coeval with the
              death of Science in a nation. This was the fate of Hindoo

              philosophy, and how to revive active thought in the land

              of his birth was to him a question of deep interest. His
HINDOO ALGEBRA.  269

counsel may still be valuable. ' Some friends of education,' ,o,0
be says, ' have advised that the Hindoos should be fully Ramchun-

instructed in English ideas and methods, and made the
media through which the mass of their countrymen
should receive ideas in their own language.' This plan
has not succeeded, and a deeper knowledge of the psycho
logical aspects of national character might have predicted
the result. ' My conviction,' my husband says, ' is that
the Hindoo mind must work out its own problem, and
that all we can do is to set it to work -- that is, to pro
mote independent speculation on all subjects by previous

encouragement and subsequent reward.' Ramchundra

had a stronger leaning to geometry than could have been

expected by a person whose sole knowledge of the native
mind was derived from the Vija Ganita, but he had not
the power in geometry which he had in algebra. ' Should
this preface,' the writer says, ' fall into the hands of some
young Hindoos who are systematic students of Mathe

Imatics, beg of them to consider well my assertion that

their weak point must be strengthened by the cultivation
of pure geometry. Euclid must be to them what Bhascara

or some other algebraist has been to Europe.' It may be

that the prevalence of algebraic thought among the
Hindoos naturally accompanies their power of compu
tation, and their love of symbolism (without beauty
of external form) shown in the mythology and astro
nomy ; while the mathematical reasoning of the Greeks
fell, as might naturally be expected from their love of
symmetry and proportion in form, into a geometrical

method.

     At this time, Lord Brougham being Lord Rector of 0ffrr rf
the University of Edinburgh, the degree of LL.D. was Edinburgh
offered to my husband. He appreciated the honour, but
declined it with thanks, saying to me that it did not suit
him : he ' did not feel like an LL.D.'

     The International Statistical Congress was held in

London in 1860, and he joined a Committee for the
1859.         270 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

              IInspection, think, of Scientific Instruments, but he did

              not give much work to this.

      1861.        An uncompromising character like my husband's must,
              while the world is what it is, sometimes make its owner
Astronomi-    appear combative. And indeed it always needs some
cai Society.
              kindness and geniality in a dissentient to produce the

              conviction that he is not actuated by love of opposition in

              the part he takes.

                  Mr. De Morgan's fellow-workers in any cause soon

              knew him well enough to feel sure what part he would

              take in any occasion of difficulty involving self-sacrifice
              for principle. An occasion of this sort occurred in 1861,

              when he left the Council of the Royal Astronomical

              Society.

                  The following list will show the offices he had held
              since he joined it in 1828 : --

                   Feb. 1830. He was elected a member of the Council.

              1831. Secretary with Hon. Mr. Wrottesley.
              1832-38. Secretary with change of colleague.
              1839-40. One of the Vice-Presidents.

              1841-42. Member of Council.

              1843-44. One of the Vice-Presidents.

              1845-47. Member of Council.

              1848-54. Secretary with Admiral Manners.
              1855-56. One of the Vice-Presidents.

              1857. Member of Council.

              1858. Vice-President.

              1859. Member of Council.

              1860. Vice-President.

                   1861. Elected a Vice-President; declined to act.

                   From this list, taken from the Monthly Notices, it

              appears that he held the place of Secretary for fifteen
              years. By his own statement in the letter given farther
              on, he filled it for eighteen years.

                  In 1860 he retired from the Club.1 After our removal

              1 This consisted of the most influential members of the Society,
ROYAL ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY.  271

in 1859, from Camden Street to Adelaide Road, the                    18G1.
distance made it difficult for him to be in London late

at night, on account of the necessity before mentioned
of his leaving home early in the morning. His resigna
tion was received with regret. The meetings of this

friendly Club had been a great pleasure to him, but

he had latterly been unable to join them. His friend
Mr. Pe la Rue, then treasurer and secretary, wrote : --

1 Regret was universally expressed at the announcement
of your retiring, and also because it recalled to mind
how little you had been with us of late. The members

could not reconcile themselves to the withdrawal of a

name so intimately connected with the Club for the

Ilast thirty years, and you were immediately proposed
as an honorary life member.  have to announce to

yon that you were elected by acclamation, and that the

Club hope that you will dine with them whenever your

leisure and inclination permit of your doing so ; and this

I Iwish endorse on my own account most heartily.' do

not think he ever found leisure, however much he might

have had inclination, to dine with his old friends again.

     During this and the following year occurrences took             Election of
                                                                     i'r»idrn*"
place which affected his happy relations with the Society,
though not with the friends who continued to belong
to it. In the year 1861, six members of the Council

determined to place Dr. Lee, of Hartwell House, in the

President's chair. Dr. Lee was a respectable and esti

mable man, who, by the maintenance of a private observa

tory, had shown great interest in Astronomy ; but he was

himself more of an antiquarian than a scientific man,

and, but for his wealth, would not have been eligible as

President. It was the manner of proposing the candidate

at a packed meeting, and the canvass for his election by
his supporters, in place of the open election by which,

who assembled after the meeting. Their entertainment consisted of

c,flee, cigars, sometimes a bowl of punch, and always much friendly
talk.
           272 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1861.      in compliance with the recommendation of the Council,
           a President had hitherto been chosen, that constituted a

           departure from the course hitherto followed. It was no

           longer ' our little honest Society,' as my husband had
           called it in writing to Admiral Smyth ; and all its oldest
           friends -- those who had made it what it was-- declared

           against the innovation. The other party prevailed, and
           on the election of Vice-Presidents after the President's

           election, Mr. De Morgan was informed that his name was
           on the list. His friends, when his intention to leave the
           Council was made known, entreated him to remain, seve
           ral of them urging that his was the name which could be
           least spared. But he believed that his resignation would
           cause the smallest possible shock to the Society, while it

           would be a protest against the unconstitutional tendencies
           which he wished to arrest. In answer to the official an
           nouncement of his election as one of the Vice-Presidents,
           he sent the following letter : --

Letter on                              41 Chalcot Villas, Adelaide Road, March 1, 1861.
Council.
              I IGentlemen, -- have received from Mr. Williams a notifica-

           tion that was elected a Vice-President of the Society at the
           General Meeting of the 8th ult. This election, legally valid, is
           morally defective in one essential particular. The appointment
           of a voluntary officer must be a result of concert between the

           choosers and the chosen. It is a matter of prudence, when a

           new system is established by a contested election, that the first
           should inquire of the second whether he will be willing to take
           the office on the terms which the altered circumstances of the

           case expressly or implicitly lay down. Failing such inquiry,

           Iany election, however good in law, is but an offer ; and to the

           offer reply, in all good humour, first by thanks, secondly by

           non-acceptance.

              IHere might close this communication ; but the regard^I
           Ifeel for the Society, in whose affairs have taken part from

           early manhood up to a time when old age is within signal

           Idistance, impels me to explain myself farther. In placing before

           yon the ground of my retirement, am fully satisfied that the
           retirement itself, accompanied by reasons, will do the cause more
           good than any services of mine have ever done yet, and vastlv
                 ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY.                        273

Imore than my continuance on the Council could do. Were                         1861.
Inot no well assured of this, that the course take becomes im- Letter on
perative, I should content myself with silent acquiescence, and JJioJJticIf
ahonld defer my secession until the actual arrival of the state of
things which I fear is on its way.
   Before I enter on the subject I will premise -- first, that

there is nothing in my refusal to serve which has reference to

the new President, for whom I entertain, as always, high

esteem and regard. Had Mr. Airy been preferred to Dr. Lee in

the manner in which Dr. Lee has been preferred to Mr. Airy,

my course and my reasons would still have been what they are. I it,
Secondly, I fully admit, should any one suppose I question

that the Society has not exceeded its rights a bit more than

shall have exceeded my own rights in sending this letter.

Thirdly, have not acted in concert with any former colleague,
   I
                          is

                                   a
and have not even given hint of my resolution to any Fellow

of the Society.

     The Astronomical               Society has gained a high position by
                                    the plainest of all the scientific associa
sheer hard work. It

tions, and the one which least glitters by the show of rank and

wealth. Its sole thought has been the promotion of Astronomy.

And undivided attention to its real business has been rendered

easy by such harmony as               very rarely found in public bodies
                     I
                         I is

                                   I
                                              I
Nevertheless, during the last two or three years there has not

been that entire unity between the Council and the Fellows

which had always existed in time past.           believe that such

interruption of the usual concord as has taken place was the

consequence of adverse feeling in a very small number of the

Fellows; how generated                do not know. Perhaps that bias

towards initiation of political action by which Englishmen spoil

so many of their extra-political associations may have taken
hold of some minds.
                                    thought saw symptoms of the Council

being a corrupt aristocracy, who made pocket boroughs of the

planets, and deprived the moon of her due share of the franchise.

I  will make no further allusions to the manifestations, which satis-

led me, independently of all knew besides, that the side they
                 I
                                   I
came from was the wrong side.

   The feelings have mentioned soon took the form of desire
                                                      a
to facilitate combined opposition to the list of officers which eachby

retiring Council had always recommended to be their successors.

The existing Council met the expression of this desire        the

proposal of those by-laws on the subject which now govern the

                                      T
       274 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1861.  ISociety. That was not against tho change may be inferred

       from my being the acting Secretary of the Committee of Conncil

       which drew up the new by-laws, and the mover of their adop

       tion at the general meeting which passed them. My assigned

       reason was that nothing could be too democratic for a scientific

       society. I think so still. But I saw in silence, though with

       great satisfaction, that the changes would speedily bring to issue

       and to settlement questions, on the right and speedy settlement

       of which the prosperity of the Society depends. And this is a

       Imuch better way than could be opened by the results of a period
       of smouldering discontent.  saw that the good sense of the

       whole body would soon be turned to reflection upon the question

       whether the Society could exist in honour and in usefulness upon

       any other basis than that of peaceful government by a Council:

       not this Council, nor that Council, but a Council. That is to say,

       government by one Council, under the statutory changes of its

       details, until that Council ceases to be in harmony with its con

       stituents, and then government by another Council, composed, in

       strong part at least, of different men.

          I did not suspect that the Society would be so fortunate as

       that reflection on this point should first be promoted by so slight

       a pair of matters as the substitution of one President for another,

       and the retirement of so dispensable a member of the Council

       as myself. It is just as I could have wished. My own secession

       will not -- whatever it might have done twenty years ago -- im

       Ipede the action of the Society, while the retirement of a person

       who has known it so thoroughly as have done for thirty years,

       Iduring eighteen of which he has officiated as Secretary, will

       certainly lead to that reflection which desire to promote.

           The circumstances under which I retire are, in my view, as

       follows. Half-a-dozen of the Fellows, desiring to pay a compliment

       to a highly respected member of the Conncil, proposed him as

       President, in opposition to another Fellow proposed by the Council.

       That this, and no more than this, was their first intention, I feel well

       assured. But, as they grew warm in the business, they availed
       themselves of the usual resources of opposition -- the personal

       canvass, the newspaper article, and the invention of a principle to

       justify a course which, in  the first instance, had  no reason except
       the innocent one which                               lay it down that
                                   I have stated. They

       A B having been President three times, and C D not at all, it is

       now, as it were, C D's turn. That is to say, they propound a

       law of rotation, independently of any reason which the Council
ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY.                                         275

Imight have had for their recommendation. Should have mis.             1861.
Irepresented, or rather under-represented, the Fellows to whom
                                                                    Letter on
allude, the misrepresentation comes of their own fault. They        quitting
                                                                    Council.
bad the power of stating the principles on which they acted to

the general meeting; it pleased them to prefer the partial and

private canvass for their only mode of action, the paragraph

and its reason for their only statement of view.

   IThey succeeded, and am convinced that one element of

their success was that modicum of adverse feeling towards tho

Council, of the existence of which I had seen proofs. Their suc

cess transfers the responsibility of their course of action to tho

Society as a whole ; and thus, and thus only, does that course of

action become a legitimate object of my criticism. I maintain

sad uphold the uuliei'Iual Fellow in his claim to propose a Presi
Ident on any criterion of superior fitness which he pleases.
                                                              will

tupport him, acting for himself, in the assertion of bis right to

tue the canvass, the newspaper, or anything which a civilised

man can have recourse to, in preference to placing his views

before the assembled Society. But when the Society adopts a
proposal, the result then becomes my affair, with its reasons, if

any be assigned ; or, failing such assignment, with the reasons

deduced by myself from circumstances.

The power of organising opposition, recently and most

properly conceded by the Society to individuals, is one, the

corporate assent to any use of which should both be governed

and defended by reason. It was intended, as the Society itself

was intended, for the encouragement and promotion of Astronomy.

When employed and privately argued against a deliberate re

commendation of the Council, it shonld not be sanctioned by
Ithe collective Society except upon avowed grounds.
                                                     speak

of concerted plans, not of votes of individual Fellows, each

actirg on his own judgment. If the existing system of ad-

ministration be not in harmony with the corporate feeling to an

extent which requires united action, it is expedient that the

Council should know tho how and tho why. This is reasonable,

because it will discourage and retard Astronomy, so far as tho

Society can do it-- and it can do something -- if the Council and
the Society should take to working against each other in the

dark. Should the system continue, it is my fixed opinion that

the harmonious and useful body to which I havo so long been

attached will go through a scries of faction fights, compared to

which the recent matter is hardly worthy to be called a contest;
       276 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1861.  and will emerge, if indeed it emerge at all, with crippled utility,

       Idiminished honour, and wasted resources. This is my opinion.

         desire no one else to assent unless his own experience of col
       Ilective action should make him see the danger as do, after that
       I Ireflection which know my proceeding will excite.
                                                            do not

       affirm that the substitution of one President for another is in

       itself a dangerous act. I look at the whole history of the
       ISociety for some years past, and on that whole am irresistibly

       impelled to form a very strong opinion.

          I will add something which may tend to prevent a greater

       calamity than my own refusal to act. It ought to have been

       evident to the promoters of the recent division that the new by

       laws have the effect of making what is called the balloting list

       into two or more, whenever two sets of nominators are therein

       exhibited. Usually when parties contest such a question each

       gives the whole of its own list, and any two lists are not the less

       two because there may happen to be many names common to

       both. It is most expedient that those who originate a second

       list should take care to ascertain that those whose names they
       take from the other list are willing to serve in either event. For

       two lists which differ by one name only, especially when the
       name is that of the proposed President, may symbolise two very

       different principles. It might easily happen that many of the

       common names might decline to give such assent to the principle

       of one of the lists, as would be inferred from their accepting

       office at the hands of a majority. It cannot reasonably be

       expected that any nominee should rise at the meeting, and

       Ideclare his intention of not serving except on one contingency.

         duly considered the propriety of such course, and rejected it

       for three reasons. First, it would have had such an appearance
       of disrespect to an old friend as it would have been impossible

       to neutralise, save by such explanations as would have brought
       on a discussion which it was not for me to originate. Secondly,
       because such a declaration -- a dictation, as it would have been
       called -- would have been a firebrand thrown into the meeting by
       way of commencing the discussion. Thirdly, because the

       course announced would have caused difference of opinion among

       those who thought as I did concerning the policy of the oppo

       sition to the Council.

       The true way of secur'ng a working Council would be for

       those who differ to take care, each side for itself, to present a

       list of those whom they have reason to know to be willing to
            ASTRONOMICAL SOCIETY.                      277

          upon the views which the nominating party has put for-        1861.
ward. In the present case it has been proposed to me, by the         Letter on
mere fact of election, and in no other way, to act as Vice-
President on the principle of filling offices only to pay compli     Council!
ments, or else upon a principle of rotation, the compliment and

the system of rotation being settled by private canvass. Or if not

one of these, then upon the principle that the deliberate recom

mendation of the Council may be set aside on no reason, either
assigned or discoverable. I disapprove equally of the compliment
Ireason, the rotation reason, and the nullity reason.
                                                       consider

them all as fraught with danger when applied without delibera
tion. I am not prepared to say that, on due consideration of all

circumstances, the case might not arise in which any one of these

Ireasons might be sufficient. But feel compelled to decline

action on either reason on no better support than the pro rations

roltnias of the balloting-box. If, indeed, the promoters of the
change had come forward and had justified their course in public
meeting, I might possibly, though not concurring in their

reasons, have been able to accept the deliberate conclusion of the

ISociety, in lieu of the deliberate conclusion of the Council.
Ihave much respect for the result of argument, even when do
Inot feel convinced by the argument itself. But will not act in

the affairs of a Society which rejects the recommendation of its

Ibest advisers on grounds which those who promote the rejection

do not submit to discussion ; and, were not satisfied that the

successful majority do not comprehend the character of their
own proceeding, I should look upon them as almost wanting in

courtesy for not taking the pains to ascertain whether I could

meet their views, or whether they would have to substitute for

my name that of one of the gentlemen whose advice they were

disposed to prefer to mine. As it is, however, I can thank them
without reservation for the honour which I decline.

   I cannot help saying that it will give me much satisfaction

to hear that no one but myself, however much he may be con
vinced that a new and perilous period in the history of the Society

has commenced, judges it necessary to carry matters so far as I

Ihave done. And with this, coupled with the expression of the

deep regret with which separate myself from those with whom

I have so long acted in the most friendly concert, I remain,

gentlemen,

            Yours sincerely,

                                   A. De Moroan.
              278      MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1861.             P.S.-- It will  Ibe seen that     write as if I were      addressing  the
                                                    that I expect that      my letter   will
              Fellows at large.     This means

              be entered on the minutes of the Council, whicb are by express

              by-laws accessible to the Fellows at their meetings.

              These suggestions on government might apply to

              larger bodies than the one addressed. They give an idea

              of his political principles, which demanded the utmost

              possible freedom for the individual, subject to a conserva
              Itive respect for law.
                                                    have been told that the Astro

              nomical Society suffered at this time from the causes

              which led him to leave it. But these things occurred

              twenty years ago, and their effects have, no doubt, long

1862.         passed away.

                   His correspondence with M. Biot had been chiefly on
              the Life of Newton. In this year M. Biot died, and Mr.
              De Morgan received from his son-in-law, M. Lefort, some

              particulars of his early life as material for a biographical

              notice.

introduc-     ^U.ni.AvenrsiitnytrCo_odlulecgteo,ry   lecture,     the last  he ever gave at
torv lecture                                        on the     openi.ng of  thi.s sessi.on, was
at Univer-

Ilege. never printed. How greatly this was regretted by many
              of his hearers am unable to say. Seldom was an
              address listened to within those walls with a more lively

              interest, or received with such mirth and hearty acclama

              tions. The subject was a branch of his favourite one --

              ' Education,' and that branch was the method of exa

              mining at Cambridge. The attacks on the system were
              made with so much humour, and so much good humour,
              that the attacked could hardly have resented what they must

              feel was so well deserved. Great amusement was caused

              by the description of the self-satisfaction of an examiner
              after he had set a question well fitted to show off his own

              ingenuity and cleverness, but unfitted to elicit the thought

              or power of the student. The illustrations which half
              filled the lecture were taken from common sayings, old
              ballads, and nursery rhymes ; and if the grave body in

              the centre of the theatre, a few of whom could appreciate
            LIFE ASSURANCE.                                                  279

the force and humour of the quotations, felt their dignity 1862.

at stake, the indisputable truth of every sentence justified
the utterance. Many of the students who felt the im

portance of all that had been brought forward in this

playful guise signed a request that he would print the

lecture. A similar request was also sent privately from
Cambridge. He meant to rearrange and add to it before

publication, but he never had time for this, and the

slightest notes only are left.

    I ought not to leave out his work in Life Assurance,

but of this I can say very little. I have heard it said

that his attention was drawn to this subject by my father,

who, from his own pursuits, was supposed to be interested

in it. This was not so, however. The two had always

mutual subjects of more interest to discuss, and, as far

as I recollect, it was scarcely mentioned between them till

Mr. De Morgan, who had been consulted on some Com

pany's business, referred to my father for information as

to their way of doing  it,a subject on which he had been
                                           aa
consulted before. My husband frequently gave opinions

on insurance questions. He was                 contributor to the

Insurance Record, and gave many valuable papers to                           by it
and to the magazine of the Institute of Actuaries. One

of the longest articles in this was severe criticism and
exposure of Mr. T. R. Edmonds, who had given to the

world as his own a discovery which was made by Mr.

Benjamin Gompertz. The latter was distantly related

marriage to Mr. De Morgan's family.

     The    last *p^apr er in the Insurance Record to which his                     ?A*lbiluerret ,L°,iff,t
name         appended relates to the Albert Life Assurance
        is               a                                                          Office.

                                                                          t
Company. In 1861 he had made the valuation according to

the data furnished to him, and in 1862 gave his opinion

that the Society was in  condition to give a bonus.

When, eight years after, the Society was declared bank

rupt, under circumstances which were far from creditable

to the management, his name and opinion were brought

forward as a justification of their proceedings. This was
            280 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   18(32.   first known to him by paragraphs extracted in our news-
Failure of  papers from the Bengal Hurkaru and other Indian papers,

Office.     and afterwards by the Overland Summary, by which it

            appeared that severe censure had been passed upon him
            for the part he had taken in the monetary affairs of the

            Albert. The question was not unimportant, because much
            ruin had been caused by the failure of the office ; and
            though this could not be traceable to his advice, his name

            had been used as a screen by those whose mismanage

            ment, if nothing worse, had caused the calamity. As

            was said, he had but to fight shadows, but this might be

            worth while when the shadows rest upon a good name.

            When all this came to his knowledge in 1870, he was too
            weak and ill to care much about erroneous statements

            respecting himself, but his friends prevailed on him to

            write an explanation of the case, which was simple enough.

            He had, he said, given an opinion upon the data laid

            before him. He had not been required to investigate the

            affairs of the office. Had this been asked, he would have

            perceived that the managers were counting as realised
            capital large sums which they believed would be paid to
            them from various quarters, an error against which he

            had strongly cautioned them, and into which he after
            wards suspected they had fallen. His letter, the last he

            wrote upon public business, contains a little touch of his

            old humour.

                When a scientific opinion is given, it is intended that ' it '--
            the whole opinion, remember -- may be used in any way the
            receiver pleases. Let him give ' it ' as it was given, without

            alteration or suppression, and he may speak of it as he pleases,
            may call it what he pleases, and may infer from it what he

            pleases. He may call my life office valuation a receipt for mince

            pies -- which I certainly never intended it to be --but he must

            not mix up with it anything out of Mrs. Rundell or Mrs. Glasse.

            Let him give it but fairly, and I am content, if he will do the

            same, to take all the consequences of his change of description.

Mathemati-  The last occurrence connected with Science which gave
le y' him pleasure was the formation of the Mathematical
MATHEMATICAL SOCIETY.                              281

Society. Our second son, George Campbell, had gained           1863.
the highest prizes for Mathematics and Natural Philosophy
in University College, though his father's scruples were
strong as to adjudging the first prize in his own class to
his own son. My husband told me that the papers, which

I Ihe knew to be George's, were much ahead of the other

competitors. ' But,' he said, ' don't see how can give

him my prize.' I reminded him that the sons of other

Professors had frequently taken their fathers' prizes, and
that justice to George required it. He said that was

true, and he would show the papers to another Professor,
who was enough of a Mathematician to judge. The
arbitrator, who did not know the writing, adjudged

the prize to our son, as his father had done, without

the slightest hesitation. George afterwards took his

degree in the University of London, and obtained the

gold medal for Mathematics and Natural Philosophy.

He likewise took the Andrews Scholarship in Uni

versity College, but the work required, especially that

for his degree, was too much for a delicate frame, and

a severe cold caught about this time was the forerunner

of his last illness. The last three years of his life were

alternations of illness and partial recovery, though a winter

at the sea-side and a subsequent voyage to the West

Indies with his brother Edward gave him strength for a

time, and we hoped he might have outgrown his delicacy

of constitution ; but this was not to be.

    It was in the year 1864 that Mr. Arthur Cowper Orimoof

Ranyard and George were discussing mathematical pro

blems during a walk in the streets, when it struck them
that ' ' it would be very nice to have a Society to which

all discoveries in Mathematics could be brought, and

where things could be discussed, like the Astronomical.'

It was agreed between the young men that this should

Ibe proposed, and that George should ask his father to
take the chair at the first meeting.  have a list in his

1 The words in which he told me of the occurence.
1864.   282 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.
 1865.
        handwriting of those Mathematicians who were invited
        to join, with the names marked of the gentlemen who
        accepted the invitations. Among these were many of the
        first Mathematicians in England, and their number rapidly
        increased.

             One of the first documents relating to this Society --
        it may have a value in its future history --is the following,
        lithographed from George's writing: --

                                      University College, Gower Street, Oct. 10, 1864.

             Sir, -- We beg leave to request the honour of your attendance
        at the first meeting of the ' University College Mathematical
        Society,' which will be held at the College in the Botanical
        Theatre on the evening of the 7th of November, at eight o'clock

        precisely.
              Professor De Morgan has promised to take the chair, and

        will give an introductory address, and the general objects and

        plans of the Society may then be discussed.

            It is proposed that the ordinary meetings of the Society

        should take place once a month, and that the papers then read
        should be lithographed and circulated among the members.

              The annual subscription will not exceed half a guinea.
                                     We have the honour, &c.,
                                                                G. C. De Morgan,
                                                     Aethur C. Ranyard,
                                                                         Hon. Sees, pro tern.

             The first meeting was held January 16, 1865. My

        Ihusband was the first President, and his inaugural speech

        contains so many of his own leading thoughts, that
         may give a few sentences. The first conveys his old
         opinion, formed early in life, upon the constitution of
        public bodies, and the inexpediency of crippling their
        future action by legislation at the outset.

               There is much discussion about what our Society should be.

        But this cannot be settled and marked out ; it must be deter
         mined by the disposition of its members. All scientific societies
        are in danger of getting into a groove, and settling into a
         routine which possesses small interest to the great body of their
         members. . . . On the other side, there is always the danger of
MATHEMATICAL SOCIETY.                 283

guiding the Society off the rail, as it were, and getting it out 1865.
of the way in which the momentum of its members can be Inaugural
                                                                    address.
applied to move it. . . .

Our great aim is the cultivation of pure Mathematics, and
Iftheir most immediate applications.
                                      we look at what takes

place around us, we shall find that we have no Mathematical

Society to look to as our guide. The Royal Society, it is true,

receives mathematical papers, but it cannot be called a Mathe

matical Society. The Cambridge Philosophical Society seems

to fulfil more nearly the functions of a Mathematical Society, but

it is in an exceptional position. It is the Society of the place

which may be regarded as the centre of the Mathematical world ;
it is a Society in which almost all the members are able to relish

its highest discussions. But in London we have no Mathema

tical Society at all.

     He had a few words for his old object of attack -- the
Cambridge examinations : --

     The Cambridge examination is nothing but a hard trial of
what we must call problems -- since they call them so-- of the
Senior Wrangler that is to be of this present January, and the
Senior Wranglers of some three or four years ago. The whole

Iobject seems to be to produce problems, or, as should prefer to

call them, hard ten-minute conundrums. These problems, as
they are called, are necessarily obliged to be things of ten

minutes or a quarter of an hour. It is impossible in such an

examination to propose a matter that would take a competent
Mathematician two or three hours to solve, and for the con

sideration of which it would be necessary for him to draw his

materials from different quarters, and see how he can put together

Ihis previous knowledge so as to bring it to bear most effectually

on this particular subject. It is, say, impossible that such a

problem as this should be set in these examinations.
     It must be one of our objects to introduce into our dis

cussions something more like problems properly so called, and,

if possible, to keep ourselves from entertaining an undue num
ber of the questions just described. In some quarters the Mathe

matics are looked at, I may say, almost entirely with reference

to their applications. These applications are not only physical
applications or commercial applications, which may be termed
external, but there are also what may be termed internal appli

Ications. Those very questions to which have alluded already,
           284        MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1865.   respecting curves of the second order, are applications of the
           principles of pure Mathematics. They form, in fact, a particular
Inaugural  branch of the application of first principles. . . .
address
                 We must not mistake and misapprehend these internal appli

           cations ; we must not regard them as constituting entirely what

           we are to turn our attention to. We have several things before

           us besides these, which are very little attended to. One of these

           is what may be called Logical Mathematics. We want a great

           If Ideal of study of the connection of Logic and Mathematics.

           Where is any consideration of this question to be found ?
           Imay be allowed to say more on a subject to which
                                                              have
           Idevoted a good deal of time and thought, would make a few

           observations on this very important and yet very much neglected

           one.

                 There is exact Science in two branches : the Analysis of the

           necessary Laws of Thought, and the Analysis of the necessary

           Matter of Thought. The necessary Matter of Thought, that
           without which we cannot think, consists of Space and Time.

           These exist everywhere, and we can imagine no thought without
           them. Space and Time are thoonly necessary Matter of Thought.
           These form the subject-matter of the Mathematics. The con

           sideration of the necessary Laws of Thought, on the other hand,
           constitutes Logic. These latter have been little studied hitherto,

           even apart from the study of the necessary matter of thought.
                We mathematicians may very easily improve our reasoning

           from the very beginning. For, though the Logic that Euclid
           used is very accurate, there has been no inquiry made with
           regard to it ; and the consequence is that for two thousand years

           we have been proving, as we go through the Elements of Geometry,
           that a thing is itself. That is to say, we have been proving, in
           the Elements of Geometry, by help of a syllogism, a thing which

           must be admitted before syllogism itself can be allowed to be
           valid. Thus, does Euclid not prove that, when there is but one

           A and but one B, if the A be the B, then the B is the A ? He

           would not  take such a thing as that without    appearance of proof.
                      is itself; ' that is the assertion,  that is what Euclid
           'A thing

           would not take without proof !

                To take an example. Let us suppose that there is a village
           which contains but one grocer and but one Post-Office. Then,

           if the grocer's be the Post-Office, the Post-Office is the grocer's.
           For, if it be possible, let the Post-Office be somewhere else, say

           at the chandler's. Then, because the Post-Office is the chandler's
          MATHEMATICAL SOCIETY.            285

and the grocer's is the Post-Office, it follows that the grocer's is 1865.

the chandler's, another place, by hypothesis ; which is absurd ; Inaugural
and so with every other place except the grocer's. Therefore addros.

the Post-Office is at the grocer's.
     Is not this mode of proof in the third book of Euclid, being

the way in which proposition 19 is deduced from proposition 18?
Yetany body who should use it out of geometry would be laughed
at, though Euclid used it, and all those who have studied his
Elements have been proving things in this manner for two thou-

aand years.

    There is no doubt about the matter, I say--and it will appear

more distinctly on further thought -- that you are proving by
help of a syllogism what must be admitted before syllogism
itself is valid.

     As to the chances of the Society finding for itself
lines of original work, he says :--

     The higher Mathematics may be carried on with much greater

effect by elementary students if they will but study points of

Logic, History, Language, and perception of propositions by

simple common sense. Mathematics is becoming too much of

a machinery, and this is especially the case with reference to the

elementary students. They put the data of the problems into a
mill, and expect them to come out ground at the other end--

an operation which bears a close resemblance to putting in hemp-
seed at one end of a machine, and taking out ruffled shirts ready

for use at the other end. This mode is, no doubt, exceedingly

effective in producing results, but it is certainly not so in teach
Ifing the mind and in exercising thought.
                                           it should chance

that wo 6nd a disposition among the members of this Society to

leave the beaten track and cut out fresh paths, or mend the old

ones, we make this Society exceedingly useful. But if not, if it

be our fate only to become problem makers and problem solvers,

there is no harm done ; we shall but add one more association to

the list of journals, colleges, &c., devoted to this object. The

only objection is that this branch of the subject is sufficiently

well appreciated and more than sufficiently well practised

already.

     Original papers by both its first President and Secre
taries appear in the first pages of its earliest reports, and
       286  MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

18G5.  some brilliant mathematical discoveries by Professor
       Sylvester were communicated to it soon after its founda

       tion.

            In 1866 George was teacher of Mathematics in Uni

       versity College School, and in January 1867, the last year
       of his life, the Tract On the Proof of any Function, and on
       Neutral Series, read before the Cambridge Philosophical
       Society the year before, has this note appended to it :
       ' My son Mr. G. C. De Morgan recently showed me this

       case of failure of development.' The algebraic operation

       is given.
            His father had a high opinion of the power of George's

       mind, which in some ways resembled his own. Our friend
       M. Libri called him Daniel Bernouilli, in reference to the

       two Bernouillis, father and son. It gave his father plea

       sure to think that although he died so young, his son's
       name should have been associated with his own.
                     287

                           SECTION IX.
                     CORRESPONDENCE, l«*-66.

                     To Sir John Herschel.

                          Camden Street, Jane 8, 1856.

Mt dear Sir Johx, -- I have long had the idea of a piano-                            1856.

forte in which each set of strings belonging to one note is to

Icommunicate with a pipe for resonance ; and sometimes have

thought that a spring at the mouth of a pipe struck by a
hammer would make a good instrument. In this case we might

Ihave various pedals opening and closing the upper end of the

pipe. But never imagined anything so grand as the intro

duction of a vast force by means of electro-magnetism. I should

propose to call your instrument the electro-magnetic whack-row-

de-dow.

What is the reason why thirds and sixths, major or minor,

are more pleasant to the ear than fourths and fifths, which are

consonances of simpler ratio of vibration ? Fifths, by them

selves, have a certain something which the ear does not like

much of, and consecutive fifths we all know are forbidden. But
Ifthirds and sixths are very pleasant.
                                        Dr. Smith's theory of
Ibeats be true, I almost suspect spy a way to explain this. But
I must get hold of an organ tuner, and learn whether they are

actually effective.

                          Yours very truly,
                                       A. De Moruan.

                     To Sir John Herschel.

                                                 7 Camden Street, August 15, 185fi.

   Mt L'LtE Sir Jors,-- What can you say for yourself? Your

but note was written in a good strong hand. This is hot

weather. When I was a boy I read how Cato the Censor used

to allow himself a little vinegar in his water when the heat was
       288 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1856.  Igreat, and when a young man used to imitate him. A few

       Idrops of vinegar, half or a whole teaspoonful to the tumbler,

          found the most refreshing addition possible to a tumbler of

       water, and I have revived the habit. Try it. Raspberry vine

       gar is a great deterioration of the principle. Cato would have

       censored it prodigiously.

          I have got a clincher about Cath. Barton and Lord Halifax.

       Last Sunday Libri showed me a letter of Newton which he had
       bought. The handwriting is indisputable. It came out of some
       Newton papers which Rodd picked up in 1847. It is written

       four days after the death of Halifax to a Sir John of Lincoln
       shire (probably Sir J. Newton of Westby, Newton's distant
                    It
       cousin).  :--    excuses  him  (J. N.) from paying a visit for these
       reasons
          I' The concern am in for the loss of my Lord Halifax, and the

       Icircumstances in which stand related to his family, will not suffer
       me to go abroad till his funeral is over.'

       Not a scrap of evidence exists that Newton was ever ac

       quainted with the other Montagues, though of course it is very

       likely he knew them ; but relation of any kind, whether rapport

       or parente, is utterly unknown, much as Newton has been poked

       into. Newton was not an executor of Halifax. Qiuere whether

       Halifax's family means family in the usual primary sense of wife

       and children ? Did Halifax leave a widow ? Was that widow
       IfNewton's niece ?
                                 so, a very natural reason for keeping the

       house occurs. Macanlay, who used to battle the point, and fought

       for the Platonics, now says he does not entirely reject my hypothesis.
       Brewster has never written to me since I reviewed his book, so
       I cannot send it to him. Lord Brougham is brought up by it ;
       Isays it is very curious, and he must think about it.
                                                              believe

       Ithis letter will be Cath. Barton's marriage certificate.

            Here is another letter which picked up iu sorting my
       letters to-day :--

           'Sift, --Please give me information on the following points: --
           ' 1. A course of mathematical study by which an accurate and

       comprehensive knowledge of the abstract principles of the science
       shall be gained, and at the same time such a course as will prove

       an efficient instrument in the study of physical science.

          I' 2. The best works -- Continental, classical, and English --on

       the several branches of mathematics, and where can get com

       plete lists of books.

                                                   'Yours . . . .*
          CORRESPONDENCE, 185O--0O.                        289

I never heard of the man in my life. I made the following noto                                185(3.

on the letter, and did not send it : --

' Est modus in rebus, sunt certi denique fines.
  How could 1 answer this letter in less than five sheets full of
      lines ? '
                                                             Yours truly,
                                                                      A. De Morgan.

          To Sir John Herschel.

                                                            7 Camden Street, Sept. 10, 1856.

    Mr dear Sir John, --This letter is not written to be framed
and glazed, but because, quoad the form, I must have a line no

longer than the sway of the wrist, because the arm is in a sling;

because on Friday last I put out the shoulder, because I and

my book-ladder slid down together, because the angle at which
said ladder may be trusted on a beaten and tightly nailed carpet

is very different from the same when the carpet is dusty and

what seamen call loose in stays, because the coefficient of friction

is vastly altered. However, I am thriving apace, and my wife,

who would not believe my report of exceeding good health

written with a pencil an hour after the replacement of the

shoulder, but ran up to see how things were, went back to the

children satisfied that I was a convalescent. . . .

Now mark, dislocations are among the minor evils which step
Ifin to shut the door in the face of greater ones.
                                                      the bone had
been invincible, and all the wrench withstood by the muscles, I

should have had a long fainting fit or fever, a sprain of six

months, and it would have been a question whether I should

have used the arm again ; whereas, after a flash of fire and a

Ibump, eogito ergo sum began to act, and got up as much as

ever alive to all things, and especially to the necessity of sending

for a doctor. However, all this is merely as to the form of the

writing.

Do you remember Sir H. Davy's habits ? Was he in the

habit of rubbing his hands together in any peculiar way and
frequently ? I want to know, because verification of a story

too long to write now depends on it.                  With kind

    I shall hope to hear a good account of yourself.

regards to all around you, believe me,

                                        Yours very truly,

                                        A. De Moroah.
       21)0  MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

                       To Rev. Dr. Whewell.

1856.                                                                                     Sept. 16, 1856.

       My dear Sir, -- I have been prevented from answering your

       note by an effect of gravity which brought me and my book-

       ladder to the ground together, and dislocated my right shoulder.

       IHowever, it is getting right now, and the whole thing is not so
       bad as it is called. As to Galileo,                  have inquired of Libri,

       who is up to that case above all men, and he says that though

       various statements have been made, he never could find the least

       Iground for supposing that any Pope had done anything in the
       matter. And this was my impression also.                   feel confident

       that all the rumour is a mere sham.

            The following (not to be used) may confirm you. The nar
       rator is Biot, to Libri, long ago.

           A little before 1830 Biot was at Rome, conversing with the
       chief Inquisitor, who said, ' You men of science think that the

       'IInquisition is opposed to scientific statements, which is quite
       untrue.' 'Then,' said Biot,     suppose the Professor at the

       Sapienza College may teach the motion of the earth ? ' The
       Inquisitor shook his head and said, ' No, that could not be

                                       anything had been done, would
       allowed.' Depend on  is it,                                it

       have been widely promulgated.if

                       Yours very truly, however illegibly,is
                                                                 A. De Morgan.
                                               7
                       To Rev. Dr. Whewell.              ;

                                                          Camden Street, Nov. 1856.
                                                                  I 7,
       My dear Sir, --For your thin volume of additions just
       received many thanks. These little supplements are like giblet
       pie-- a collection of all that
                                       most racy only, mind, don't
                                                            :

       mean to say they are goose giblets on the contrary, they shall

       be owl giblets the owl still to be the bird of Minerva.
             if
       Now for notes and remarks. Who can unlalinise in our day                      ?
                    1
       Who answers for Nicholas Cusa or Adam Marshman             ?     Ho
                                                                    1

       might be Adam Marsh, or Fen, for aught we know. Have not

       the French made Viete of M. de Viette, who would have been

       horrified at his prefix of gentility being abolished    ?  We happen

       to have plenty of evidence to De Viette.

                       Adam do M arisen de-latinised.
                   CORRESPONDENCE, 1850-66.                                       291

    Smyth is rather slapdash sometimes. He killed Mczzofnnti                                     185G.

    in the R.A.S. Annual Report long before that polyglot bipes

    implumis set off to leave his card on all the builders of Babel to
    see if he could manage to pick up a stray dialect or two more

    than he carried with him. I feel sure that if there had been any

    revocation of the decree-- above all in 1818-- Libri must have

    Iknown it. But will get something yet. The Catholics are

    evasive on the point. Smyth heard no doubt, so haveI                 I        and

                                       it                                      ;
                                                   is it,
    there a disposition to have believed among the R. C.
      is                                            I

                              p.
    Page 51. In                   19 of my notes on the Antegalileans have
                                                                         I

given a better account of Digges, and especially of the edition
                                                                      have it. It has an
of 1594, which you seem not to mention.

actual defence of Copernicanism (physical).

    P. 33. have never seen the perspective of Bacon separately,
      I

and so say nothing. But am not without a silent suspicion

    that the work published separately                                by Johd Peccam, after,

    wards Archbishop of Canterbury, a pupil probably of R. Bacon.

     P. 47. The acceptance of the motion of light not pro re
wild; the motion of light first proved by Jupiter's satellites,
                                  is                                     is
                                      a                                     is
                                                                                           is ;
    which establish geometrically motion of the effect called light
    and then, with the velocity inferred of the effect, the aberration

is  explained in quantity and quality both. There not even

the assumption that light                    material. Measured motion
                                  .
    geometry, not physics. .          .

                                         is

                                                   Yours very truly,
                                                                    A. De Morgan.

                                  To Sir John Herschel.

                                  I                Camden Street, Nov. 13, 1856.
                                                7
        Mt dear Sir John, -- am glad to hear you are getting on.
I                                                                     I
      think you should not do too much in the way of being a free
   Ibody in the morning. The evening phenomena are fatigue.

           doubt your prognostic about the coinage. think you may

    be eatable by the time comes. It getting into country schools

    and colleges, and think people are learning it. The House of

    Commons will probably be tried again next session.

         As to how you might cook next century, you remind me of
    an experiment have often thought of-- mnmmy soup. The

    muscular fibre which remains must be partially soluble in water,
                   I

                           it
                                                  is

I
               if

                        I

                    I

                                                                  it
    should think.                 should like to catch some of the Fee-Jee
    Islanders -- that be the way to spell --and feed them on the
       292 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1856.  strongest mummy soup made in a Papin's digester. They

       are cannibals, and would enjoy the idea. Fancy the souls of the

       poor Egyptians, who preserved their bodies with such care for a

       future resuscitation, seeing their remains devoured by ferocious

       savages, and incorporated literally into the bodies of the same !

          I have been looking at a 10-inch bar of aluminium which
       Graham has lent me. Queer stuff. Costs at present its bulk of
                                                                      little, and   rings like
       IsSiclvyelrla, anbdeinCgha^ryobfditshe--weight.     Smells a                very pretty
                                                  mean  the Sirens.  It makes a

       noise. They are making it at Paris in earnest. They put 40 lbs.

       Iof sodium into some preparation at one go, am told, during

       the manufacture of a lot.

       Our kind regards to all the ladies.

                                                        Yours very truly,
                                                                    A. De Morgan.

       To Sir John Herschel.

                                                        7 Camden Street, Nov. 8, 1856.

       My dear Sir John, -- Are you doing well and getting on ?
       I am going on with my shoulder famously, chalking on the
       I Iboard ; 1 but
       can't do everything yet.                                      have learnt that

       whoso putteth out his shoulder, him shall his shonlder pnt out.

          I think that if you were to give me an answer before Friday,
       I might talk of you at the Astronomical, where people ask after
       Iyou. Next, how are all your party ? -- no small one.

                saw Warburton a week ago at his own house, working
       away at An 0m, in utter falsification of the maxim that out of

       nothing can come nothing.

           I have nothing in the world to say about mathematics except,
       musing idly, I found that Euclid has not demonstrated the way

       to bisect angles.

          I send you a lecture on decimal coinage. It is a slow-moving

       subject, but it must be carried sooner or later, in spite of
       Iministers. They might have mentioned it at Paris, while they
       were talking about everything.                   mean the Plenipotentiaries.

                                                        Yours very truly,

                                                                     A. De Morgan.

       1 In his lecture-room. -- Ed.
CORRESPONDENCE, 1850-00.  293

To Sir John Herschel.

                                                                7 Camden Street, Oct. 9, 1857.  1857.

    Mt diar Sir John, -- . . . I am very glad to hear your son is
safe. You say nothing about yourself, so I hope there is nothing

to say. Subdivide yourself into any number of egos or ichs, but
take care you don't get the double identity, which sometimes

happens, in which a person is one person for a time and then

another. Did you ever read a novel called The Devil's Elixir ? If
not, try for it at the circulating library. This Elixir has the effect
that if two persons drink thereof their identities get mixed up

in a very odd way. Each one becomes the other to a consider

able extent.

    By the way, you and I may be cousins all this time without

knowing it. One of my mother's ancestors -- her mother's
mother, I think -- was a Pitt, belonging to a family which con

Isidered itself an elder branch of the Chatham family ; and

think I remember some expressions of hers being quoted which
seemed to savour of thinking it very presumptuous in the

younger line to come out as prime ministers, Ac.
      Multa renasceiitur qua jam accidere. Among them is a fact

which I discovered a few days ago-- that I, A. Do M.,have sailed

under our friend Beaufort's orders. He commanded the convoy
in which my father and mother brought me home to England in

1806, he being in the Woolwich frigate. I was then four months
old. So you see I was at the Cape long before you.

                                                     Yours very truly,
                                                                A. Dr Morgan.

To Sir John Herschel.

                                                        7 Camden Street, Feb. 7, 1858.          1858.

    Mt dear Sir John,--King Cole (2nd edition) is nearly per-

feet. Carntina rum fumo is not idiomatic, and that is all.1
     When did 1858 begin ? on what meridian ? An insidious

question, demanded in the interests of equinoctial time. Why,
1858 had as many beginnings as there are meridians. When did
Wednesday begin ?

    < 8peaking of a Latin translation of King Cole, which Sir John had
sent him.-- Ed.
       294 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1858.     If a year begin with a day there must be as many beginnings
       Iof years as there are beginnings of days. Now ask another

       question. From 0° to 360° of terrestrial longitude, how many
       meridians are there? The political world will be content with

       Ifdefining the year by the place. The astronomer, when he names
       time, always names a place.  you like to begin the year with

       the centre of the mean sun, in the mean equinox, it can be done,

       Ibut the poor almanac makers must not be puzzled, and protest

       Iagainst any more 185§, or the like.

              returned to the Royal Society the other day a book which was
       given to them in 1728, and had probably wandered the world for

       more than a century. That book and others satisfy me that about
       the years 1734-40 the R. S. library was expurgated -- purged
       of all anti-Newtonian and infinitesimal books. This is curious,

       but they were curious people in curious days.
            There is a very marked absence of all materials for studying

       the Newton and Leibuitz controversy in the R. S. library.
                                                                    Yours truly,
                                                                             A. De Moegan.

               To Sir John Herschel.

                                                       7 Camden Street, Feb. 11, 1858.

       IMy dear Sir John, -- see your drift. But that year question

       set me off on equinoctial time. Why, the question is an ethno

       logical, not an astronomical one. When the Portuguese and
       Spaniards met in the Philippines -- via India the Portuguese,

       via S. America the Spaniards -- they differed a day in their

       reckoning, kept their Sundays on different days, and cursed each

       Iother as only real Christians can curse. never could learn how

       the Pope settled it.

           Taking Christendom as a point of departure from whence all

       have gone whom we are concerned with, we shall find the

       Americans beginning their Sunday after us, and the Anglo-

       Indians before us ; the New Zealanders after us, the Australians

       before us, owing to the way they go. But when New Zealand
       goes to Australia there is a change of day for them, and vice

       versa.

       Rule. -- Do at Rome as they do at Rome. And what they do

       Ifat Rome depends on the direction of travel by which they got to
       Rome.   there were a constant meeting at the meridians oppo

       site Christendom by people of different modes of coming there,
CORRESPONDENCE, 1856-flfl.                             295

there must be an arrangement made somehow. By a wise                                   1858.

arrangement of things it will be long before the opposite part of

the world is fighting the question. I don't see how there could

be three days current at once, unless some chaps had gone

twice round the world and never made a correction.

Did I ever explain to you how it is that the opposite hemi

sphere to the one which has London for pole is nearly all water ?

You might go ahead in science many a day before you would

find the true reason.               Yours very truly,

                                              A. Dr Morgan.

                       To Sir John Herschel.

                                                       7 Camden Street, May 25, 1858.

    Mt dear Sir John,-- When your excessively rare animalcules

had been duly studied, it struck me that all creation is full of

life; and though I have neither pond, tank, nor aquarium, yet I

have access to divers atramentaria which in common life are

I Icalled inkstands. IOut of these soon fished some specimens,1

which send you greatly magnified. begin to have a suspicion
that the style of writing depends somewhat upon the monsters

which live in the ink, and that people would do well to examine
the fluid before committing articles. Most of the specimens are
difficult to make head or tail of-- which is very frequently the
character of other products of the inkstands. Care, however,
must be taken how such things are published, for the world is
very incredulous. And Fabricius, in his Philosophical Enlomo-

l',gy, says, ' Damnanda vero memoria Johannes Hill et Ludovici

Renard qui insecta ficta proposuere.'
    As to the algebra, you are proving that you won't look at

symbols. What ! ! ! When nA: is the number of vibrations in

one second, and ma the time of each vibration, you pretend to
tell me tbat you don't see--

                       ma x w&=l ;

or do you dispute --

                       ma x nk=mnka ?

    You will not easily make me believe that you were doing
anything but laying a trap for me to make a pun that you

     1 Figures made by scribbling, and then folding the paper in half, by
which both sides are made alike and resemble strange insects.
       296 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1858.  Imight be down upon me if missed it. But I see through
            -- you
       you  As to    were pretending to              labour under   a mank    d' intelligence.
                                                                     is not  the first time.
                    the little dees --De             Mogorgon --it

       My old friend Farish (the professor's son) could not call me any
       thing else ; it went against his conscience up to the day of his
       death. ' But why is the gentleman not called De Mogorgon ? '

       I am constantly tempted to make a mistake in one Greek name,

       because in the second-band booklists it always comes after mine.

       Look into any book list of a miscellaneous character, and you
       will see the succession following :--

                                  De Moivre
                                  De Morgan
                                  De Mosthenes.

                                                     Yours very truly,
                                                                    A. De Morgan.

                         To the Rev. Dr. Whewell.

                                                                     Oct. 10, 1858.

            Mr dear Sir, --Many thanks for the Bacon which you found
       in the Barrow. It all amounts to wondrous little,
                                                                    'I             as you say,

       Bacon was known to the Cambridge men generally. How could              if,

       Bacon be so little quoted                     The conceits of which that age was
                    I
                                         is
                                                  ?
       fond were taken out of puerility by him, and made into wit and

       covered with taste. And yet they knew nothing of him to speak

       of. Newton's silence                          emphatic. When  have time and

       opportunity    intend to work out the thesis, That Newton was

       more indebted to the Schoolmen than to Bacon, and probably

       better acquainted with them.'

            The question whether wrote the two articles in the Athe.
                             I
                    entirely the question whether personal identity lastsI
       nwum  is
                                  ? II
                I
       through time.                                         .

            Cowley had forgotten.                    have looked him up again, and

       see that he merits Harvey's satire. Gassendi knew of. He
                                                                     I

                                                                                      it

                                                                                                is
                                                                                                  is
       a Baconian prononce.       dare say you have received Mansel's

       vol. of Bampton Lectures.                     tell him by this post that    the

       best argument have seen against subscription at matriculation.
                      I

       Can you detect that the printer has punctuated Bampton's will

       into full Priestleian heterodoxy . .

                                                                Yours very truly,
                                                                         A. De Morgan.
                      CORRESPONDENCE, 1856-36.   297

                          To Sir John Herschel.                                                               1858.

                                                                                              Oct. 15, 1858.

    Mt dear Sir John, -- It's all very well for people to be clever,
and go to the British Association, and talk philosophy and
chemistry and -- confound the hard words !-- transcendity, which
transcends all entity whatever, and is next ot kin to the two
German equations --

                                   E very thing= God.
                                   God =0.

IThis, say, is all well as far as it goes. But can your philosophy

answer me this ? -- Suppose the Northern Hemisphere to be all
land, the Southern Hemisphere all water : is the Northern Hemi
sphere an island, or the Southern Hemisphere a lake ? Crack

that.1

                                                            Yours very truly,

                                                          A. Di Morgan.

                          To Sir John Herschel.

                                                         Camden Street, Nov. 15, 1858.

    Mt dear Sir John, --I have as much chance of meaning to
try for the Lowndean as I should have of getting it if I tried
(=0). Knew you not that I am a heretic who is B.A. of thirty-

one years' standing by reason of subscriptions being unsub-

scribable ? Moreover, I have other fish to fry. Cayley is a

capital man for it.
    I hope you have been asked to do a memoir of Peacock for

the R.S. anniversary. He is lost at the time when he is most

wanted.

    I heard of your frisking about the country like a young

1 The geographical question was answered with another by Sir

John Herschel.

' Suppose all was water except a patch of land of an insular form

round the North Pole, N° in radius (N = 3), would that be an island 1
NI eshxot,uldN-s5ay,  yes, because it  is land.  Next, let N «4, same question.
                                       90°.
                      N-6, 20, 30,
    ' At what value of N does it cease to be an island I
    'Then N-95, 100 . . . 179° 59' 59". At what value does the sea

cease to be an ocean, a lake, a pool, a pond, or a puddle ? I pause for

a reply.'-- CoUingvnuod, Oct, 18.
       298 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1858.  gentleman, and was very glad to hear of it. Yon are now

       I' discharged cured,' and are, hope, meditating some proof of

       violent health. A new edition of the Differences would be a very

       pretty step in the proof.

          Did I send you this riddle ? --the answer is in itself a riddle.
       If a comet were to take a much more elongated orbit, and the

       King of Naples were to prohibit the importation of malt liquor

       into his capital, in what particulars would two empty heads
       differ ? Answer overleaf.

           Kind regards to all your circle.

                                                                   Yours very truly,
                                                                             A. De Morgan.

             Answer : The comet would have double eccentricity,  and the

       King of Naples would not.
           What can it mean ?

                      To Sir John Herschel.

                      7 Camden Street, N.W., Jan. 1, 1859.
       My dear Sir John, -- Many thanks for your dates. I want
1859.  Ione more thing--Who was Peacock's father ?

                                                      have before
       Ime a book by a clergyman of the name, whom suspect to be
       the one --Rev. Thos. Peacock, author of The Practical Measurer

       and of WaUcingame's Arithmetic Modernised.     The Prolocutor

          I am very completely set up by your dates.

       of Convocation in fact, the speaker of the Lower House for the
           is,        it
       clergy have their higher House, made of bishops, and their
                   ;          ;

                                          it
                                                                       ;

                                                      I
       lower House, made of dignitaries and proctors, so called, elected

       by the lower clergy and they all have a hankering to be what

       they once were, when they persecuted books as heretical, and

       excommunicated the writers, and kept the pot boiling to the

       wonderment and amusement of men and angels. And this was

       called synodical action, but at last the State voted tom-nodical,

       and put down. In our own day has been revived to the
       it

       extent of allowing a day or two of talk, and appointment of com

       mittees to organise talk for next time but no measures have

       been allowed to pass. And Peacock, as prolocutor, was,

       understand, very useful as a king of order and a stifler of pranks,

       he being himself favourable to the revival of synodical action on

       the principle of all the clergy being as discreet as himself, a

       theory which beats out of the field Homoeopathy, Mesmerism,

       Table-turning, Parliamentary Reform, and Perpetual Motion.
CORRESPONDENCE, 1850-66.                       299

      What they want is that Parliament shall not legislate for the                  1859.
Church without consent of Convocation, and this Parliament
will never agree to. In the meanwhile they are allowed to use

logarithms, not Napier's, but of the sort which Sophocles men

tions, \6ywy dpiOfwt, which is translated a set of words.
     Now you may guess what the Prolocutor of Convocation is.

Until very lately, and from George I. or thereabouts, they did

nothing but walk in procession, at the meeting in Parliament,
to St. Paul's or the Abbey, where they heard a sermon, and were

prorogued. A happy New Year to all.

                                                             Yours very truly,
                                                                      A. De Morgan.

To Sir John Herschel.

                                 Camden Street, May 2, 1839.

Mt dUr Sir Johx, -- Did your Southern dealings ever bring

you in contact with the history of the formation of the south

polar constellations ? Do you know any work which treats that

subject especially ? Did you ever come in contact with the

doings of Frederic Houtmann, the real framer of these constella

tions, as far as giving their star materials is concerned ? Next,

answer the question Come sta, curiously Englished by How goes it,

with reference to yourself and selves. I suppose the Italian

phrase to be Ptolemaic, a. id the English to be Copernican.

    What have I to do with Houtmann ? He adjoins himself

more slantendiculari to the question of a manuscript sold in
Libri's sale, as written by Galileo on the doctrine of the sphere.

Some question has arisen about the evidence, external and inter

nal, and I have been looking up the points. The internal

evidence is to me very satisfactory ; and as to the handwriting,

there is a hitch about the letter r, which all the Galileos we

Ihave to compare with make r, and the MS. makes i. In spite

of this cannot help believing that the MS. is Galileo's. It
would be much better worth its money if it were not.

   As to the state of things in general I have nothing to say. I

don't know whether the Austrians have forced a tit* du pont
at Buffaloroary, or some such place, or not. I hope some bright

nebula or other is of a white heat, and is set apart for all who
make or instigate wars of ambition. I wish Lord Rosse could
III.find it out, and could show
                                 that I.1 has his spirit hcrme-

< Meaning the first and third Napoleon. --En.
       300     MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1859.  tically sealed in a bottle, and heated up to a pressure of 100,000

       atmospheres. It might make him behave himself, but perhaps
       not. With kind regards to all,

                                                              Yours very truly,
                                                                             A. De Morgan.

                                 To Sir John Herschel.

                                                          Camden Street, May 18, 1859.

       My dear Sir John,- Thanks for your pamphlet. I have not

       had time to do more than glance at but will say what thinkit it,II
       when have got through a heavy job of calculation -- a job ofis
            I

       life and death, as one may say, for          all about premiums and

       claims and assurances, &c., &c.

       Maurice de Biran, who died in 1824, aged about sixty, was a

       philosophe, who speculated and died, even as silkworm spins
                                            I
                                                             a
       and dies. He will be gaudy moth, dare say. His cocoona
       was published by Victor Cousin in 1841 in four volumes. He

       was very much against Napoleon in 1814, which means, sup

       pose, that he had been his parasite theretofore. He was a public

       man of some kind. Probably his will was an impulse to better

       his condition, or butter his condition. He passes for an acute

       thinker in France, but have never seen line of his writing.
       I

                if

                          ? is it

                            I

                                                   it
                                                                    is

                                                                 it a

                                                   I

                                                                                                               ?

                                                                      iIs

                                                                                     it
            believe that so much of cause as not mere notion of pre

       cedent and consequent is derived from our own consciousness

       of power exercised at will. If we had been rational posts, in

       capable of motion, chewing the cud on what passed before our

       eyes, and with a will incapable of action, do not see how we
       should have had any real notion of cause. What the will
                                                                                                                have

       not the least idea, or whether ought to be called the shall or

       not. Query, if be really correct to call the will, how is a per

       son whose will undecided said to be shilly-shally Ought not

       to be willy-wally  Kind regards to the circle.

                                            Yours very truly,
                                                           A. De Morgan.

                                      To Miss Sheepshanks.

                                        41 Chalcot Villas, Adelaide Road, N.W.,
                                                                                     August 24, 1859.

           My dear Miss Sheepshanrs, -- do not know what you have
       done with my dear friend's books. There are one or two which

          should recommend to be given to Trinity College library,
       I

                                           I

                                                                                              if
CORRESPONDENCE, 1856-66.                  301

they can be detected. They contain handwriting of Horrocks,                               1859.

the famous predecessor of Newton in the Lunar Theory. They

will no doubt have the book-plate of either Christopher or

Richard Towneley with these arms. . . .1

    Such a book-plate in a book with handwriting in it is very

likely to be Horrocks's, if astronomical. I found one of these
Ibooks at a sale, and gave it to Trinity College, and remember

your brother having two at least. But the thing does not press.

A life of Horrocks just published reminds me of it.

   IAugust 27. -- We are all pretty well, and have got my books

into something which is not disorder. But two negatives do

not make one affirmative. . . .  Yours very truly,

                                            A. Di Morgan.

                        To Sir John Herschel.

                                                       41 Chaleot Villas, Sept. 9, 1859.

   My dear Sir John, --You puzzle me. I always took it that

you and our friend Francis Baily foregathered at the Astro
nomical Society, and then and there concocted a private friend
ship, as many good men have done, and more by that same
token will do. But if Miss Baily was a friend of early boyhood,
you can hardly miss to have the same to say of Francis. She

nut bavo been, I should say, ten years older than you : if Men

of the Time be correct in time, eight years. Explain this point,
I pray you. Where did you first make Francis B.'s acquaint
ance Tt As you have let out the name of the person who sold
you cakes, there is nothing that you can have any excuse for
being secret upon.

     I am not clear in my memory about the names of any of my
purveyors till about fourteen years of age. I think I took their
names to be immaterial, and their sweetmeats the real thing.

But at the age I named I was introduced to Mother Fudge -- her

real name -- who could carry in her head the debts of any number
of boys, and no mistake. How she managed to remember the
several little accounts from \^d. up to half-a-crown I never knew,
nor she either; but those who really wanted to do her, and those
who pretended to want it, found her ntterly iincheatablc. She
would run over their tradings for a week past with a confidence

     1 The arms drawn appear to be--on a field argent, a bar table lur-

 mounted by three stars sable. -- En.
       302 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1859.  which was sure to get a verdict from the little mob round her.

       She could neither read nor write.
            ' Mother Fudge,' said a boy to her, ' can you make poetry ? '

       ' I, sir ? ' said she ; 'if I could make English-Poeters, do you think
       II'd be here selling apples and pears ? ' ' Now, Mrs. Fudge,' said
       I, who had been reading Johnson's Lives, ' could name you

       three poets who did not get as much among them as you get by

       Ithis one school.' ' Then wouldn't give nothing apiece for

       Ithem,' said she ; ' they must have been regular bad ones.'

       think the copyright of ' Paradise Lost ' sold for about a year of

       her profits from that school.

          I have had a slight touch of gout -- nothing to hinder my

       walking, with a little pain, but just a straw to show which

       way the wind is blowing. If you could have known of your

       Iown consciousness how regularly the homoeopathic medicines

       alleviated it when stuck to them, and how it got back again

       I Iwhen forgot them, as often did in the moving, &c., you

       would be satisfied that the post hoc of little globules was

       propter hoc.

           I have now got rid of my books ; that
       !

                                                           is,

                                                  I
                                                  have shelved them.

       And behold for the first time these two months have walked

       my fill without feeling lame.

                                      Yours very truly,
                                                     A. De Morgan.

       To Rev. Dr. Whewell.

       41 Chalcot Villas, Adelaide Road, March 1860.
       I
            II

                          I

                                                                                       ;

                                                            B

                                                I
                                                                                                                           3,
1860.      My dear Sir, -- have received the copy of the History of

       Discovery, for which many thanks also one from the Athenceutn

       for review, which will go back uncut.      fully expect some one

       will some day prove by instances that the Athenceum reviews
       books without reading them, and the instances will be copies

       which reviewers have not cut, preferring to take that trouble

       upon their own copies.

       see you have at last admitted that Induction=Induction,

       means Induction < > Induction. Whether you have gone as far

       with loyic have not yet found out.

           And see, with great satisfaction, that the name of Friar

       Bacon begins to appear. Brother Roger has always been a great

       favourite of mine since as long ago as in the Penny Cyclopaedia,

       and he ought to be allowed his share of the name of Bacon.
CORRESPONDENCE, 1856-66.                                303

Bacon is a queer name ; but there seems to be a providence                     1860.

which watches over names, and makes the great men have bear

Ifable sounds. None of the hypotheses that, be the names what
they may, the exploits will sanctify them in time !  Bacon and

Newton had been Wiggins and Figgins, would any time have

taken off the ridicule of the rhyme ? Could anybody with a

grave face have argued the question whether the immortal

Figgins was or was not indebted to the great Wiggins ?

     I see a little theological philosophy. A rationalist Non
conformist a few weeks ago opened one of his paragraphs thus :--
'Now, my brethren, let us proceed to make a logical incision
into the psychology of God.' This was making a subject of the

Deity. Subject is the sense in which the word was used in reply

to an argument of mine. I maintained that a good teacher must

have his heart in his subject, and his subject in his head. Not
if he teach anatomy, says Dr. Sharpey, for he could neither have

his heart in his subject, nor his subject in his head.

                               To Professor Kelland.1

                             41 Chalcot Villas, Adelaide Road, April 2, 1800.

    Mt pear Sir, -- I have received your note announcing that

the Senate of the University of Edinburgh intend me the honour
of a degree of Doctor of Laws on the occasion of Lord
Brougham's installation as Chancellor.

     I hope I shall give no offence by very respectfully declining
tho honour. I mean the diploma. The honour lies in the good
opinion of the Senate, and that your communication gives me a

right to say I have already earned.

     My reason for declining the degree is my own peculiar dis

If Ilike of conventional titles, which are not what they seem to be.

     had studied civil law I should be very glad to be styled fit
to teach it by any competent body ; but as I never have studied, I

object to call myself a teacher, and should object to others calling

me so, and I would not consent to accept a degree in law from

any University in the world. This is for myself, without im
peachment of the conduct of others for adopting any conven-

    1 In reply to an offer to confer on Mr. De Morgan the honorary
degree of LL.D. of tho I'nivuraity of Ediuburgh.
       304 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

18C0.  tional misnomer in which  they may see good, or for which they
       may find reason.
                                        I am, dear sir,

                                                    Yours very truly,
                                                              A. De Morgan.

                                 To a Friend.

1861.  My dear                       41 Chalcot Villas, Jan. 19, 1861.

                , -- Two days ago I heard from Miss Sheep

       Ishanks of the heavy blow which has fallen upon you and          ,

       a dreadful shock, and, must suppose, wholly unlooked for.

       With my strong and increasing disposition to congratulate those

       Iwho leave this world, feel an increasing amount of sympathy

       for those who are left behind ; and you and your wife's share of

       this mournful event will command the sympathies of thousands

       you know nothing of in addition to those of your friends.

          I trust you both bear up, and try to balance what is left
       Iagainst what is gone. That this is not easy know. A few days
       Imore than seven years have elapsed since it was my turn, and

       Icould not then feel that six left made any set-off against one
       gone.  could only understand it. But time will do for you

       what it has done for me.

       My wife unites her sympathy and kind regards with mine.

                                                 Yours sincerely,
                                                         A. De Morgan.

                To Rev. Dr. Whewell.1

                                 41 Chalcot Villas, Jan. 20, 1861.

          My dear Sir,-- This very (Sun)day --how I do not know, but
       I suppose the Parcels Company holds it a work of necessity and

       mercy to distribute the parcels which have accumulated during

       Ithe frost ; most likely they have been obliged to suspend some

       work by the state of the streets-- have received the volume of
       Barrow, for which I have to return thanks either to you or the
       ICollege ; c'est egal, Vetat c'est moi !
                                                 say nothing as yet, except

       that it is exceedingly handy and time-saving to have these books

           1 Watered into a volume of tracts left by Dr. Whewell to Trin.
       Coll. The succeeding letter refers to the memoir entitled ' On the
       Syllogism, No. IV., and on the Logic of Relations,' in the Trans
       actions of the Cambridge Philosophical Society, vol. x., part ii., 1860.
                    CORRESPONDENCE, 1856-66.                         305

in one volume. For B. is the man of all others, according to my                  1861 .

experience, who is referred to by citation of one work for what
is in another. How could aught else happen to a cove who

called one of his writings Lectiones Mathematics, and another

Lectionet Qeometricw, and then treated what is considered as

exclusively Geometrical (as Euclid V. wrongly is) in his Mathe

Imatical lectures, pp. 8, 9 (i.e. one word shared between them) ?
For metaphysical read psychological.  don't object to the word

a few lines higher up.

    Do you know the use of the word metaphysical, which is
growing up among the writers of the examination books which

Ithave taken the place of all others ? -- I mean at Cambridge.

means requiring thought, and proceeding without symbolic calcu

lation. When a proof of two pages of symbol drumming is
avoided by an act of reasoning, it is said to be ' too metaphysical.'
This is one of the consequences of the death and burial of

psychological thought in Cambridge. There seems to be a com

plete acquiescence in the maxim that Oxford shall settle what
the world shall think, and Cambridge shall settle who is to be

Senior Wrangler. It is getting worse and worse from day to

day. Are any of the younger men alive to the facts ? With

best remembrances to Lady Affleck,

                                 I am yours very truly,

                                                          A. Dr Morgan.

                        To Rev. Dr. Whewell.

                          41 Chalcot Villas, Adelaide Road, Jan. 20, 1861.

    My drir Sir, --There are some mistakes which are too small
to be of any consequence, and some which are too large. Ex

tremes meet ; -- oo is curiously a comrade of + oo. . . .1
     The reason I call x3 -- "2x-- 5=0 a celebrated equation is

because it was the one on which Wallis chanced to exhibit
Newton's method when he first published it ; in consequence
of which every numerical solver has felt bound in duty to make
it one of his examples. Invent a numerical method, neglect to
show how it works on this equation, and you are a pilgrim who

does not come in at the little wicket (vide J. Bunyan).

     Newton was anything but illiterate. He k new Bacon. His
silence is most marked. How could he avoid every possible

      1 Referring,  I think,  to some error in a figure in a former  letter. --
                                            X
8. ELDrM.
       306  MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1861.  Iamount of mention of Bacon on every possible subject ? never
       Isaid he did not know Bacon ; only said he could not be proved
       Ito have known of his existence. Nor can he.
                                                         think he has

       taken such pains not to be known to know him as cannot be

       attributed to accident.

          I am glad to hear there are logicians at St. John's. It is a

       0college at which more pains are taken to make the men write

       for ' circle ' in their writing out than to prevent their reasoning in

       a circle. There is no attention given to writing in. Neverthe

       I Iless, St. John's has preserved the shadow of a teacher of logic.

       When published my syllabus last year, sent a copy to every

       college in Cambridge, directed 'to the Tutor in Logic,' just to

       make them stare. I got an answer from St. John's from Mr.

       Mayor, who acknowledged the title.

           It is not examination that is wanted, but good teaching and

       example. A paper of logic conundrums would be just as useful

       as one of those fearful mathematical papers, to prepare for which

       Iprivate tutors  drill men in passing examinations. Thank Heaven
                        Cambridge in the interval between two systems,
       that was at

       when thought about both was the order of the day even among
       undergraduates. There are pairs of men alive who did each

       other more good by discussing x versus dx, and Newton versus

       Laplace, than all the private tutors ever do. With kind re

       membrances to Lady Affleck,   I am yours very truly,

                                                           A. De Morgan.

                        From Professor Alexander Bain.1

                                     University, Aberdeen, Feb. 7, 1861.

       Dear Mr. Dr Morgan, -- As two copies of your paper          on the
       I' Logic of Relations ' have reached me, beg to return you  one of
       Ithem, and to thank you for the other.
                                               am very much          inte
       rested with this new subject which you have entered upon, being
       convinced that the greatest omission both in logic and psychology
       is the not seeing how far the principle of relativity goes. So far

       1 This letter was given to me by Professor Alexander Bain. I have
       departed from the general rule of not giving letters to my husband in
       1 he correspondence, because in this instance the value of his own to
       Igeneral readers is greatly enhanced by being accompanied by that to
       which it is a reply.  wish it had always been possible to give both

       sides of the correspondence,  but this would have rendered it too volu

       minous. --S. E. De M.
                     CORRESPONDENCE, 1856-60.                 307

ms I am able to judge, relation goes into everything ; no quality                 1861.

existing except as related to some other, which we sometimes

call its negative, at other times its contrast, and again its cor
relative. The straight line has no meaning without its contrast,
the bent line ; the occurrence of the two kinds is necessary to

our recognising either property. Every quality, every cognition

of the mind, implies an antithesis or couple. Hot--cold, up--

Idown, &c. If I say red, mean to exclude all other members of
Imy ' universe ' (to use your own well-chosen designation) ; and

if that be ' colour,' exclude all other colours. The important
inferences deducible from the essential doubleness of all cognition

are, I am sure, very numerous, and I have no doubt you will con
vince us of this if you continue the subject.

                                                          Yours faithfully,
                                                                     Alex. Bain.

                     To Professor Alexander Bain.

                     41 Chalcot Villas, Adelaide Road, N.W.,

                                                      Feb. 9, 1861.

    Mt dear Sir, -- I am sorry to have given you the trouble of
returning my second copy. I see I must have entered you as

of two Universities.

    I quite coincide in your view as to n quality being unthink
able except in company with its noil. I forget where I said, long

ago, every name designates every object of thought as either in
the class or out ; but I did say and the equipollenco of X and

non-X the foundation of completeness even in common syllogism.
I                               it
             is                    I it,

                it
hardly like to claim the word universe as mine, though have
                                                      I
brought             down from its modern sense (the to irav) to the old
                                                                 a
sense. Those who have derived the word from a mixture of

unum and diversum (strange etymologists certainly very much
                                        any aggregate of X and non-is
favour my plan of making                      !)
X which in hand. But the old universal was any name which
         is                                        I

had plurality of things signified: of two only, the name turned

the two into one, in unum versa.          have made some people stare

by telling them that universality begins at two.
     The combinations of relation are the ambiguities of language.

Looking on little into     compound       relation,   come to such
sentence as the following
'                    a     --

   I                     :
         is
                  a
He the father of friend of every one of my children.'

Do mean that one of his children          the friend of every one

                                x  a
       308  MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1861.  of mine, or that every child of mine has a friend among his

       children ?

           Here is L(MN)' as distinguished from (LM)N'. This door

       is a very little way open as yet
                                                                Yours very truly,
                                                                       A. De Morgan.

1862.                           To Admiral Smyth."

                              41 Chalcot Villas, Adelaide Road, Feb. 19, 1862.

       IMy dear Smyth, -- am not very especially busy just now.

       The obscure men are, as we know, precisely the men that
       Ifuture necrologists will look out for.
       IObscuroncm Virorum are very useful.     find that the Biographies

                                             have an old Italian Glorie
       Idegli Incogniti, which find very useful for information about

       men who are merely there to be shown up for non-notoriety.

            Yours sincerely,
                       A. De Morgan.

                         To Sir J. Herschel.    April 19, 1862.

       My dear Sir John,

            No news here ; not even a riddle. Here is a poem which
       was given me :--

                                         "Ac'iSc eiSvAAioi* Sea,

                                   Felis adest cum cithara,

                                      Vacca lnnam transivit,
                                   Hoc jocoso motus visu
                                   Rumpitur canellus risu
                                      Cum cochleari lanx abit.

       IWhich do you believe in, metal plates or guns ?      have just
       received a pamphlet on the subject from Michael Scott. If this
       be the great wizard, then we know how it was that --

            When in Salamanca's cave

            Him listed his magic wand to wave,
            The bells would ring in Notre Dame.

       The wand was a long match, and his range was so good
CORRESPONDENCE, 1866-66.                                      309

that he would hit the belfry at Notre Dame from as far off as                  1862.

ISalamanca. The end of it have long foretold to be that the

different capitals of Europe will shell one another without the

trouble of sending out soldiers.
     With kind regards to Lady Her so he 1 and the juniors all,

                                     I am, yours very trnly,

                                                                A. De Morgan.

To Sir J. Herschel.

                                 91 ' Adelaide Road, April 29, 1862.

Mr dear Sir John, -- Many thanks for the hexameters. They

are as good as they can be, but all the logic in the world does

not make me feel them to be English metre, and they give
                                       of the Greek. Just
Isatisfaction only by reminding    me                         as, mark
                                 have  been these forty-five
you, a flute-player --which                                    years --

only plays Haydn and Mozart because he has the association of

the orchestral accompaniment, which arises in his head with the

melody.                                                       When I
     The idea of the Scott ballad metre is not recent.

was at school, forty-two years ago, our ludi-maguter read out

about 100 lines of Homer, which he said were versified by

Scott himself as a specimen. They were decidedly Scott, and

I thought not a little Homer.
The hexameter, it is clear, does not fix itself in the popular
If Imind.
it has done so proofs can be given, but have not

met with them ; the popular mind knows neither quantity nor

accent, but that which is to last bites its own way in, without

any effort. Is the hexameter making any way ? Do people

quote any hexameters ?

   It seems to me that the problem of a metre for translation of

the hexameter is not yet solved. The English hexameter is not

a better reminder of Homer than the usual metres of our

language.

   I have discharged my conscience. Richard's visual organ*

                                       Yours very truly.
                                               A. De Morgan.

1 The number of the house had been changed.
2 Dixi !--S. E. De M.
       310          MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

                             To Sir J. Herschel.

                                      91 Adelaide Road, May 3, 1862.

18G2.  My dear Sir John, --A great many years ago you stood up

       after dinner at our club, and gave strong hints that your time

       was nearly up. But you brisked up, took the Mint, overworked

       yourself, got an illness worth prophesying about, got over it,

       and committed mathematical papers. Now here you are again,

       talking about softening of the brain, and a knacker's yard, and

       all kinds of incommensurables. If this mean that you are

       going to be Chancellor of the Exchequer, why, take off the
       Ifincome tax.
                         it be really melancholy foreboding, take on a

       little quinine or brandy and water, and give up the hexameter

       for six months. It is a mournful metre.

            As to your catalogue of Greek ships and of we&it/ce, take care

       you do not mix them accidentally, 'A catalogue of ships which

       sailed against Troy, reduced to the year 1862,' by Sir J. H., &c.

       People will stare to see how 2,500 years of precession turn a
       trireme into a steamship. All our progress may be only pre

       cession of the equinoxes, motion backwards of the zero of

       reckoning.
            As to the hexameters, it is only now and then remembered

       that verses among Greeks and Romans were not for recitation,

       but recitative. An hexameter is a natural measure for a chant.

       I dare say the rhapsodist in the streets of Athens gave it out

       something like as a Puseyite parson gives out the Litany, only
       with more taste. A famous hexameter might be made out of
       the opening line of the hymn to the Virgin in ' Masaniello,' but

       our most natural measure is a foot too long, and the last spondee

       is doubled.

       fi) e^^^ES^^II
            Siug,   U Mubc,  with  a     row      dee  dow, wbAt    ft

       ^=3=3=pEgiip|
            tflffl thfy      nUo   with  A        -    chU  - 10s.

                                              Yours very truly,
                                                      A. De Moeqax.
         CORRESPONDENCE, 1856-06.                              311

                        To Sir J. Herschel.

                        91 Adelaide Road, N.W., May 30, 1862.

My diar Sir John, -- I should not wonder if Sylvester and                               1862.

Iyon were at one without any intercommunication of your par
ticles.  have had the same idea a long time. I have even

hinted at it through a glass darkly. In my third logic paper
'Itthere is the following passage :
                                     is easy to frame hypotheses

which no one can of knowledge deny, under which attributes in

the brain should be as real as the sun in the heavens, or the

rocks on the earth, and this without a denying either the

existence of matter or the separate existence of mind.' If the

things of the universe be affections of the immovable primary

particles of space, the impresses on the brain may be veritable

copies, as real as the things themselves. A very pretty system
Ifof pre-established harmony might be established.
                                                    all the

matter-universe be in motion of translation through the space-

universe or in transference, and if an individual in a certain part

of a certain nebula be to have a headache at a certain date, he

may at that date find the space particles, which are to keep up

his head, ready supplied with the adjunct affections --confound

them, whatever they are !--which are essential to an ache of
                        ' How charming                            '
predestined intensity.                  is divine  philosophy  !

Of course all this means that I have received your letter and
book. I will look at the latter, and let you have it back soon.

I never heard of the dialogue between Hermogenes and Her-

mione. The puzzle about oo arises much, I think, from a want

of distinction between the subjective and objective infinity. But
before I fairly tackle the subject I have to superintend and, en

Hue, to calculate a valuation of about 30,000 life policies ; but

Inot 30,000 calculations -- Heaven in its mercy forbid! But

mast leave off. With kind regards,

                                        Yours very trnly,
                                                A. Dr Morgan.

                        To Sir J. Herschel.

                                                      91 Adelaide Road, Aug. 9, 18(52.

    My dear Sir John, -- I return you with thanks your MSS. on
algebra. There are little bits here and there that I wish had

been published. Did it chance to you that the first thing you
        312 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

18(52.  wrote never was published? It did so to me. The first thing
        ever proposed to me was a treatise on mechanics for the U. K. S.

        I wrote a few chapters, and, chancing to become a candidate for
        I Iwhat now hold, I sent my MSS. in as a testimonial, and
        Ibelieve it greatly helped me. At any rate, was picked oat of

        Ififty candidates, being known to be only twenty-one last birth
        day.   think Brougham and Warburton were the people who

        dared a thing so bold, considering the danger of making any

        ventures in an institution beginning under so many evil eyes as
        the University of London. Olinthus Gregory was against it ;

        S , who always had a wonderful faculty of getting something

        against somebody, though he did not know me, and had never

        seen me, either concocted or retailed to Stratford a story which

        I never heard from elsewhere, namely, that my appointment was

        the doing of Mr. Frend, then an acquaintance of mine of a few

        months' standing, not on the Council, and at Cheltenham for

        health all the time, and who learnt my candidateship and appoint

        ment from the newspapers at one and the same moment.

            Who shall escape ? Mark the following. In some journal in

        1851, M. Bertrand, in a paper on the convergence of series, is
        Icharged with suppressing what
                                        had done on the same sub
        Iject. It is hinted that he had used what had done. The facts
        are--

             1. M. Bertrand invented a set of rules before he had seen

        Imine, so he says, and believe ; his method has all the marks of

        independent thought. After he had observed the identity of his

        rules and mine, in effect and each to each, it struck him to try

        a hint of a M. Raube, and he thereupon constructed a third

        system. 2. He announced my rules in half a quarter-page of

        translation from me, with inverted commas to every line, and

        mentioned my name eleven times in his descriptions and com

        parisons. 3. He gave my book the date 1839 instead of 1842,

        1839 being the date of the number in which the rules of con

        vergence appeared. 4. He sent me a copy of his paper as soon

        as it appeared.

              What could he have done more ? Nevertheless, he is un-

        blushingly charged with unfair suppression by a man who knew
        nothing of my book but what he himself had told him, for he

        I(the critic) gives the wrong date of 1839.

             As to infinity, hold J- to be the infinite of infinites.
             For 0 marks the change from + to -- , which oo does not.
             As we generally use oo, we admit oo), which is not negative,
CORRESPONDENCE, 1856-66.  313

and oo*, Ac. Bat quantity which changes sign through infinity                                   1862.
passes though ^. This will become a very important distinction.

JThe of common algebra is high up above the -- of the differ-
                                                                                            dx

ential calculus.

    I am rid of all fear about oo2. I believe in x, oo', oo3, &c.,&c.;
and I intend to write a paper against the skim-milky, fast-and-

loosiah mealy-mouthedncss of the English mathematical world

on this point. My assertion is that the infinitely great and

small have subjective reality. They have objective impossibility

if you please ; or not, just as you please.
      I have first to remove an ambiguity, which has played a large

part in causing confusion. To imagine is originally to form an
image in the mind. But it has been transformed into a synonym
of to conceive, to form a concept. The distance from here to the

Isun is a concept. I have no image of it. But of six feet I have

both image and concept when shut my eyes. Now many per

sons, when they cannot image, speak as if they could not conceive,

Iand use the ambiguous word imagine. We cannot, they say,
imagine infinite space. grant they can't image it, but I am sure

by their modes of denial that they have a conception of it. Locke
and others affirm that we arrive at the notion of infinity by finding
out that when, say, we add number to number, we find the
succession incapable of termination, and so fashion interminability

in our minds. I say the process is precisely the reverse. If it

were not for our conception of infinity we should not know the

interminability.

    Who ever tried up to 10,000,000,000,000,000 ? It is certainly
not experience. If any one were to affirm that 1016 is only a

symbol, and that any one who should try would find himself

brought up by the nature of things, Locke has no answer,
unless, as would probably be the case, he should ask permission

to bring on the conception of infinity.
     I therefore affirm the concept infinite as a subjective reality

of my consciousness of space and time, as real as my conscious
ness of either, because inseparable from my consciousness of
either. When, therefore, I think of a finite space -- say a cubic

foot -- if I compare it with the totality of space, I say infinitely
small ; if I compare the totum with it I say infinitely great.

     Now comes a postulate on which there may be a fight. Let
A and B be two magnitudes, any whatsoever, and C a third,
also any whatsoever. Let these magnitudes be concepts, imagin-
       314   MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1862.  able or unimaginable.  I take a right to affirm the conception of

       D such that              A : B::C : D

       The notion of ratio is a fundamental thing, not dependent on,

       though only definitely expressible by number. A person who

       cannot count, and who does not even know that language can

       turn multitude into number, has the idea of ratio, relative mag
       nitude. He sees, feels, and knows that if A be the house, B is
       Itoo small for the chimney, and C too large.1
                                                          claim the exist

       ence of D, so that A : B as C : D is a concept.

          This being premised, then I have the infinitely small part of
       any magnitude, and of that again, &c. For instance, if dx : x : :

       a pint pot : all space, dx is an infinitely small part of x.
       IAll this
                          mean to develop and fight for.  So with kind

       regards to Lady Herschel and the next generation,

                                              Yours sincerely,
                                                          A. De Morgan.

                              To Sir J. Herschel.

                                          91 Adelaide Road, Aug. 15, 1862.

           My dear Sir John, -- Many thanks for the dialogue.2           From

       Ithe parties to the dialogue ded uce the equation --

                          mogenes + mione     ,,

          IWhat a quantity of arguable propositions ! cannot see how
       Iyou deduce your account of Descartes. As to at' ems -- spell

       the name thus, considering it as a challenge to attack them, and

       make your boast of it-- I suspect that if you look back into the

       world a thousand years hence you will find the remote posterity,

       as we call fiddling away at the creatures, and knowing about
       I
                     it,
       what we do.

            have often thought of the minimum of extension en

       dowed with attraction, &c., and adjusting his accounts with
                                                                         It
       <(10) 1,000,000.000} (10)1'00o-oOT'°oo brethren instantaneously.      is

       a wonderfully fine hypothesis for expressing what we see and

       *1    rough sketch of a house, with too small chimney on one side
                                           a
          A
       and a too large one on the other.

            Dialogue on Atoms, by Hermoyenes and Hermione.               Private

X circulation.
CORRESPONDENCE, 1856-66.  315

know ; but for an actual objective truth, oh my ! And we                             1862.
call them blind atoms ! Why, the fellows see faster and farther

than we do, by the above to 1, at least.

    If a malevolent being could create one single atom more than

is in the plan, he would of course bring the whole thing to smash
at last. Query, in what time ?

    I hope we shall know more about it next world. We can't

know much less than we do now, that's one comfort.

                                                             Yours very truly,
                                                                      A. De Morgan.

To the Rev. Dr. Whewell.

                                                 91 Adelaide Road, April 1, 1863.    1863.

    Mt dear Sir, -- I am not going to take the privilege of the

day, but it reminds me, though it is not the occasion of my

Iwriting, that this very day ten years made a sort of specula
tion which I thought many would attribute to the influence of
the day. While I was chuckling at the idea of having quite suc

ceeded in a new metaphysical insanity, and before the pen was out
of my hand, there actually came in from a bookseller Heywood's

Atutlysis of Kant, 1844, and there I found the very same notion.
It occurred in a description of the ' paralogisms of reason,' as
they occurred in the first edition. You can tell me whethe r

there is any allusion to the subject in the later editions, and this

Iis my question.

         was considering a syllogism in which a term is a class of
which the individuals are the subject at different moments of its
existence. For instance, --

     No black ball is ever a billiard ball ; this ball has always
been black ; this ball has never been a billiard ball.

     The individuals of the class are the balls which we call one

ball at different times. Therenpon it struck me to think, how

is it that we call this ball the same ball all the time f Whereas,

if we had a number of fac-simile balls in different places, we

should not say it is the same ball all the space. I suppose w e

borrow a notion from our personal identity, in which we feel

sameness. Consequently, if our presence had multipresence, if

the ego knew himself for himself in all the different parts of a

space without being able to say, I am one person here and
another there --any more than he can say, I am one person tunc

                                                                                            -
       316 JMEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1863.  and was another then --he would be very much inclined to

       doubt the difference of balls, when the only difference is that of

       place.

       This supposes a faculty altogether beyond our comprehen
       sion -- indeed, anything be within our comprehension on the
       it                          what --which ties spaces together, just as
          if,

             I
                               is
       question of what

       memory ties times together.
       All this found in Kant (Hey wood, ut supra, p. 109). He

       uses to prove, as he thinks, that ego                              think migh be iden
                                                          is I'
                                                                                '
                                                                                          t
       tical, though the thinking subject                 variable. He will not

       admit the space-string to constitute the nos of different places

       one ego.           cannot find any of this in Heywood's or Tissot's
                 I
                          I

                                             it
       translations, and think                   possible that he may have learnt

       better in the interval of the editions. But you may be able to

       refer me to some notice of it.

       With this metaphysical reduction of omnipresence to depend

       upon an incomprehensible something which has at least an

       analogue in our own consciousness, have looked for ten years
                                                 '

                                                     I

                                                                       '
       at various ontological writings about the unconditioned,' and

       various religious works about the Almighty,' and think see
       a very great tendency to confuse omnipresent personality with      I
                                                                                  I
       infinite extent. At least there
                                                                                     I
                                                 is  a want of power to put the

       distinction into language.

       Are you aware of any Roman Catholic speculation on the

       subject They must give multipresence to the saints whom
       they invoke, and by whom they expect to be heard. And
       I
          IIshould suppose that some of their writers have touched on this

                       :gift.

               I?am now writing on the subject of Infinity, trying to burn

       the candle at both ends.     have found out for some years that
                                   by I                                                          I
                                       I
       am a full believer in the infinitely great and small, both . mean
                                                       a                                     II
       in the subjective reality of both notions.

               cleared off much obscurity by a distinction which find
                                   the psychologists -- that of a concept
       very faintly shadowed

       which has image, and a concept which has none.                             can image a
                                                                          it

                                                                            I
                                                                               I
       horse              can't image the right to horse, but can conceive it.

       cannot image infinity, but can conceive -- that is, recog
                                                                                  I

       nise a notion with predicates. So that when a metaphysical

       writer says, as some have said, that we cannot conceive space to

       be finite, and are equally unable to conceive as infinite, say
                                                                          it

                                                                                         I

       they ought to have said that we cannot conceive space to be

       finite, nor image as infinite. But neither can we image a
                          it
                   CORRESPONDENCE, 1 850-66.                                                317

million of cubic miles, though we can conceive
our knowing truth and falsehood about it.
                                    I                               as proved by                  1863.
                                                               it,
                                    am, yours very truly,
                                                   A. De Morgan.

                        To Rev. Dr. Whewell.

                                                                   April 1863.
                                                                                      3,
    My deae Sir,-- Did provoke you to an ontological discus
sion Did chalk my hat and say, Now I'd like to see the                                  I
    ?                   aI                                '
                           I is                               '
              aI                                                ?
man who says that this not silver lace                             That's what call

provoking discussion.            asked you, who are Kantescient,

whether you knew of certain speculation in the later editions

of Kant and you say No.          I  am pretty sure you would have
I
               ;
               it
remembered at once      if     had been there.

                           it

        am quite sure we shall never solve the problem which my
analogy went to suggest. But for all that, we only envisage
                                                          if

a quality acting through space as memory acts through time, we
                                 definite basis of unintclligibility --
put multipresence upon
    I

                                      a
                                                                                  is
there, have managed to spell the word, and that something

gained.                        of space and time -- the two indis-
          value the analogies  have before now made much profit of

missible extensions and
is I     I
                       ;

                    aI
the very remark you quote.

    For aught know, body may act where                                          not
                                                                   it                       may
                                                                       is                   seen

                                                                                       ;

                                                                                  is it
leave consequences behind it. An annihilated star, which

by light emitted during its existence, may be said, for aught we

can tell, to act where         not, in as true sense as matter, in
                   is                                     a

                     is it a                                         it
                         is it                                             is
                                is

                                          is
                                                       a
attracting distant matter, can be said to act where                                   not.
                        very ill-used notion. If a particle really do
    But presence        present throughout the universe. It

attract all others,                                                                         is

present in one quality -- in others, for aught we know. The
presence of matter the presence of all its qualities --the only

things we know. Now who             to say that the spheres of the

qualities have the same diameters or even the same centres
                                                                   it

                                                                                         ?
    Grant one centre to qualities of particle, and there may be

millions of centres, all effective in spheres of different radii.

The sphere of attraction may be the biggest, or may not.

    Mansel, detect partly by private, partly by public evidence,
      I

    in the state of the old logicians about infinity. He cannot

se pa rate the mathematical notion from the old mixture of infinite

in quality and in everything. Leibuitz had to considerable
                                                                   it
                                                                             a

extent, in spite of his power over the mathematical notion.
       318 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1868.      I bring the chief difficulties of quantitative infinity to some

       thing like this :--
       When of A and B one and one only must be, when A is
       Ivisibly self-contradictory and B only incomprehensible,
                                                                 vote

       for B.

          I shall be very glad to see anything of Ellis's. The thoughts

       of his long illness would be valuable. He gained an enormous

       Ipower of thinking about mathematics without pen and paper.
         repeat my wish that his preface to Bacon could be separately
                   IWith kind regards to Lady Affleck,
       published.
                                                       am, yours very truly,
                                                                      A. De Morgan.

                   To Rev. Dr. Whewell.

                                                       April 7, 1863.

       IMy pear Sir,--Now               vnU provoke an opinion, not an

       answer to a matter of fact ; and if anybody in College has ever

       Ithought about the subject, wish he would think about it again.
       Aristotle has a chapter in the ' Metaphysics ' about the

       airtipov, translated ' the infinite.' The chapter opens with a

       description of the meaning of the word, which has come down
       I Iwithout any strong objection that can find.
                                                       give the sen
       Itence itself, with a literal translation from MacMahon.

       hardly ever had to look closely at a sentence of Aristotle without

       Ifinding what reason might take either for a gross corruption or

       an obvious interpolation. This chapter suppose to have had

       much sway in determining the logician's obstinate confusion

       between the infinite, unlimited  in qualities, powers, &c., and the
       simple infinite of magnitude.    Now from ' Metaphysics,' lib. x.

       or xi., cap. 10 :--

             To 8' aTrtipov i) to aSvvarov 8tt\6civ tw fir) Trt<f,VK(vai oWim, xa&i-
       Trtp r) tfxai'r) doparos, r) to &U£o8ov e^ov artAtvnjTOV, t; o fuoXis. i) o

       ir«£vKos i\tiv fir) i\ti 8u£o8ov r) irtpas' cti irpo<rdf<rti r) &<f,aipara, y

       ifitfxa.

            ' But the infinite is either that which it is impossible to pass
       through in respect of its not being adapted by nature to be per
       meated, in the same way as the voice is invisible ; or it is that
       which possesses a passage without an end, or that which is
       scarcely so, or that which by nature is adapted to have, bat h&$
       not, a passage or termination. Further, a thing is infinite from
       subsisting by addition or subtraction, or both.'
CORRESPONDENCE, 18.W-60.  319

   IHere is a nice kettle of fish ! Now try to put a sense upon it.                        1863.
   I1. take amtpov to mean rather without boundary than

without end ; indefinite. But the quantitative notion of having

no end does intrude and confuse that of having no determinate.1

To Rev. Dr. Whewell.

                                                                          April 11, 1803.

    My pear Sir, -- Many thanks for your letter. I feel helped

by the word Bulvau, because it is a very thoroughfarcsome word.
As the lexicon says, it is used for going through a country, or for

running a man through the body, which is a process very
definitely suggestive of in at one side and out at the other.

It points very distinctly to the idea of bounded on all sides,

being that which awfipov denies. And this, combined with an

avtipov gained by subtraction, confirm me in the notion that
Aristotle is treating of the indefinite -- not necessarily, though
possibly, infinite in magnitude.

    I agree with you that the adjective infinite without a sub

stantive is like all other adjectives similarly situated.
     On infinity -- i.e., infinite quantity -- a concept necessarily

connected in our minds as an attribute or predicate, with space
and time, I have come to the conclusion that we must treat it

as a concept without image. Throwing away the word imagine,

as spoiled by becoming a synonym of conceive, I distinguish the

 concepts which we can image from those which we cannot. We
 can put before the mind's eye, or the mind's mode of remembering
 sensible things, an image or likeness ; a man, for example, as he
 appears when alarmed. But alarm is a concept without image ;
 it has predicates, it is the subject of true and false propositions,

 but not as a thing having an image.
      Now of quantity of space, and even of time-- for succession

 of things is among our sensible relations --we have images ; but
 not when too small or too great. The infinitely small and the
 infinitely great are below and above our imagining power, but
 they are concepts with attributes. Those who reject both or
 either because they cannot form an idea -- by which they iw^j

 ata image--ought equally to reject those entia rationis, the -,l00

    « I much regret that I have lout tho rest of this letter. But     I

insert it as it stands, as the same subject is spoken of in the next

8. K. Oi M.
       320      MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1863.  of an inch and the length of 10100 miles. But these are subjects

       Iof which we can predicate ; and so, hold, is infinity.
           I have made all manner of efforts to repudiate infinity of

       quantity for forty years, in obedience to the dicta of people who

       Iassured me did not possess any idea of and have failed.
                                           it,
                                                            it,

                                                            I

                                                                                        it
       And have observed that no people seem so clearly to have the
       II
       idea as those who argue against     while engaged in their task.

       And begin to lean towards the notion that the difficulties of

       infinity of quantity arise from our having more knowledge of
       than of things, for which we depend on attributes-- as mind or

       matter.

       The absolute, as yon say, really has no predicates and
                                                          ;
       very circular idea. Is not the being unconditioned,
                                                              if
                                                                   it

                                                                        is
                                                                              a
                                                                 per se

       and necessarily, condition Cannot   is    word of limitation and
                a                  I?         a

       condition. Can the Creator commit suicide  ?     not, he is, to

                                                    if

       our thoughts, conditioned.      should like to know what Hamilton

       would have said to this. Seeing that the Germans shine as

       smokers and also as metaphysicians, and also that in the former
       capacity they blow a cloud -- which was the word for taking a
       cigar in my day --
                a               worth while to think about transferring

                     it
                           is
       the phrase, in transcendental sense, to their other pursuit.

                                           Yours truly,
                                                     A. De Morgan.

                                To Sir Herschel.
                                       J.

                                           91 Adelaide Road, May 10, 1863.

       My dear Baronet, --There's change for your 'Professor.'

       Everybody attaches some ideas to a word derived from early

       associations. The first learned Professor read of under that
                I
                               ;
                            a ?I
                                a iIf I '
                                                                    ;
                                           I
                                              II
                                                   I'
                                                                 I
                                                                                                                        ;

                                                                                      it
       name was Olearius Schinderhausen, of Leyden, who disparted

       with his cast-off suit biennially.  did not think should live

       to match him but as never go out, and always work at home

       in a dressing-gown, also have but one coat in two years.

       Seventy-one, eh          Go on to eighty, and then apply to me

       for further directions,     should be in a condition to give them.

       Addition of the same to ratio of greater inequality diminishes

       it. So says Jemmy Wood and the life of man confirms it.

       When you were preparing sin ~lx, was learning numeration

       from my father on zahlenbreitstein --a pebble, of diameter and

       flatness, picked up in the road. And remember that when

       was lost refused all arithmetic till another was found which,
        CORRESPONDENCE, 1856-66.                     321

considering that no one had told me the etymology of calculation,                                                                                               1863.

showed a kind of natural philological acumen.

                                                      Yours very truly,
                                                                       A. De Morgan.

        To the Master of Trinity.

.... IfMt dear Sir,--   91 Adelaide Road, October 21, 1863.
                            you read Notes and Queries, look
out for a few notes I have given on Robert Robinson. I shall

send down a cutting to paste into his ' History of Baptism,' or

any work the library of Trinity may chance to have.

I have been in communication with Mr. Wright about a book

he used out of that library. He was the most remarkable Cam

bridge (town) man of the last century, I suppose; at least he
comes next after Maps and Jemmy Gordon.

      I do not know whether you know Crabb Robinson (no rela
tion), to whom I am indebted for anecdotes. He is eighty-six,

and pours out anecdotes about everything and everybody, espe

cially his especial friends Goethe, Wordsworth, Southey, Cole

ridge, Charles Lamb, et id genus omne. He tells me that
Wordsworth agreed with Samuel Parr that Dyer's ' Life of
Robert Robinson ' is one of the best biographies in the language.

                        Yours very truly,
                                           A. De Morgan.

                        To Sir J. Herschel

                                            !i1 Adelaide Road, November 10, 18o3.

    Mt dear Sir Johm, -- Thanks for the paper on the standard.

Hurrah for anything which preserves our great units ! On that

condition I will accept the earth's axis or anything else. But I

stipulate for the foot, as for common usage. A yard is too long

to start from; a foot I hold too long ; I should like better of
2
yards.I

                         I

                                                T

                                                                                        a

                                                                       I is
                                                                                                                                                           1\y
Many years ago demanded of my bootmakers the lengths

of foot of 100 adult men, taken as they came in his books. The

result was 10*26 inches as the average foot of man, English,

measured in Bedford Street, Bedford Place. This      rather

surprising, seeing that a bootmaker gives   little additional

rather than otherwise.

hope the metrical people will continue to agitate.   do not
       322  MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1863.  fear their metre, which will never go down; but they will do
       Igood to the decimal principle.
                                           think we shall get the decimal

       coinage up again by their help.

          I am dry of information of every kind.

                                           Yours very truly,
                                                  A. De Morgan.

            To the Rev. Dr. Husenbeth.

            91 Adelaide Road, December 31, 1863.

       My dear Sir, -- I am very much obliged for the excerpt.

       IBut how do you manage with rubric letters on a dark morning
       or by candlelight ? The first opening      made of the creed

       showed me, by candlelight, ' ceqne confondentes personas,'
       which, said I, must be a misprint.
       II am glad to be set right about the filioque.         was once --
       but it dropt --puzzled to know how the Greeks could reject two

       words of the Athanasian when they rejected the whole creed.

       But like most (Western) others, I had but a cloudy notion of
       the Greek Church. My Latin Prayer-book is certainly the old
       Latin. A new Latin translation, the veritable original being

       Latin, strikes me as would a Greek Homer translated from

       IPope. . . .

               shall certainly attack reliable. One of the tale- writers in

       All the Year Bound has introduced it into a document purporting

       to be of the early reign of George III. This is adding insult to

       injury.

          When I say a journal cannot refuse advertisements, I mean

       that it cannot do so without danger to its prosperity. It is
       found that any check to influx of business is bad policy.

          If the AtheiuBum of thirty years ago be examined, it will be

       found that the reader's portion is increased relatively more than

       the advertisement portion. It is astonishing how many persons

       delight in running over columns of advertisements. . . .
                                                                Yours very truly,
                                                                      A. De Morgan.

1864.                           To the Rev. Dr. Husenbeth.

                                                                            January 12, 1864.
           ^T dear Sir, --Many thanks for the drama, which, not

       knowing the original, I cannot divide between you and the
                  CORRESPONDENCE, 1866-66.                                                                    323

Iauthor of the second.              read it through, which is a point on                                                       1864.
which most reviewers of books are apt to be evasive, and, as I
did so at one sitting, I need not say I liked it. Aa there are
only two Christians in or at most three if we count Agellius,
                       Ia

                           it,
there no scope for fault which noticed in book of the
     is                                          is                                                 a
                                                                                                                it
                                                    I                                                                is
                                                                                                                            a
Cardinal's, of which forget the name, all about St. Pancras

(saint, not parish). That fault                  that though the author can

draw characters, yet the moment he puts on the religion,

domino of the same form and colour for all, which makes them

look just alike.  I  thought all the while of the great magician

who could make the Calvinism of David Deans and Jeanie as

distinct as their characters, sexes, and ages, without anything
that would bring either under the censure of the Presbytery.

Either Dr. Newman or yourself, or both, have managed three

tolerably different phases of religious character.

     You may easily get far enough into my syllabus to see

the  meaning   of the               symbols -)) )·( &c.,  which                                      all the book
was  intended  for --                                     to you.
                                    mean the copy sent                                              In (·), for
instance, see--I                                                                                    is
                     4. 3. 2. 1. I
                                                                                                          ))

                                    Premises.

                                    Proof of validity.

                                    Conclusion.

                                    Quantities of all the terms.

     Dr. Watts's book, which call the English Port- Royal logic,
                                    I

                                                       I
deals little in purely logical exercise. As to your reading in
                                                                                                              it
                                                                                                                  it
spite of what says against the Pope, &c., should have read
     is
            it

                it

               I
all the more, for enjoy being assaulted and batteried. But the

book a good one. Had he been of the Parliamentary form of

...religion, would have been                     great work, as great as any of
                                                          am, dear sir,
Paley, in the two Universities.
                                    a

                                          I

                                                                                                    Yours truly,

                                                                                                        A. Dr Morgan.

                    To Sir J. F. W. Herschel.

                                    91 Adelaide Road, August 18, 1864.

   IfMt dear Sir John, -- you happen to recollect you were

Master of the Mint -- am sure you had reason enough to recol
     it

                    ;

                        II

                                                                                                 ;
lect -- you cannot have forgotten that Newton was there before

jon. Hi$ concessit, find that N. and H. added each one coin

to the list N. the gold quarter-guinea, which was in circulation

iluntil towards the end of the century                                                              H. the gold quarter-
       324  MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1864.  Isovereign, which was never circnlated. Tell me, pray, when

       you quarter-sovereigned did yon know that Newton had quarter-

       Igninead, or was it an accidental coincidence ?

            Here am, as nsual in August, with one son in the house

       I Iand all the rest at Aldborongh. My wife is mending, but has
       been seriously ill.  hope shall have a good account of your

       section of the human race.
           Yon know Tristram Shandy --who does not ? But yon may

       not know his views of proportion. He says his father was some

       times a gainer by a misfortune ; for if the pleasure of haranguing

       about it was as ten, and the misfortnne itself only as five, he
       Igained ' half in half,' and was as well off again as if the mis
       fortune had never happened. Cipher this out.             call it a

       splendid bevue ; as good as the two last lines of the song about

       the young man who poisoned his sweetheart in sheep's-head

       broth, and was frightened to death with --

                        Where's that young maid
                        What you did poison with my head ?

       at his bedside.

            Now all young men, both high and low,

            Take warning by this dismal go !
            For if he'd never done nobody no wrong,
            He might have been here to have heard this song.

       Babbage's Act has passed, and he w a public benefactor. A

       grinder went away from before my house at the first word. The

       New Zealander shall sit on the remains of his doorstep to sketch
                                                'O                    '
       the fragments of a broken barrel-organ.      si  sic  omnia  !

                                             Yours very truly,
                                                    A. Dr Morgan.

                            To Mrs. Smyth.

                            91 Adelaide Road, September 1, 1864.

       IMy dear Mrs. Smyth, -- see by the title-page that work is on
       hand -- when was it not ? It is thirty-seven years since I became
       personally aware of the fact -- that
                                                have known the Admiral
       1I
                          ;
                                                                a
                                              iIs,
                                                                              it
                                                         II
       nearly half his life, and yet there was a lot of when first

       knew him he had retired from life's work.

            wanted to see how you swallowed the Pyramid.1                       do not

               Prof. Piazzi Smyth's work on the Pyramids, published just be
       fore this time. b. E. Do M,
              CORRESPONDENCE, 1856-66.                           325

see any occasion to feel depressed about it. The world is not         1864.

what it was when the Admiral and I were young. There are
Istrange break-downs of opinion and build-ups of system.
                                                                 do

not know that it is more extraordinary than that I, of all persons,

should declare and publish my actual experience of phenomena

which so many will have to be actually the work of disembodied

spirits, which I can neither deny nor affirm. The Christian

world is actually tending towards the belief that a great many

mythologies and idolatries are really diseased revelations. Wait

a few years until it begins to be generally apprehended that
Juggernaut and Cham Chi Thanngee-- if you happen to know
him -- were originally divine, though a little altered by time and

priest, and it will then seem a very natural thing that the

measures in the Pyramid should have come from the same

quarter. I wish the reasoning had been a little more sound and

the mind less influenced by bias of system, but this is not peculiar

to primeval inspiration advocates. It is the beauty of these

extreme vagaries that they show off and illustrate the methods

which are most in vogue among savans who are quite in the
groove. But the moral courage which ventures upon a trip off

the line is not so common.'

The work itself is part of an impulse which is doing strange

marvels, which will make Bishop Colenso die a heretic, and

which has made Robert Owen die a Christian ; nay, which has

made a Christian of Dr. John Elliotson, the strongest materialist

almost that I ever heard of. If we go on in this way twenty

years longer, the name of God will be heard at a meeting of the

Royal Society, from which Dr. dimming will take occasion to

declare that the millennium has commenced.

There are educated persons by thousands not in the little

knot, who will look on Piazzi's book without much surprise as
to his mere conclusions. It is astonishing how little the world of

science knows about opinion outside.

    Kind regards to the Admiral, who, I suppose, has his work

well-nigh done. What a bciutiful feeling the proof of the title-

page gives !

                             Yours very sincerely,
                                                  A. De Morgan.
       326 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

                       To Sir J. F. W. Herschel.

                                  91 Adelaide Road, September 20, 1864.

1864.  IMy dear Sir John, -- So honey-bees have stings as well as

       wapses. So much the better.  do confess to a baker's dozen of

       Ireadings of your letter.1 Saving your presence, your usual mild

       ness and diffidence, and all those things of which know no

       more than my grandmother's torn cat knew of the differential

       calculus, bring out the points with such strength that there is

       no leaving off. It will do an abundant deal of good, and will
       make the declaration a blessing. It is in good contrast with

       Bowring, whose letter is capital in its way.

       Truly you did express yourself with tolerable precision and
       Ito much purpose in the old discourse.
                                                 have been pasting a

       copy into that discourse, and it notes time well to find that the

       Icopy wherein paste it is one which poor Stratford gave my

       wife long before she was even my sweetheart, and my eldest son

       is twenty-five years old.

       The inpasted copy is cut out of a reprint in the Bath

       Chronicle, done for the special benefit of the Br. Ass.
       ... I IWhat is the collection of names they have got ? I suppose
       they have handed out their best fifteen.   think had as

       Igood a right to be asked as . . . . ; 2 but possibly they took
       me for too great a heretic.  dare not think they respect me
       more than they do you ; but the temptation is great. How I

       should strut !

       They are now pledged to publish this declaration and the

       names they have got. They might have dropt the thing after

       Daubeuy's letter.

           I hope your bronchial state is better. To my last letter I

       add that the little dust does not confine itself to your books ; it

       gets into your throat.

                                    Yours very truly,
                                                     A. De Morgan.

            1 Many scientific men had been requested to sign a declaration of
       their belief that science did not contradict revelation, &c. By the

       ' honey-bee's sting ' is meant Sir J. Herschel's answer, which con

       Itained a trenchant reply to the arguments contained therein.

            2 think he was asked to sign perhaps rather later.
                  CORRESPONDENCE, 1856-06.                   327

                       To the Rev. Wm. Heald.

                                                  September 27, 1864.

    Mt dear Hrald, -- I suppose you and family are pretty well,              1864.

as you say so little about it.
     In re Colenso, yon can easily demolish him by assuming the

points. He has never told us what residue of the Xtian
religion he still believes ; why, whether the historical truth of

the 0. T. is any part of the N. T. is just the point. If I remem

ber right, heat one time could not use the ordination service ; but

he can now, I believe, after Lushington's decision in Williams's

case.

    The case about C. D. and A. B. stands thus. All the reviews,

Ac., declare that A. B. is self, and C. D. wife. Neither of us

has contradicted   I iIs, it,which leads me to suspect that we cannot.

The style of A. B.             am assured  a      good judges, unmistak
                                              by
ably my own, and certainly do see strong likeness. All these

things put together cannot be got over. Were you should
                                                  I
                                                          I

assume the report to be true.  I       have not heard anything about

a second edition.

                                             Yours sincerely,
                                                        A. Dr Morgan.

                       To 8. Mill, Esq.
                               is J.
                                  I91 Adelaide Road, October 10, 1864.

Mt drar Sir, -- Ten years ago asked you whether certainII

abridged dialogues of Plato were yours, to which you answered

in the affirmative. Have they been reprinted      ?      very much

                                                      I

wish they were, they are not. The presentation of Plato
         is                                                              is

                    ;

                  if
now frequent but there nothing know of in which a picture
of Plato given, and remarks kept distinct.

I    am reminded of this by a translation of the Gorgias which

  IhaM jurit appeared, by -Mr. Cope, Fellow of Trinity College, Cam
            good translation, dare say; but, to tell the truth,
bridge.  A

and many others like to have the pith of Plato extracted, and

find both Greek and full translations rather wearisome. Nostra

culpa, no doubt, but yon must have thought such sinners not
quite below missionary, or you would not have published your
            a
abridgments.       suppose     it      not given to man to relish both
              I
                                   is

Aristotle and Plato.
       328 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1864.     I often cut from a review and paste haphazard on to the fly
       leaf of a book. In your Plato articles I find, in this way, a

       curious accidental paraphrase of the Trinity that may amuse

       you. The Druse system is described as historically identified
       with the Caliph Hakem, the Persian Hamze, and the Turk
       Davagi--Hakem the ' political founder,' Hamze the ' intellectual
       I(Xoyos) framer,' and Davagi the ' expositor and propagator.' --
       (AthencBwn, August 27, 1853.)  am, dear sir,

                                                        YoursAtrDulry,Morgan.

                                   To J. S. Mill, Esq.

                                      91 Adelaide Road, February 5, 1865.

1S65.     My dear Sir, -- The Algebra, which I am much pleased to
       Ifind you approve of, is to be divided between several. I have

       no doubt may claim to have first presented it complete, and
       the connection of A* 1 with the rest is my own. But Warren,

       Peacock, and others of those mentioned in my list at the

       beginning of the work are real predecessors. You are perhaps

       aware that Peacock published two works on algebra. The first,

       in one volume, is that which treats the subject most generally.
       He is in full possession of all except what relates to the ex

       ponent, and here he is obliged to have recourse to interpretation,

       that  is if is,discovery of meaning from results.

       With regard to the acceptance of the system, the time not
                                                                         is
       yet come. The algebraists almost all make algebra obey their             is

       preconceived notions. They have laws which algebra must obey.

       Peacock had very nearly attained the idea of algebra as a formal
       science, in which every result of the form             to have meaning.
                                      I

                                                       a
                                                          is
       His permanence       is     equivalent forms would have developed itself
                               of
       into formal algebra capable of any number of material applica
       tions, he had been logician -- mean student of logic. So
                                   a

       long as an algebraist has preconceptions which his science must

       obey, so long he incapable of true generalisation. Macau lay

       said of Southey that what he called his opinions were his tastes,

       and this true of many persons, and of a great many algebraists.is

       Algebra must, a priori, be subject to this or that limitation, upon

       what really an acquired taste of the legislator. Pure logic

       in the same predicament.

                            I1  am not sure about this exponent. -- Ep.
                      CORRESPONDENCE, 1856-06.                                  329

IFor myself, it is my taste, if you please, that will have a                                            1865.

formal algebra, in which every form, every law of transformation
is universal. I admit that we have not yet arrived at
                                                       a                        but

have entire faith in the future.             is I I I         Iwas in the spirit on the day of

                                                                           it,

                                                                        I

                                                                         if I I
Wellington's funeral, when, wife, children, and servants being

away to see the remains of the glorious old man carried upon

what was so justly called a cross between                                  locomotive and a

fire-engine,          was sole master of my house and myself. So
             I
sat down to eviscerate the following difficulty, and believe didIa I

it. If the forms of algebra be universal, then 2x=x gives

-- =~ or 2=1.            should not have been ashamed of myself
xx                    A is I

resolved on a formal algebra,                        had invented a generalisation
                                                     had no occasion for any such
of = to meet this case. But

thing.        found that, by only taking permission to lay down as a

canon what mathematicians never scruple to do when they want

I iIt,was master of the field.

         have paper now at Cambridge which explains my views,

so you see have taken twelve years to think about it. In brief

as follows. Admitting theory as full and free a use of infinites,in
finites, and infinitesimals, as made in practice, say that--

         The sign = that of undistiifjuinhubiliiy, say indistiuclion.
  = means that and B are not distinct. Equality but
A                                                                          I

       D 1.                                                                               is
                                                                                                     a

case, though the most common one.

2. Distinction implies the use of a standard or metre.

Quantities infinitely great with respect to the standard, or
by
       is

                                                         .

                                                    is by
                                                          it,

                                                                       by
infinitely small, or uumoasurable                      are undistingnishable. Aud

this the origin of Leibuitz's equation dx=dx + d* the metre                "',

having finite ratio to dx

3. Whenever we divide or multiply both sides of an equation

anything above or below the standard, the new equation takes

ita different standard. When we multiply an infinite we must

take a standard which was infinite, &c. Now and x can only

be undistinguishable when x                            infinitely small or infinitely

great. Lot x be infinitely small. In passing from 'Zr=x to 2=1

we change our standard into an infinitely small quantity, and

2=1 true, that                        and cannot be distinguished. The same
        is                                1
            is

                               is
                                   2
when x infinitely great.
     The difficulties which will suggest themselves are many and

obvious; but think that they are superable, and also that,
                      I

looking at actual algebra, they are not so great as the difficulties

which actually occur. For all these things refer to the paper
                                                       I
       330 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1865.  when printed, to which so brief an account is more like a pre

       liminary objection than anything else.
                                                                    Yours very truly,
                                                                        A. De Morgan.

                              To J. 8. Mill, Esq.

                                                    March 26, 1865.

           My dear Sir, -- T thank you for the article on Comte received

       Ia few days ago. It gives me a much more definite idea of Comte

       than ever had patience to get from himself. His writing

       always had to me a smack of that unequalled prolixity which he

       showed in his algebraic geometry, where he discourses in page

       after page on the equation of a straight line, without a symbol.
       I Isettled that he icas not a psychologist.
       Ithat he would not be, prepensely.           make out from you

                                              thought he was impatient of

       the subject, but did not fathom all his guilt.      is,I   so far as  it

          I am confirmed in my view that his philosophy

       distinctively his, negativism. For his positivism find in all
       is
             isthinkers, or nine out of ten his rejections, hardly anywhere.
                                   ;

       Positive, because no more than positive. When understood thus,

       he a bearable companion, for one has a right to be as anti-

       positive with his philosophy as he     positive with mind and
                                              is

                                                  I
                                                       II
       matter i.e., as he has taken part for the whole, take his whole
                 ;
       for part.                                           am a sort of
              shall soon send you a paper in which findis
       I

       Positivist. There are those who reject all but phenomena; there

       are those who reject phenomena because they cannot have more.

       Comte the assailant of those who accept more because they
       think they can get more. In the mathematical treatment of

       infinity, small and great, most mathematicians reject the abso

       lute treatment because they cannot image, or treat as phe

       nomena, all the attributes of the notion. My notion that oo7 and
                                                    B
       -- have subjective reality, of which various phenomena are
       is                                                 a
       proper subjects of direct reasoning. The mathematicians haveis
         I7
       virtually denied that  is A            & component of reasoning when
                    it a
                                   is

                                    B

                                          is
       we know to be true even though A and         should be porcu

       pines with difficulties for quills. In my paper in two parts, ac
          a porcupine, and = a hedgehog.

                 see you are in England again by your complimentary letter

       to the Westminster electors. You pay them higher compli

       ment than they pay you.  I  am always in doubt about the origin
              CORRESPONDENCE, 1866-66.                                     331

Iof the word compliment. It looks like a formation from comply,                                                               1865.
but doubt it. I suspect that complement is the original, though

Ithe present spelling and usage is as old as the Academy's
Dictionary.   suspect that old forms of civility were at last

described as complements, fillings up ; and that complim1', at the

end of a letter, meant that all usual forms are to be understood.

My theory receives a little support from comply not being a

French verb.

                                                           Yours very truly,
                                                                         A. De Morgan.

    I have as yet read  your article for                   Comte only, for I really
                        he had been at.
wanted to know what                                        I must read it again for

criticism.

                        To J. 8. Mill, Esq.

                                                           91 Adelaide Road, April 27, 1865.

Mt pear Sir, -- I received the Examination to-day, and write

my thanks that I may not forget as shall have no consecu
by

  I
             A

                            a

                                                                 :

                                           it
                                                 it it,

                                              is I

                                                                                     is

                                                                                                                           ;

                                                                                                        is
tive reading for week or two.

hold, from observation, that a question                            never fairly put

before a public meeting until has been moved, seconded, and

opposed.      great many persons are really only half informed

the mover and seconder what                                    all about but the first
person who rises on the other side puts some light into it. It

just the old law knowledge the points at issue come out of the

pleadings on both sides. In like manner with controversies.

Hamilton has moved, Mansel has seconded, and now you rise to

take objections. And also observe that the first opponent very
                        if I
often puts his view of things into a much more attainable-in-a-

given-time form than          he had been the mover of a counter

measure. A dip into several unconnected pages makes me think

that may be the case here.

One of my dips into All oxen ruminate.'                                    have shown
in                                                                 '
                                    is
                                                        '            is I
my fifth paper on logic that Aristotle and all his real followers

never collected all the oxen. Their phrase was, Every ox rumi

nates,' or, any ox ruminates. That the predicate what have
                                                                           II
                                                                                    is
called in my third paper meta physical am satisfied. And have
                                                           aI
maintained that the common predicate of the world at large

so. say, man born and educated mathematician as to the
I
                 '

                      '
                          is

                                           is
subject of his proposition, and a metaphysician as to the prediis
cate.'-- Ex. tjr. Every man biped,' i.e., of biped quality or
       332 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1865.  Iattribute.  contend in that paper that the logician's form of

       extensive reading stands or falls with the numerical syl logisra,

       which is the true genus.

                                            Yours truly,
                                                      A. De Morgan.

                    To Chief Baron Pollock.

       My dear C. Barox, -- First as to subjective and objective. Tn e

       thinking mind is the subject, id quod subjicitur. The external

       thing, relation, &c., is the object, id quod objicitur. Or the acts

       of the minds may themselves be objects ; i.e., one mind may b e

       the object of another mind.
       IfI see an apparition : is it subjective or objective ?
                                                                it be a

       thing of my mind its existence is subjective.

       This use and others are not very sound. But, generally,

       objective has that relation to the thinking mind which subjective

       has to the exciter of its thoughts.

       When Kant makes space and time pure concepts of mind to

       put things into, the things themselves being in some unin

       telligible sense external, he is said to make space and time purely

       subjective.

           As to your being old, you are the youngest I have lately heard

       of. On Saturday, at University College distribution of prizes was

       Lord Brougham, eighty-seven, much broken, but still himself,

       and able to deliver himself as fluently as ever, and with that

       powerful delivery of the one word which makes his sentences so

       effective. And there was Crabb Robinson, ninety in May, and
       quite alive to everything. And he will last for ever if he will

       only take advice I heard given to him, i.e. not to talk more than

       two hours at a time.

       With your note came an acknowledgment from General

       Perronet Thompson, B.A. of 1802, and Fellow of Queen's before
       he was an ensign. And he works at acoustics as hard as ever
       Ihe did at the Corn Laws.
                                    say nothing of boys of seventy who

       are scattered about. Our kind regards to Lady Pollock and

       the family.

                                            Yours very truly,
                                                       A. De Morgan.
CORRESPONDENCE, 1856-436.  333

To Sir J. F. W. Herschel.

                                                                                   September 13, 1865.  1865.

    Mt dear Sir John, -- The world is changing round us very
fast. I have lost two very old friends on two successive Satur
days -- W. Rowan Hamilton and Smyth. Smyth went off very

quietly from mere exhaustion, without any long illness. He
had lost a great deal of strength in the preceding fortnight, but

had rallied a little, and was driven out on Friday, and went
calmly off on Saturday morning with effusion on the lungs.
Poor Mrs. Smyth is very calm ; it is the break of a tie of fifty

years.

    W. R. Hamilton was an intimate friend whom I spoke to

once in my life-- at Babbage's, about 1830 ; but for thirty years

we have corresponded. I saw him a second time at the dinner

you got at the Freemason's when you eamo from the Cape,

but I could not get near enough to speak.

     They will take care that a full life shall be published. Of
forty members of the Nautical Almanac Committee of 1830,
there remain now, besides our two selves, Airy, Lord Shaftes
bury, Babbage, Lee, Maclear, Robinson, South, Wrottesley -- ten
in all ; this is fair vitality for thirty-five years.

                                    I am, yours sincerely,

                                                                 A. De Morgan.

                   To Sir J. F. W. Herschel.

                                             91 Adelaide Road, September 21, 1865.

     Mt dear Sir John, -- You must have been much in the way

of hearing all the rumours about George III. and his malady.
Do you remember hearing a story which I have heard from
Iboyhood, which find numbers have heard, and which I believe
Ihas been in print, but do not know where ? It is stated that

 one of the earliest indications of his complaint was a formal

 announcement to those about him that he intended to begin his
 speech from the throne with ' My lords and peacocks.' To all

 remonstrance he did nothing but persist, and they say that acci

 dental noises--as tumbling down books, &c. -- were prepared to

 drown the words. If the story be really true, I have no doubt

 I have arrived at the meaning of his phrase -- that is, at its

origin. But first, query, did it happen ? If it did, there was

 method in his madness. With kind regards all round,
                                                          Yours very truly,
                                                                  A. Dr Moruaii.
       334  MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN

                  To Sir J. F. W. Herschel.

1865.                                              91 Adelaide Road, September 27, 1865.

           My deae Sir John, --Then the story is a story, and has a

       place in history. Now for its explanation. Old George III.

       knew Shakespeare pretty well -- much better than any other
       literature. In 'Hamlet' there are several places in which
       Hamlet seems on the very point either of disclosing his step
       father's villany or giving him some reproach, but breaks off
       and substitutes something. In one case where ass is clearly
       coming, he makes it peacock.

                  For thou dost know, O Damon dear,

                     This realm dismantled was
                  Of Jove himself ; and now reigns here

                     A very, very (ass) peacock.

       Now George III. had old score recollections of the House of
       ICommons.
                  suspect that when his mind was in his wanderings
       he determined to be revenged and to say, ' My Lords and Asses,'

       Iand he remembered and imitated Hamlet's substitute.
                                                                  am, yours sincerely,
                                             A. De Morgan.

                              To Lord Chief Baron Pollock.

                                                    91 Adelaide Road, December 22, 1863.

          My deae L. Chirf Baron, -- I don't believe in December 21

       as the shortest day. Put on the twilight at both ends, and

       calculate the shortest day. What care I for geometry ? It is
       Iday as long as can see to read, and even then the type must

       be stated. There is Large Pica day, Small Pica day, Bour
       geois (pron. Burgice) day, etc. Diamond day is considerably
       shorter than the geometrical day, in winter.

           But now to your questions.1 'A/aos is an obsolete word = t«.
       Ilius, the common word. 'A/x<iKryoru,s is a word of Plato and
       Aristophanes (two people as opposite as L. C. B. Pollock and
       L. C. B. Nicholson), meaning somehoic or another. So it is, as
       you say, ' some unknown cause capable of producing.' We can

       not coin in English, I suppose, because it is the Queen's

            1 As to the meaning of amosgepotically in the preface to From
       Matter to Spirit.
             correspondence. 18/w-ofl.  385

English, and 'uttering ' one's  own  coin is a felony. We cannot     1865.
say ' somehow or otherically.'            Yours sincerely,           1866.

                                        A. De Morgan.

             To Sir J. F. W. Herschel.

                         91 Adelaide Road, September 27, I860.

   Mt dear Sir John, -- I write without much purpose, unless a

funny fact be one. Ulugh Bey is the end of the chain. An

Arabic dictionary maker came to talk to me about getting his

names of the stars in Arabic ; thence came various Turks, thence
ITurkish pupils he had had --whom
                                     had had also ; thence

Ameen Bey, whose father was Hassein Effendi, who trisected

the angle, and who was taught by Ingliz Selim Effendi, who
translated ' Bonnycastle.' This Englishman who translated B.

must have been Richard Baily, Francis B.'s brother. He

certainly ran away and turned Turk, and both F. B. and

Miss B. told me that he translated Bonnycastle. Do you

happen to remember anything about him ? I remember that

Miss B. had his picture.

    I hope you have fought the weather with needle-gun success.

By the way, where is it set forth that a leech is a famous
barometer, by indications to be seen in his behaviour in the

water ?

    I have been looking at the writing of South about Babbage

and Davy. There is an exceeding patness of recollection about

him on this occasion as on former ones. Are we really to
believe that when he called on Sir H. Davy, and wrote a note

which he left in Davy's study, he took a copy of that note, so as

to be able to give it in complete form ? Or has he done what

Thucydides must be held to have done about the speeches of
his generals --made them as they might have been and ought to

have been ?

     What is the real origin of the severance between South and

Babbage ? In all Babbage's ' Autobiography ' I cannot find a

hint of South's existence !
IfDo you possess Hyde's edition of Ulugh Bey's ' Catalogue '
(in Arabic and Latin) ?         so, I wish you would lend it to me.
I should not wonder if it were in your patrimony, though I

should hardly think you would have wanted it yourself.
     With kind regards to Lady Herschel and all around you,

                                     Yours sincerely,
                                                A. Dr Morgah.
       336 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

       ITSECTION

1866.                                                      1860-1871.

       I come now to the last important event of my hus

       band's life-- the cessation of his connection with University

       College. In recording this I wish to dwell as little as

       possible on the fact, undoubted by all who were near him
       at the time, that his last illness resulted from mental

       trouble consequent upon it, in at least as great a degree
       as from the losses which befell us later. But however
       painful it is to write it, and however painful it may be to
       read for the survivors among those who were indirectly

       Iresponsible for it, have no choice but to state what was

       the belief of all who had the means of forming a true

       judgment.

            He had joined University College in his early youth, in
       opposition to the advice of some of his nearest friends,
       who believed that his interests would not thereby be pro
       moted, and to the satisfaction only of those in whose
       minds the upholding of a high principle was a more

       weighty consideration than worldly success or affluence.
       He was fully aware how much less lucrative a Professor
       ship in a new institution was likely to be than many
       appointments which he might have obtained elsewhere.

       The associations, too, inseparable from a perfectly new

       institution were less congenial than those in which he
       would have found himself at either of the two Universities,
       where he would have worked under and with men whose

       habits of thought (in some ways) would have been more
       in harmony with his own.

            He had worked in the new institution with untiring
       energy for six-and-thirty years, because he trusted the
           UNIVERSITY COLLEGE.  337

assertion of its founders and subsequent Governors that 1866.

the essence of its being was absolute and complete

religious equality in every portion of its organisation.

His anticipation that the pledge, so often and so emphatic

ally given, would be fulfilled, was destined to a complete

and final disappointment.

The occasion arose on the appointment of a new Pro- c«n<u-

fessor of Mental Philosophy and Logic, in June 1866, in or Rev. Jay.
"place of Dr. Hoppus,,an Independent minister, who had           mi*u'

held the chair from the beginning. In accordance with

the laws of the College the testimonials of all candidates

were submitted to the Senate of Professors, who examined

and reported on them to the Council, in whose hands
rested the final appointment. From the first foundation

the Unitarians had been among the most powerful sup
porters of the College, which could never have risen to its
then condition without their assistance in money and
effort. When it was first known that the Rev. James

Martineau, a Unitarian minister and a distinguished
scholar, was a candidate for the chair of Mental Philosophy

and Logic, a gossiping rumour came to the ears of my
husband and myself that the Unitarians on the Council

Iwere working to bring in their own candidate. This was

merely foolish talk among a few persons, but mention
it to show what my husband's feelings were on the subject
of the appointment. When he heard the report he declared
his disbelief in it, but said he would make inquiries, as

there must be no suspicion of the preponderance of any
one party in religion in that place. He inquired about
the rumour, and, as he expected, found it false. No

member of the Council at that time knew anything of the

relative merits of the candidates. It was evident, even if

any one who knew him well could have supposed it
possible, that friendship for Mr. Martineau, for whom he

had a sincere respect, did not influence his subsequent

conduct.1

1 I note this, as one of tho ncwspapcre sjxiko of iny huaWiid'i

                           Z
       338  MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1866.        The report of the Senate, after enumerating Mr.
         Martineau's qualifications for the appointment, as shown
        by his writings, by his examination papers, and by the
        testimony of his pupils, concludes with the words, ' All

         these considerations evidently lead to the conclusion that

        Mr. Martineau is the most eligible candidate. He appears
        to be at least equal to the other candidates in ability and
        learning, while he is superior to them both in reputation, and
        in experience and success as a teacher.' The question was,
        however, raised at this early stage, whether Mr. Martineau's
        position as a Unitarian minister would be injurious to the
        class ; and of this doubt the Council, some of the influential
        members of which were bent on appointing a Professor far
        lower in the scale of orthodox belief than Mr. Martineau,

        availed themselves. They postponed the appointment for

        a time, and the Senate was called upon to make a second
        report in consequence of new candidates having come into
        the field, and some of the old candidates having sent in
       additional testimonials. Their report of the second of the

       candidates was given in these words :-- ' Upon the strength
       of this singularly strong testimony we have no hesitation in
       concluding that Mr. Croom Robertson is exceedingly well
       qualified to fill the vacant chair ; and that of the candidates
       whose claims we have examined up to this point, he is the
       ablest, and, as far as we can judge, the most learned, and

       the most likely to rise to eminence, and to raise the repu
       tation of the College. But there yet remains upon the list
       the name of Mr. James Martineau. As the Senate has
       already recommended the appointment of Mr. Martineau,
       and the Council has declined to appoint him, the Senate

       does not think it necessary to present a second report con

       cerning him.'

           In the hope and belief that the position of affairs was

       not yet past remedy, fourteen Fellows of the College,
       including some of its most distinguished alumni, sent a

       ' chivalrous advocacy of his friend's cause.' This conveyed an inexact
       idea of the facts.
                                                                                                                                N

            UNIVERSITY COLLEGE.                                                                  339

requisition to the Council asking that a special Court of 1866.

'Proprietors might be summoned to consider the course taken A^P°ic"1"
bqyuatl,hi.f~eiedC, ocuanncd,iil.d,ainte.  df.eofrersrpinecgi.alt, hreeasaopnpsointotmAthe, ent    of the,b*e.st  Mr. Croom
                                                                                                                  Robertson,
                                                                                                 vacant chair.

An objection to this on legal grounds was raised by the

Council ; they referred the question to the law officers of the

Crown, and before the opinion of these gentlemen (which
was in favour of the requisitionists) was announced, settled

it their own way by the appointment of Mr. Croom

Robertson, who was a pupil of Prof. Alexander Bain, and

an adherent of the school of thought upheld by that

gentleman, and approved by the leading members of the

,,.«,.Council.
to  When    Mr. De Morgan heard            that the  Ccoounnnceiclteindt,enwdeitdh                                Ktsignn-
    reject   Mr. Martineau fi.or           reasons
                                                                                                                  tionofPro-

                                                                                                                  fessorshii .

religious belief, he openly declared that should the Col

lege make such a departure from the principle on which

it was founded, he should feel that his connection with it

was at an end. He waited with anxiety for their decision,

and when the news came that the acknowledged best

candidate was set aside on the ground of his Unitarianism,

and one below him appointed, he said that the College had

committed a suicidal act, and would never hold its old

place again. He did not hesitate as to his own course,

but at once sent in his resignation.

   His letter to the Council, which follows, I know to

have been written without any intention of publication at

the time, or rather with a distinct intention of non-publi

cation during his lifetime.

     To the Chairman of the Council of University College.

                                            91 Adelaide Road, November 10, 1860.

   ISir, -- feel much sorrow in notifying to the Council

that my connection with the College must close at the
end of the current session.

     For some years the returns of my chair have been so

                                 I
           340 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1866.   Ismall that, taking into account the time give, my stay
Letter of  Ihas been an imprudence.
                                     had nevertheless calculated
Hon.       Ithat might, without too great an injustice to my family,
           Idraw upon my capital, if may use so grand a word, for

           the means of retaining my post during this and the next

           session, in the hope of the dawn of better days.1

                The recent vote of the Council in the case of Mr.

           IMartineau renders it unnecessary for me to settle when
           Ishall leave the College ; it proves that the College has left

           me. am, as heretofore, strong in the determination not

           to be overlooked, and not to be controlled in any matter

           of religious thought, speech, or teaching. The Council

           has decided that a certain amount of notoriety for advocacy

           of an unpopular theology is a disqualification. Whether

           I Ia distinction was intended between the case of a candidate

           and of an installed Professor neither know nor care.

           I Iassume that such a body as the Council would never enter
           tain this distinction.  concede that A is not B, but
           maintain that those who surrender to expediency point A

           of principle are the men who will surrender point B when
           the time comes, and who, until that time does come, will

           be honestly shocked at the prophecy of their future con

           duct. Adherence to come is discounted to meet the con

           sequence of present departure. The principle of the College

           has been partially surrendered to expediency ; no man can

           Isay how much more will be given up, nor when. This
           Isaid when the Peene legacy was accepted, and was

           laughed at. The acceptance of the conditions of that

           legacy did not drive me from the College, because, after

           I Imuch deliberation, and not a little help from what now

           see to be sophism, my love for the College and the life
           led in it barred the way with De minimis non curat lex.

                1 During the last years of his stay from various causes the proceeds

           of his chair had fallen off. They had never been great, only one year
           amounting to nearly 5001. His continuing to hold it at a later period,

           when the returns seldom exceeded 3001., and were becoming less, was
           entirely due to his belief that the institution would fall still lower by
           his withdrawal.-- S. E. De M.
UNIVERSITY COLLEGE.  341

IBut ought to have seen that minimum is the first step 1866.

from nihil to totum ; and when St. Denys, with his head L<*j*r of

Iunder his arm, had made that first step, ought to have tion-

foreseen the second.1 My self-complacency is comforted
by observing that there are even now men of experience
and thought who not only cannot foresee the third step,
but who affirm it will never be made.

     Before proceeding to the most delicate part of the

subject I make two remarks.
   First, in all that I say I am stating the decision of my

own court, by which my own course is determined. It is

for me alone to weigh evidence, and for me alone to de

cide. This distinction is often forgotten ; such a letter as

the present is treated as appeal to those to whom it is

addressed, instead of recorded argument in a decided case.
Be it remembered that the first sentence of this letter

contains the needful ; all the rest is partly respect to the

body I am addressing, partly evidence of what is thought

by a person who has stood by the College for thirty years,
and who is likely to represent the opinions of many.

   ISecondly, earnestly protest against being supposed

to impute to any one, in or out of the Council, the least
wilful or conscious impropriety of reasoning or conduct. T
mean to give the offence which, in our thin-skinned day,

is always taken at plain and uncompromising attack upon

Ialleged wrong proceedings ; but am free of all intention

Ito be personally disrespectful to any of the promoters.
Ican never forget the cordial co-operation of thirty years.

    In the matter of Mr. Martineau, am aware of the

existence of two cross currents. Since the first vote of the

I ICouncil have weighed all that heard, and have for

months been satisfied that there has been an objection to

    1 St. Denys carried his head to Montmartre after his execution. I

take the allusion t<, moan that just as the miracle wna complete as soon
as the Saint made tho tint step, so the alienation of the College from
its principle was effected at the very earliest departure therefrom. --
8. E. De M.
        342 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

 1866.  his psychology as well as to his religion : the first is too far
        removed from atheism to please the philosopher, the
I'^wJ?  second too far removed from orthodoxy to please the
        priest. No longer neutral between the disputes of
tion.   Christians, the College is to apply the abandoned principle
        in another field. The frontier is to be rectified by putting
        Theism in the place of Unitarianism, and making God an

        open question, not to be the basis of any teaching on the

        human mind. And so it is contrived that one and the
        same victim, offered on the altar of the Janus Bifrons of

        expediency, shall appease both the priest and the philo
        sopher, while each votary selects the particular head of
        the deity to which his offering is made.

           I proceed to show that (supposing me willing to re
        Imain) am as worthy to be extruded as Mr. Martineau to

        be excluded.

           I have for thirty years, and in my class-room, acted on

        the principle that positive theism may be made the basis
        of psychological explanation without violation of any law
        of the College. When in elucidating mathematical prin
        ciples it is necessary to speak of our mental organisation

        as effect of a cause, I have always referred it to an

        intelligent and disposing Creator. The nature of things,
        the eternal laws of thought, and all the ways by which
        that Creator is put in the dark corner, have been treated

        by my silence as philosophical absurdities not worthy to
        have their silly names intruded upon those who are to be

        Itrained to think. Were to remain under the new
        Isystem, should hold it a sacred duty and -- ah, poor

        human nature ! -- a malicious pleasure to extend and

        Iintensify all have hitherto said on this subject.
           IAgain, for more than thirty years have been as

        strong a Unitarian as Mr. Martineau. If I have not

        Iraised my voice in this matter, and as strongly as Mr.

        Martineau l has done, it is because have been deeply

            1 In writing the above (as will be evident to the reader) Mr. De

        Morgan believed Mr. Martineau to be of the older Unitarian school,
        UNIVERSITY COLLEGE.  343

Iengaged in other things, because do not care what un-                1866.
Ireflecting people think they think, and because have

found that the great bulk of reflecting men of all sects tio°-

keep their Trinitarianism caged in a creed, and are, in

every practical application of religion except pelting

Unitarians, as truly Unitarian as Mr. Martineau himself.

Were I to continue in this College, under even the
Ighost of a gag, I should soon be heard (without the walls)

on a subject to which have paid long and close attention.1

I should soon bring the question to issue whether the

installed Professor is or is not a subject for such discus

sion as has arisen about the candidate for admission.

    I hope it will be clear that my absence is as desirable

Ias that of Mr. Martineau. But, for reasons given,

deprecate the supposition of having sacrificed to principle.

I have only ceased to sacrifice because the temple has been

desecrated. My determination would not be altered by a

return to the old principle on the part of the Council.
I shall, therefore, not be suspected of any personal motive
when I urge the Council to reconsider their suicidal vote,

and to re-nail the old flag to the mast.

    One point has perhaps been almost overlooked. A
teacher of psychology, if he do his duty, expounds all

systems of sufficient note, and puts forward the grounds

of each. Every one must have his own system, and if

one may therefore be suspected of bias, so must another.

Mr. Martineau has special reputation as an eclectic teacher.

He is noted for ability to prepare students for examina

Itions in which the examiners have no bias towards his
views.  have heard it remarked, before this discussion,

that he crams his pupils with different systems. Such a

man does not cram. It means that those of his students

which receives the New Testament records as literally true. I should
not be justified in referring to this mistaken impression if Mr.
Martineau's late writings, and his preference of the name of TVirf,
were not well known.

      1 These words, which may seem obscure, must be understood to

refer to his Unitarian belief.-- S. E. Dr M.
           344     MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1866.   who desire no better can cram different systems from his

Letter of  ......lectures. There is more pr roof of his competency in this
residua-
Uon.       respect than i_n the case of any of the untried candidates.

              Return to the old principle. If the College fall, it will

           fall with honour. No concession of narrow minds, philo

           sophical or theological, will save it. The enemy will give

           one sneer more, the friend nine cheers less. Thing'embigot,

           who says that his son shall not enter the College if Mr.

           Martineau teach there, never meant to send his son in

           any case. The late vicar of St. Pancras, then a lessee

           in Gower Street, found the noise of the playground

           disagreeable, and sent word that if the nuisance were not

           abated he should withdraw his patronage ; he had been
           an inveterate opponent. He was left to subtract his

           negative quantity if he pleased. Let Thing'embigot learn

           the same rule of algebra.

                On the other hand, the enemy of religious disqualifica

           tion, if the present course be persisted in, must decide

           whether his son shall be educated under selection carried

           up to its logical extent in the professed fear of God, or

           exclusion nibbled at up to compulsion of circumstances in

           Ithe concealed fear of man as to religion, and another fear
           of God as to philosophy.   should myself be puzzled to
           make a choice, for if there be a tincture of atheism in the

           second fear of God, there is a tincture of blasphemy in the

           first. Of the two different ways of putting man in the

           Iplace of God, think the world at large would prefer the

           first.
                IMy best wishes remain with the College which leave,
           Ibut wish to make myself clearly understood on the question
           Iwhich has been opened.
                                      trust that by return to and
           future maintenance of the sound principle on which it was

           founded, in which there is more religion than in all

           exclusive systems put together, the College will rise into

           prosperity under the protection, not of the Infinite, not of

           the Absolute, not of the Unconditioned, not of the Nature

           of things, not of the chapter of accidents, but.of God, the
                                                                     \

          UNIVERSITY COLLEGE.             345

ICreator and Father of all mankind. -- am, sir, with much  1866.

respect,  Your obedient, humble servant,

          A. De Moeoan.

     The reading of this letter at the Council was (I was Reptyr of
told) followed by silence for a minute or two. The
minority who could understand its meaning and its motive
had already been outvoted. The majority could give no

answer, because they were determined not to give the
only one it called for, a return to principle. The secretary

was directed to inform the writer 'that your letter of
November 10, addressed to the Chairman of the Council,

was read at a session of the Council on Saturday last, and
that your resignation of the Professorship of Mathematics
from the close of the current session was accepted.'

     The decision and its results gave great dissatisfaction

to the friends of religious liberty outside the College. The
newspapers, which represented different phases of thought,
expressed the variety of opinions held on the subject. By
those of the earnest and Liberal school the movement was
strongly condemned ; among other things it was said that
all real Liberals must ask whether it is wise to support a

College which, unsectarian in name, can yet be guilty of

such religious and philosophical bigotry. Here I may

remark upon the expression ' real Liberals.' Every one
who has watched the progress of thought, especially during
the last half-century, must have seen that its tendency,
both in philosophy and in religion, is to the denial, or

what amounts to a denial, of God. I am not now attempt

ing to condemn this tendency, but its prevalence has had
the effect of confusing formerly well-defined distinctions.
The ' Liberal ' has frequently gone from liberality to un
belief ; and in the case of University College many pro

fessed Liberals took the part of intolerance because they
preferred atheism to theism. The self-styled religious
party said that it was now clear that the profession of
              346 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1866.      desire to preserve the unsectarian character of the College
c.rfie*TM'*   was so mucn dust thrown in the eyes of the public, ' and
              that the College had declared itself truly a ' godless Col
Meeting of
Proprietors.  lege,' as it had long been called by the orthodox. Scoffers
              laughed, and opined that ' the College ' could do without

              its principles, but the principles could not do without their

              College.
                   The next meeting of Proprietors was appointed for

              Pebruarv 2i 1867. But before the end of the current year,
              and with reference to the requisition already referred to,

              the Senate met again and supported the decision of the

              Council, and in anticipation of the meeting addressed a

              statement to the Proprietors. Though the real question,

              which lies in a very few words, has been distinctly stated

              in Mr. De Morgan's letter of resignation, I should be
              thought to give an ex-parte account of the whole affair if
              I were to omit the arguments on the other side. The

              strongest of these may fairly.be presumed to be embodied
              in this statement of fifteen Professors, of whom more

              Ithan one had belonged to the institution from its founda
              tion.  feel it only right to give the document at length .

              Statement addressed to the Proprietors of University College.

              A certain number of Fellows and Proprietors of University

              College, London, have required the Council of the College to

              convene a Special General Meeting of the Proprietors, 'to con

              sider a recent resolution of the Council declining to appoint
              the Rev. James Martineau to the Professorship of Mental Philo

              sophy and Logic, after a Report of the Senate that he was the
                                                              '
              best   qualified  candidate  for  the  chair  ;    and  a  Special  General

              Meeting will be held, in consequence of this requisition, on

              Saturday, February 2.

              The subject which the meeting is convened to consider has

              attracted much attention, and has been the occasion of many

              articles in various daily and weekly papers ; and as is usually,

              and indeed inevitably, the case when writers press forward to

              instruct the public under the influence of a strong preconceived

              opinion, and with an imperfect knowledge of the constitution
STATEMENT IN SUPPORT OF COUNCIL.  347

and history of the body which they criticise, and an imperfect        1866.
knowledge of the facts which they discuss, many circumstances

have been misrepresented. It is likely that these misrepresenta

tions have influenced some even of the requisitionists ; and we
may assume without doubt that they have produced some effect,
more or less, on other proprietors who will attend the meeting.
We wish, therefore, to correct the more important of them, and
those especially which relate to the action of the Senate, or body
of Professors.

     The gentlemen who have signed the requisition, and who
are indignant that Mr. Martineau was not appointed to the
vacant chair, have not thought it necessary to make themselves
acquainted with the evidence respecting the qualifications of the
other candidates. Most of them, in all probability, had no
means of knowing it. But as it would not have been seemly to
impugn the judgment of such a body as the Council of the
College, which had a full knowledge of the case in all its bearings,
and considered it very carefully, and which in fact made its

final decision after three months' deliberation, merely upon the

plea, that knowing only the reputation of one candidate, and

not having examined the claims of any other, they had a strong

opinion another way, they sholtor themsolvos under the authority
of the Senate, and justify their very unusual attempt to pass a

censure upon the C mncil on the ground that the Senate reported
that Mr. Marti neau was the best qualified candidate for the

chair.

     The greater number of the requisitionists are Fellows of the

College, and were formerly distinguished students ; and probably
these gentlemen understand the constitutional relation of the
Senate to the Council. But in the articles on the subject which

have appeared in the public papers there have been expressions

as if the privileges of tho Sonate were invaded by the action of
the Council, or at least as if the two bodies were necessarily

placed in a position of antagonism by such a difference of opinion.
This is not the case. By the charter the power of appointing
Professors is given absolutely to the Council. Neither the
Senate nor a General Meeting can limit their discretion. But
it is wisely provided in our by-laws that, when a Professor
ship is to be filled up, all the applications of candidates, and all

testimonials and other documents which they may present as

evidence of their qualifications, shall be submitted to the Senate,
and that the Senate shall report thereupon to the Council. But
1866.  348 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

       a report so made is only an expression of opinion. The Council
       retains perfect liberty of action. The choice of the Council is
       usually in accordance with the opinion of the Senate. But
       cases have occurred before in which the Council has exercised an

       independent judgment, and departed from the recommendation
       of the Senate, and the Senate has never felt itself aggrieved by
       the exercise of such an indisputable right.

            In this particular case there is especial reason why the Senate
       should receive with respect the decision of the Council. On
       subjects of professional learning, and in several departments of
       science and literature, it is likely that there will be men amongst
       the Professors better able to form a sound judgment than any
       members of the Council. But on the question of Mental Philo
       sophy we believe honestly that the members of the Council
       generally are as fully competent to form an opinion as the
       members of the Senate.

            Moreover, the relative strength of the recommendation of the

       Senate has been misrepresented. It has been asserted that the

       Senate ' reported to the Council that Mr. Martineau was incom
       parably the ablest candidate.' The first report of the Senate, in
       which alone the qualifications of Mr. Martineau were discussed,
       was not so unjust. The report examined the claims of Mr.

       Martineau, as attested by his published writings, by the evidence
       of his pupils, and by his Examination Papers, which he frankly
       laid before the Council; and the conclusion was in these words: --

       'All these considerations evidently lead to the conclusion that

       Mr. Martineau is the most eligible candidate. He appears to be
       at least equal to the other candidates in ability and learning ,

       while he is superior to them both in reputation, and in experience

       and success as a teacher.'

            A still more flagrant injustice has been done to the other

       candidates by the language of another writer, who chooses to
       describe the Council as rejecting a first-rate man in order to look
       about for 'a safe man with indifferent qualifications as a teacher,'

       one ' obscure enough to be inoffensive.' It is not necessary to

       insist upon the qualifications of the candidates whose names are
       not public, except to protest against the injustice of a writer who

       knows nothing about the matter using such disparaging language :
       but in tho caso of Mr. R\ibortson, whom the Council have

       appointed to the Professorship, it is right to state tin conclusion*
       of the two reports of tho Sonate. The first report upon his
       qualifications ended thus :-- ' Mr. Robertson is only twenty-four
8TATEMENT IN SUPPORT OF COUNCIL.  349

years of age. To judge from his testimonials, his philosophical     1866.
acquirements are already very uncommon ; nor ought we to
forget the great public service our College may render by giving

a man whose natural vocation, we are assured, is philosophy, an
opportunity of following his vocation.' The report then spoke
of the objection on the score of youth, and after alluding to
drawbacks in the case of certain other of the candidates, con
cluded, ' But we are inclined to think that, of the disadvantages
under which they labour, Mr. Robertson's youth is the least
serious, as it is certainly the most remediable.' But the Senate
was called upon to make a second report in consequence of new

candidates having come into the field, and some of the old

candidates having sent in additional testimonials, after the
Council had extended the time for filling up the vacant chair.
When they drew up the second report, they had before them
additional evidence with respect to Mr. Robertson, which gave
assurance of the extent of his learning, and of the breadth and
impartiality of his views, and of his scrupulous fairness in

exhibiting fully contending theories. They expressed their con
clusion in these words :-- ' Upon the strength of this singularly

strong testimony we have no hesitation in concluding that
Mr. Robertson is exceedingly well qualified to fill the vacant
chair; and that, of the candidates whose claims we have ex

amined up to this point, he is the ablest, and, as far as we can

judge, the most learned, and the most likely to rise to eminence,
and to raise the reputation of the College.' The report then
continued, ' But there yet remains upon the list of candidates
the name of the Rev. James Martineau. As the Senate has

already recommended the appointment of Mr. Martineau, and
the Council has declined to appoint him, the Senate does
not think it necessary to present a second report concerning
him.'

    It would be almost ludicrous, if it were not rather lamentable

that parties in a controversy should be unable to conceive that

those who differ from them may differ honestly, to see how
little able the partisans of Mr. Martineau have been to take in
the notion that he may have been rejected upon his merits.
Various unworthy motives have been attributed to the Council ;
but it does not seem to have occurred to their assailants that

possibly they did not think Mr. Martineau the best Professor of
Philosophy that they could appoint. And yet a zealous advocate
of Mr. Martineau, in expatiating upon the soundness of his philo-
       350 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1866.  sophical views which ought to have recommended his appoint

       ment, points out triumphantly that they are opposed on various

       points to the opinions of Hobbes, and Locke, and Home, and
       Paley, and Bentham, and Mill, and Austin, to say nothing of

       Aristotle. Now it might have occurred to this writer upon his

       own showing, that some thinkers might, whether rightly or

       wrongly, at least honestly, think Mr. Martineau's philosophy

       unsound ; and when it is considered from what class of thinkers

       many of the original founders and many of the late supporters of

       University College have proceeded, it becomes exceedingly pro

       bable that members of the present Council did sincerely and

       honestly believe that his teaching would be at variance with

       philosophical truth.

       When this explanation of the strange phenomenon was

       suggested, another argument was set up. We were told that
       ' the principle ' of considering the truth or falsehood of the
       philosophical opinions of a teacher of philosophy ' is monstrous,'
       and is a kind of ' philosophical intolerance ' almost as bad as
       religious intolerance. ' The truth of a philosophical doctrine

       cannot be settled with the same certainty as the truth of a pro

       position in Euclid    Mental philosophy is at least as

       valuable for the intellectual exercise it affords as for the conclu

       sions to which it leads ; and the duty of the Council is to choose

       a particular teacher of the subject, not because he belongs to

       one or other of the two great metaphysical schools, but because
       Ifhe is the ablest candidate that can be got.'
                                                       it were acknow

       ledged on all hands that Mental Philosophy is a subject on which

       no truth or certainty has yet been arrived at, it would be the

       duty of the Council to appoint no teacher at all. It would be a

       subject most worthy of the exertions of the trained student, who

       still hoped against hope to arrive at truth ; but it would be no

       study for a place of education. It continues to be a branch of

       education because it is believed that truth and genuine know

       ledge are involved in it. The directors of a place of education

       may be mistaken in their estimate of philosophical truth ; but

       surely they are not to be blamed for acting conscientiously on

       their convictions.

       But although it cannot reasonably be doubted that the decision

       of the Council was determined, in the case at least of some of its

       members, perhaps of many, by their estimate of Mr. Martineau's

       philosophical merits, there is ground also for believing that it

       was affected by a consideration of his position as a leading
8TATEMENT IN SUPPORT OF COUNCIL.  351

minister of a religious seet : not, be it carefully observed, by any  1866.

consideration whether he belonged to this sect or to that, but by
the fact that he was a minister of religion, and a minister who
was placed in a prominent position. When it became known

that he was not appointed to the vacant Professorship, the first
outcry raised was that he was rejected because he was a Uni
tarian, with the additional imputation that he was rejected, not
because the Council of University College objected to Unitarians

as such, but because they sacrificed their own professed principles
in timid and interested subservience to the prejudices and
bigotry of the outer world. This calumny was too gross to be
long maintained in face of the known characters of the gentlemen

who constitute the Council. But it did its work. It was the

origin of the agitation which was raised ; and probably it is still
believed by many persons. And not only was it the origin of
the agitation, but the agitators continue to agitate as if their

first assertions were true, although they know that the question

to be considered is a very different one.
     On August 4 a motion was submitted to the Council in the

following terms :--
     ' That the Council consider it inconsistent with the complete

religious neutrality proclaimed and adopted by University
College to appoint to the Chair of Philosophy of the Mind and
Logic a candidate as minister and preacher of any one among
the various sects dividing the religious world.'

     This motion was negatived ; so that no one has a right to

assign the principle here laid down as the ground of the subse
quent action of the Council as a body ; although, no doubt, as
there was a minority who voted for the motion, it may be assumed
that those individual members acted upon this principle in their
subsequent votes ; and it is possible that other members, who

were not present in August, but were present in November, did

the same.

    It is seldom expedient in any deliberative body to propound

a resolution in general terms, when the object is practical action
in a particular case ; and the Council probably judged wisely in
not affirming the general proposition in their minutes : but the

argument suggested is one which might be entertained and
applied in the particular case, without any departure from the

true principles of the College. It is important that the friends

of the College should know that such, at least, is the deliberate
opinion of the Senate. In the conclusion of their second report,
1866.  352 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

       after stating that they did not think it necessary to report a
       second time concerning Mr. Martineau, they added these
       words :--

          If' We wish, however, to express our opinion upon a question

       of principle which is supposed to be involved in the matter.
       it be thought by the Council that the characteristic principle of
       the College, impartiality between religions sects,1 would be
       violated or endangered by placing in the Chair of Mental Philo
       sophy a prominent theologian and a leader of one school of theo

       logical thought, even though the upright and honourable
       character of the individual gave an assurance that he would not.
       consciously allow his theological opinions to affect his teaching
       of philosophy, the Senate fully recognises the right of the
       Council to entertain the objection ; and it is not disposed to
       impugn the discretion of the Council, in whatever way the ques
       tion may be ultimately determined. In fact, the difficulty has
       been felt in the Senate as well as in the Council.'

            The report including this paragraph was carried, after an
       adjourned debate, by a majority of 14 to 2 ; so that it may be
       fairly taken as expressing the deliberate opinion of the main

       body of the Professors. It will be observed that the Senate

       pronounced no opinion upon the case of Mr. Martineau. They
       desired only to recognise and uphold the perfect right of the
       Council to consider his ecclesiastical position before they appointed
       him to the Chair of Mental Philosophy.

            The reproach to which the Council is now subjected is of a

       novel nature. It is something strange that gentlemen pro

       fessing liberal opinions should make it a reproach to other

            1 This may be accepted as the semi-official declaration of the prin
       ciple of the College in 1866. It is evident that if it be the right one,

       my husband's was wrong (see pp. 369-373).

           It is also evident that if it were the full statement of that principle,

       divines of all denominations alike might have been, by the Charter,
       precluded from holding chairs in the College. Had this been announced
       in the first instance, Mr. De Morgan might possibly have still held a
       Professorship there, as in any other institution of moderate liberality ;
       but he certainly would have made no sacrifices to retain it, in the idea
       that he was supporting the sound principle of religious equality defined

       by himself.
            As a matter of fact, the reiteration of the statement that no reli

       gious qualification or disqualification could be tolerated in the College
       had become almost tedious. -- S. E. De M.
STATEMENT IN SUPPORT OF COUNCIL.  353

liberals, that they are jealous of clerical influence in education.1      1866.
Such a jealousy is the usual concomitant of religious equality.
When the University of Sydney was founded, the authors of it
entrusted the selection of a Principal and Professors to a com
mittee of gentlemen in England, informing them that, in conse
quence of the equality of religious sects in the colony, they
would prefer that none of the Professors should be a minister of
any religions denomination. Their committee found it impossible
to discharge their trust to their satisfaction within this limita

tion ; and as the instruction to them was not imperative, they
selected as Classical Professor and Principal the late Rev. Dr.
Woolley, who was a clergyman of the Church of England. The
appointment of Dr. Woolley was received at first with some
suspicion and dissatisfaction ; and it was not till the people of
Sydney became convinced by personal knowledge of the un-

sectarian character of his mind that they were thoroughly
reconciled to it. We by no means wish, nor would any judicious
friend of our College wish, to exclude all ministers of religion
from all Professorships ; but we mention this instance to show
that the advocacy of religious equality does not compel its

advocates in all cases simply to shut their eyes and ask no
questions as to the religious position of persons with whom they

have to do. In the last number of the AUienwum there is an

article upon the approaching Special Meeting of the Proprietors
of University College, in which the principles of the College are
thus described :-- ' There was a universal belief created by every
kind of declaration on the part of the promoters, and fostered by
an unflinching adherence, that no disqualification on religious
grounds was to be tolerated, whether as to teacher or pupil.
The best Professors were to be chosen, independently of their
faith, and of their notoriety as followers of their faith.' This is
quite true as a general description, and we trust that it always
will be true. But the writer does not perceive that the two

clauses of his last sentence may be inconsistent ; and if he insists

upon the literal application of this rule in all conceivable cases,
he is a slave to the letter, and blind to the spirit of the principle
which he advocates. The College will appoint a Professor of
Anatomy, or a Professor of Latin, or a Professor of Natural

     1 According to my recollection the reproach against the Council was
that they were sensitive only on the score of an unpopular clerical in

fluence. It was not implied that they would as a body have shrunk

from the appointment of a liberal Churchman.-- S. E. Dii M.

                                                          AA
       354 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1866.  Philosophy, without any reference to their theological opinions

       or their ecclesiastical denomination, because their theology or

       their denomination will in no way affect their teaching of

       anatomy, or Latin, or Natural Philosophy. But the College

       may reasonably and consistently think twice before appointing a

       professional theologian Professor of Mental Philosophy ; because

       it is not only possible, but not unlikely, that his professional

       theology will make him a worse teacher of mental philosophy.
       We will borrow the language of one of the assailants of the

       Council. ' Such is the nature of speculative inquiry, that of

       necessity it brings into view the truths of Revelation, and forces

       Ifup the question whether they agree with the principles which
       the thinker has reached.  his mind have the logical grasp

       requisite for the profoundest of all studies, he will not be content

       with laying down certain doctrines regarding cognition, but will

       follow their issues through the windings of thought, till they
       come into contact with theology itself.' True : and if his

       theology be really his own, good ; but if his theology be a fore

       gone conclusion -- something which he has accepted independently

       of philosophical investigation, --if he is trammelled by connexion
       with a party or a denomination, if he has an ecclesiastical position

       to maintain, or a theological reputation to lose, there is no small

       chance that his philosophy will be, or has been, modified by con

       tact with his theology. We put the case generally; but there is a
       strong d priori probability that a layman will be a more unpre

       judiced, and therefore a better teacher of mental philosophy than

       a minister of religion ; and, if so, it is no part of the duty of the

       Council to ignore the distinction.

          If the general principle be sound, there is no force in the

       objection that our late Professor, Dr. Hoppus, was a minister of

       religion. If the general rule be a safe one, the fact that no

       harm followed from one departure from it 1 is no argument for
       lightly departing from it a second time ; and still less is it an

            1 The suggestion that the election of Dr. Hoppus was at the time
       regarded as a departure from a general rule, shows that the writer of

       this passage had not been connected with the College from its founda
       tion. The elections of two clergymen of the Church of England, among

       the first appointed, were looked on rather as affirmations of a distinct
       principle than as departures from an unexpressed ' general rule.'

            When Dr. Hoppus's name first appeared in the list of Professors, a

       remark was made in my hearing on his being a minister of religion.
       The reply, given by an influential member of the institution, was, ' We
       do not consider these things.'-- S. E. De M.
STATEMENT IN SUPPORT OF COUNCIL.  355

argument to debar the Council from their right to consider all       I860,
circumstances likely to affect a Professor's teaching.

     We are assured on very good authority, that when the first
appointment to the Professorship of Mental Philosophy was to be
made in the College, there were two instances of eminent
ministers who thought of offering themselves as candidates for

the office, but were withheld by the conviction at which they
themselves arrived, after further consideration, that it would not
be consistent with the duty of the Council to appoint them.1

     The preceding argument is perfectly general ; but in the
particular case of Mr. Martincan there is one point of another
kind which deserves consideration. No one will question that

the authorities of our College are bound by the strongest obliga
tions to avoid carefully any act by which they would induce our
students, or even put facilities in their way, to submit themselves
to one form of religious teaching rather than another. Mr.
Martineau is described as ' Professor of Mental, Moral, and Reli
gious Philosophy ' in Manchester New College ; and we have every
reason to believe that he discharges faithfully, zealously, and
ably the duties of his office. In his letter of application for the
Professorship he stated that, if he were appointed, he should

transfer his lectures on logic and mental philosophy entirely to
University College. Moral philosophy is not included in the
duties of our Professorship. We may fairly conclude, therefore,

that, if Mr. Martineau had been appointed, he would have

lectured on logic and mental philosophy in University College,
and would have continued to lecture on moral and religious
philosophy in the institution called Manchester New College, all
the business of which is done in the building of University Hall,
which is immediately contiguous to the College. A very natural

consequence would have been, that students who were attracted

by his lectures in the College would have been led to attend the

further part of his course in the Hall. At present, if any

students seek the instruction of Mr. Martineau, they are at
perfect liberty to do so, but the College is in no way responsible.

      The Council has been attacked for having proceeded to elect
Mr. Croom Robertson to the vacant chair at the same meeting
at which they received the requisition for a Special General
Meeting, without waiting for the answer to their consultation of

     f Thii statement would have had more force if substantiated by

particulars. According to my recollection these gentlemen had other
reasons for not coming forward.-- 8. E. Dr M.

                                                          aa2
       356 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1866.  the high law officers whether a meeting could legally be convened

       for the purpose named in the requisition, and, if it could, without
       waiting for the result of it. In the first place, the Council had a

       perfect right to do this. By the very charter of the College the

       power of appointing Professors is committed to the Council, and

       not to a General Meeting: manifestly because the Council is a

       body capable of judicial action, and a General Meeting is a

       popular body, and not a fit instrument for such a purpose. The

       Council is elected by the proprietors to discharge this and other

       duties ; but they are not mere delegates of the proprietors, and

       it has never been considered that they were bound to receive

       instructions from them. No doubt the General Meeting may

       express an opinion upon the acts of the Council ; but the duty of

       the Council was to do what they thought best for the College,
       Ifand then to await the judgment of their constituents.
                                                                the

       Council had delayed to act, for the purpose of deferring to a vote

       of the meeting, they would have abdicated their proper function.

       Our sole purpose is to uphold the legitimate authority of the

       Council, and to vindicate their right (and, indeed, we might

       insist upon it as their duty) to consider all circumstances which

       make a candidate more or less fit to discharge the duties of the

       office which he seeks. When the first report of the Senate was

       drawn up, the Senate named Mr. Martineau as the best candidate ;

       and although the objection presented by his ministerial position

       was discussed, it was not insisted upon, and therefore it was not

       mentioned in the report. When the second report was framed,

       which was rendered necessary by the reception of additional

       evidence, the relative position of Mr. Martineau and Mr. Robert

       son was certainly not left what it was before ; and, moreover,

       the attacks upon the College made it incumbent upon us dis

       tinctly to recognise in the Council, and members of the Council,

       the right to consider all points in the position of Mr. Martineau,

       or any other candidate, which seemed to them likely to affect his

       fitness for the Professorship. We learn now, on what we must

       consider good authority (the Spectator of January 26), that

       the issue to be submitted to the meeting is substantially the

       same as the proposition of the writer in the Athenwum, which

       we have discussed above. The resolution announced runs thus :--
       ' That in the opinion of this meeting any candidate, who is other

       wise the most eligible for any chair or other office in this College

       or the School, ought not to be regarded as in any manner dis
       qualified for such office because he is also eminent as a minister
       or preacher of any religions church or sect.' The writer in the
MEETING OF PROPRIETORS.  357

Atheiutum, and the framer of the resolution, under cover of a        1666.
specious general proposition, throat ont of sight the certain fact
that there are some departments of human knowledge, and
mental philosophy is eminently one of them, in which the pre
possessions of a theologian and the habits of a theological teacher
may make him a worse qualified candidate than another man ;
and in such a case those who have to appoint the teacher are
bound to take cognisance of the fact, and it is very unwise to
fetter their discretion.

      We pass no judgment on the particular case of Mr. Martineau.
We are quite ready to assent to the general proposition, that no

candidate ought to be regarded as ipso facto disqualified because
he is a minister or preacher. But we desire to maintain the
right of the Council to examine all the circumstances of every
case that comes before them ; and we earnestly entreat every true
friend of the College not to concur in any vote which would
seem to inflict a censure upon the Council for the legitimate
exercise of their discretion ; and, above all, not to concur in any
 vote which would impose a restraint upon their freedom ot
judgment in future.

     This was signed by fifteen Professors, of both Faculties.
     On reading this document, my husband said the
principal part of the question was left out altogether ;
for had he ever understood that the profession of religious

impartiality made by the founders of the College was only
to be understood ' as a general description,' his name
would never have been connected with it. He drew a

distinction between the part taken by the older Professors,
who, from their long connection with University College,
could not fail to know that its very life consisted in the
entire rejection of all religious distinctions, and that of

those more recently appointed, who, he thought, might

and probably did believe that the Council was not bound by

any condition except that of making the appointment
which might seem to them best for the worldly prosperity
of the institution. From this latter point of view, it is
not difficult to understand why a candidate believed to be
prominent in an unpopular sect should have met with dis
favour in the eyes of the Council.

      The special meeting of Proprietors was held early in
       358 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1H67.  February 1867, and a few weeks later the annual meeting

       took place. On both these occasions those who contended

       for the old principle were beaten, and the College pro

       ceeded to work in its new character. Whether it is
       Iheld in higher estimation since then have no means of
       I Iknowing.
       only know that it is changed since heard the

       conversations of Lord Brougham, Thomas Campbell, and

       my father at the time of its foundation.

       My husband told me that during the session in which

       he worked after his resignation was sent in he met his

       colleagues as before in the Professors' room. Not one of

       them ever spoke on the subject of his retirement, and he

       left the place without one word of acknowledgment for

       all he had done for it. Only once, after the end of the

       session, he paid a visit to his old lecture-room. He went

       to bring away the note-books and manuscripts which he

       had used in his lectures. The visit was a painful one,
       Ibut was so cheerfully borne that should hardly have
       Iknown all he felt if had not said something to the
       Ieffect that hoped he would not suffer for the trial. He
       I Isaid, ' Oh, shall do very well.
                                           felt all the time to-day
       Ithat the College had left me, not it. It was no longer
       the old place. But then,' he added sorrowfully, ' all my

       thirty 1 years' work has been thrown away.' The answer
       Ito this was of course easy.
                                     said that no such efforts as

       his could ever be without result ; that his teaching had

       trained many strong and honest minds ; and that if the

       College had done nothing more, its establishment might

       have helped in the opening of the two Universities. He

       acquiesced, but the blow was struck.

           In the spring of 1867, after the efforts of many of the

       best of his old pupils and friends to retrace the false step

       had failed, some of these gentlemen, desirous that he

       should not leave the scene of his work without taking

          1 It will be observed that sometimes more than thirty years are

       mentioned. He was Professor from 1828 to 1833, and again from

       1836 to 1866-- in all more than thirty-five years.
    RETIREMENT FROM UNIVERSITY COLLEGE. 859

with him some memorial of their respect and friendship,                                     1867.

asked me whether I thought he would refuse a testimonial
Iin money.1
               answered without consulting him. He had

strongly objected to the system of testimonials, which of

Ilate years had grown to such a height, and was quite

certain that his answer would be in the negative. He

soon after received the following, enclosed in a letter
from our friend Mr. Jacob Waley : --

                                          'May 7, 1867.

we  ' D, ,ear  Sie, --,Many  of your old  pruespi.iglsn,aat,ito. nwhoosi-e arecq,huaei.srt  Proposed
                             upon your                                                      memorial
    address    you, desire,                                                                 bu,u

which for upwards of thirty years you have filled with so

much distinction, to give some appropriate expression to

the high estimation in which they hold you.
     ' Our admiration for your philosophical views of edu

cation, your skill in the art of instruction, and your

scientific attainments, as well as our cordial regard and
esteem for you as our old teacher and friend, render us

desirous of recording these feelings in some substantial

shape.
     ' We understand, however, that you feel you cannot

consistently accept any testimonial of intrinsic value. But

we hope that you may be persuaded to gratify your pupils

by sitting for a picture or bust to be placed in the library

of our old College. We remain, sir,
                             ' Yours faithfully,
    'Jacor Walbt.
                                          H. M. Bompas.

    W. A. Case.                           R. B. Clifton.

    J. G. Greenwood.                      J. M. Solomon.

    G. Jessel.                            H. Cozens Hardt.
    Richard Holt Hutton. Theodore Waterhouse.'
    Waltrr Baoehot.

    ' The year before his death several old pupils and friends kindly

obtained for him a pension of 1001. from Oovernniont. On hearing of
Ithis hia tint impulse was to decline it with thanks.
                                                       entreated him

to receive the kindness as it was meant.
       360    MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1867.      It gave a pain to my husband to refuse a request so

       Ikindly and cordially made. His reply was as follows : --

           ' My deae Walet, -- acknowledge your kind letter of

       the 7th with the cordial and gratifying inclosure, signed

       Iby eleven old pupils, whose dates represent the time which

       has elapsed since rejoined the College in 1836.

           ' The inclosure is in itself a testimonial. It has all the

       meaning and all the value. And to those who hold that

       the mind of the teacher counts for something in the

       making of the pupil, the string of names appended to it will
       Ibe no mean presumption that have in some degree a
       Iclaim to the terms in which am described.
          I'
              iasmdeassckreibdedtoassit"foorura  bust or picture,  to be placed   in
       what                                      old College."     This location  is
       impossible; our old College no longer exists. It was

       annihilated in November last.

          I' The old College to which was so many years attached

       by office, by principle, and by liking, had its being, lived,

       and moved in the refusal of all religious disqualifications.

       I ILife and soul are now extinct.
            ' will avoid detail.                 may be writing to some who

       think that the recent transaction is a reparable dilapida
       tion, or even to some who approve of it. To me the

       College is like a Rupert's drop with a little bit pinched off

       I Ithe small end ; that is, a heap of dust.
            ' can never forget that have been usefully employed,
       Ithough now wish my life had been passed in any other
       I Iinstitution.
              have worked under the conviction that

       was advancing a noble cause, until every letter in the
       sentence " Augustus De Morgan, Professor of Mathematics

       in University College, London," stands for 234 hours of

       actual lecturing, independent of all study and preparation;

       and all this under a banner which is now shown to have

       been either shamfully raised or shamefully deserted.

          I' So much is necessary that my old pupils may under

       stand my mind, and the repugnance feel towards any

       proceeding which must record my connection with Uni
RETIREMENT FROM UNIVERSITY COLLEGE. 361

Iversity College.  am happy to say that the circumstances               1867.

have not created any personal bitterness of feeling ; indi
viduals are to me what they were before. But if force of

will can succeed, the institution is to pass away from
before my mind, and to become as if it had never existed.

   I' You will see that am altogether averse to lending

aid or countenance to any scheme which will tend to

remind others that I was a teacher in the College which

did homage to the evil it was created to oppose.

    ' But I am even more sensible to my old pupils' remem

Ibrance than should have been if I could have accepted

the result of their most acceptable good opinion. Such

remembrance would have been, in any case, a treasure.

It has now the additional value of a treasure saved out of

the fire.

    ' You will, of course, communicate my answer, and

with my warmest thanks and most heartfelt regards,

                           ' I am, my dear Waley,

                                                    ' Yours sincerely,
                                                   ' A. De Morgan. ' 1

     He often spoke with satisfaction of the uninterrupted
friendly relations which had for thirty years subsisted
between himself and his colleagues. From his declining
health and other circumstances he saw but little of them

latterly, but this was in no case due (on his part at least)
to personal feeling created by the question which had
caused his withdrawal.

     One of his social pleasures during the last few years had Crabb
been in the acquaintance and friendship of Mr. H. Crabb
Robinson, one of the first active promoters of the establish
ment of University College. Through a life of nearly
ninety-one years Mr. Robinson had been the steady friend of

    1 This letter was printed after Mr. De Morgan's death for circula
tion among friends who had been asked to join in an injudicious at
tempt to found a scholarship under his name in University College.
           362 MEMOIK OF AUGUSTUS UE MORGAN.

   1867.   freedom and progress, but his influence, which was con-a ·'_
           siderable,' had been felt chiefly in his conversation anda
Mr.Crabb   social intercourse with other minds, for his writings were
Kubinson.
           few and comparatively unimportant. In December 1866
                                                                       it
           he had voted in the minority in the Council on the ques
           tion of Mr. Martineau's appointment, and on the next;
           meeting, when the cause was lost by majority of one,
           the chairman giving the casting vote, Mr. Ro bins on was; II
           absent from illness. This, and the adaptation of principle
           which afterwards ensued, was cause of great concern toit
           him. During the winter of 1865-66 Mr. De Morgan
           helped him in the task of arranging and sorting his books,
           a miscellaneous but very valuable collection. My hus
           band, who was interested in the work, said that was a

           very slow process, because every book or pamphlet looked
           at gave occasion for some literary or historical anecdote,
           and this sort of gossip was pleasant to his hearer, who
           knew much of books and of men for Mr. Robinson had
           been the contemporary of all-- the friend of many --of the

           eminent, political, and literary characters whose life and
           work made the history of the end of the eighteenth
           and much of the nineteenth centuries. He had been

           the friend of Goethe, Wordsworth, and Coleridge. He
           remembered and knew the political trials of Home Tooke
           and his friends, and told me incidents connected with my
           father's trial at Cambridge of which had never heard.1
           His Sunday morning breakfasts were, suppose, occasions
           of much pleasant intercourse among many intellectual

           men of various opinions. At these my husband used to

           meet the Rev. F. D. Maurice, the Rev. J. J. Tayler, the
           Rev. J. Martineau, and many others and was at these

           parties of friends that his acquaintance with Mr. Mar

            tineau was chiefly formed.
                 Early in 1867, shortly after the trouble at the College,

           the kind-hearted, consistent old man left this world. Mr.

                     first saw Mr. C. Robinson at Mrs. Barbauld's.I1I  was then

           twelve years old.
FAILURE OF HEALTH.  363

De Morgan visited him daily, and saw the day before he died 1867.
that his end would be without pain. In the Diary and
Memoirs, published by Dr. Sadleir, a little sketch by Mr.

De Morgan gives a portrait of the subject, which shows
how actively his mind was still at work, and his interests

alive to the last.

     The last work of any importance undertaken by my
husband was a large calculation, I think, for the Alliance
Assurance Company. But his health had begun to fail.

Every one who saw him observed the change which had
passed over him, and before the great sorrow which came
to us at the end of 1867 he was no longer the strong,
vigorous man, full of hope and activity, which he had

been before his alienation from the institution to which so

much of the work of his life had been devoted.

    In October our dear son George was taken from us. Go.o.v,

He had worked hard during the winter, and even late into

the spring, both in giving lessons and in examining the
papers for the degrees of the University of London. He
was at that time Vice-Principal of University Hall, Gordon
Square, but was almost every day with us in Adelaide
Road. His father, who only saw his cheerfulness and the
seeming improvement in his health when, after a short
time at Heme Bay, he parted from him to join us at
Bognor, did not realise his state, and hoped against hope
to the last. George went on with one of his sisters and
myself to Ventnor. He was still warmly interested in the
success of the Mathematical Society. As his name be
longed to it as one of the secretaries, his father was

anxious that, if possible, the first diploma given should
have his signature. For this purpose parchment was

placed before him, and he evidently recognised its import,
passing his finger over the words Mathematical Society.
But he was too weak to hold the pen, and died two days
after. His father, already enfeebled in health, had been
at home with two of our daughters, and could not come

in time to see him while he would have been recognised.
1868.  364 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

       He bore the blow as bravely and firmly as he had borne
       other trials, expressing his full confidence in the wisdom
       which had removed from among us one who seemed in

       Itended to tread in his own steps on earth. But another

       trial awaited us in the illness of our third daughter. had
       to leave home with her for several weeks, and she recovered

       so far as to remove much anxiety. In the year 1868 my

       husband's own health, which had continued steadily to

       decline, broke down entirely. A sharp attack of conges

       tion of the brain, the result of so much intense mental
       suffering, left him so prostrated that it was evident he

       never again would be equal to sustained effort.
            We moved in the summer to 6 Merton Road, near

       Primrose Hill, a house which he said was the most
       comfortable he had been in since our marriage. We
       dreaded this moving on account of his weak state, but
       all was ready to receive him, and he did not suffer.

           In his enfeebled condition the task of placing his books

       was a heavy one. The room destined for them was much
       smaller than the one he had had in Adelaide Road, which

       he said was a palace. It was a work of time for him to

       measure the walls, and to direct the placing of the new
       shelves, but it was done, with intervals of rest. Alarge num
       ber of the books had been sold, but about 3,000 remained,

       Iand feared he could not get them all in, and of course

       begged him to have help. He said, with his old spirit,

       I' They shall all go in, and will put them all in myself; '
       Iand so he did. The work was done gradually, and do

       not think it hurt him. He always liked looking through
       his treasures, and showing to any friend any special

       rarity.
            During the last few years of his life my husband occu

       pied himself a good deal in reading the Greek Testament,

       Iand comparing the different versions and translations.

       regret much that many comments which he made on this
       subject were not preserved, as he did not write them. He
       also compiled a sort of history of his family and biography
LATEST INTERESTS.  365

of himself -- not in a connected form --to be left as materials  1869.

Ifor his Life, and from this book have taken much of

the earlier part of this Memoir. He also rearranged and

added to his Budget of Paradoxes, which, however, was
not published till after his death.

     One of the last subjects which afforded him interest        IFrecChrii-
was the proposed formati.on of a society to be called the
                                                                 tun nlon.

Free Christian Union. The idea, a beautiful and attractive

one, was the formation of a union for the promotion of good

in various directions of men of all religious beliefs and

opinions, on the common ground of the Fatherhood of God

and the brotherhood of man. But there was some inaccuracy

in the designation, for under the simple, universal principle,

professed Jews, Hindoos, and other Easterns were eligible as

members ; indeed, my husband said Christ himself and the

Apostles might belong to the society, which they could not

perhaps have done to many associations taking the name

of Christian. Either the designation or the conditions of

membership must be abandoned ; and on the former pro

posal, several persons of well-defined orthodox opinions
left it. Mr. De Morgan hesitated before giving his name,

feeling that in the present uncertain and unsettled state

of opinion among the best meaning persons a union based

upon anything but absolute and simple theism was im

possible. This would exclude the use of the word Christian,

leaving a common basis of belief so broad as not to satisfy
men of deep religious thought, while it would not admit

Comtists and others whose philanthropic views and de

sires to benefit mankind were as wide and earnest as

those of the founders themselves.

     He also desired to learn to what the designation
' Christian ' applied --what were the opinions of the

founders with reference to the work and mission of Christ.

The writin gs of some of these, friends whom he valued and

respected, had led him to suspect that in their view what

is called the supernatural element in the Gospels, the

account of the miracles and resurrection of Christ, were
       366 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1869.  due either to the exaggerations of Eastern fancy and

       expression, or to the interpolations of superstitious times.

       My husband, who believed fully in the account of the

       resurrection of Christ as given in the Gospels, wished to

       ascertain the views of those who held what are called
       ' advanced ' opinions on this head. He wrote and inquired,

       but told me he could not make out what their ideas
       I Iwere.
       once said to him that thought one element in
       the question had been generally overlooked, the ' opening
       of the (spiritual) eyes ' of the witnesses, as mentioned in

       the Gospels on other occasions. This would give some

       apparent subjectivity to the fact, but it is nowhere stated
       that all present saw the rising of Christ. He said, ' Very

       possibly, but there was a rising; the history is clearly
       given and well attested, and the rejection of it would be

       to cut away the root from the tree. And the accounts

       given of this and the other miracles cannot be taken from

       the history without throwing a discredit on the narrators'
       character that would make all their statements worthless.

       They say,' he said of the Rationalistic school of interpreters,
       ' that it is the character of Christ that commands reverence,

       and proves his mission from God. You cannot separate the

       two. He himself claimed extra-natural powers, given by

       the Father. If this was false He was false, and His cha

       racter would not have been what it was ; and the men
       who could invent fictions about His works could not have

       described the character as they did.' It was with reference

       to this society that we spoke of public prayer. In his

       letters on Christian union he speaks of a basis on which

       people might meet and pray together. He had always said

       to me that Jesus Christ had not enjoined public prayer ;

       is                               the tenor of His

                                          it,

                                                                '
       and though He had not forbidden

       teaching was strongly in favour of privacy and seclusion

       in this most internal and sacred communion. Enter into

       thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy

       Father which in secret,' &c. But though he felt this

       strongly himself, he knew that all did not feel with him.
HIS DEATH.                                     367

'IHe himself felt the happiness of prayer, but he said,       1870.

Iregard it rather as a luxury than a duty.'

    In reference to the vision of the apostles may men

tion that he had always been interested in cases of the

kind, especially those in which departing persons, while

fully conscious, assert the presence of those who have gone

before. Such instances, he said, were so common that one

could not believe them to be all illusion ; but whatever

they were, they should be recorded carefully.

     In August 1870, seven months before his own release, r>atii
our daughter Christiana was taken. She had stayed at ij"cpr
Bournemouth on her return from Madeira, and died there. Chri,ti.im.

I came home the day after her death to find her father so

weak that he had that day fallen on the floor, and was

unable to rise without help.

From this time the decline in his health was very

apparent, but he did not seem to suffer, except from weak

ness and sleeplessness. The physical state was a com

plicated one, chiefly owing to nervous prostration, and       1871.
traceable in the first instance to the shock of the College

disappointment, and afterwards to anxiety and sorrow on

our children's account.
     In March 1871 he became still weaker, and talked

Ivery little. The only word remember relating to his
I Iown state was, after saying that any way all would be

right, 'But shall be glad when have got it over.'

When I expressed a hope that he would not be taken yet,

he told me to ' leave it all in God's hands,' and he then

waited quietly for the end.
      During the last two days of his life there were indica

tions of his passing through the experience which he had
himself considered worthy of investigation and of record.
He seemed to recognise all those of his family whom he
had lost -- his three children, his mother and sister, whom

he greeted, naming them in the reverse order to that in
which they left this world. No one seeing him at that

moment could doubt that what he seemed to perceive.
1871.  368 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

       was, to him at least, visible and real. After this he said
       very little, only on the last morning of his life asking me,

       as he had been used to do, ' if it was time to get up.' On
       being told that it would soon be, he seemed to be carefully
       dressing himself. Then he lay quite still till, just after

       midnight, he breathed his last. The state of mind in
       which he had lived, and in which he died, is shown by a

       Isentence in his will :--
                commend my future with hope and confidence to
       Almighty God ; to God the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,

       Iwhom believe in my heart to be the Son of God, but whom
       I have not confessed with my lips, because in my time such

       confession has always been the way up in the world.
                               3G9

                         XI.SECTION

                CORRESPONDENCE, 1867-70.

                   To Sir John Herschel.

                               91 Adelaide Road, March 25, 1867.

      Mt dear Sir John, -- 'How do yon bear this trying weather?'    1867.

Iaitked a friend daring tho \atefroid d'cnfer, as a Frenchman might'
say.  ' Trying  weather  !     said  ; ' convicting weather ! sen

tencing weather ! penal servitude weather ! '
      IThe question between me and the College is simple.
entered that College on what all the world knows was its loudly

vaunted principle, that the creed of neither teacher nor student

was to be an element of his competence to teach or to learn.

After forty years of existence the College, for worldly reasons,

has decided that a teacher must not be too well known to be

heterodox : he must not be conspicuous as a Unitarian. Breach

of faith, surrender of principle, and D. I. 0.

      But this is not all. Between ourselves, the candidate who has

been refused the chair of Mental Philosophy because he is so very

wicked a Christian in religion, is also excluded because he is too

much of a theist in philosophy. He cannot help founding his
psychology on a moral Governor of the universe.

    Now, I would not have objected to leaving the existence of

God and His action on the minds of men an open question for

the best qualified candidate to treat in his own way ; but the

interference of the College as a college, and a settlement of
that question officially, is a step in which it concerns me, with

my way of thinking, to take a part. The public knows nothing

about this view of tho qnestion, but the Council have been

Iroundly charged with it by one of themselves in debate, and by
me in my D. I. O.  have told them toliiUm rerbit that they had

acted from fear ofG<,l in philosophy and fear of man in religion.
I am only here till the end of tho cut rent session. . . .

                                              Yours sincerely,
                                                     A. De Morgan.

                               rB
       370 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MOROAN.

                         To J. 8. Mill, Esq., M.P.

                                                                   July 3, 1867.

1867.  My dear Sir,-- A person described by you as a remarkable

       working man, and your correspondent, is one whose case is

       more than usually worth looking into. He had better write

       I Ito me direct, and state in some detail what he knows, and, as
       well as he can, what he wants.          dare say shall be able to

       shorten his route. He must specify arithmetic, his knowledge
       and habits, geometry, algebra, physics, if any. You need
       Inot tell him that the glimpse shall get of his mind is one of my
       Idata.
                   hope you are lifelike in spite of Reform debates.
                                 '
       ' Confound  this  rope  !    said  the  Irishman  who  was  hauling  in the

       slack, ' sure somebody has cut off the other end of it ! ' Do you

       not begin to suspect that somebody has stolen the third reading ?

                                               Yours very truly,

                                                              A. De Morgan.

                         To J. 8. Mill, Esq., M.P.

                                          91 Adelaide Road, August 2, 1867.

          IMy dear Sir,-- As touching your proposal to me to join the

       committee of the National Society for Women's Suffrage,
                          I never join political agitations, or associations
       cannot accede.    changes in the political machine. I remember
       for procuring
       Isigning a petition which, as understood it, was for franchise to

       be granted to single women having the property qualification.

       Your Society, as its title is worded, contemplates a full female
       suffrage -- e.g. a vote for a man and another for his wife. Sup
       Iposing me willing to join a political agitation, should hardly be
       Iready
                                                   should think     better of
       votes                                                       agree upon
        for such a       one as this.          --i.e. the two to               two
       given to the      couple jointly                                        the
       two. I almost thought this was the meaning of the phrase
       'compound householder,' when I first heard people mention it.1
       I got as far as joining the Decimal Coinage, but this was for the

           1 I cannot help thinking my husband wrote this for the sake of play

       ing on the expression ' compound householder,' as he can scarcely have
       missed seeing that the result of one vote to each of two people has the
       exact effect of two votes to both if they agree, except only in the case
       of one of the two not voting at all. -- S. E. De M.
CORRESPONDENCE, 1867-70.                          371

sake of education,  and the furtherance  of arithmetic among the                       1867.
labouring classes.
                                         Yours very truly,
                                                   A. De Morgan.

                    To Sir John Herschel.

                                                   91 Adelaide Road, August 8, 18*i7.

     Mr due Sir John, -- Many thanks for the Latin original of
Schiller's poem.1 I always take the older language as being the
original. I see Spaziergang -- in my dictionary it is Spatzier-
gang in the German-English and Spaziergang in the English-

German -- means a walk. Now, I have not taken a walk for
many a year. Had I done so, I might have started off something

at this kind of pace :--

Good morning, Mr. Mountain, with the light upon your top,
Just the rubbing of Apollo's eyes before he opens shop ;
And you, you ' daisy-spangled meads,' and you ' resounding grove,'
Where the feathered songsters make a row ; I'd feather 'em, by

      Jove, &c.

IBut seniores priores : Schiller has the start.  hope your hexes
and pents show that you are in a good condition. I see you

I Idon't care for the dissyllabic ending. No more did when
was at school ; and I was reprimanded, which I should not have
Icared for ; but was then remanded to set it right, and this was

Ia bore.                                   only remember one
    Of all the verses I made at school,

couplet. The subject was poetic inspiration, and was very

classically intended. It pleased me to take it that dinner was
the thing, and I have always been inclined to support my thesis.

 The pair of lines I remember is --

Gustat Virgilius-- procul o procul este Camoenae
Conclamat vates -- hoc mihi numen erit--

    If you look into the Athenctwn of Saturday week, you may

chance to see a little account of the last mare's-nest at Paris-- the
discovery that Pascal preceded Newton in the theory of gravita

-tion. The letters, if genuine, prove nothing. -- was guessed

to be the law before Newton or Pascal by Bouillaud. But the
funny point is that Pascal is made to talk of a tatte <\e «r/<$, years

               1 A Latin translation from Schiller by Sir John,

                            sal
       372 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1867.  an<j years before coffee was known in Paris, so far as has been
       stated. The first coffee-shop was really started nine years after

       Blaise's death by a man named Pascal, and the first started in
       England was in 1652 by Pasqua, a Greek. In England in 1657,
       ' Coffa -- see Cauphe,' is in Phillips's dictionary, and of ' Cauphe '

       it is said, ' it is much used in these parts.'
       II have nothing to say about myself or my people. The world
       wags as usual.  should like to hear of you. I have just found

       out that Dr. Pearson began life as a junior partner in Sketchley

       I& Pearson, who kept a school at Fulham for boys from four to
       ten. Here he had been for some years in 1800.   picked up a
       Isensibly written prospectus -- they said plan then --of this esta

       blishment. He founded his great school at Sheen in 1811.

       make out that he was not a graduate of Oxford or Cambridge.

       He was the undoubted projector of the Astronomical Society, and

       his dinner there again set it going. Our kind regards to Lady

       H,Ac.

                       Yours sincerely,

                                                       A. De Morgan.

                                 To Sir John Herschd.

                                                        91 Adelaide Road, August 15, 1807.

           Mr dear Sir John, --A country clergyman (I think : how is

       one to address where the party is a suspected clergyman ? May
       one put down the probabilities as

                         Rev. [f ] John Smith, Esq. [£] ? )

       Ihas written to me to know why, in the Runic almanacs, or very

       many of them, the days of the week begin from Monday.

       Icould only suspect that their almanac makers had the notion

       had when a child. They told me the week had seven days, and

       Ithat the seventh day was to be kept holy ; and they kept Sun

       day holy, and called it Sabbath. So thought Monday was the

       first day, and I well remember taking it as of course that the

       day the women went to the sepulchre was Monday.
            But this puzzled me more. They always made the ' Scrip

       tures,' when mentioned in the New Testament, mean Old and

       New both. So when I saw (Acts) that the Bereans searched

       the Scriptures, I thought they would find Bereans who searched,
CORRESPONDENCE, 1807-70.  373

and who found Bereans who searched, &c., and ad infinitum.                                       1867.
Query : Is this a convergent or a divergent series ?

     Hard rain -- great relief.
                                                           Yonrs sincerely,
                                                                      A. De Morgan.

                                To Rev. Wm. Heald.

                                                                               August 20, 1807.

    Mt dear Heald, --My bit of news is my retirement from

University College, after two terms of service, 1828-31 and
1836-67. The world knows, or takes note of, only one side

of the cause. I was meditating retirement in a session or

two on account of the general decadence of the College, which
made the emoluments wholly out of reasonable proportion to the
time the duties took. In November last came a course of conduct

which made me glad to escape at the end of the current session.

     University College, as you know, was founded on the prin
ciple of giving secular education without reference to religion,
which was left to the parents. The best men who could be found
independently of creed, being of good fame and conduct, were to
teach all who were willing to be taught equally without reference
to creed. From this principlo thero was never a departure. At
the very outset, iudeed, thero was a circumstance of this kind.
Dr. Southwood Smith was proposed for a chair of mental
philosophy, with some mixture of moral philosophy. Zachary

Macaulay read extracts from a work of his, I think with the

name ' On the Divine Government,' so heterodox that he, Z. M.,
declared he would take no further part if S. S. were chaired.

The Council gave way. But, for other reasons, I fancy, no one

ever complained of infraction of principle, and the case made no

noise.

     The principle was put to a very severe test when Francis New

man, then actually Professor of Latin, published his Ptunes of Faith

-- an attack, it was said, on Christianity. No one proposed that
he should be called to account for a work the title of which did
not state his connection with the College. So it seemed pretty

certain that the College would always hold to its declared principle
of perfect indifference to the creed of a teacher.

      The Professor of Logic and Mental Philosophy, Dr. Hoppus,
resigned in the spring of 180*;. The best candidate beyond a
doubt to succeed him was Mr. James Martineau, a leading man
among the Unitarians, but not thoroughly in accordance with
       374 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1867.  the bulk of them. And thereby hangs a tale. The Unitarians
       in general are highly intellectual, but have a practical dislike of
       the spiritual. Mr. Martineau is a strong spiritualist, not merely
       in religion, bat in psychology. He neither can nor will teach

       psychology, the structure and action of the mind, without a
       distinct recognition not merely of a God, but of God and His
       action upon the minds of men. This he teaches in his lectures
       at University Hall--an unconnected appendage to University
       College, in which Manchester New College is located, the students
       of which attend lectures on secular subjects at University Col
       lege, and learn Theology at the Hall.

            The Senate of University College (i.e. the Professors) re
       ported that Mr. Martineau was the best candidate. The Council

       (which is composed of a small body of philosophical men, whose
       creed no one knows; a larger body, perhaps one-third of the
       whole, of Unitarians, and a full half of the miscellaneous Church

       men, &c., whom one finds making up the mass of all public bodies)
       rejected him on the ground that a very distinguished Theologian,
       no matter of what sort, would injure the College, as giving an
       appearance of breach of its neutrality. This influenced many,
       but all the world knew that it was his sect being Unitarian that
       was objected to, and fear of the unpopularity of the Unitarian
       doctrine was of considerable effect. But it was very well known

       in the College that the philosophical party was only making a
       tool of the anti-Unitarian party. Their objection was to Mr.
       M.'s theism in psychology. There is a school of philo

       sophers who cultivate what they call sensational philosophy.
       They are driving at the doctrine that thought is a secretion of

       Imatter, and they want to get rid of all but matter and its con

       sequences. . . . The fact then was, as told the Council in my
       letter of resignation, in these words, that Mr. M. was rejected

       because he was too far from orthodoxy to please the priests, and
       too far from atheism to please the philosophers ; that he was
       offered up to the Janus Bifrons of expediency, each member
       of the majority of the Council choosing the head of the idol to

       which his offering was to be made.

            To myself, who never will have anything to do either with
       religious exclusion or with atheism, the proceeding was a call to

       I Iresign, which immediately obeyed. knew it to be an abandon

       ment of the principle of the College done in the worst way ; a
       pretence of fearing heterodoxy, with the fear on the minds of
       the leaders of nothing but theism. Not a soul of the Council or
               CORRESPONDENCE, 1867-70.                               375

of the Professors has ventured to deny to me the truth of what              1867.
II told them.
               did not publish my letter of resignation because
                                                                  If
I did not wish to hurt my old  friends in the    CIolslehgoeu.ld      they
can get a mess of pottage for  their birthright                   be  very

glad they had it. I resigned in November, but remained until

the end of the session, of course. All that time not one of the

old hands among my colleagues made the slightest allusion to

the fact of my resignation, and I am sure they felt that they had

better let the subject alone. Two of the younger ones, indeed,

undertook to instruct me that I was wrong about the principle
of the College, which I had studied before they were born.

    I believe, from observation, that both in colleges which pro

fess exclusion, and in those which profess perfect neutrality,

there is a concealed under-current of, let us say, philosophy,

veiled under formalism in one case and toleration in another.

IGet your smelling-salts ready, for am going to tell you that

a certain section of your order are in earnest about nothing but

the endowments. These men see danger in all but formal

adherence to religion, and would rather have a world of con-

coaled philosophers than one of earnest believers in actual Pro
Ividence and guidance. This, I say, I glean from observation ;

there are easy means of verifying what say. Of course, the

neutral places have their share of this. But a place like
University College --and not alone --has its share of the philo
sophers who are really earnest about their system -- religious
atheists -- this phrase comes nearer than anything else ; men who

believe that the moral ends of the universe, so far as there are

any, are better answered by their concoction of reasoned right and

wrong than by any reliance on higher government. To one or
two perhaps of these men University College is indebted for its

rise or fall, whichever it shall turn out to be. I hope it will be a

rise, for they may as well have the profits of duplicity as others.

    Perhaps I shall never write as much about University Col

lege in all my life to come.

    I am no way surprised at the money part of the business -- I

mean the fear of diminution of pupils from a distinguished
Unitarian. Twelve years ago or more a Mr. Peene left about

l,.')iM.)l. to bo a fund for buying books, and to be selected by

Professors of Latin and Mnthematics, ing members the Estab
lishment. To my surprise they caught at the money. But they
                               !,,

                                                       of

did not venture to acknowledge openly what they were doing .

They did not, as they ought to have done, write to me to know
       376 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1867.  Iif could take the office.  ITwheoulsdecrneottarytakseaidit.(wiTthheouotthaeprplPicrao

       tion to me) that he knew

       fessors declined on principle, though they could have held and
                                                           I
                                                                 it,
       some old students were appointed. But in time the other Pro

       fessors came into quietly, without my being told.    smiled
                        I it
       and shut my eyes.

       IIhave got over all the disgust of the matter, and am fast

       losing the remembrance of the place. To my surprise went to
                                                           I
                                                              I
       my publisher's to-day, opposite the College, and was there half

       an hour. When had come away remembered that had
                                   ;I
       quite forgotten the College, and had not any recollection of
                                        it
       having seen it.

           suppose you have your share of the ritualism in Leeds.                                I

       hear of from my girls, who sometimes go to one of the show-
                itI
       places.       read a book of essays about a month or two ago.

       There the Roman system complete doctrine quite full on all
               ; is
       points     a  strong aspiration for the time when men will be pre

       vented from undermining the orthodoxy of their neighbours,
       which can mean nothing but penalties for expression of heterodox

       opinion in private life. We are getting on in every point, the

       matter coming to a crisis, and the hierarchy has no courage
                is
                    is
                                      a
                                                   is

                                                  I
                                                            II
                                                                 is I

                                                                                                                                                               ;
       one would suppose they back the winner.

       Neate with his family at Baden, or some such place. have

       hardly heard of Mason since he changed his living.   believe he

       finds the change has done him much good. have lately renewed

       acquaintance with man who was an infant when last saw
       him -- Samuel S. Greathead, of Trinity College. He
                                                                                                 the

       nephew of S. Maitland, and rector of Corringham, near Rom

       ford. He tells me that a large quantity of Maitland's papers

       were destroyed by an ignorant executor.

                                   Yours sincerely,
                                              A. De Morgan.

                              To Sir John Herschel.

                              91 Adelaide Road, N.W., October 18, 1867.

       My dear Sir John, -- Be no way prepared to start when you

       see no black border         thing which never will use. Black
       is

                                                        ;

                                       it
                                               is

                                       Ia
                                                     I

                                                                                          (
                                                                                             )+
       not my colour of death. followed to Kensal Green yesterday

       the remains of my second son, George, who died of phthisis in

       the throat on Monday at Ventnor, after three years of alarm as
       to his lungs. A voyage to the West Indies two years
                                                                                                 ago
            CORRESPONDENCE, 1867-70.                         377

appeared to restore the lungs, but the laryngeal affection came                        1867.

on slowly, and ended this world for him without any great

suffering,  he being     perfectly  satisfied until within forty-eight
            fact, until  he began   to wander -- that he was as strong
hours--in
and well as need be-- the phrase he used when he could not rise

in his bed.

    I bear it well, and so does my wife. Many condoling friends

have found out that the great and special force of the blow is

that he was the son who was to follow in my footsteps, and had

made some beginning. To which I assent ; but, truth to speak,

I did not remember this until I was told, nor did it produce any
Ieffect.    am peculiar, I suppose. I remember with satisfaction

that he and a young fellow-student were the projectors of the

Mathematical Society, which seems to have taken firm root ; but

this is only the general love of memorial which belongs to our
nature. Any other instance would do as well. A strong and

practical conviction of a better and higher existence does much

better for every purpose, and reduces the whole thing to emigra

tion to a country from which there is no way back, and no mail

packets, with a certainty of following at a time to be arranged

Iin a better way than could do it.

     Our kind regards to Lady Herschel and the family. You
have been through the same Valley of the Shadow, and know all

about it.

                                        Yours sincerely,

                                                A Dr Morgan.

                         To Miss Sheepshanks.

                                      91 Adelaide Road, July 23, 1868.                 1868.

IMy dear Miss Sheepshanrs, --All are at Esher, and have

....sent your letter down there.
                The Bishops of Oxford and Cape Town are a pair of
opposites : C. T. foolish, and believed to be sincere ; 0. sharp,

and suspected of  a  sort of  slyness.     Colenso won  my   igt ooofdcoouprisneio--n
before he became  a  heretic  -- when   he would have   got

by showing that he understood one part of the New Testament
which it is a rule to hide under the cushion. What did the Gentile

and Jewish converts do who had several wives ? Did they break

their contract with all but one ? There would have been a rule
laid down if they had, and a controversy. They kept their wives,

St. Paul ordaining that only the husband of i<»« wifo should be a
       378 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1868.  bishop or a deacon. This is the meaning of the regulation. Now

       Colenso saw this, and did not require his converts to reduce
       themselves to one wife. Not much noise was made about it, for

       the divines at home did not like to raise the question.
            Colenso is founding a church in Natal with success. He has

       both a clerical and a lay body of followers. There will be
       curious consequences, which will find their way home. One Pope

       at Rome and an opposition Pope at Avignon did something
       towards the sowing of Reformation seed. But which is Rome
       and which is Avignon in this case seems not quite clear. When

       Dr. Philpotts got up his diocesan synods against Gorham, he

       declared very strongly that every diocese is a separate church,
       with its own right to pronounce a doctrine. He was quite right ;

       according to ante-papal Christianity nothing but a general
       Council could override any one bishop and his synod. But he
       did not see he played into the hands of the Independents. So
       the synod was held, and it will not be the last.

            The wind is getting up, and the day is cloudy and compara
       tively cool ; there is a synod of clouds.

                                                                Yours sincerely,
                                                                              A. De Morgan.

                        To J. 8. Mill, Esq., M.P.

                                 91 Adelaide Road, September 3, 1868.

           My dear Sir, --You are, I suppose, in this interval, as likely
       as you will be to make a note about your Logic ; so I send a

       couple    of corrections  (beeditt.ak6e,nppt.o9,m7e1a,nv--olp. eir.h).aps  you  meant --

            (P.  9.) You will
       that the phrase ars artium is due to Bacon. It was an old technical

       definition of logic. Ludovicus Vives (in the only word of praise
       he gives to a Schoolman, or nearly) commends Potrus Hispanus

       (ob. 1277) for making it his definition, and corrects those who
       think it only an hyperbole of praise, explaining it as the art which

       treats of arts.
           (P. 71.) A wrong quotation may be defensible when it

       enhances a joke ; at any rate, Sterne's recording angel would

       erase the record with a grin, as he did Uncle Toby's oath with a

       tear. But a defect of quotation which converts humour into

       dry gravity is one over which the angel, if he shed a shower of
       tears, would take care none of them should fall. In p. 71 you

       say that a pedantic physician in Moliere accounts for the fact
CORRESPONDENCE, 1867-70.  579

that ' l'opium endormit ' by the maxim ' parcequ'il a nn vertu       1868.
soporifique.' From whom do yon get your quotation marks 'i
Not from Moliero. You know the original at the end of the
Malade Imaginaire : --

                     Mihi a docto doctore.

                        Domandatur causam et rationem quare
                      Opium facit dormire.

                   A quoi respondeo

                        Quia est in eo

                   Virtus dormitiva,

                        Cujus est natura

                        Sensus assoupire.

    I never read this exquisite satire without wishing for a

Moliere to expose the school of thinkers of our day who invert
the process ; and having settled that opium has not and cannot
have a virtus dormitiva, will deny the sleep, or else declare that
it is only a coincidence. Eighteen years' experience has told me
that infinitesimal doses, so called, meet my symptoms as well as
the finite doses of the eighteen years preceding ; but the docti
doctores assure me that it cannot be, because there cannot be a

virtus curativa in doses so small. I think the Schoolmen were

the more rational of the two.
       1 cannot understand how you liken the virtus dormitiva to a

Icase of the ' scholastic doctrine of occult causes.' In fact, have
Inever been able to arrive at such causes in the Schoolmen.

know that these offenders are charged in our day, and since the
time of Bacon, with upholding certain things called occult causes,

Ibut I cannot find any. VirhUcs occultw and occult qualities find

enough of. The following is my account of the matter.
      The class of inquirers who cultivated magic, a large part of

which was mysterious physics, upheld the existence of many
qualities which do not show on the surface of things, and cannot
be inferred from the sensible qualities. Many of these were
fictions and many were troths. Tho sources of these things were
hidden in a sense in which they presumed more common
qualities were not. Thus Cornelius Agrippa (TV Occulta Philo-
sophia) says that though heat in the stomach digests food, yet
the external heat from fire, for instance, will not do it. Accord

ingly the stomach has a virtus qiurdam o<-eulla, quam ignoramus.
As the dead stomach will not do, we say it is an effect of vital
force, and laugh at the Schoolmen for their hidden cause.
       380 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1868.  The school of magicians has a great number of such occult

       qualities, as plants which will produce certain dreams, or will

       repel poison when worn next the skin, &c. They had also the
       remarkable stone which attracts iron, and we have it too. Pat

       all these things together, make the school of magical writers

       include all the Schoolmen, and you may attribute to their philo

       sophy the treatment of occult causes.

       Their budget of facts was hampered with an immense number

       of wonders handed down from the ancients. They were not

       enough of our spirit to deny all they could not understand, so

       they declared that the virtutes were of an occult character. Thus

       the story, not rejected, of the Ark being still in existence on

       IMount Ararat, made them pronounce that the glue which

       fastened the timbers had an occult virtue ; and if you and

       believed the fact, we should say the same. The great error of

       the Schoolmen was too easy belief in antiquity ; the great crime

       they are charged with is declaring that what they did not know

       was hidden from them.

            When Leibnitz attacked gravitation he called it an occult

       quality, not cause. If you can put me on the scent of any
       Idoctrine of occult causes, will follow it up.

       When Agrippa wrote Be Vanitate Artium against all that

       he had explained in the De Occulta Philosojjhia, and against every

       thing else, his chapters against logic and sophism have not a word

       about the matter. Ludovicus Vives, who also satirised every
       Ithing, is equally free.
                                 do not recollect any satire on the sub

       ject in any old writers, however fierce they may be against the

       scholastic writers.

       You say elsewhere that the following proposition is not
       intelligible : ' Abracadabra is a second intention.' Literally,
       ' animal is a second intention ' may be held false, not un

       intelligible. For a second intention is a subjective use of a name.
                               the proposition '
       Probably you mean that  is unintelligible.  Abracadabra is a (name
       of) second intention '                         But why more than
       ' animal ' ? If you mean that Abracadabra is a mere sound, you

       do less than due honour to the name of a medical instrument of

       1,200 years' life. I suspect you are not aware that no less an

       authority than Serenus Samonicus, in the Carmen de Medicina

       (perhaps you don't care for his authority), lays it down that the
       word thus treated --
           CORRESPONDENCE, 1867-70.                                             381

                                                                                               1868.

                          a I.
                          ft b r
                          ,a b r ft
                          &b r          c
           ffttbhfbrbt%frabtrbfofbtrtrOffrcttafcfdftttcffddcttftfdfbttdribbfrt

will cause fever gradually to abate if it be bung round the neck

of the patient. This was the Abracadabra, and it was a class of
objects, and could be a name of second intention.

     This is a sextant (60°). Agrippa prefers the octant, --

                          
                          ft b
                          abr
                          a b r a, &c.

I wish every voter in the country would hang one round his neck

until this election is over. Perhaps what would abate would

Iprevent.

        hope yon are not thoroughly knocked up with heat and

politics.                                  Yours very truly,
                                                         A. De Morgan.

    (The following is from Mr. J. S. Mill's papers, with the

above letter.)

                          Virtus Dormitiva.

In the article ' Physique ' of the Diet, de Phil. Schol. of the

Abbe Migne'9 collection, after noting the virtutes and essentia as

scholastic faults, which  is only true of their abuses,                         the author

proceeds thus :--
' Arnauld lui-meme, Arnanld le Cartesien, pratiqnait lea

vieux erremens de la scholastique, lorsqu'il disait a Malcbranche,
'. 11 est insense de se demander pourquoi 1'ame humaine penso a

l'infini et au necessaire. Elle y pense parce que c'est dans son

essence d'y penser."
     ' Aujourd'hui encore l'ecole ecossaise et l'ecole eclectique ex-

pliquent exclusivement les phenoraenes paychologiqucs j»r des

facultes qu'on multiplie et qu'on distingue parfois avec une

ridicule aubtilite ; et on a'imapino qu'on placant ainsi sous les

faits intimes des facultex quo la conscience n'a jamais per^nes

on a fait de la science.
1868.  382 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

             ' L'ecole rationaliste commet la meme erreur dans la question
       de l'origine da langage. L'homme parle parce qu'il a la

       faculty, done il a pu inventer la parole.'
            The Schoolmen never generalised a quality until they had at

       least two instances. As long as there was only A which had a
        certain virtus, they Eaid nothing about it ; it was occult, i.e. un
       known. But when B was found to have the same they had such

       knowledge as comes of classification, being almost all they had.
            The moderns invented a name upon one instance, and made

       it a cause. They said that magnetism was the explanation of the
       magnet. The Schoolmen would have waited until the amber
       showed its quality, and then the distinction of magnetism and

       electricity would have been specific knowledge, the genus being

       virtus attractiva. It is something to know two phenomena with

       a generic agreement and a specific difference.

          If the medical candidate had known the mind of those who
       I Iclassed, he would have said, do not know why except in that

       can refer the phenomenon to a class. We note agreements and
       differences and arrange them. Arnauld, &c, might have a
       similar answer made for them, but not for those who inferred
       power of invention of languages from possession.

                        To J. 8. Mill, Esq., M.P.

                                                   September 20, 1868.

       My dear Sir, -- Seeing you at Avignon again reminds me of
       Ifa question I intended to ask long ago.
       Iasked what Avignon reminds him of,          a mathematician were
                                                   do not know what he

       would answer, except the Avignon edition of Gardiner's Logarithms.

       Gardiner published a very celebrated folio of logarithms in 1742,

       with a very solid subscription list of 120 persons, of whom two-
       Ithirds are now known in the history of science -- that is, to a
       close inquirer.  greatly doubt that an old list could be found

       except this of which the same proportion could be recovered.

       Gardiner corrected all the errors with his own hand in all the

       copies. My great-grandfather, James Dodson, who also in 1742

       published his Anti-logarithmic  I  Canon, with 1,100,000 computed
       figures, did t he same thing.      suspect there was some concert

       as to this excellent plan between the two.

            To proceed, in 1770 appeared at Avignon the reprint of
       Gardiner, in folio, ' Chez T. Aubert, Imprimeur, Libraire Rue de
       l'Epicerie.' There is a printed Avis, signed T. Aubert, which
              CORRESPONDENCE, 1867-70.                383

has a list of errata, and an announcement that the corrections       1868.

are all made in their proper places. But in my copy the cor
 rection is thus made. The correct figures are cut out and

pasted over the incorrect ones, with a written announcement
in English, signed O. Townscnd, stating what has been done ;
he says it was done in the edition, but perhaps he only means
the copy. The editors have modestly concealed their names.

They were three industrious priests, Pezenas, Dumas, and

Blanchard, who would probably have remained unknown if

Lalande, who had been a pupil of Dumas, and who was in com

munication with them, had not preserved their names in his

gossip.

   If there should be any local science at Avignon I dare say

you will know some one who will be able to tell whether any
tradition of the three editors remains. Of course there will be

a copy in some public library, and it will be seen whether G.

Townsend's performance appears there. Pray do not trouble

Iyourself further than to make any local antiquary acquainted
with what is wanted.  suppose Avignon must now be what

people would call an out-of-the-way place; but such places very
often have people who, like Captain Cluttcrbuck, spend their

whole time in illustrating their locality.

    A nice job you will have made for the courts. Some ladies

have actually passed the revising barrister because there was

no opposition. The R. B. was right; he is not bound to know
that Jane Smith is a woman, nor could he raise the question. I

have a cousin whose wife is David. When the poll clerk sees a

female claimant, I suppose he will be bound to say, ' Madam, you

Icannot be the Jane Smith on the list, for the law says that voters
are all men.  must wait until some man comes forward and

declares he is the person described.' Then the poll clerk may

perhaps be subjected to an action. But if he should admit the

claim, there may be a scrutiny demanded, and perhaps a petition
against the return. The question will raise some logic. The

world of concepts being divided into man and non-man, if man

mean male person, and only man can vote, non-man equally

excludes Jane and her pussy and her pianoforte. They all come

under the contra-positive --All voters are men. All voters are

men, i.e. all non-men are non-voters. There is but one answer
Ito Jane, the cat, and the pianoforte, i.e. non-man.
                                                      hope you

will push the point and get rid of the bother; it infests the

house. But, in justice, let no woman be placed on the register
       384      MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1868.  except on her demand. To be a voter is sometimes dangerous.

       A man ought to face the danger, but you have no right to enforce
       it on women ; in principle you might as well enforce the militia

       on them. Many women think exemption from politics is one of

       their rights.                                    Yours very truly,

                                                                 A. De Moegan.

                                  To the Rev. J. J. Tayler.

                                   91 Adelaide Road, N.W., April 9, 1869.

1869.       My   dear  ISir, --I have at last found head to complete       the read
            of  your
       ing             two tracts, for which am much obliged.              I think I

       also have to thank you for a copy of Mr. Martineau's tract, of

       which we were speaking, and which I received within thirty-six

       hours of our conversation. Your propositions for a free Christian

       Union are brought to a point at which no opinion can be given

       until more comes out. It seems clear that the freedom extends

       to a rejection of all direct interference of Deity in old time, that

       is by those who choose, with liberty to others to retain and to
                                                                 a
       dealing in the same manner with the actual existence of Jesus.   a it,
       All that seems to be required                                                  ?
                                  it                    Mr. Martineau's triad (absit
                                                    is                         II
       Trinitas) of (p. 19) belief in God, piety, and charity. It seems
       to be required that the morality of Jesus shall be acknowledged.

       But whether because         finds a response in the human heart, or

       because  it                in some unexpressed way sanctioned by God, does
                    is

                         a
       not appear. In fact, there are as yet many points which are only

       seen through glass darkly, but the one on which expectation
       must now wait, which in the field but without illumination,

          the question of worship. Is joint worship contemplated
       is                         is
                                               a
                                                             is
       cannot make out. The moment the plan sketched out hundred

       points will arise. There are two classes of persons with whom

       should hold that neither    you nor Mr. Martineau should refuse
                                   Christian -- the man who starts with
       communion --
                The old-fashioned
             2. 1.
       Peter.
                               :
                Those who know no more whether there be personal and

       moral directing God than whether He have an Anointed. If

       these men stipulate for another o, and adopt the creed of love of
       go(o)d and love to man, they must either be admitted under
       general agreement as to what good-- or reason of inclusion
                                   is
                                                          a
         CORRESPONDENCE, 1807-70.       385

mast bo found in the assumed necessity of appeal to God to know                  1869.
what is good. And if it come to that I wait for further infor
Ifmation as to how the appeal is made.
                                        man be to settle morals
his own way, I would not bind myself to his law ; for though I do
not go quite the length and all the strength of St. Paul, I am

clearly of opinion that the heart of man is as deceitful as most

things, and is very much, not a little, wicked.
     But further, supposing the intermediates could fraternise

with the extremes, could the extremes fraternise with one another ?
This is the old difficulty of compromise, under which many an

attempt at political and religious concentration has failed. We
know that if A and B coincide with C they coincide with one
another ; but if A and B should happen to be within x feet of C,

all we can positively affirm is that they are within 2x feet of one
another. And x may do where 2x will not. These are the first

things which strike an old thinker on the subject, who does not

feel equal to more than two sheets. There may be comfort in
the Scotch proverb that those who pluck at a gown of gold may
get a sleeve of it. In the meanwhile the name is too bold. ' Free '

'Christian' 'Union'! Until you tell us how free and how

Christian you mean to be, no one can tell how united you will

become.

     You have your sand, and you aspire to make rope. Michael

Scott's devils failed, but they did not know that a very easy pro

cess would make their sand ropes into <//<u«, which makes very
good thread. What have you got to mix with your sand 'i That

is what I am curious to see. But the attempt is praiseworthy,

and must be most useful in any case of result.

         Yours sincerely,

                                        A. De Morgan.

                        To Sir Frederick Pollock.

                          [Not in his own handwriting.]

                                               91 Adelaide Road, June 13, 1869.

   Mt dear Sir Fredericr, -- I should have said, till now, that

it would have been your business to receive me when I got to

the gate of the other world, but now I hold it not so sure. I

had an attack of congestion of the brain on Wednesday, which
kept me several hours in a condition of which I hud after-

wards no recollection. I think I may put this against your

greater age, and consider myself as a candidate of equal preten-
                                                           CC
       386 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1869.  sions with yourself. It was not what they call the real apoplexy,

       Ibecause it had no lasting effect on any organ ; but Mr. Weller,
       senior, would have admitted it for a genuine appleplexy.   am

       going on very well now, and if anything happens to the con
       trary, my wife will write.

       Give our kind regards to Lady Pollock and all the family.

                                   Yours sincerely,
                                           A. De Morgan.

                 To Sir F. Pollock.

                 [Written in pencil.]

                                   91 Adelaide Road, June 19, 1869.

       IMy dear Sir FredericE, -- I enterprise a letter of my own
       writing.  am glad to hear you have got hold of H. C. R.,1
       I Iwhom allow to be Herr Conversations Rath, though cannot

       answer for the German correctness of the title.

         I Isuppose you will find a host of reminiscences --even find a

       Ilarge lot. The only thing have done for many weeks is to

       write --from the sheets --a little notice of his works for a

       Itheological Review ; so have picked it all through, and made

       extracts. They say autobiography is always readable. Three

       Ithick volumes, intermixed with letters, is a severe test, but
       think many will get through it. Certainly, it will be a repertory
       of facts tending to literary history, in which the smallest bit of

       Ipersonal biography is sometimes clinching.

          As to myself, progress. The medical men are agreed that

       nothing is apoplexy except what leaves injury to some power

       or organ. The congestion, which they make out to be common, is

       voted no disorder at all. All which is very true, as to the great

       superiority of an attack which leaves no consequences over one
       which does leave them. But congestion is congestion, after all.

       Our kind regards to Lady Pollock and all the family.

                                   Yours sincerely,

                                       A. De Morgan.

                               To Sir F. Pollock, Bart.

                                            6 Merton Road, N.W., July 24, 1869.

          IMy dear Sir Fredericr, --As we neither of us are strong on

       the legs, and yet can use our fingers, employ mine to beg you
                               1 Henry Crabb Robinson's Diary, &c.
               CORRESPONDENCE, 1807-70.    387

will employ yours, at any leisure you like, in answering a                            1869.

question.

    I want a tolerably distinct account of the reading of a senior

wrangler of your day. How much had he read, and in what

books ? A very general view will do. Anything as to distinc

tion between algebra and geometry will be valuable.
     The people are all gone who could give any information.

With me it will be perpetuated in some shape.
     I gain strength pretty fast, but am not without warning that

head-time is not come back yet. There are all kinds of legends

current about old reading. A trustworthy account would be of
historical value. With kind regards all round,

                                                          Yours sincerely,

                                                                       A. Db Morgan.

   IOn looking at the list of seniors, see that you are not only

the last left, but that you come at the turn. In 1810 comeH
Manic, who was in communication with Babbage about functional
equations, and all kinds of novelties. Maule would have been

conspicuous, among the moderns, with Herschel, Peacock, Bab-

bnge, if he had held on. Had I not known you, I should, on

these circumstances, have applied to you, as the only chance left
for information essential to historical knowledge of Cambridge.

               From Sir F. Pollock, Bart.

               Hatton, Hounslow, July 29, 1809.

I IMy deAr De Morgan, -- I am glad to hear you ' gain strength
pretty fast.'  lose it slowl y ; but  lose it. I shall write in

answer to your inquiry, all about my books, my studies, and my

degree, and leave you to settle all about the proprieties which

my letter may give rise to, as to egotism, modesty, &c. The only

books I read the first year were Wood's Algebra (as far as
quadratic equations), Bonnycastle's ditto, and Euclid (Simpson's).

In the second year I read Wood (beyond quadratic equations),
Iand Wood and Vince, for what they called the branches. In the

third year read the Jesuit's Newton and Vince's Fluxions;
these were all the books, but there were certain MSS. floating

about which I copied --which belonged to Dealtry, second
wrangler in Kempthorne's year. I have no doubt that I had read

less and seen fewer books than any senior wrangler of about my

time, or any period since ; but what I knew I knew thoroughly,

               cc 2
/

          388 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

   1869.  I Iand it was completely at my fingers' ends. consider that was

          Ithe last geometrical and fluxional senior wrangler;   was not up
          Ito the differential calculus, and never acquired it.  went up to

          college with a knowledge of Euclid and algebra to quadratic

          Iequations, nothing more ; and never read any second year's lore

          during my first year, nor any third year's lore during my second ;
          I Imy forte was, that what
                                          did know could produce at any
          Imoment with perfect accuracy.
                                          could repeat the first book of

          Euclid word by word and letter by letter. During my first year

          I Iwas not a ' reading' man (so called) ; had no expectation of
          Ihonours or a fellowship, and attended all the lectures on all
          subjects -- Harwood's anatomical, Woollaston's chemical, and
          Farish's mechanical lectures -- but the examination at the end of
          Ithe first year revealed to me my powers.
                                                     was not only in the
          Ifirst class, but it was generally understood was first in the first
          I Iclass ; neither nor any one for me expected should get in at
          all. Now, as I had taken no pains to prepare (taking, however,
          Imarvellous pains while the examination was going on), knew

          better than any one else the value of my examination qualities
          I If(great rapidity and perfect accuracy) ; and said to myself, '
          Jyou' re not an ass,                                '
                              you'll  be  senior  wrangler  ;    and  touk to

          ' reading ' accordingly. A curious circumstance occurred when

          the Brackets came out in the Senate-house declaring the result
          Iof the examination :
                                 saw at the top the name of Walter

          bracketed alone (as he was) ; in the bracket below were Fiott,
          IHustler, Jephson.  looked down and could not find my own
          I I Iname till got to Bolland, when my pride took fire, and said, '
          must have beaten that man, so I will look up again ; ' and on look
          Iing up carefully found the nail had been passed through my
          Iname, and was at the top bracketed alone, even above Walter.
          You may judge what my feelings were at this discovery ; it is

          the only instance of two such brackets, and it made my fortune

          I--that is, made me independent, and gave me an immense college

          reputation. It was said was more than half of the examination
          before any one else. The two moderators were Hornbuckle, of

          ISt. John's, and Brown (Saint Brown), of Trinity. The Johnian
          congratulated me.   said perhaps I might be challenged ; ho
          said, ' Well, if you are you're quite safe --you may sit down and

          do nothing, and no one would get up to you in a whole day.'

          This is confirmed by what the Bishop of Gloucester told me

          Brown said at Lord Lonsdale's table at Lowther. The examina

          tion in the Senate-house became the subject of conversation.
CORRESPONDENCE, 1867-70.                               389

IBrown said no one answered any question that  did not also                   1869.

answer, and better.

     I have no doubt Walter and Jepfaaon had read more books
than I had, and knew (after a sort) more. Maule was a man of
great ability and immense acquirements ; he reminded me of

Portion more than anybody else did.

     My experience has led me to doubt the value of competitive

examination. I believe the most valuable qualities for practical

life cannot be got at by any examination --such as steadiness and
perseverance. It may be well to make an examination part of the

mode of judging of a man's fitness ; but to put him into an office

with public duties to perform merely on his passing a good
examination is, I think, a bad mode of preventing mere patronage.

My brother is one of the best generals that ever commanded an

army, but the qualities that make him so are quite beyond the

reach of any examination. Latterly the Cambridge examinations

seem to turn upon very different matters from what prevailed in

my time. I think a Cambridge education has for its object to
make good members of society -- not to extend science and make

profound mathematicians. The tripos questions in the Senate-

house ought not to go beyond certain limits, and geometry ought

to be cultivated and encouraged much more than it is.

     Euclid and conic sections studied geometrically improve,
enlarge, and strengthen the mind ; studied analytically, I think
not. But I must have exhausted your patience-- a virtue which

may be tried but not examined. My best regards to Mrs. De

Morgan and your family.  Ever sincerely yours,

                                     Frrd. Pollocr.

    P.S.-- Looking over what I have written, I fear yon will find
little that you want; but I am still ready to answer any specific

questions.

                            To Sir F. Pollock.

                                       6 Merton Road, Adelaide Road, N.W.,
                                                             August 1, 1809.

    Mr pear Sir Fredericr, --Your letter has better Cambridge
history than any 100 pages of the Esq. Bedell -- I forget his

name-- who quoted Wm. Frend as saying that the market women
complained of being scotched a quarter of their wages, and quoted
the w ord three times in italics to call attention to it. Mr. Freud's
       390 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1869.  Ifword was sconced--the old word for fined.  yon can recall at

       this rate, yon will rival H. C. R.
           Your letter suggests much, because it gives possibility of

       answer. The brandies of algebra of course mainly refer to the

       second part of Wood, now called the theory of equations.
           Waring was his guide. Turner -- whom you must remember

       as head of Pembroke, senior wrangler of 1767 --told a young

       man in the hearing of my informant to be sure and attend to

       quadratic equations. ' It was a quadratic,' said he, ' made me
       senior wrangler.' It seems to mo that the Cambridge revivers

       were Waring, Paley, Vince, Milner.

       You had Dealtry's MSS. He afterwards published a very

       good book on fluxions. He merged his mathematical fame in

       that of a Claphamite Christian. It is something to know that

       the tutor's MS. was in vogue in 1800-1806.
            Now --how did you get your conic sections ?

       How much of Newton did you read ?

       From Newton direct, or from tutor's manuscript ?

            Surely Fiott was our old friend Dr. Lee.1             He

          I missed being a pupil of Hustler by a few weeks.
       Iretired just before went up in February 1823.

       The echo of Hornbuckle's answer to you about the challenge

       has lighted on Whewell, who, it is said, wanted to challenge

       Jacob, and was answered that he could not beat if he were to

       Iwrite the whole day and the other wrote nothing.

               do not believe that Whewell would have listened to any

       such dissuasion.                                             So
                                                                  may
          I doubt your being the last fluxional senior wrangler.
       Ifar as know, Gipps, Langdale, Alderson, Dicey, Neale,

       contest this point with you.

          I go on fairly. With kind regards all round,

                                           Yours sincerely,
                                                       A. De Morgan.

                                  From Sir F. Pollock

                                                         Hatton, Hounslow, August 7, 1869.

            My dear De Morgan, --You seem not to know the story of
       Gunning's book (the Bedell you allude to). He really kept a sort

           1 Much of this is not perfectly clear to me ; but I insert the letter

       Ias it stands, as it may have interest for old Cambridge men. For the

       same reason have departed from my general rule, in inserting Sir
       F. Pollock's letter in reply.-- S. E. De M.
          CORRESPONDENCE, 1807-70.                                                391

of diary, in which he put all the scandal of every sort he met with                    1869.
in Cambridge society -- much about Porson ; Manscl's epigrams
and verses ; his contest with Sir Busick Harwood ; much of the

vulgar drollery of Jemmy Gordon, who did not survive till your

day : in short, a collection of very low and ribald stuff, mixed with

what was worth preserving (but Gunning could not distinguish
between the two). Some one persuaded him to burn and the
book he published was what he remembered when his memory
                       a

                                                  I

                                                                             it,
was gone and the real book burnt. His son Frederick was my

pupil, and did well as barrister, from whom had this. You

have put together as revivers five very different men. Woodhouse

was better than Waring, who could not prove Wilson's (Judge

of C. P.) guess about the property of prime numbers but Wood-
                      I                and a beautiful proof is. Vince;

                                  it,                            it ;
house think) did prove
aawas bungler, and think utterly insensible of mathematical

   (I
beauty. Milner was incomparable. The Claphamite Christians

are class to be found in every form of religion and when they

are not too intolerant (which generally they are) they have
much of my sympathy, though don't agree with them.
          a

              ;I
                      I
                           I
Now for your questions. did not get my conic sections from

Vince. copied MS. of Dealtry's. fell in love with the cone
I                                      I

and its sections, and everything about it.   aI            have never forsaken

my favourite pursuit   delighted in such problems as two spheres

touching each other and also the inside of hollow cone, &c. As

to Newton, read a good deal (men now read nothing), but                           II
       I

read much of the notes.  I   detected a blunder which nobody

seemed to be aware of. Tavel, tutor of Trinity, was not; and

he augured very favourably of me in consequence. The applica
tion of the Principia got from MSS.
       aa

               I

                                    :

                                               is
                                                        a
The blunder was this in calculating the resistance of a globe

at the end of cylinder oscillating in a resisting medium they

had forgotten to notice that there                         difference between the

resistance to globe and a circle of the same diameter.

The story of Whewell and Jacob cannot be true. Whewell

was a very, very considerable man, think not great man.
                       ;                                   a

                         it
                              is

                                         I
have no doubt Jacob beat him in accuracy, but the supposed

answer cannot be true        a mere echo of what actually passed
between me and Hornbuckle on the day the Tripos came out--

for the truth of which vouch.               think the examiners are
                       I
                                            waste of time to calculate
                                ;

                               it
                                     is

                                   aI
taking too practical a turn

act tally a longitude by the help of logarithmic tables and lunar

observations. It would be fault not to know how, but a
                             a
1869.  392 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

       Igreater to be handy at it. Oh dear ! longed to get among the
       I IFellows ; but when did, was utterly disgusted at the rubbish
       ing conversation that prevailed, and I then longed to get away.
       IYou see linger over Cambridge recollections ; but no par

       ticular time has been the happiest of my life, certainly not school.
       Best regards to Mrs. De Morgan and your family.

                                                                     Sincerely yours,

                                                                 Fredericr Pollocr.

                             To the Rev. W. Mason.1

                                     Adelaide Road, August 13, 1869.

       I Dear Mason, -- As touching  myself I     get stronger gradually.
         am slowly getting my books
                                     into order,  which is a long job. I

       Ihave no more information of any very decided character than is
       to be found in my wife's book, From Matter to Spirit.       retain
       Imy suspense as to what the phenomena mean, but am as fully

       persuaded as ever of their reality.

       The presence of the dead is a thing widely felt, but by cer

       tain temperaments. Bishop Jebb is an instance of no very

       Iforcible kind, because the two worlds had been in constant con
       nection in his mind.     will give you a more curious one.

       An actuary, a man of science and a keen searcher after old

       printing, married a second cousin of mine. He was a cheerful

       and kind-hearted man, but to all appearance as thoroughly un-
       Ispiritual as a man could be.
                                            never heard a word drop from

       him which made it appear that another life was his familiar

       thought. He was, though moderate in drinking, rather fond of

       eating, and skilled in it. The ladies of his acquaintance who
       had dinners to give would consult him on all details. His wife,

       to whom he was devoted, died, and he himself fell into a weakly

       Istate. used to sit with him by the hour. A few weeks before his
       Ideath found him debilitated by a long conference he had had

       with a lady about a dinner she had to give : this merely to show

       that his mind was not turned to the subject of death by anything

       1 This was in answer to a letter in which Mr. Mason asks him, if
       'Iable, to give him ' some information on the interesting subject to which
       you alluded in your last.'    have long thought,' Mr. Mason says,
       ' that departed spirits are often with those they left at death. When

       Bishop Jebb had been for some time under a paralytic seizure, he said,

       on his recovery, that in the prospect of death he had felt that he should

       be as truly with his friends after death as he was then when speaking

       to them.'-- S. E. De M.
           CORRESPONDENCE, 1807-70.       393

external. He suddenly turned to me and said, ' De Morgan, my                                      1869.

wife is often with me.' I was astonished, not at the phenomenon,

but at his being the recipient. ' Often ? ' said I. ' Every even
ing,' said he, 'and oftener.' ' Do you see her? ' said I. 'No,'

Isaid he, ' but feel her presence.' By these three words hangs

a long tale.
     With kind regards to your family,

                                                         Yours sincerely,
                                                                       A. De Morgan.

           To Rev. W. Heald.

                                                                               August 21, 18(59.

   I IMt dear Heai.d, -- think shall be able to keep up the

institution of a summer letter, though I may not be so long as
usual. It is the forty-fourth observance.

    You think, one letter of yours says, that I am feeling the
effects of hard work ; in fact, that I have been working too hard.
Rid yonr mind of the idea. I have never been hard working,
but I have been very continuously at work. I have never sought

relaxation. And why ? Because it would have killed me. Amuse
ment is real hard work to me. To relax is to forage about the
books with no particular object, and not bound to go on with

anything.

You remember that my amusement used to be Berkeley and
                       I did with
the like. Quite true.              I  TfroinraitgyedCoflolergerellaibxraatiroyn.whatI
                       my own---
I afterwards did with

used to shock you with my reading of Voltaire, who existed in

that library in about eighty quarto volumes. So you called me

an atheist vagabond, fancying that Voltaire was an atheist: he

was, in fact, theistic to bigotry, and anti-revolutionist to the same

extent.
I read an enormous deal of fiction -- all I could get hold of --
so my amusement was not all philosophical. I have never worked
Ifhard-- never got so far as a headache.  I felt tired I left off.

My illness is well enough explained by the following chain of

events.

     1866. Discovery that University College was going to betray
its principles, and abandonment of the place in 1867.

     1P67. tang illness and death of my second son, with all the
anxiety occurring during the turmoil of the College affair. In
the meanwhile my third son had taken refuge from illness on

board ship, and was away for eighteen months in very fluctuating
       394 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1869.  health. One of my daughters was also labouring under the same

       symptoms, and was four months with her mother at Hastings

       I Itafter the death of my son. All this could have borne.
       Iattacked the spirits, but could have held on as 1 have always

       done in sure reliance on the higher and wiser management which
       ' shapes our ends.' But the heats of 1868 broke down the phy
       sical force, and gave a cough and weakness which was followed,

       up by the consequences you know of. Does it, upon the pre

       ceding showing, require the hypothesis of thirty years of over
       work to explain an attack of diabetes which yielded to the first

       remedies, or rather to diet alone, in a week, and a stroke of con
       Igestion of the brain which left no result but weakness ?
                                                                                        have

       heard of overwork on all sides, and have seen people stare at
       their own omission of all the misfortunes -- so called -- which have

       I I Icome upon me in the last two years.                                         shall
               am now weak enough, but gradually improve.

       soon get all the way upstairs foot over foot, that sans both feet

       on one step at once, and without the banisters. At present is,
                                                                        is,
                                                                                a

                                                                                       it
                                                                                           it
       after half done, either a tug at the banister, or bring up the
       I
          Isecond foot before you remove the first. Three weeks ago

                 is itwas this alternative the whole way. The stairs are beautiful
                           is
       dynamometer.
                                a 1.
              am very anxious about Arthur Neate. He has an ugly

       cancerous tumour on the lower side of the left cheek, which

       opinion decides variously cancer or no cancer but those who
                                                                        ;
       Ifthink cancer think a very serious case. He not aware of
                                       it                                  is
                                                                              is
       the dangerous opinions.            I      they be correct the matter will be

       beyond doubt in a few months. As yet there                                 no serious

       internal symptoms, and such things have sometimes passed off.

       Neate about sixty-four. turned the grand climacteric (sixty-

       threAeu) giunstJu3n0.e--laSsot  (27th).   delays  and  feelings  of  inability.  get
                                       much for          I
                                                                       ;
                                                                              I
       on fairly, head and arms, but the legs do not thrive in proportion.
         sawed a plank of wainscot (hard wood) and a man who can

       do that ought to walk three miles, but do not do more than one.
           September --My wife, who was at the sea with my second

       daughter and bronchial cough to be got rid of, came home on

       Saturday, and my daughter's cough nearly gone.
       A man cannot have the sort of attack
                                                                        had without some
                                                              I
                                                                I1.
       amount of evidence of it. had two well-marked consequences for
                                       I

       several days, an inability and a delusion.                           could not for a

       week master the word congestion as the name of my own attack.
             CORRESPONDENCE, lo07-70.                    395

II had it lit onco for every other purpose. If got hold of con,                       1869.
If Iit was confusion, conglomeration -- anything but congestion.
Igot hold of gestion, it was digestion, suggestion, &c. Several times,

and days after I had recovered my senses, used to amuse myself

by trying, and was at last obliged to ask what had been the matter

with me.
    2. When I woke to recollection of the universe, and for days
afterwards, I was possessed with the idea that before the

seizure I had received a letter from Ireland, written on the sup

position that I was a clergyman, and offering me a great lot of
If IIrish preferment.
             there be one political subject on which

had never thought or cared, it is the Irish Church and its man

agement.

    My idea was that some poor patron, in a hurry to induct
some one into the benefices, by way of securing some vested
interest before the final disendowment, had taken it into his

Ihead to select me as the holder of the profits for the rest of
their term.  was very anxious to set him right, not knowing
how much consequence a day might be of. But as I got nearer

to the letter-writing state, the vision became fainter, and when

II at last looked, more to see what could have suggested it than

with any idea of finding, could not get a trace of any such

letters. Besides these, I had not any consequences whatever of

the loss of consciousness.
II think this must go as it is.
                                     hope your family are well,

and yourself. Do you know, or can you find, anything about H.

Parr Hamilton, the Dean of Salisbury ? Kind regards to Mrs.

Heald.

                                     Yours sincerely,
                                                 A. De Morgan.

             To Sir J. Jlerschel.

                                                    G Merton Road, October 20, 1869.

    Mr dear Sir John, -- Surely I sent you my card, which you

will find within the envelope.1 This envelope arrived on Monday
with the pie of irs which you see. But the Leverrier has not
come yet: no doubt it is hunting me all over N.W., with a

A card on which he had printed a small map of Merton Road and
                                                            Unless the ' pie
the immediate neighbourhood as a     guide to  friends.  Post Office on the
of w* ' means the number of circles  stamped    by the

envelope, which appears to have travelled half over London before
reaching him, I cannot interpret it.-- S. E. Dr M.
       396 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DK MORGAN.

1869.  I Ichange of air by a jaunt to Merton Road, S.W. In a few days

       it will be time to look up the dead-letter office.  am afraid

       am not strong enough for this yet. Have you anybody you

       Icould ask who goes near the P.O. often ?

              thrive--and the cold weather is bracing me up like a bundle
       of asparagus, having been no better than a rope of onions. A

       week's cold weather last winter would have kept me from striking

       my flag. Two or three days of half-cold told me so, and then

       took leave.

          I shall be glad to see the Leverrier account. If it should
       Icome, will write at once. With kind regards all round your

       circle,

                Yours sincerely,
                           A. De Morgan.

                To Sir J. Herschel.

                                                        6 Merton Road, November 8, 1869.

           My dear Sir John, -- The Queen used up so much of the fine

       Iweather on Saturday, that the chief clerk of that office says he

       can issue no more until he gets a further supply. So am rain-
       bound for to-day, and can clear off obligations. I, therefore,

       return your Leverrier with many thanks. What a miserable

       Imess has been made by Chasles, Lucas, and Co. ! am obliged to
       Igive up Chasles until he clears himself, which have small hope

       Ifof his doing. The different accounts he has given at different

       times are such as must be reconciled, or otherwise explained.

       there be no explanation except sub-human credulity, then

       arises the question which is so important in lunacy inquiries,

       When did this defect begin ? For Chasles has a lifetime of

       memoirs full of references to MSS., many of them unseen as

       yet except by himself. It will be unsafe to quote him--at

       least to a better-not extent.

          I have lately lost my friend Libri, and of course, he being
       Iremoved, the accusations which he put down begin to revive.

       wrote a short article in the Athenwum of the mortuary character,

       and the Parisians, quite forgetting the beating they got, are

       pleased to be excessively astonished at the revival of a defence

       which silenced them fifteen years ago. There is a little knot of

       ....subscribers in England who try to act privately on editors and

       contributors. Ex. gr. : A person who described
       {Nov. 11. -- Sunshine came out, and drew me out also, and I
       I Jhave not been able to resume until now.
                                                           walked 1 miles
       Iyesterday !1 !) !* catch up the unfinished sentence -- )
                  CORRESPONDENCE, 1807-70.                              397

  .... himself as a known book-collector (N.B. -- No less a person                             1889.

  than wax-chandler to the Queen, &c., very rich, and collects no

  end of elegantly bound large paper ; all this I learnt afterwards)

  came to me in a neat carriage and a heavy shower, and as he

  was doing a wabbling preamble about nothing, I cut him short

  sternly with, ' Pray, sir, what is the upshot of all this ? ' He
  answered that, seeing my article in the Athenceum -- which it was

  very impertinent to assume was mine--he could prove in two
  minutes that Libri was guilty of all that was imputed to him.

    ' What do you know of the matter ?'
    ' I have read all the pamphlets.'
    ' So have
         !I            said  ' I,   and some of them before they were

  pamphlets.'     I,'            '

    'Oh        thought perhaps you had not investigated.'

    He then produced Vapereau,' a French biographical dic

  'Itionary of first-rate size and tenth-rate accuracy, and, opening at
  Libri, said, Have you read that article     ' ' ?'     have,' said    I,
               '

                     I'
''  in former days, before found out what a worthless affair
                             I

  Vapereau was.'         assure you,' said he, the people at Paris

  are much astonished at your article.'             No doubt,' said     I

                                                                              :

    they are the parties whom Libri's defence incriminates.'            I'

thought perhaps you were not aware of the facts, and that by
coming to you we might avoid a polemic.' 'Now,' said
                                                           I,      'you

must go to the editor of the Athenceum, and polemic with him.

Do you really    suppose you will    prove    to me   "  that one  o"f   my
dearest friends  was a robber by an  extract   from      Vapereau       and

Parisian opinion  ?      So he went away, and there has been no
                    '

polemic yet.

    A matter of this kind brings out the hidden fun of the world.

So with kind regards all round,        Yours sincerely,

                                                      A. De Morgan.

                       To Rev. J. Martineau.

                                           Merton Road, Adelaide Road, N.W.,

                                                                   December 19, 1869.

     Drar Sir, -- Many thanks -- to you suppose am indebted --

for the reprints of the journal memoir of J. J. Tayler. He

well recalled, which in his case not very easy to do in writing.

It appeared to me that his treatment of controversy in conversa
tion allowed the wave to pass over the reef without breakers. A

congregation of such men could have realised his plan of a
                             6

                                      is

                                            I

                                                     I

                                                                                           is
       398 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1869.  scheme of joint worship in which the party were agreed upon

       everything except accurate definition of what they were agreed

       about.

          I have your two tracts --one of J. J. T., and the ' anniversary '
       If Iof 1869.
                 there be any more should like to know of them.
       IFor am interested in the attempt, which, hopeless as it seems

       to me to the extent proposed, may yet originate a sect in which

       people may pray together without each man being fettered to

       Ihis neighbours.
            But there must be some little definiteness of statement.

       tried hard to get from J. J. T. whether his Christianity had a

       supernatural element. His final information was that he
       thought it most likely the apostles had a supernatural element

       which we do not understand.

           I intend to keep watch on the attempt to couple super-

       I Inaturalists and anti-supernaturalists, for that is what is aimed

       at. When get something definite about its indefiniteness,
       intend to write about it.

          Dubius sed non improbus. This is what Sheffield said of his

       own religion, and the scholars (Dean Stanley included) make
       him ' sceptical, but not wicked.'

           Improbus means one who declares against the proof --one to

       whom there cannot be proof. As when Pliny says that Hipparchus
       counted the stars --rem Deo improbam -- a thing unproved by the
       gods ; and Virgil, Labor omnia vincit, improbus-- toil yet unproved,
       or untried, conquers all things.

                                                                Yours very truly,

                                                        A. De Morgan.

                 To Sedley Taylor, Esq.

                                         G Merton Road, December 20, 1869.

       I   My    dear Sedley, --Many thanks for   your  pamphlet,1 which
          shall  join on to some of Martineau's,  &c.,
                                                        in one notice. I
       think you will produce some effect on people who begin to have
       a cranny through which the light comes. I saw Jas. Martineau

       a day or two ago, and he tells me that his organisation is con

       templating the circulation        of your pamphlet in aid of their  view.
                                         little less of a dissolving view  when
       I wish their view were a

            1 On Clerical Subscription.   (Macmillan, 1869.) Mr. De Morgan
                                         hastened the disruption of the Five
       believed that this pamphlet
       Christian Union.
              CORIIESPONDENCE, 1807-70.  399

Iyon come to look closely at it. I cannot make oat whether they       1869.

have a super  religion or not.  do not know how to fill up
the word. Now I tolerate everything except passing off one

thing under the name of another. There are people who can

detect in the foundation of Christianity a third alternative,
              Ior Imposture.'  cannot. I am content they should,
' Super
but I want them to be explicit. I am very much afraid they

want a common worship with the above question left open. No!

there is no objection to leaving it open if people will, but they do

not want it openly open, but secretly open, under a cloak of

some indefinite pretension of divine origin. I hope you will

follow up.                      Yours sincerely,
                                          A. De Morgan.

     (The only letters to friends after this time that have           1870.
come into my possession are two to Sir John Herschel, in

my husband's own handwriting, the first bearing date

June 25, 1870. In this he says, ' I am creeping along, and

shall get right about as soon as the blessed St. AJcuin's suail

got to dinner. It is one of the pleasant problems in the

works of that holy man that the sparrow asked the snail
to dinner at a league distance. Now the snail moved half

an inch a day. How long, the Saint asked, will it take him
to get to dinner? ' The second is in an extremely feeble
hand, merely describing his own state. Sir John himself
died within the year. In his letter to me on receipt of

Imine telling him of my husband's death, he wrote, '
Ihave been expecting as much. The last letter received

showed me too clearly that the lamp was flickering in the
socket, and it is consoling to know that the end was so

peaceful and so painless, and so full of hope. Looking

Iback on our long friendship, do not find a single point on
Iwhich we failed to sympathise ; and recall many occa

sions on which his sound judgment and excellent feeling

have sustained and encouraged me. Many and very

distinct indications tell me that I shall not be long after
him ; and I can only hope that my own end may be such
       400  MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1870.  as you describe.' His last surviving correspondent was
       the Rev. W. Heald, who died three years after him. All

       his other old University friends had gone before.

           I have, with respect to domestic matters and details,
       Idone what know my husband himself would have wished,

       for he never liked making known what nearly concerned
       his family. Moreover, those to whom he wrote at length
       and on questions of general interest were friends with
       whom he did not get frequent opportunities of conversa
       tion. Consequently, as we were almost always together,

       Ihis correspondence with myself and our sons and daughters

       was fragmentary, and not suited for publication. trust,
       however, that the foregoing selections will not be thought
       insufficient to show the character of one to whom letter-

       writing was a pleasure and a relaxation, and among
       whose leisure occupations it always held so prominent a
       place.-- S. E. De M.)
^

       LIST OF WRITINGS.

1828.  Bourdon's Elements of Algebra, translation.
       Elements of Arithmetic, 1st edition, 1831.

             ,, ,, 2nd edition, 1832.
              ,, ,, 3rd edition, 1833.

                                                16th 1,000, 1857.

   Articles in Quarterly Journal of Epucation, from 1831
                                          to 1835.

1831.  (1) Account of the Polytechnic School of Paris, vol. i.
1832.  (2) Notice of Tables for facilitating Calculation, vol. i.
       (3) Rev. of Pinnock's Catechism of Geometry, vol. i.
       (4) On Mathematical Instruction, vol. i.
       (5) Walker's Theory of Mechanics (rev.), vol. i.
       (6) Darley's System of Popular Geometry (rev.), vol. ii.
       (7) Bayley's Elements of Algebra (rev.), vol. ii.

       (8) A Plan for Conducting the Royal Naval School,

                vol iii.

         (9) Study of Natural Philosophy, vol. iii.

   (10) A Preparation for Euclid, vol. iii.
       (11) Barlow's Mathematical Tables, vol. iii.
       (12) On some Methods Employed for the Instruction of
                   the Deaf and Dumb, vol. iii.

       (13) James Wood's (D.D., of Ely) Algebra (rev.), vol. iii.
       ( 14) Quetelet on Probabilities (rev.), vol. iv.
       (15) Young's Elements of Mechanics (rev.), vol. iv.
       (16) State of Mathematical and Physical Sciences in the

                  University of Oxford, vol. iv.

          (1 7) Von Turk's Phenomena of Natnre (rev.), vol. iv.
1833. (18) On Teaching Arithmetic, vol. v.
       (19) Cunningham's Arithmetic (rev.), vol. v.

       DD
402  MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

            (20) On the Method of teaching Fractional Arithmetic,
                          vol. v.

            (21) On the Method of teaching the Elements of Geometry,
                          vol. vi.

            (22) The School and Family Manual (rev.), vol. vi.
            (23) Method of teaching Geometry, No. 2, vol. vi.
            (24) Busby's Catechism of Music (rev.), vol. vi.
            (25) Geometry without Axioms (rev.), vol. vii.
            (26) Ritchie's Principles of Geometry (rev.), vol. vii.
           (27) Elementary Works by M. Qnetelet (rev.), vol. vii.
            (28) Cambridge Differential Notation, vol. viii.
            (29) Gravitation, Airy's article, Penny Cyclop, (rev.),

                       vol. viii.
            (30) Peacock's Treatise on Algebra (rev.), vol. ix.
            (31) Peacock's Treatise on Algebra, No. 2, vol. ix.
            (32) Progress of Physical Science, vol. x.
            (33) Ecole Polytechnique, vol. x.

       Memoirs in the Cambridge Philosophical Transactions.

    (1) On the General Equation of Curves of the Second Degree,
                read Nov. 15, 1830.

    (2) On the General Equation of Surfaces of the Second Degree,
                read Nov. 12, 1832.

    (3) Sketch of a Method of introducing Discontinuous Con
               stants into the Arithmetical Expressions for Infinite
               Series, where they admit of several values, read May 16,
                1836.

    (4) On a Question in the Theory of Probabilities, read Feb. 1837.
    (5) On the Foundations of Algebra, read Dec. 9, 1839.
    (6) On the Foundations of Algebra, No. 2, read Nov. 29, 1841.
    (7) On the Foundations of Algebra, No. 3, read Nov. 27, 1843.
    (8) On Divergent Series, and Points connected with them,

                read March 4, 1844.
    (9) On the Foundations of Algebra, No. 4, On Triple Algebra,

                read Oct. 24, 1844.
  (10) On Divergent Series, and on Various Points of Analysis

               connected with them, read 1844.

(11) On a point connected with the Dispute between Keill and

               Leibuitz, read Jan. 1846.
   (12) On the Structure of the Syllogism, and on the application

               of the Theory of Probabilities to questions of Argument
               and Authority, read Nov. 9, 1^46.
LIST OF WRITINGS.  403

(13) Method of Integrating Partial Differential Equations, read
            June 1848.

(14) On the Symbols of Logic, the Theory of the Syllogism, and ,
            in particular of the Copula, and the application of the
            Theory of Probability to some questions of Evidence,
              read Feb. 1850.

(15) On some Points of the Integral Calculus, read Feb. 1851.
(16) On some Points in the Theory of Differential Equations,

              read 1854.

(17) On the Singular Points of Curves, and on Newton's Theory
              of Co-ordinated Exponents, read 1855.

(18) On the Question : What is the Solution of a Differential
           Equation, Supplement to No. 3, read April 1856.

(19) On the Beats of Imperfect Consonances, read Nov. 1857.
(20) A Proof of the Existence of a Root in every Algebraic

              Equation, read Dee. 1857.
(21) On the General Principles of which the Composition or

            Aggregation of Forces is a Consequence, read 1859.
(22) On the Syllogism, No. 4, and on the Logic of Relations,

              read 1860.
(23) On the Theory of Errors of Observation, read Nov. 1861.
(24) On the Syllogism, No. 5, and on various points of tlio

              Onymatic System, read 1863.
(25) On the Early History of the Signs + and --, read 1864. ^

(20) A Theorem relating to Neutral Series, read 1864.
(27) On Infinity and the Sign of Equality, read May 1804.
(28) On the Root of any Function, and on Neutral Series, No. 2,

              read May 1866.
(29) On a Theorem relating to Neutral Series, read Oct. 1808.

                      Ik the Philosophical Magazine.

  (1) On Taylor's Theorem, 1835.
  (2) On the Relative Signs of Co-ordinates, 1836.
  (3) On the Solid Polyhedron, 1838.
  (4) On the Rule for finding the value of an Annuity for three

              lives, 1839.
   (5) Suggestion on Barrett's Method, 1841.
   (6) On Fernel's Measure of a Degree, Nos. 1 and 2, 1841.
   (7) On the reduction of a Continued Fraction to a Series, 1841.
   (8) On Fernel's Measure of a Degree, Nos. 3 and 4, 1842,
   (9) On Leonardo da Vinci's Use of + and -- , 1842.
 (10) On Torporley's Anticipation of part of Napier's Rule, 1843.

                                                         nd2
404  MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

(11) On the almost total disappearance of the earliest Trigono
             metrical Canon, 1845.

(12) Derivation of the word Theodolite, 1846.
(13) Derivation of Tangent and Secant, 1846.
(14) Account of the Speculations of Thos. Wright, of Durham,

             1848.
(15) On the Additions made to the Second Edition of the Com-

            mercium Epistolicum, 1848.
(16) On a Property of the Hyperbola, Jan. 1848.
(17) On Aubarmonio Ratio, 1849.
(18) On the Early History of Infinitesimals in England, 1, 1852.
(19) On Indirect Demonstration, 1852.
(20) On the Authorship of the Account of the Commercium

            Epistolicum, 1852.

                   Cambridge Mathematical Journal.

 (1) On the Perspective of the Co-ordinate Plane, pp. 92, 93,

               1841.

 (2) On a simple property of the Conic Section, pp. 201-3, 1841.
 (3) Remarks on the Binomial Theorem, pp. 61, 62, 1843.
 (4) On the Equation (D + a)"3 = x, pp. 60-62, 1845.
 (5) On a Law existing in the successive approximations of a

            Continuous Fraction, pp. 97-99, 1845.

          Cambridge and Dublin Mathematical Journal.

 (1) On Arbogast's Formulae of Expansion, pp. 238-255, 1846.
 (2) Suggestion on the Integration of Rational Fractions, Nov.

               1848.

 (3) On a Point in the Solution of Linear Differential Equa
             tions, 1849.

 (4) Extension of the word Area, May 1850.
 (5) Application of Combinations to the explanation of Arbogast's

             Method, Feb. 1851.

 (6) On the Mode of using the signs + and -- in Plane Trigo
            nometry, May 1851.

 (7) On the Connection of Involute and Evolute in Space, Nov.

               1851.

 (8) On Partial Differential Equations of the First Order, Feb.

              1852.

 (9) On the Signs + and -- in Geometry, and on the interpre
            tation of the Equation of a Curve, Nov. 1852.

(10) Mathematical Notes, pp. 93, 94, 1853.
                    LIST OF WRITINGS.                   405

                  Quarterly Journal of Mathematics.

(1) On the Dimensions of the roots of Equations, 1857.
(2) On the Fractions of Vanishing or Infinite Terms, 18.57.
(3) Historical Notes on the Theorem respecting the Dimen

          sions of Roots, 1857.
(4) Notes on Euclid i. 47, 1857.
(5) On the Integrating factors of Pd + 2dy + Bdz, 1858.
(6) On the Classification of Polygons of a given number of

             sides, 1858.

                      Central Society of Education.

        On the Mathematics ; their value in Education.
        On Professional Mathematics, 1837-38-39.

                               The Mathematician.

(1) Remarks on General Equations of the Second Degree, pp.
           242-246, 1850.

(2) Organised Method of making the resolution required in the
          integration of Rational Fractions, pp. 242-246, 1850.

(3) Remarks on Horner's Method of solving Equations, pp.
           289-291, 1850.

        British Almanac and Companion.

1831. On Life Assurance.

1832. On Eclipses.

1833. On Comets.
1834. On the Moon's Orbit,

1835. Halley's Comet.                                   Writers
1836. Old Arguments against the Motion of the Earth.

1837. Notices of English Mathematical and Astronomical

        between the Norman Conquest and the year 1600.

1838. On Cavendish's Experiment.

1839. Progress of the Problem of Evolution.
1840. On the Calculation of Single Life Contingencies.
1841. On the use of small tables of Logarithms in Commercial

            Calculations, and on the practicability of a Decimal

1842.     Coinage.                                      Sciences.
1843.   On Life Contingencies, No. 2.
184-1.  References for the History of the Mathematical

        On Arithmetical Computation.
406    MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

1845. On the Ecclesiastical Calendar -- Easter.

1846. On the earliest printed Almanacs.
1847. Recurrence of Eclipses and Full Moon.

1848. On Decimal Coinage.

1849. Short Supplementary on the First Six Books of Euclid's

       Elements.

1850. On Ancient and Modern Usage in Reckoning.

1851. On some points in the History of Arithmetic.

1852. A Short Account of some recent Discoveries in England

       and Germany, relative to the Controversy on the Inven

1853.    tion of Fluxions.
               (See Life of Newton in Knight's ' British Worthies,'

         Arts. Commercium Epistolicum and Fluxions, P. Cyc.,
         Dispute between Keill and Leibnitz, Cambridge Memoirs.)
       On the difficulty of correct descriptions of Books.

1854. On a Decimal Coinage.

1855. The Progress of the Doctrine of the Earth's Motion between
            the times of Copernicus and Galileo, being notes on the

       Ante-Galilean Copernicans.

1856. Notes on the History of the English Coinage.

1857. Notes on the State of the Decimal Coinage Question.

       In Smith's Classical Dictionary.

       Diophantus.                    Sosigenes.
       Eucleides.                     Theon.
       Heron.
       Hipparchus.                    Ptolomtens.

Tracts Purlished ry the Socirty for the Diffusion of
                          Useful Knowledge.

(1) Study and Difficulties of Mathematics, vol. 1836.i.,
(2) Arithmetic and Algebra, 1831, vol. 1836.       i.,
(3) Examples of the Processes of Arithmetic and Algebra, vol.
                                                               i.,
             1836.

                                Durlin Revirw.

Laplace on Probabilities, No.  2, 1,  April 1837.
Laplace on Probabilities, No.         July 1837.

On Legislation for Life Assurance, Aug. 1840.

Review of Jones on the value of Annuities          (published  by

Diffusion Society), August 1841.
                   LIST OF WRITINGS.                    407

Peyrard's Elements of Euclid, Nov. 1841.              March 1845.

Weights, Measures, and Coinage, May 1841.
Science and Rank, Nov. 1842.
Baily's Repetition of the Cavendish Experiment,
Speculators and Speculations, Sept. 1845.

Book-keeping, Dec. 1845.

Mathematical Bibliography, Sept. 1846.
Helps to Calculation, March 1847.

                         Encyclopedia Metropolitans.

Calculns of Functions, 1835.
Theory of Probabilities, 1837.

              List or Articles in ' Penny Cyclopedia.'

     (This list of articles in the ' Penny Cyclopaedia ' is taken
partly from a copy in the British Museum, in which all the articles
have the names of their authors appended by the donor ; and
partly from the marked copy in Mr. De Morgan's possession.
The constellations and planets not included in this list are also by

him, if the Museum copy is correct.)

Abacus, 2          Advowsons, value of Altitude

Abatis             Aeolipylo         Amphiscii
Abauzit, Firmin    Aero-dyuamics     Amplitude

Abbreviation, mat hi. Aerostatics    Analysis

Abel, Niels Henri  Agnese, Maria     Anaxagoras
Aberration                           Anaximander
                   Air

Aberration (in optics) Air-gun       Anaximenes
                   Air-pump          Anemoscope
Abscissa

Absurdura, rcductio Aliqnot part     Angle
   ad D'AJembert                     Anker

Accelerated motion Algebra           Annuity

Accent (mathl.)    Algebraic         Annulus
Achromatic
                   Algebraic geometry Anomalistic year

Acoustics          Algorithm         Anomaly (astronl.)
Acronychal         Almacanter        Antecedent

Act (University)   Almagest          Antecedentia

Actuary            Almanac           Antilogarithm

Addition           Alonsiiu' tables  Antinomians

Addition of ratios Alternate         Antipodes
408 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

Antiscii             Astronomy              Bernard, Edward
                                           Bernoulli
Antoeci              Asymptote             Berosus (the latter

Aphelion             Atmosphere                half)
                                           Binomial
Appian, Peter        Atmospheric air       Binomial theorem
                                           Biquadratic
Apogee               Attraction in         Bombelli, Raphael
                                           Bonnycastle, John
Apollonius Pergseus physics                Borda, Jean Charles
                                           Borel and Borelli,
Apparent (astron.) Attwood, George
Apparent magnitude Aurora borealis             part

Apparent motion      Autolycus             Boscovich, R. J.

Approximation        Automaton             Bossut, Charles
A posteriori, a priori Auzout, Adrien      Bouguer, Pierre
                                           Bouillaud, Ismael
Apsides              Average               Boyle, Robert
Aratus, astronomer                         Bradley, James
Arbogast, Louis      Avoirdupois           Brahe, Tycho
                     Axiom                 Briggs, Henry
    Fred.            Axis                  Brouncker
                     Azimuth               Burning-glass
Arc                                        Bushel

Arch                                       Cagnoli
                                           Calculating machine
Archimedes                                 Calculus
                                           Calibre
Architrave           Bacon, Roger
Archivolt            Bailly, Jean Sylvain  Calippus
Arctic circle        Baiubridge, John      Callet
Are                                        Camera lucida
                         (astron.)
Area                 Balance               J.Cam pan i, M. and
                                           Campanus, J.
Argument             Ballistic pendulum
A ri starch us       Balloon               Camus
                                           Cancer (sign)
Aristoxenus          Barlaam               Canon (mathl.)
                     Barlowe, William
Arithmetic                                 Canton, John

Arithmetical com Barometer                 Capacity
                                           Capillary attraction
    plement          Baroscope             Capricomus (sign )
Arithmetical mean    Barrel                Carat
Arithmetical pro     Barrow, Isaac
                     Barter (arithmet.)
    gression    pro  Bartholinus
Arithmetical         Bassantin, James

   portion           Bayer, John

Armillary sphere     Bearing (nautical)
Arroba               Beccaria, Giovanni

Ascension, ascen        Battista
                     Bel id or
sional difference    Bellows

Aspect (astronl.)
Asterism

Astrolabe            Berkeley, Geo. (the
Astrology               latter half)
                   LIST OF WRITINGS.                       409

Cardan             Colson, John           Corvus

Carnot             Combinations and Costard, George

Casaini            Permutations           Cotes, Roger

Castelli           Comet                  Coulomb

Catalogue (astmn.) Comet of Biela         Craig, John

Catenary           Commandine             Cramer, Gabriel

Cause              Commensurable          Crux

Caustic (optics)   Commercium Epis- Ctesibius

Cavalieri          tolicnm                Cube

Cavendish, Henry Common measure Culmination

Celsius            Compass, azimuth Cnnitz, Maria

Centigrade         Compass, mariners' Curtate

Centre             Compasses              Curvature

Centrifugal forces Complement             Curve

Centripetal force  Composition            Cusp

Chain (surveying) Compound quantities Cycle

Chaldron           Concave and convex Cycloid

Chanco             Concentric             Cylinder

Chappe d'Auteroche Conchoid

Characteristic (of a Condition (mathcs.)

logarithm)         Condorcet              Data, Datum

Chastellet         Cone                   Day

Chiliad            Conic sections         Decagon

Chord              Conical projection Declination

Church rates       Conjugate              Deferent
Circinus           Conjunction and        Definition

Circle             opposition             Deflection

        of declination, Conoid            Degree of an equation

&c. Conon of Alexandria Deism

Circular parts     Constant               Dvmoivrc's bypotho-

Circulating decimals Constellation        sis

Cissoid            Construction           Demonstration

Clairant           Contact                Deneb

Clavius            Content                Denominator

Cleomedes          Contrary and con- Density

Clepsydra          tradietory             Departure

Cloud              Convergent             Depression
Cocker, Edward     Converse               Derivation

Coefficient        Co-ordinates           Determinate

Cohesion           Copernicus             Development
                   Cord                   Diagonal
Collins, John      Corollary              Di.<goual stale

Collision
410        MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

Diagram             Equation of payments Geometer

Diameter            Equations, algebraical Geometrical

Differential calculus Equations, differential Geometry

Differential co-effi Equations, functional Globe

cient               Equator and ecliptic Globular projection

Digit               Equiangular, Equi- Globular sailing

Dimension           lateral             Gnomon

Direct and retrograde Equimultiples     Guomonic projection

Direction           Equinoctial         Golden number

Directrix           Equinoxes           Graduation

Disc                Euclid              Gravity, centre of

Discontinuity       Excentricity        Guldinus

Discount                                Gunter

Dividend (arithl.)                      Gyration, centre of
Division
Dodecagon           Factor, in algebra
                    Fall of bodies

Dome                False position      Hachette

Drachm, or Dram Fellowship (in          Halley

Duodecimals            arithmetic)      Halley's Comet
Duplicate ratio     Ferrei and Ferrari  Harmonic proportion

Duplication of the Figure (in geometry) Harmonics
cube -              Firkin              Height, measurement

Dynamics            Flamsteed              of
Dynamometer                             Heliacal
                    Flexure, contrary   Herschel, William
                    Fluxions

                    Force               Heteroscii

Earth (astronl.)    Forces, impressed   Hevelius, partly
Earth, density of      and effective    Hogshead

East                Forces, parallelo   Homogeneous and

Easter, method of   gram of             Heterogeneous

finding             Fourier             Homologous

Eclipse             Fractions, common Horary

Elimination (algebc.) and decimal       Horizon

Ellipse             Fractions, continued Horologium

Elliptic compasses  Fractions, vanishing Horrocks, Jeremiah
Ellipticity         Functiocs,calcuIus of Hour, Hour-circle,

Elongation (astronl.) Functions, theory of Hour-line
Encke's Comet                           Huyghens

Epoch (astronl.)                        Hyperbola

Equal               Gage                Hyperbole
Equation            Gallon              Hypothenuse

Equation (astronl.) Generating functions Hypothesis
                     LIST OF WRITINGS.                          411

Impact               Leap Tear            Meton, Metonio cycle

Impenetrability      Least squares        Metre
                     Legendre             Middle latitude
I m poise

Inclined plane       Lemma                Mile

Incommensnrables, Lemniscata              Milky Way

   theory of         Lens                 Momentum, or
Increment and de     Lever
                     Libration            ------Momentor Moment
   crement

Indefinite           Life, mean duration  of inertia

Indeterminate        Light, barometrical Money

Induction (mathl.) Light-equation         Monge

Inequality           Lights, Northern ? Moon

Inertia              Line                 Mortality, law of

Infinite, Infinity,  Limits, theory of    Motion
   Infinitesimal     Litre                           direction of

calculus             Logarithms                   of the earth

Integer              Logarithms, Gauss's Moving force

Integration, Integral hyperbolic          Multiple, Submul-

calculus             Logarithmic curve tiplo

Interest             and spiral, use of                 Points

Interpolation        Longitude and        Musa, Mohamed Ben

Interpretation       latitude

Invariable           Lubienietske

Inverse, Inversion                        Napier's bones, or

Involute and                              rods

Evolute              Maclaurin            Negative and impos

Involution and       Magic square            sible quantities
   Evolution         Magnitude            Node

Irrational quantity  Map                  Nothing
Irreducible case     Mariotte                             differences

Isochronous          Maseres, Francis        of
                     Maskelyne, Nevil     Nucleus of a comet

                     Mass, in physics     Number

Julian period        Mathematics          Numbers, appellations
                     Maurolico, or            of

                     Marullo              Numl>er8, theory of

Kalendar             Maxima and Minima Numbers of Ber

                     Menelans             noulli

                     Mensuration          Numeral characters

La Caillo            Mercator, Nicholas Numeration

Laplace              Mercator'a projection Numerator

League               Meridian             Numerical
412 MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS I)E MORGAN.

Oblate                 Precession and nuta Reduction

Oblique                tion Regular figures,

Obliquity              Pressure             polygon, solids,

Oblong                 Prime                polyhedrons

Observation and        Primum mobile        Relation (mathl.)
     experiment        Principia            Residual phenomena

Occultation            Probability, theory of Resistance ?

Octans                 Problem              Reversion

Offsets                Process ?            Reversion of series

Operation              Progression          Revolution
Orb, Orbit             Projection           Rhomb, Rhombus,

Order                  Projection of mathe Rhomboid
Ordinate                  matical diagrams Rhumb, or Rumb

Oscillation and centre Proportion           Right angle
                                            Root
of oscillation         Proportional  loga
                                            Rotation
                       rithms

                       Proportional parts Round

Pace                   Ptolemaic system Rule, Ruler

Parabola               Pyramid

Paradox

Parallelepiped                              Sagittarius

Parallelogram          Quadrant     of the  Salient
Parallels                                   Saros, Neros, Sosos
                       Quadrature           Satellite
Parameter
                       Quadrature           Scale, musical
Penumbra                   circle

Percussion, centre of Quantity                   mathematics

Perimeter              Quarter              Scholium
Periodic functions     Qnartile
Periods of revolution  Quintal              Scruple
Piccolomini, A.        Quintile             Seasons, change of
Piling of shot
                                            Segment
                                            Series

Pipe                                        Sexagesimal

Planet                 Radix                Sextans (constell.)
Planisphere            Ratio                Side

Point of contrary Ratios, composition Sidereal

   flexure                of Sign, astronomy
Pole, Polar            Ratios, prime and Sign, mathematics

Polygon and poly       ultimate             Similar, similar

hedron                 Reciprocal           figures

Pond, John             Rectangle            Sine and Cosine

Power (mechanics)      Rectification        Sine and Cosine,
Practice               Recurring series        curves of
                     LIST OF WRITINGS.                      413

Slide, or Sliding rale i Sum and difference  Transformation of
                                                co-ordinates
Solar system         Sum, Summation
                                             Transits of Mercury
Solid, Solidity      Sun                        and Venus

Solid angle          Sun-dial                Transversal
                                             Trapezium, Trape
Solid, surface, line, Sun, eclipse of
                                                 zoid
point                Surd                    Traverse tables
                                             Triangle
Solid, superficial,  Surface, Surfaces,
                                             Triangula and Tri
and linear dimen     theory of
                                                 angulum Australe
sions                Surfaces of the         Trigonometrical co

Solstices            Second Degree               ordinates

Solution             Syllogism ?                                                          ·

Space and Time       Symbols and                                      table*
                                             Trigonometry
Species, mathematics Notations               Triaection of thoanglo
                                             Troohoidal curves
Sphere, or globe     Symmetry, Sym-          Troy weight
                                             Tube
Sphere, doctrine of  TUTiML'ttlTMItf*afttl   Tuning
                                             TwUight
the Sympathetic sounds

Spherical trigono    Synodic, Synodic
                        Revolution

Spheroid             Synthesis
Spiral               System, mathema
Square
                        tics

Square root          System, astronomy

Stable and unstublo

Star, double star,   Table
   cluster of stars

Statics              Tangent                 Ullage         Parti
Stationary, mecha    Taylor, Brook,          Ulogh Beg
                                             Undetermined
   nics                  theorem
Stationary, astro    Term (algebra)          Universal and
                     Theodoeius of              cular ?
   nomy
Stercographic           Bi thy nia ?         Universe
Sterling ?           Theon, the elder        Unlimited
Straight, straight                           Uranus
                     Theorem
    line, plane                              Vacuum, or Void
Sturm's Theorem      Theory and practice
                     Theory of couples       Vanish (mathematics)
Subcontrary          Theory of equations     Variable
                     Three, rule of          Variations, calculus of
Sublime (geometry)   Time
Subsidiary           Time of descent         Varignon, Pierre
Substitution         Toledo, tables of
Subtraction Subtra                           Velocity
                     Transcendental
   hend, Minuend     Transformation
Sufficient reason
414  MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

Vernal and Equi     Wager                   Win gate, Edward
   nox              Wallis, John            Wrangler
                                            Wright, Edward
Vibration           Weight
                                of earth    Year
Vieta                           of observa  Young, Thomas

Viga Ganita             tions
Virtual velocities
Vitello             Weights and mca-
Vol n me
Volute                  sures
Vortex
                    Whiston, W.

                    Separate Worrs.

Elements of Arithmetic, 8vo, 1835.
Algebra, Prelim, to the Differential Calculus, 8vo, 1835.
Connection of Number and Magnitude: an attempt to explain

     the Fifth Book of Euclid, 8vo, 1836.

Essay on Probabilities, and on their Application to Life Con
     tingencies and Insurance Offices, Cabinet Cyclopaedia, small
     8vo, 1838.

The Differential and Integral Calculus, one vol. 8vo, pp. 770,

      1842.

Arithmetical Books, from the invention of printing to the present
     time, being brief notices of a large number of works, drawn
      from actual inspection, 8vo, 1847.

First Notions of Logic, preparatory to study of geometry, 8vo,

       1839.

Formal Logic, or the Calculus of Inference necessary and pro
      bable, 8vo, 1847, pp. 336.

The Globes, Celestial and Terrestrial, for Malby's Globes, 8vo,

       1845.

Syllabus of a Proposed System of Logic, 8vo, 1860.
Trigonometry and Double Algebra, 1849.
The Book of Almanacs, with an index of reference, by which the

     almanac may be found for any year up to A.n. 1000, with
     means of finding the day of any new or full moon from
     B.C. 2000 to a.d. 2000, compiled by A. De Morgan, 8vo, 1850.

                                    Miscellaneous.

Correspondence of Scientific Mnn of the Seventeenth Century,
     by S. P. Rigaud. Contents and Index by A. De Morgan,

      1841.
LIST OF WRITINGS.  415

Treatise on the Problems of Maxima and Minima, by Ram-
     chundra, Calcutta, edited, with Introduction, 1850.

Decimal Association Proceedings, with Introduction, 1854
Debate on the Decimal Coinage Question, with remarks on the

     speech of the Member for Kidderminster, 1855.
Reply to Facetia; of the Member for Kidderminster, 1855.
Journal of a Tour in the Unsettled Parts of North America, by

     Francis Br.ily, edited with Preface, by A. De Morgan, 1856.
Preface to From Matter to Spirit, by Sophia De Morgan, 1863.
Notes on Colonel W. H. Oakes's Table of the Reciprocals of

     Numbers, 1865.

Seven Figure Logarithms of Numbers 1 to 108,000, corrected,
     with a description of the Tables added by Prof. De Morgan,
     8vo. (Trans, of Ludwig Schroen Siebenstellige. Gemeine
     Logarithmen der Zanten.) 1865.

The Eleventh Chapter of the History of the Royal Society, with
     additions, by Prof. De Morgan, 1849.

General Information on Subjects of Chronology, Geography,
     Statistics, &c., References for History of Mathematical
      Science, 1842.

Statement in answer to an assertion made by Sir W. Hamilton

     in reference to a discovery of a new principle in the Theory

    of Syllogism, 1847.
English Science, Report of the British Association, vols. i. and ii.,

     written for a Review, edited by Mr. Beaumont (title for
      gotten), 1835.
Tables, C. Knight's English Cyclopaedia, a new edition of Useful

      Knowledge, London, 1861.

    In addition to the above there were numerous contributions

to the ' Memoirs ' and ' Obituary Notices ' of the Astronomical
Society, to the Journal of the Institute of Actuaries and

Insurance Record. I do not find any contribution to the

North British Review except the Review of ' Brewster's Life of

Newton.' Among the smaller writings which I know to be

omitted from the above list are some to Charles Knight's
' Library of Anecdote,' biographies in the same publisher's
, Portrait Gallory,' Ac., Ac.

     The voluminous contributions to the ' Athenaeum,' ' Notes

and Queries,' Ac., I have been obliged to omit on account of their

number.
INDEX OF NAMES, ETC.

                     ABA                                     BOU

ABACAbUraSc,ad2a3b5ra, 381                             Baily, Miss, 45, 301
                                                       Baily, Richard (Selim Effendi), 335
Adams, Professor John, 126, 129-136                    Bain, Prof. Alexander, 306, 339
Adelaide Road, N.W., 271, 364                          Bampton Lectures, 296
Affleck, Lady, 104, 305                                Bardin's Globes, 120

Agathocles (eclipse of), 232                           Barnstaple, 23
Airy, Sir G. B., 15, 19, 24, 42, 48, 62,               Barrow, Isaac, 296
77, 107, 118; 127-130, 134-138,
                                                       Barton, Catherine, 264, 288
237,241,248, 252, 273, 333
Albert Life Assurance, 279                             Baynes, Professor Spencer, 212
Alderson, Baron, 390                                   Beaufort, Admiral, 2, 64, 77, 293
                                                       Bengal Hurkaru, 280
Algebra Nova, 59
                                                       Bentham, George, 162
Alliance Assurance Company, 363                        Bentham, Jeremy, 350
Alvescot, 215                                          Bentinck, Lord W., 321

Amicable Life Assurance, 60, 181                       Berkeley, Bishop, 15, 115, 164
                                                       Bernoullis (The), 2S6
Appledore, 2
                                                       Bertrand, M., 312
Arago, 126, 130, 176-178                               Bessel, -- , 82, 127
Argelander, 136                                        Bethune, Drinkwater, 61, 268
Aristotle, 350
                                                       Bhascara, 269
Arithmetic and Algebra, 29                             Bideford, 2
Arnauld, 384                                           Biot, M., 32, 131, 231, 257, 262, 264,
Ashburnham, Lord, 203
Astronomia Philolaica, 75                                  278, 290. 298
Astronomical Club, 250                                 Biran, Maurice de, 300
                                                       Bird, William, 77
Astronomical Society, Boyal, 19, 41                    Birkbeck. Dr. George, 23
   63,76, 81-43, 106-108, 118, 124,                    Bishop, George, 49, 137
                                                       Bishop, Mrs., 49
    181, 191, 194, 273, 277, 292, 301                  Blackburne, Archdeacon, 104, 109,

-- Annual Report, 232                                       113
-- Obituary Notices, 110
                                                       Blanchard (priest), 382
Athanasian Creed, 322                                  Bland ford, -- , 3
                                                       Bland's Quadratic Equations, 7
AAuthbeetrut,raJm.,  Newsp.,  179,  192-194,  210      Board of Longitude, VJ
                     382                               Bulland (Baron), 388
                                                       Bompas, Henry, 359
Austin, 350                                            Bonnycastle's Algebra, 335
                                                       Boole, George, 165-168, 212
BABB23A5G, E24,3,Ch32a4rl,es3,334,8,36305,,  «9, 133,  Boucly. M.. 179-211
                                             387,      Bouillaud (or Bullialdi), 59, 75
                                                       Bourdon's Algebra, 29, 32
Bacon, Lord, 296, 303, 305                              Bouvard, A., 127
                                                        Bouvard's Tables, 127
Bacon, Roger, 218, 302
Bagehot, Walter, 97, 359
Baily, Francis, 41-46, 49, 76, 78, 81,
104-109, 110, 117, 120, 140, U«,

148,231, 256, 301-335

                                                       V. K
418           MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

                  BOW                                                      ELL

Bowring. Sir John, 236, 238, 240                     Coleridge, Samuel Taylor, 321, 363
                                                     Colin, Melanie, 181
Bradley, 108                                         Companion to the Almanac, 50, 53,
Brewster, Sir David, 199, 257, 261-
                                                         107, 123, 234, 264
263
                                                     Comptes Rcndus, 68
Briggs.Dr., 31                                       Comtism, 116
ISriges, General, 21, 31-33                          Connection of Number and Magnitude,
Bright, John, M.P., 241
British Association, 69                                  65
                                                     Conolly, Dr., 53
British Museum, 176                                  Constellations (names of), 63
British Worthies (Knight's), 176                     Convocation, 299
Brougham, Lord, 23, 51, 125, 269,                    Cornelius Agrippa, 379
                                                     Cousin, Victor, 300
    312, 332, 358                                    Crotchet Castle, 66
Brown, William, 238, 241,243, 255                    Crowe, Catherine, 173
                                                     Cumming, Rev. Dr., 325
Browne, J. Baldwin, 101
Budget of Paradoxes,
Bunyan, John, 305             58, 70
Burdett, Sir F., 109

Butler, Charles, 55                                  DAVDYa,y  Sir Humphry,     335
'Butler's Analogy,' 194                                        schools (his),  30
Byron, Lady Noel, 89
                                                     Dealtry, Rev. --, 387
                                                     Decimal Association, 235-240

CABCIaNccEiaTtoreC,yclMop.,ae1d2ia7, 92              Decimal coinage, 235-255
                                                     De Blainville, 163
Calculus of Functions. 82                            Defoe, Daniel, 20

Cambridge Philosophical Society, 286                 De Gasparis. 217
                                            Transac
                                                     Delambre, 59, 108, 168
    tions, 113                                       De la Rue, Warren, 271
                                                     De Moivre, 233
Camden Street, 96
Campbell, Thomas, 23, 358                            De Morgan, Mrs. (sen.), 2, 11-15

Campden Hill Observatory, 61                                   Campbell Greig, 234
                                                               Edward Lindsey. 1 16, 281
Camus Musical Club, 16                                         Elizabeth Alice, 189, 197
                                                               GeorgeCampbell,34, 112,
Cary's globes, 120
Case. William, 359                                   281, 286, 363

Cassini, Count, 153                                                        George, 234. 281, 286
Catalogue of stars. 42, 75, 83                                          Helena Christiana, 367
                                                                        William Frend, 108
IllCavendish Experiment, 45, 106, 108.
Cayley, George, 297                                  Des Cartes, 108, 257
                                        132,  135,   Dickens, Charles, 93, 265
Censorinus, 204                                      Differential and Integral Calculus, 52,
Challis, Professor, 129,

138                                                  65, 113

Chasles, M., 396                                     Digges, 291
                                                     Dod son, James, 233
Chevallier, Rev. Temple, 68
                                                                 John, 234
Chillingworth, 194                                   Dollond, 108
Chladni, 32                                          Drummond, Sir W., 21
                                                     Druse Trinity, 328
Church rates, 87

City of London School, 190                           Dumas (priest), 382
Clarke, Dr E. D., 109

Clarke (anti-Trinitarian), 261                       Dunlops Nebulas, 120, 148
Cleasby, Sir R. (third wrangler), 18
Clifton,  PAr.ofHes,so1r73R.  B.,  97,   359
Clough,
                                                     EEdAleSstTEobEnu,RryJ.,,QuL2eo5sr7tdio, n2, 66125
Coates, Thomas, 53
                                                     Edmonds, T. R., 279
Cobbett, 220                                         Elements of Arithmetic, 54
                                                     Ellenborough, Lord, 87
Cobden, Richard, 241

Coddington, Profesror, 15. 24

Colcnso, Bishop, 325, 327, 378
                        INDEX OK NAMES, ETC.                                                         419

                       ELL                                                        1ST

Elliotson, Dr. John, 323                                HACHHaEliTfaTxE, .LoMrd.,,     J2, 58. 64. 75
Ellis, Leslie, 9, 103, 318
                                                                                       245, 264, 288
        Sir Henry, 201                                  Hallam, Henry, 111, 201
Encyclopedia Metropolitans, 92    ·                     HHaalllliewye, ll,108J,.
Essay on Probabilities, 92                                                        256, 258
Evening amusements, 109                                                           O., 124
Exeter, 108                                             Hamilton, Rev. H. Parr, 15
                                                        Hamilton, Sir W., 104, 160-162, 204,

                                                        212, 331
                                                        Sir W. Rowan, 333
FABRFaIlCcoInUeSr,,   295
                     Thomas,  16                        Hardy, Cozens, 359

Falloux, M., 179                                        Harrison, 108

Family Endowment Offices, 1 10                          Hartog, N. E., 102
                                                        Harwood, Sir Busick. 388
Fanshawe, Colonel, 1

Faraday, Michael, 82, 192                               Haussen, Professor, 127, 136
Farish, Professor, 388
                                                        Hayden, Mrs., 221
Fenner, Rev. J., 3                                      Heald, Rev. William, 16, 206,214,
Ferishta, 21, 31
                                                        218-221, 293

Financial Reform Association (Liver                     Hencke, 136

pool), 247                                              Hensley, Lewis (sen.), 4 1
Finlaison, 87
                                                                    Mrs., 85, 143
Flaherty Scholarship, 144
Flamsteed, John, 120, 256                               Herschel, Sir J. W., 41-45, 67, 152,
                                                        170, 193,209, 213,216, 231,237,
Follen, Mrs., 173
                                                        248, 287, 289, 291, 302 309, 320-
Formal Logic, 111, 157-168
Forman, Captain, 77, 78                                 326, 333, 369, 371, 376, 395-400
Foster, Professor Michael, 190, 222                                   Sir W., 85, 108, 148
                                                        Hervey, T. K., 176,202, 210
Fouchy, 151                                             Hey wood's Analysis of Kant, 315
Franklin.J. B., 248, 252
Fraser, Peter, 103                                      Higgins, Godfrey, 21, 31
                                                        Higman, John, 12, 15
Free Christian Union, 365                               Hill, Sir John, 172
Frend, William, 19, 21, 23, 28, 31,
                                                        Octavia, 265
39,81,89, 109, 235, 312
                                                        Rowland, 176, 201, 241

Fry, Elizabeth, 90                                      Hind, John, 137
                                                        R., 49, 122, 136, 217

                                                        Historical Society of Science, 124

GALIGLaElleO, ,M2.,90128                                Hobbes, Thomas, 350

Galloway, Thomas, 45, 60, 150, 155,                     HHooopdp,usT,hoRemva. sJ.,(a3.d27 1500). 67
                                                        Hornbuckle, 388
    171, 180                                            Horner, L., 31

GGeaorrdgienerII'sI.,Lo8g2a,ri3th2m2,s3, 33381          Horrocks, 301
                                                        ' Household Words,' 265
Ghetaldi, 76                                            Houtmann, F., 299
Ghuleim Hassein, 31
Gilbert, Davies, 217                                    Howard, C, 120
Gladstone, William Ewart, 239, 241
Goethe, 321, 362                                        Hume, David, 350
Goldsmid, Sir Isaac, 53
Gompertz, Benjamin, 279                                             Jacobus, 153
Good Words, 265                                                   Joseph, M.P., 51
                                                        Husenbeth, Rev. Dr., 322
Gordon (Senior Wrangler), 17
Gordon, Jemmy, 321, 391                                 Hussey, Dr., 127
Graham, Professor, 292                                  Hustler, 388

GGGrrreeeaegtnohweroyao,dd,D, .SJaF.m,Gu.e1,5l,1353976  Hutton, Dr., 106

              Olinthus, 64, 312                         R. H., 54
Guizot, M., 177
Gunning, Esquire-Bedell, 391                                                   of Actuaries, 45

                                                        INSITnIsTuUraTnEce Record, 279

                                                        International Association forWeiglitn
                                                            and Measures, 240. 247
420              MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

                          INT                               NIC

International Statistical Congress,        MACMAaUcLauAlaYy',SLoErsds,ay2s,88-13021 8
    269
                                           Maclear, Sir T., 77, 84, 333
Introductory Lecture, 10, 29, 183, 278     Madge, Rev. T., 88
                                           Madura, 1
JANE, Duchess of Gordon, 2                 Main, R., 138                               219,
       Jephson, 389                        Maitland, Rev. Samuel, 124,
Jessel, George, 97, 359
Jevons, Prof. Stanley, 97                  376
Johnson, Prof. Manuel, 138, 191
Julian Calendar, The, 205                  Majendie, 184

                                           Malby's Globes, 120, 148
                                           Malcolm, Sir John, 31

                                           Malthus, Rev. T., 109

KALEKIDanOeS, CSiOr PREob, erTt,he1,68262  Manchester New College, 355, 372
                                           Manners, Admiral, 45
Kant. 315, 332
Kastner, 75                                Mansel, Dean, 54, 296, 317, 331
Kempthorne, 387
Keynes, Rev. T., 3                         Maps of the Stars, 66-68
King, Lady, 89                             Marshman, Adam, 290
King's College, 174                        Marston, Westland, 173
Knight, Cha«., 108, 256
Knight's 'British Worthies,' 126, 256,     Martineau, James, 337-356
                                           Maskelyne, Neville, 108
     261                                   Mason, Rev. William, 16, 376, 393

                                           Mathematical Canon, The, 233
                                           Mathematical Club, 123
LACELaOdiIeXs',   203                      Mathematical Society, 280-286, 363
                 College,                  Maule, Judge, 61, 387
                                           Maurice, Rev. F. D., 174
                                           Maxima and Minima, 268

                           94              Menabrea, 89

Lagrange, 108, 113, 114                    Mersenne, 75                                163,
Laing, Rev. D., 264                        Milbourne, 152
Lalande, 382
Lamb, Charles, 321                         Mill, James, 33, 115
                                           Mill, John Stuart, 33, 114-116,
Lang-lale. Lord, 390
                                              328-332, 378-383
Laplace, 92, 108, 306                      Miller, Professor, 237, 248, 252
Lardner's Cyclopasdia, 145                 Miller, William, 248, 252
Lee, Dr.. 49, 271-333, 390
Lefort, M., 278                            Mitchell's Apparatus, 107
Leibnitz, 108, 256, 262, 294, 317          Monro, Cecil, 158
Leopold, Duko of Tuscany, 69, 75
Leverrier, 126-136, 395                    Monteagle, Lord, 241
Lewis, Sir George Cornewall, 244           Montucla, 59, 75, 111
Library of Useful Knowledge, 267           Morland, Sir Samuel, 59
Libri Guglielmo,59, 84, 126. 130, 173,     Mulock, Miss, 173

    176, 203, 210, 264-286, 299, 396       Murphy, 150

Life Assurance, 279                                             BUONAPARTE,            250

Lindsey, Theophilus, 116                   NAPONaLpEoOleoNn III., 299
Literarium, The, 253                       National Address to America, 182

Liverpool Observatory, 122                 Naudet, M., 179
Locke, John, 141, 218, 261
Logan, Rev. Dr., 103                       Nautical Almanac, 19, 42, 49, 333

                                           Neate, Rev. A., 16, 79, 170, 215, 294
                                           Neptune, The Planet, 126-128
London University, 50                      Newman, Francis, 174
Long, George, and Mrs. Long, 103

Louis Philippe, 177                        Newman, Thos. Henry, 323
Lowe, Robt., 243, 249                      Newton, Isaac, 198, 231, 257-264,

Lown lean Professorship, 297               288, 301-303, 323
Lubbock, Sir John, 66, 136, 237, 267
Ludovicus Vives, 378                       Nicholas Nickleby, 265
Lyndhurst, Lord, 109                       Nicolas of Cusa, 290

                                           Nicolas, Sir Harris (Letter to), 70-73
                   INDEX OF NAMES, ETC.                                                        421

                          NIC                                           STE

Nicolay, Rev. William, 174                 It"DAMCHUNDRA, 268
Ninth Bridgwater Treatise, 90                      Ranke, M., 312
Noel, Hon. and Rev. Baptist. 112           Ranyard, A. Cowper, 281, 282, 285
North British Review, 261-263              Raper, Lieutenant, 64
Notes and Queries, 219                     Redland School, 3, 5, 7, 8
                                           Reece, Robert, 5, 6, 9
0SCOTT College (St. Mary's), 133
        Overstone, Lord, 248, 251-253      Rees, Joseph, 120
Owen, Robert, 325                          Reid, Mrs. Elizabeth, 173
                                           Reynolds, H. Russell, 120
PALEY, Archdeacon, 109, 350                Rheticus, 151
                                           Rigaud, Stephen Peter, 257
        Pancras, St., 323                  Robertson, Mr. Croom, 339, 349
Fanizzi, Antonio, 203, 211                 Robinson, Dr. (of Armagh), 333

Parsons, Rev. J., 3, 6, 11, 19                             H. Crabb, 3, 321, 332, 361
                                                          Robert, 321
Pascal, 125                                Ross, Captain, 76
Pasley, Gen., 236, 241                     Rosse, Lord, 299
Pattison, Prof., 34, 37, 39                Royal Astronomical Society, 270,
                                               277
Peacock. Dean. 12, 15, 16, 24, 82, 144,    Royal Society, 76, 81, 181, 294
    202, 217, 237. 297, 328                Rutherford, Dr., 154

Peacock, Thomas, 298                       SADSLtE. RH,eleRneav,.  Thomas.                363
Pearson, Dr., 41                                                   3

Peccam, Abp., 291                          St. Michael's, Bristol, 8
Peene, Dr. W. Guidon, 185-188, 310,        Schinderhaussen, Olearius, 320

    375                                    Schoolmaster    (JT.h, e1),7354
Penny Cyclopaedia, 46, 60, 107, 123,       Scott, Rev. A.
                                           Sedgewick, Adam, 104
    194, 235, 255
                                           Seronus Samonicus, 380
Penny Magazine, 51                         Shaftesbury, Lord, 265, 333
Perrott, Mr., 150
Perry, Mr., 45                             Sharp, Abraham, 256
                                           Sharpey, Professor, 267
PPeetttriugsreHwi,spManru, s,123478        Sheepshanks, Anne, 191, 300
Petty, Sir William, 251
                                                                  Richard, 45, 61, 101,
Philosopher (definition of), 95
Philpotts, Bishop, 378                         112, 118, 134,      153,  190,             232, 237
Physiology (teaching of), 184, 225                                 13
Pickwick, 93                               Simeon, Rev. J.,
Pilgrim's Progress, The, 59                Smith, Rev. James, 173

Ploucquet, 103                                     Mr. J. B., M.P., 243-240
Poinsot, M., 129                           Smith's Harmonies, 152. 287
                                           Smyth, Adl,, 43-19, 79, 83, 150, 152,
Pollock, Frederick (L. C. Baron), 108,
    332, 334, 385-392                          171. 204, 208-230, 272, 291, 308,

Poole, Mrs., 3                                 333
Porson, Richard, 4.3
Porter, Jane, 24                                       Mrs , 324
Powell, Rev. Baden, 170                                Piazzi, 84, 324
Prickett. Mr., 219                         South, Sir James, 43-48, 61, 82, 333-
Probabilities, Tract on, 2«7
                                           335
                         E«say on, 75, 92
                                           Southey, 321

                                           IllSSppernincger-,RicHee,rbTer,t,M.1P6.2, 236

                                           Standard seale, 50.
                                           Standert, Hugh, 4. 17

                                           Stanley, Doan, 398

QUAtRionT,E5R3 LY  Journal  of Educa                    Lord, 243
                                           Starkie, Sergeant, 61
Quetelft, 60, 65
Quilon, 3                                  Stephenson (engineer), 80

                                           Sic vimis, 111

                                                                                                    s
422         MEMOIR OF AUGUSTUS 1)E MORGAN.

                    STE                                                 YOU

Stewart, Mr., 83                     80,        Vija Ganita, The, 269
Stoke Newington, 20, 31, 41                     Vince, Professor, 387, 391
Stratford, William Samuel, 20,                  Vivisection, 184

    312                                         Vossius, 33, 75
Striive, Professor, 12, 131
                                                WALEY, Jacob, 97, 101. 359
Swedenborg, 173
Sylvester, Professor, 144, 286, 311                        Wallis, Professor, 305

TATTEa,unRteovn.,  James,  104                  Warburton, M.P, 292, 312
                    23
Tayler, Rev. John James, 384                    Waring, Dr., 391
                                                Warren, Dr., 328
Taylor, Sedley, 08, 124, 398
     Richard, 124                               Warren's blacking, 83
                                                Wartmann, M., 127
                                                Watts, Dr. Isaac,
                                                Weisse, Mr., 136
Temple, Rev. Dr., 104                           Weld's ' History of R. Society.' 257
Templeton, Mr., 77                              Whewell, Rev. Dr., 12, 16, 113, 151,
Thelwall, John, 23
Thompson, General Perronet, 332                 158, 170, 172, 193, 198, 200, 207.

Thorp, Archdeacon, 15, 24, 50                   212, 228, 231, 290, 296, 302, 305,

Tooke, Home, 109, 362                           315, 318,391

Towneley, Richard, 331                          Whiston, 199, 261
                                                White, Professor, 69, 79
Trough ton and Simms, 61
Tyrwhitt, Rev. Robert, 109                      WWiillkliianmsonI'IsI.,'A2n6c1ient Egyptians,' 119

ULUGUnHcleBTeogm, 's335Cabin, 182               Williams, Mr., 154
                                                               Miss, 3
Unitarians, 86, 342
University College, 34-38, 40, 50-53,           Wingate's Arithmetic, 201
                                                Wollaston, Dr., 217
   69-72, 85, 91-98, 102, 105-190,              Wollnston's Catalogue, 120
   336-361, 374
                                                Woodhouse, 391
                              Mathematical So              Dr., 363
                                                Woolley,               120
    ciety, 282                                  Woollgar,  J. W., 81,

                                   School, 286  Worcester, 2
University Hall, 363, 374
University of London, 34-38, 50, 58,            Wordsworth, Christopher, 321, 363
                                                Wright's ' Theory of the Universe,'
    91, 102, 222-228, 269, 363
Uranus, 127                                          152
Useful Knowledge Society, 51,54, 67,
                                                Wrottesley, Lord, 108, 138, 235. 237,
    113, 120, 126, 144                             270,333

                                                               Hon. Mrs., 108
                                                               Sir John, 235

                                                Wyatt, Digby, 45
                                                Wyvill, Christopher, M.P.. 104

VAPEVaRnEghAanU's,  397         249             YOUNYoGu,ngD, rJ.ohTnho, m2a1s8, 82, 145, 217
Vellore, 1          Treatise.
                                                Young. Robert, 5, 217
Vi<-ta, 59, 75, 290

                                          losdon ( rnlsTan nv  6QUARM
                         SrOTTIsWOOIIK ASD CO., NBW-sTItKKT

                                        AMD PARLIAMENT sTKHT
BIOGRAPHICAL WORKS.

REMINISCENCES CHIEFLY of ORIEL COLLEGE and

         the OXFORD MOVEMENT. By the Rev. Thomas Mozley, M.A. formerly
          Fellow of Oriel College, Oxford. Second Edition. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 18».

ArOLOGIA PEG VITA SUA ; being a History of his

          Religious Opinions by Cardinal Newman. Crown 8vo. 6s.

THOMAS CAELYLE, a History of the first Forty Years

       of his Life, 1795 to 1835. By J. A. Feoudk, M.A. With 2 Portraits and

          4 Illustrations. 2 vols. 8vo. 32*.

REMINISCENCES. By Thomas Carlyle.                   Edited by

       J. A. Ffionns, M.A. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 18».

THE MAEEIAGES of the BONAPAETES.                    By the Hon.

          D. A. Bingham. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21*.

RECOLLECTIONS of the LAST HALF-CENTURY. By
III.Count Obsi. With a Portrait of Napoleon
                                             and 4 Woodcuts. Crown 8vo.

7s. 6d.

AUTOBIOGEAPHY. By John Stuart Mill. 8vo. 7*. 6d.

FELIX MENDELSSOHN'S LETTEES, translated by Lady

         Wallace. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 5s. each.

THE COEEESPONDENCE of EOBEET SOUTHEY with

        CAROLINE BOWLES. Edited by Edward Dowden, LL.D. 8vo. Por

           trait, 14*.

THE LITE and LETTEES of LOED MACAULAY.                                 By
         the Right Hon. G. 0. Trkvelyan, M.P.
                             Library Edition, 2 vols. 8vo. 36s.

                             Cabinet Edition, 2 vols, crown 8vo. 12*.
                             PoruLAR Edition, 1 vol. crown 8vo. 6s.

         London, LONGMANS & CO.
Biographical Works.

WILLIAM LAW, Nonjuror and Mystic, a Sketch of i !·

       Life, Character, Mini Opinions. By J. H. OraaTOjr, M.A. Vicar of LefrNww*

            8 to. 1.5*.

JAMES MILL; a Biography. By A. Bain, LLD. Crow*

           8to. 5$.

JOHN STUART MILL; a Criticism. With Personal

         Recollections. By A. Bain, LL.D. Crown 8to. it. 64.

A DICTIONARY of GENERAL BIOGRAPHY. By

         W. L. R. Catbs. Third Edition, with nearly 400 additional M--mii eat

            Notices. 8to. "J8*.

OUTLINES of the LIFE of SHAKESPEARE.                            By J. 0.

         HAixiwux-PHtixipn, F.R.S. Second Edition. Sto. 7«. W.

BIOGRAPHICAL STUDIES. By the late Waltek Bagehot,

         M.A. 8ro. 12j.

ESSAYS in ECCLESIASTICAL BIOGRAPHY. By the

        Right Hon. Sir J. SraruM, LL.D. Crown Sto. ^^. W.

OESAR; a Sketch. By J. A. Frocde, M.A.                          With

          Portrait and Map. 8vo. IB*.

LIFE of the DUKE of WELLINGTON. By the Re*.

        0. R. Quia, M.A. Crown 8ro. Portrait. 8*.

MEMOIRS of SIR HENRY HAYELOCK, K.C.D                            By

         Johh CiifcE Mabodum. Crown Hro. S*. 04.

LEADERS of PUBLIC OPINION in IRELAND ; Smft.
Lni.Flood, Orafan. OVonn-ll. By W. K. H.  M.A. Cron Sro ;>. W

Ixm.lon, LONGMANS A CO.
                                          39 Paternoster Row, E.C.
                                              London, September 1882.

GENERAL LISTS OF WORKS

                                                PUBLISHED BY

                   Messrs. Longmans, Green & Co.

                                                      Oj**>

HISTORY, POLITICS, HISTORICAL
                 MEMOIRS, &e.

History of England from                                      The English in Ireland
the Conclusion of the Great War
iWn%ail8pisolteo.          year                 Spencer          in the Eighteenth Century. By J. A.
                   the      vols.  1841.   By                    Froude, M.A. 3 vols, crown 8vo. iSs.
                        3           8vo.  £2.    14*.

H istory of England in the                                   Journal of the Reigns of
18th Century. By W. E. H. Lecky,
M.A 4 vols. 8vo. 1700-1784, ,£3. 12s.                            King George IV. and King William
                                                                 IV. By the late C. C. F. Greville,
The History of England                                            Esq. Edited by H. Reeve, Esq.
from the Accession of                                  II.        Fifth Edition. 3 vols. 8vo. price 36*.
By the Right Hon. Lord                    MJaamcaeus
                                                      lay.   The Life of Napoleon III.
                                                                  derived from State Records, Unpub
Student's Edition, 2 vols. cr. 8vo. 12s.                          lished Family Correspondence, and
People's Edition, 4 vols. cr. 8vo. ids.                            Personal Testimony. By BLANCHARD
CLiabbrianreyt  Edition,   8 vols,                               Jerrold. With numerous Portraits
                Edition,   5 vols.  post        8vo.  48*.         and Facsimiles. 4 vols. 8vo. ,£3. 18s.
                                    8vo.
                                                £\.
The Complete Works of
TLroervdelMyaacna.ulay. Edited by Lady                       The Early History of
                                                             Charles   OJa. mTeres veFolyxa.n,  By the Right
Cabinet Edition, 16 vols, crown 8vo.                         Hon. G.                            M.P. Fourth

Librparricye    £4. 16s.   8 vols.        8vo.  Portrait,    Edition. 8vo. 6s.

                Edition,

      price £5. 5-r.                                         Selected Speeches of the

Lord Macaulay's Critical                                         Earl of Beaconsfield, K.G. Arranged
and Historical Essays.
                                                                  and edited, with Introduction and
Cheap Edition, crown 8vo.                  3s.  &/.               Notes, by T. E. Kkbbel, M.A. 2
Student's Edition, crown                  8vo.                    vols. 8vo. with Portrait, 32s.
                                                 6s.
People's Edition, 2 vols, crown 8vo. &.
CLiabbrianreyt  Edition,                                     The Constitutional His
                Edition,   4 vols.        24s.               otofryGeoof rEgneglaIInId.  since the Accession
                           3 vols.        8vo.  36s.                                                           By Sir
                                                             Thomas Ersk inf.                                  D.C.L.
The History of England                                                                   1M7a60y-,18K7.0C..B.
from the Fall of Wolsey to the Defeat                        Sixth Edition. 3 vols, crown 8vo. I&r.
of the Spanish Armada.                          By J. A.
                                                             emocracy in Europe ;
Froude, M.A.
Popular Edition, 12 vols. crown,j£                           a History. By Sir Thomas Erskine
Cabinet Edition, i2vols.                                       * vy, K.C.B. D.C.L. 2 vols. 8vo. 32*.
               WORKS published by LONGMANS &, CO.

Introductory Lectures on                                    Waterloo Lectures ; a
Modern History delivered in 1841                            Study of    the Campaign of 181                         By
aAnrdnol1d8,42D. .D.By                       Thomas         Col. C. C.  Chesney, R. E. 8vo.                i5o. j.
                          the      late                                                                             6J.
                        8vo.     Js. 6d.
                                                            The Oxford Reformers--
On Parliamentary Go                                             John Colet, Erasmus, and Thomas
    vernment in England. By Alpheus                              More ; a History of their Fellow- Work.
    Todd. 2 vols. 8vo. 37/.                                     By F. Seerohm. 8vo. 14r.

Parliamentary Govern                                        History of the Romans
mAlepnhteuins  the British Colonies.
               Todd. 8vo. 2is.                         By      under the Empire. By Dean Meri-

History of Civilisation in                                      vale, D.D. 8 vols, post 8vo. 48*.

England        andByFraHnceen,rySpaTihnomaansd              General History of Rome
Scotland.                                                                                A.d. 476.          Dean
Bucrle. 3 vols, crown 8vo. 24*.                             fMroemrivBa.Cl.e,75D3 .Dto.     Crown      By  Maps,
                                                                                                    8vo.

Lectures on the History                                     price Js. 6rf.

of England from the Earliest Times                          The Fall of the Roman
                                                                 Republic ; a Short History of the Last
to the Death of King Edward II.                                  Century of the Commonwealth. By
                                                                Dean Merivale, D.D. i2mo. Js. 6d.
By W. Longman, F.S.A. Maps and
Illustrations. 8vo. 15/.                                    The History of Rome.

History of the Life &                                           By Wilhelm Ihne. s vols. 8vo.

   Times of Edward III. By W. Long                               price ^3. 17r.

    man, F.S.A. With 9 Maps, 8 Plates,
    and 16 Woodcuts. 2 vols. 8vo. 28*.

The Historical Geogra                                       Carthage and the Cartha
phy of Europe. By E. A. Freeman,
D.C.L. LL.D. Second Edition, with                               ginians. By R. Bosworth Smith,
65 Maps. 2 vols. Svo. 31r. (xi.                                 M.A. Second Edition ; Maps, Plans,

History of England un                                            &c. Crown 8vo. 10s. 0./.

der the Duke of Buckingham and                              History ofAncient Egypt.
Charles I.                                         S. R.         By G. Rawlinson, M.A. With Map
Gardiner,      L1L6.2D4.-16228v. ols.        By    Maps,         and Illustrations. 2 vols. Svo. 63J.
                                             8vo.
                                                            The Seventh Great Ori
price 24*.                                                      ental Monarchy ; or, a History of
The Personal Govern                                             the Sassanians. By G. Rawlinson,
ment of Charles I. from the Detth of                            M.A. With Map and 95 Illustrations.
Buckingham to the Declaration in favour                           8vo. 2$s.
GofaSrhdipineMro,neLyL, .D16.28-126v3o7l.s.
                                              By S. R.
                                             8vo. 24/.
The Fall of the Monarchy
of Charles     IL. L1.6D3.7-164V9o. ls.      By    S.  R.   The History of European
Gardiner,                                     I.   &             Morals from Augustus to Charle
                                                       II.      magne. By W. E. H. Lecry, M.A.
                                                                 2 vols, crown 8vo. 16r.
         1637-1642. 2 vols. 8vo. 28r.
                                                            History of the Rise and
A Student's Manual of
the History of India from the Earliest
Period to the Present.                                      Influence of the   Spirit     of         Rational
                                             By Col.        ism in Europe.    By W.       E.
Meadows Taylor, M.R. A. S. Third                                                                    II. Lecry,

Thousand. Crown 8vo. Maps, Js. (xl.                         M.A. 2 vols, crown Svo. l6>.

Outline of English His                                      The History of Philo-
Gtoaryrd, iBn.Ce.r,55L-LA..DD..              ByS. R.        SGoepohryg,e fromHenThryales   to Comte.          By
                                 1880.                                                                     Fifth
                                             96 Wood                                      Lewes.
                                   With

cuts Fcp. Svo. 2s. 6tf.                                     Edition. 2 vols. 8vo. 32r.
                 WORKS published by LONGMANS &· CO.

A History of Classical                                   Epochs of Ancient His
                                                         tory.    Edited by        Rev. Sir  G. W.
Greek Literature. By the Rev.                            Cox,   Bart. M.A.    the   Sankey,
JV.olP..    Mahaffy,           M.A.     Crown                                & C.            M.A
            I. Poets,          js. 6d.          8vIoI..
                                          Vol.           Bees'.y's Gracchi, Marius and Sulla, as. 6J.
                                                         Capes's Age of the Antonines, as. (d.
Prose Writers, Js. 6d.
                                                                   Early Roman Empire.'^j. 6<z*.
Zeller's Stoics, Epicu                                   Cox's Athenian Empire, 2s. 6d.
    reans, and Sceptics. Translated by
   the Rev. O. J. Reichel, M.A. New                                Greeks & Persians, 21. 6,/.
    Edition revised. Crown 8vo. 15*.
                                                         Curteis's Macedonian Empire, 2s. 6d.
Zeller's Socrates & the                                  Ihne's Rome to its Capture by the Gauls,
    Socratic Schools. Translated by the
    Rev. O. J. Reichel, M.A. Second                             price as. (xl.
     Edition. Crown 8vo. lor. 6J.                        Merivale's Roman Triumvirates, 2s. 6d.
                                                         Sankey 's Spartan & Theban Supremacies,

                                                                price 2s. 6d.
                                                         Smith's Rome and Carthage, as. (xl.

Zeller's Plato & the Older                               Creighton's Shilling His
                                                             tory of England, introductory to
                                                              'Epochs of English History.' Fcp. is.

AAcllaedyenmey.    Translated by S. Frances              Epochs of English His

                 and Alfred Goodwin,                         tory. Edited by the Rev. Mandell
B.A. Crown 8vo. 18*.                                         Creighton, M.A. In One Volume.
                                                             Fcp. 8vo. Jr.
Zeller's Pre-Socratic
Schools ; a History of Greek Philo-                      P.rowning's Modern England, 1820-1874, gd.
sophy from the Earliest Period to the                    Creighton's (Mrs.) England a Continental
tFim. eAlolfeSyoncera.tes.     Translated by Sarah
                            2  vols, crown 8vo. 30*.            Power, 1066-1216, gd.
                                                         Creighton's (Rev. M.) Tudors and the Re
Epochs of Modern His
     tory. Edited by C. Colbeck, M.A.                           formation, 1485-1603, gd.
                                                         Gardiner's (Mrs.) Struggle against Absolute
Church's Beginning of the Middle Ages.
price as. (xl.                                                  Monarchy, 1603-1688, gd.
Cox"s Crusades, as. (xl.                                 Rowley's Rise of the People, 1215^485, gd.
Creighion's Age of Elizabeth, as. (xl,
Gairdner's Lancaster and York, as. bd.                                   Settlement of the Constitution,
Gardiner's    Puritan Revolution, as. (xf,                       1689-1784, gd.
              Thirty Years' War, as. (xl.                Tancock's England during the American and
                       French     Revolution,                   European Wars, 1765-1820, gd.
Hale's  Fall  (Mrs.)    Stuarts,   as. 6d.     as. 6d.   York-Powell's Early England to the Con
               of the                                          quest, is.

lohnson s Normans in Europe, as. (xl.                    The Student's Manual of
Longman's Frederic the Great, 21. (d.                        Ancient History; the Political History,
Ludlow's War of American Independence,                        Geography and Social State of the
                                                              Principal Nations of Antiquity. By W.
                                                             Cooke Taylor, LL.D. Cr. 8vo. ys.64.

price as. (xl.                                           The Student's Manual of
McCarthy's Epoch of Reform, 1830-1850.                        Modern History ; the Rise and Pro
       price as. td.                                         BgryesWs .ofCthoeokPerinTciapyalloEru,roLpLe.aDn.NaCtrioonwsn.
Morris's Age of Anne, as. 6d.                                 8vo. js. (xl.
Scebohm's Protestant Revolution, 2s. 6d.
Stubbs' Early   I'lantagenets, as. (xl.
Warburton's
               Edward III. as. (xl.

                       BIOGRAPHICAL WORKS.

Reminiscences chiefly of                                 Apologia pro Vita Sua ;
                                                                     History    of his Religions
     Oriel College and the Oxford Move                   Being a      Cardinal  Newman. Crown
     ment. By the Rev. Thomas Mozley,                    Opinionsby
    M.A. formerly Fellow of Oriel College,
     Oxford. 2 vols, crown 8vo. I&r.                     6s.

                                         J
           WORKS publisJud by LONGMANS &, CO.

Thomas Carlyle, a History                        James Mill ; a Biography.
of the first Forty Years of his Life,                By A. Bain, LL. D. Crown Svo. 5r-.

1795 to 1835. By J. A. Froude, M.A.              John Stuart Mill ; a Cri-
                                                      ticism, with Personal Recollections.
With 2 Portraits and 4 Illustrations.                By A. Bain,LL.D. Crown Svo. 2s. td.
2 vols. Svo. 32r.

Reminiscences.                         By
Thomas Carlyle. Edited by J. A.
Froude, M.A. 2 vols. crown 8vo. i8i.             A Dictionary of General
                                                      Biography. By W. L. R. Cates.
The Marriages of the                                 Third Edition, with nearly 400 addi
     Bonapartes. By the Hon. D. A.                    tional Memoirs and Notices. Svo. 28*.
     Bingham. 2 vols, crown Svo. 2U-.
                                                 Outlines of the Life of
Recollections of the Last                        Shakespeare. By     J.  O. Halliwell-
Half-Century.    of BNyapoCleoounntIII.Orasnid.
With a Portrait                                  Phillipps, F.R.S.       Second Edition.

                                                 8vo. 7/. 6d.

4 Woodcuts. Crown Svo. Js. 6d.                   Biographical Studies. By

Autobiography.                By    John            the late Walter Bagehot, M.A.

   Stuart Mill. 8vo.       Js. 6d.                    8vo. 12s.

Felix Mendelssohn's Let                          Essays in Ecclesiastical
ters, translated by Lady WALLACE.
                                                    Biography. By the Right Hon. Sir J.
2 vols, crown Svo. Ji- each.
                                                     Stephen, LL.D. Crown 8vo. Js. 6d.
The Correspondence of
Robert     Southey with       Caroline           Caesar; a Sketch. By J. A.
Bowles.    Edited by Edward  Dowden,                 Froude, M.A. With Portrait and
                                                      Map. Svo. 16s.
LL.D. 8vo. Portrait, 14t.
                                                 Life of the Duke of Wei-
The Life and Letters of                              lington. By the Rev. G. R. Gleig,
Lord     Macaulay.   By the  Right  Hon.             M.A. Crown 8vo. Portrait, 6s.
         Trevelyan,   M.P.
G. O.

Library Edition, 2 vols. Svo. 36r.               Memoirs of Sir Henry
Carinet  Edition, 2 vols,  crown Svo.
PoruLAr  Edition, i vol.   crown 8vo.  12s.      Havelock, K.C.B.        8Bvyo.Joyh.n   Claiue
                                       6s.
                                                 Marshman. Crown                       6d.
William Law, Nonjuror
and Mystic, a    Sketch of his Life,             Leaders of Public Opi
Character, and                                       nion in Ireland ; Swift, Flood,
                 Opinions. By J. H.                  Grattan, O'Connell. By W. E. H.
Overton, M.A. Vicar of Legbourne.                    Lecky, M. A. Crown Svo. Js. 6d.

8vo. 15r.

MENTAL and POLITICAL PHILOSOPHY.

Comte's System of Posi                           Analysis of the Pheno
    tive Polity, or Treatise upon Socio          mena   oMf iltlh.e  Human Mind. By
     logy. By various Translators. 4 vols.       James               With Notes, Illustra
    Svo. £4.
                                                 tive and Critical. 2 vols. Svo. 2&s.
De Tocqueville's Demo
    cracy in America, translated by H.           On Representative Go
     Reeve. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 16s.
                                                    vernment. By John Stuart Mill.

                                                      Crown 8vo. 2s.
WORKS published by LONGMANS &> CO.

On Liberty. By                              John          Lord Bacon's Works, col

    Stuart Mill. Crown 8vo.                 is. 4J.           lected & edited by R. L. Ellis, M.A.
                                                             J. Spedding, M.A. and D. D. Heath.
Principles of Political
                                                               7 vols. 8vo. £3. 13*. 6d.
    Economy. By John Stuart Mill.
                                                          Letters and Life of Fran
     2 vols. 8vo. 30J. or I vol. crown 8vo. 5*.               cis Bacon, including all his Occasional
                                                               Works. Collected and edited, with a
Essays on some Unset-                                         Commentary, by J. Spedding. 7 vols.
tBieydJoQhunestSiotnusaortf PMoliitlilc.al                    8vo. £4. 4*.
                                            Economy.
                                            8vo. 6s. 6d.  The Institutes of Jus
                                                               tinian ; with English Introduction,
Utilitarianism.                 By          John              Translation, and Notes. By T. C.
                                                              Sandars, M.A. 8vo. \%s.
   Stuart Mill. 8vo.       $s.
                                                          The Nicomachean Ethics
The Subjection of Wo                                          of Aristotle, translated into English
                                                              by R. Williams, B.A. Crown 8vo.
   men. By John Stuart Mill. Fourth                            price Js. 6d.

     Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.

Examination of Sir Wil                                    Aristotle's Politics, Books
liam Hamilton's Philosophy. By
                                                          I.  III. IV.   (VII.) Greek Text,   with
John Stuart Mill. 8vo. 16s.
                                                          an  English   Translation by W. E.  Bol-
A System of Logic, Ra-                                    land, M.A. and Short Essays by A.
                                                          Lang, M.A. Crown 8vo. ys. 6d.
tSiotcuinaarttiveMialln.d  Inductive. By John
                                                          The Ethics of Aristotle;
                           2 vols. 8vo. 25*.

Dissertations and Dis                                     with Essays and Notes. By Sir A.
                                                          Grant, Bart. LL.D. 2 vols. 8vo. 32s
   cussions. By John Stuart Mill.
                                                          Bacon's Essays, with An
    4 vols. 8vo, £2. 6s. 6d.
                                                              notations. By R. Whately, D.D.
A Systematic View of the
    Science of Jurisprudence. By Shel                          8vo. iar. 6d.
     don Amos, M.A. 8vo. i&t.
                                                          An Introduction to Logic.
Path and Goal ; a Discus
     sion on the Elements of Civilisation                     By William H. Stanley Monck,
     and the Conditions of Happiness. By                      M.A. Prof, of Moral Philos. Univ. of
    M. M. Kalisch, Ph.D. M.A. 8vo.
                                                               Dublin. Crown 8vo. 5*.
     price \2s. 6d.
                                                          Picture Logic ; an Attempt
The Law of Nations con                                         to Popularise the Science of Reasoning.
sidered as Independent Political                             By A. J. Swinburne, B.A. Post8vo. 51.
                           By Sir Travers
Communities.                                              Elements of Logic. By
Twiss, D.C.L. 2 vols. 8vo. £1. 13/.
                                                              R. Whately, D.D. 8vo. ioj. 6d.
A Primer of the English
     Constitution and Government By                            Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d.
     S. Amos, M.A. Crown 8vo. 6s.
                                                          Elements of Rhetoric.
Fifty Years of the English
                                                              By R. Whately, D.D. 8vo. 10s. 6d.
    Constitution, 1830-1880. By Shel
    don Amos, M.A. Crown 8vo. 10s. 6d.                         Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d.

Principles of Economical                                  The Senses and the In
    Philosophy. By H. D. Macleod,
    M.A. Second Edition, in 2 vols. Vol.                      tellect By A. Bain,LL.D. 8vo. 15*.
   I. 8vo. i$r. Vol. II. Part i. 121.
                                                          The Emotions and the

                                                              Will. By A. Bain, LL.D. 8vo. 15*.

                                                          Mental and Moral Sci-
                                                          ence ; a Compendium of Psychology

                                                          and Ethics. By A. Bain, LL.D.

                                                          Crown 8vo. 10s. 6d.
      WORKS published by LONGMANS cV CO.

An Outline of the Neces                                      Essays in Political and

    sary Laws of Thought ; a Treatise                           Moral Philosophy. By T. E. Cliffe
    on Pure and Applied Logic. By W.
    Thomson, D.D. Crown 8vo. 6s.                                 Leslie, Barrister-at-Law. Svo. ior. 6d.

On the Influence of Au                                       Hume's Philosophical
    thority in Matters of Opinion. By                        Works: Edited, with Notes, &c. by
    the late Sir G. C. Lewis, Bart 8vo.                      T. H. Green, M.A. and the Rev.
      price 14*.                                             T.  H. Grose,      M.A. 4
                                                             Or                             vols. 8vo.  56/.
                                                                   separately,     Essays,   2 vols.    2&i.

                                                             Treatise on Human Nature, 2 vols. 2&r.

MISCELLANEOUS & CRITICAL WORKS.

Studies of Modern Mind                                       Lord Macaulay's Miscel
    and Character at Several European
    Epochs. By John Wilson. 8vo. 12s.                            laneous Writings and Speeches.

Selected Essays, chiefly                                          Student's Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.
      QCuoanrtterirblyutiRonevsietwos.theByEdAin. bHuragyh-  Cabinet Edition, including Indian Penal
from
and                                                               Code, Lays of Ancient Rome, and
ward, Q.C. 2 vols, crown Svo. 12s.                                 other Poems. 4 vols, post Svo. 24/.

                                                             Speeches of Lord
                                                                  Macaulay, corrected by Himself.
Short Studies on Great                                            Crown 8vo. 3*. 6d.

    Subjects. By J. A. Froude, M,A.                          Selections from the Wri
                                                                 tings of Lord Macaulay. Edited,
     3 vols, crown Svo. I&t.                                      with Notes, by the Right Hon. G. O.
                                                                 Trevelyan, M.P. Crown. 8vo. 6s.
Literary Studies. By the
                                                             Miscellaneous Works of
   late Walter Bagehot, M.A. Second                              Thomas Arnold, D.D. late Head
                                                                 Master of Rugby School. 8vo. Js. 6 d.
     Edition. 2 vols. 8vo. Portrait, 28*.
                                                             Realities of Irish Life.
Manual of English Lite
    rature, Historical and Critical. By                          By W. Steuart Trench. Crown
    T. Arnold, M.A. Crown 8vo. Js. 6d.
                                                                  8vo. 2s. 6d. Sunbeam Edition, 6d.
Poetry and Prose ; Illus
     trative Passages from English Authors                   Evenings with the Skep
     from the Anglo-Saxon Period to the                      tics ; or, Free Discussion on Free
    Present Time. Edited by T. Arnold,
    M.A. Crown Svo. 6s.                                      Thinkers. By John Owen, Rector of

The Wit and Wisdom of                                        East Anstey, Devon. 2 vols. Svo. y2s.
      Benjamin Disraeli, Earl of Bea-
       consfield, collected from his Writings                Outlines of Primitive Be
       and Speeches. Crown Svo. 6s.                              lief among the Indo-European
                                                                 Races. By Charles F. Keary, M.A.
The Wit and Wisdom of                                            Svo. i8i.
     the Rev. Sydney Smith. Crown
      8vo. 3s. 6d.                                           Selected Essays on Lan
                                                             guage,  MMaxythMoluolglye,r,  and Religion.
Lord Macaulay's Miscel                                       By F.                          K.M. 2 vols,
                                                             crown 8vo. 16s.
    laneous Writings :--
Lirrary Edition, 2 vols. 8vo. 21J.                           Lectures on the Science
People's Edition, i vol. cr. 8vo. 4r. 6V.
                                                                of Language. By F. Max Muller,
                                                                 K.M. 2 vols, crown 8vo. I&r.
           WORKS published by LONGMANS <&· CO.                                                                                       '/

Chips from a German                                            The Essays and Contri
Workshop ; Essays on the Science of
                                        TMraudiltlieonrs,          butions of A. K. H. B. Uniform
Religion, and   on Mythology,
& Customs.       By F. Max                                          Cabinet Editions in crown Svo.

K.M. 4 vols. 8vo. £1. 16s.                                     Autumn Holidays,                  3o*.f  6d.               Truths,
                                                                                                         Unchanged
                                                               Changed       yA.sp6edc.ts
Language & Languages.                                                 price
                                                               Commonplace Philosopher, y. 6d.
                                                               Counsel   and Comfort,                        6d.
A Revised Edition of Chapters on Lan                           Critical                                 3*.  Scries,
                                                                         Essays, y. 6d.
       aFnadrrFaarm, ilDie.sD.  of Speech. By                  Graver Thoughts. Three                                 y. 6d.
guage                                                                                                                         each.
                                 F.R.S. Crown
F. W.                                                          LLeanisdusrceapHeso,urCshiunrcThoews,n,anyd.  Moralities,      3J. 6d.
                                                                                                              6d.
8vo. 6s.                                                       LOeusrsoLnisttloe fLMifeid,dyle.
                                                                                                 Age,        6d.
                                                                                                 6d.    3s.

Grammar of Elocution.                                          Present Day Thoughts, 3.5, 6d.
                                                               Recreations of a Country Parson, Three
   By John Millard, Elocution Master                           Series, 35. 6d. each.
                                                               Seaside   Musings, 3s.            y6.d.6rf.
     in the City of London School. Second                      Sunday    Afternoons,

   Edition. Fcp. 8vo. p. 6d.

DICTIONARIES and OTHER BOOKS of
                    REFERENCE.

One-Volume Dictionary                                          Contanseau's Pocket
of  the English Language.                             By R.    Dictionary, French and English,
G.                                                  Medium     abridged from the Practical Dictionary
    Latham, M.A M.D.                                           by the Author. Square l8mo. 3*. 6d.

8vo. 141.

Larger Dictionary of                                           A Practical Dictionary
the English Language. By R. G.
Latham, M.A. M.D. Founded on                                       of the German and English Lan
                                                                   guages. By Rev. W. L. Blackley,
JboyhnthseonR'esv.EnHg.lJis.hToDdidct.io4navroyls.  as edited      M.A. & Dr. C. M. Friedlander.

                                                    4to. £7.        Post 8vo. Is. 6d.

English Synonymes. By                                          A New Pocket Diction
EW. haJ.telWy,haDt.eDl.y.       Edited                    R.       ary of the German and English
                           Fcp. 8vo.                  by           Languages. By F. W. Longman,
                                                    3*.             Ball. Coll. Oxford. Square l8mo. 5*.

Roget's Thesaurus of                                           Becker's Gallus ; Roman
English Words and Phrases, classi                                  Scenes of the Time of Augustus.
fied and arranged so as to facilitate the                          Translated by the Rev. F. Metcalfe,
expression of Ideas, and assist in                                 M.A. Post 8vo. is. 6d.
Literary Composition.      RoRgee-te.ditCerdowbny
                                                               Becker's Charicles;
the Author's Son, J. L.                                        Illustrations of the Private Life of
8vo. I or. 6d.
                                                               the Ancient   MGreeteckasl.fe,TrMan.Asl.atedTobsyt
Handbook of the English                                        the Rev. F.
    Language. By R. G. Latham, M.A.
    M.D. Crown 8vo. 6s.                                        Svo. is. 6d.

Contanseau's Practical                                         A Dictionary of Roman
       ictionary of the French and English                         and Greek Antiquities. With 2,000
      anguages. Tost Svo. price is. 6J.                            Woodcuts illustrative of the Arts and
                                                                   Life of the Greeks and
                                                               fA Rii-h B A. Ciown8»
            WORKS published by LONGMANS 6- CO.

A Greek-English Lexi                                          M'Culloch's Dictionary
                                                                  of Commerce and Commercial Navi
   con. By H. G. Liddell, D.D. Dean                               gation. Re-edited (1882), with a Sup
    of Christchurch, and R. Scott, D.D.                            plement containing the most recent
                                                                 Information, by A. J. Wilson. With
     Dean of Rochester. Crown 4to. 36r.                           48 Maps, Charts, and Plans. Medium
                                                                   8vo. 63*.
Liddell & Scott's Lexi-
    con, Greek and English, abridged for                      Keith Johnston's General
     Schools. Square l2mo. "]s. 6d.                               Dictionary of Geography, Descriptive,
                                                                   Physical, Statistical, and Historical ;
An English-Greek Lexi                                              a complete Gazetteer of the World.
     con, containing all the Greek Words                           Medium 8vo. 42J.
     used by Writers of good authority. By
     C. D. Yonge, M.A. 4to. 2is. School                       The Public Schools Atlas
     Abridgment, square l2mo. Ss. 6d.

A Latin-English Diction                                       of Ancient Geography, in 28 entirely
                                                              new   Coloured Maps.       Edited by the
ary.   By   JJ.ohE.nRiTd.dleW, hMit.eA,.   D.D.               Rev.                        Imperial 8vo.
Oxon.  and                                Oxon.                     G. Butler, M.A.
                                                              or imperial 4to. "js. 6d.
Sixth Edition, revised. Quarto 21s.
                                                              The Public Schools Atlas
White's Concise Latin-                                        of Modern Geography, in 31 entirely
     English Dictionary, for the use of                       new Coloured Maps.         Edited by
     University Students. Royal 8vo. 12s.                                                   Uniform,  the
                                                              Rev. G. Butler, M.A.                    5r.

     ASTRONOMY and METEOROLOGY.

Outlines of Astronomy.                                        Proctor's Orbs Around

   By Sir J. F. W. Herschel, Bart. M.A                            Us ; a Series of Essays on the Moon &

    Latest Edition, with Plates and Dia                            Planets, Meteors & Comets, the Sun &
     grams. Square crown 8vo. 12s.                                Coloured Pairs of Suns. With Chart
                                                                   and Diagrams. Crown 8vo. ys. 6d.
The Moon, and the Con
dition and Configurations of its Surface.
                                                              Proctor's other Worlds
By E. Neison, F.R.A.S. With 26                                than Ours ; The Plurality of Worlds
                                                              Studied under the Light of Recent
Maps and 5 Plates. Medium 8vo.
price 3 1i. 6d.

Air and Rain ; the Begin                                      Scientific Researches.      With 14  Illus
                                                              trations. Crown 8vo.       10s. &/.

nings of a Chemical Climatology.                          By
R. A. Smith, F.R.S. 8vo. 24*.
                                                              Proctor on the Moon;
Celestial Objects for                                              her Motions, Aspects, Scenery, and
Common Telescopes. By the Rev.                                     Physical Condition. With Plates,
T. W. Webb, M.A. Fourth Edition,                                  Charts, Woodcuts, and Lunar Pho
                                                                   tographs. Crown 8vo. ios.6d.
adapted to the Present State of Sidereal
Science ; Map, Plate, Woodcuts. Crown                         Proctor's Universe of
8vo. 9r.                                                          Stars ; Presenting Researches into and
                                                                   New Views respecting the«Constitution
The Sun ; Ruler, Light, Fire,                                      of the Heavens. Second Edition, with
and  AL.ifPeroocf ttoher,PlBan.Ae.taryWSityhstePmla. tes           22 Charts and 22 Diagrams, fivo.
R.                                                        By        101. 6d.
                                                           &
Woodcuts. Crown 8vo. 14/.
        WORKS published by LONGMANS 6r CO.

Proctor's New Star Atlas,                            Proctor's Transits of
     for the Library, the School, and the                Venus ; a Popular Account of Past
     Observatory, in 12 Circular Maps (with               and Coming Transits from the First
     2 Index Plates). Crown 8vo. $s.                      Observed by Horrocks in 1639 to the
                                                          Transit of 2012. Fourth Edition,
Proctor's Larger Star
    Atlas, for the Library, in Twelve                     including Suggestions respecting the
     Circular Maps, with Introduction and                 approaching Transit in December 18S2 ;
    2 Index Plates. Folio, 15*. or Maps                   with 20 Plates and 38 Woodcuts. Svo.
     only, 12s. 6d.                                        Ss. 6,/.

Proctor's Essays on As                               Proctor's Studies of
                                                     Venus-Transits ; an Investigation of
    tronomy. A Series of Papers on Planets           the Circumstances of the Transits of
                                                     Venus in 1874 and 1882.      With 7
     and Meteors, the Sun and Sun-surround           Diagrams and 10 Plates. 8vo. 5*.
     ing Space, Stars and Star Cloudlets.
    With 10 Plates and 24 Woodcuts. 8vo.
     price I2J.

NATURAL HISTORY and PHYSICAL

                       SCIENCE.
Ganot's Elementary
Treatise on Physics, for the use of                  The Mathematical and
                                                     other Tracts of the
EC.ollAegtkesinasnodn,ScPhoho.lDs..   Translated by                       late    James
                                     F.C.S. Tenth    M'Cullagh, F.T.CD.   Prof,   of Nat.

Edition. With 4 Coloured Plates and                  Philos. in  Jt.heIIU.nJive. lolef Dttu,bliBn..DE.daitnedd   by
844 Woodcuts. Large crown 8vo. 15*.                  the Rev.                                                   the
                                                     Rev. S. Haughton, M.D. 8vo. i$s.

Ganot's Natural Philo                                Elementary Treatise on
    sophy for General Readers and
     Voting; Persons. Translated by E.                   the Wave-Theory of Light. By
    Atkinson, Ph.D. F.C.S. Fourth                        H. Lloyd, D.D. D.C.L. 8vo. 10s. fV.
    Edition ; with 2 Plates and 471 Wood
     cuts. Crown 8vo. ys. 6ti.                       Fragments of Science.

Professor Helmholtz'                                     By John Tyndall, F.R.S. Sixth

                                                          Edition. 2 vols, crown Svo. i6>.

Popular Lectures on Scientific Sub                   Heat a Mode of Motion.
jects.  ATtkrainnsslaotne,d   and edited by   Ed
mund                                         With        By John Tyndall, F.R.S.
                             Ph.D. F.C.S.
a Preface by Prof. Tyndall, F.R.S.                        Sixth Edition. Crown 8vo. 12s.
and 68 Woodcuts. 2 vols, crown 8vo.

15*. or separately, Js. 6d. each.                    Sound. By John Tyndall,

Arnott's Elements of Phy                             F.R.S. Fourth Edition, including
     sics or Natural Philosophy. Seventh             Recent Researches.  [In the press.
    Edition, edited by A. Bain, LL.D.
    and A. S. Taylor, M.D. F.R.S.                    Essays on the Floating-
     Crown 8vo. Woodcuts, 12/. (td.                  Matter of the Air in relation to

The Correlation of Phy                               Putrefaction and Infection.   By John
    sical Forces. By the Hon. Sir W.
     R. Grove, F.R.S. &c. Sixth Edition,             Tyndall, F.R.S. With         24 Wood
     revised and augmented. Svo. I $s.               cuts. Crown Svo. "js. 6J.

A Treatise on Magnet                                 Professor Tyndall's Lec
    ism, General and Terrestrial. By H.
    Lloyd, D.D. D.C.L. 8vo. iox. 6V.                     tures on Light, delivered in America
                                                         in 1872 and 1873. With Portrait, Plate

                                                          & Diagrams. Crown 8vo. Js. 6./.
10 WORKS published by LONGMANS & CO.

Professor Tyndall's Les                                  Experimental Physi
    sons in Electricity at the Royal                          ology, its Benefits to Mankind ;
    Institution, 1875-6. With 58 Wood                         with an Address on Unveiling the
     cuts. Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d.                                 Statue of William Harvey at Folkestone
                                                             August 188 1. By Richard Owen,
ProfessorTyndall's Notes                                      F.R.S. &c. Crown 8vo. 5/.

    of a Course of Seven Lectures on                     The Comparative Ana
    Electrical Phenomena and Theo                            tomy and Physiology of the Verte
                                                             brate Animals. By Richard Owen,
     ries, delivered at the Royal Institution.               F.R.S. With 1,472 Woodcuts. 3
                                                             vols. 8vo. £3. 13r. bd.
     Crown 8vo. is. sewed, is. 6d. cloth.

ProfessorTyndall's Notes                                 Homes without Hands ;
    of a Course of Nine Lectures on                          a Description of the Habitations of
     Light, delivered at the Royal Institu                    Animals, classed according to their
     tion. Crown 8vo. is. swd., ls.(xi. cloth.                Principle of Construction. By the Rev.
                                                            J. G. Wood, M.A. With about 140
Six Lectures on Physi                                         Vignettes on Wood. 8vo. 14r.
     cal Geography, delivered in 1876,
     with some Additions. By the Rev.                    Wood's Strange Dwell
    Samuel Haughton, F.R.S. M.D.                              ings ; a Description of the Habitations
    D.C.L. With 23 Diagrams. 8vo. 15*.                        of Animals, abridged from 'Homes
                                                              without Hands.' With Frontispiece
An Introduction to the                                        and 60 Woodcuts. Crown Svo. $s.
     Systematic Zoology and Morpho                                      Sunbeam Edition, 4to. 6d.
    logy of Vertebrate Animals. By A.
    Macalister, M.D. With 28 Dia
      grams. 8vo. 10s. 6d.

Text-Books of Science,                                   Wood's Insects at Home;
Mechanical and Physical, adapted for                         a Popular Account of British Insects,
the use of Artisans and of Students in                        their Structure, Habits, and Trans
                                                              formations. 8vo. Woodcuts, 14J.
Public and Science Schools.                       Small

8vo. with Woodcuts, &c.

Abney's Photography, $s. 6d.             of Materials,   Wood's Insects Abroad ;

Anderson's    y.(S6irif.John)  Strength                  a Popular Account of Foreign Insects,
       price
                                                         their Structure, Habits, and Trans
Armstrong's Organic Chemistry, 3/. 6d.                                8vo. Woodcuts, 14j.
Ball's Elements of Astronomy, 6s.                        formations.

Barry's Railway Appliances, 3s. (il.                     Wood's Out of Doors ; a
                                                              Selection of Original Articles on
Eauerman's Systematic Mineralogy, 6s.                         Practical Natural History. With 6
                                                              Illustrations. Crown Svo. 5/.
Bloxam's Metals, 31. 6d.
Goodeve's Mechanics, ci. 6d.

Gore's Electro -Metalluigy, 6s.                          Wood's Bible Animals ; a
                                                             description of every Living Creature
Griffin's Algebra and Trigonometry, y. 6d.                   mentioned in the Scriptures. With 112
                                                              Vignettes. 8vo. 14J.
Jenkins Electricity and Magnetism, 3t. 6d.
Maxwell's Theory of            Heat, 3r. 6d.             The Sea and its Living
Merrifield's Technical          Arithmetic,   y.  6d.
                                                             Wonders. By Dr. G. Hartwig.
Miller's Inorganic Chemistry, 3s. 6d.                         Svo. with many Illustrations, 10s. 6J.

Preece & Sivewright's Telegraphy, 3s. 6d.                Hartwig's Tropical
                                                              World. With about 200 Illustrations.
Rutley's Study of Rocks, +r. 6d.         y.   6d.              Svo. ior. 6d.
Shelley's Workshop Appliances,

Thome's Structural and Physical Botany, 6s.

Thorpe's Quantitative Analysis, 4J. £</.
Thorpe & Muir's Qualitative Analysis, y.6d.

Tilden's Chemical Philosophy, 3t. 6d.
Unwin's Machine Design, 6s.

Watson's Plane and Solid Geometry', y. 6d.
             WORKS published by LONGMANS &- CO.                                      ii

Hartwig's Polar World ;                          The Origin of Civilisa
     a Description of Man and Nature in the          tion, and the Primitive Condition of
    Arctic and Antarctic Regions of the               Man ; Mental and Social Condition of
     Globe. Maps, Plates & Woodcuts.                 Savages. By Sir J. Lubbock, Bart.
     8vo. lot. 6d. Sunbeam Edition, 6d.               M.P. F. R.S. Fourth Edition, enlarged.
                                                      8vo. Woodcuts, \%s.
Hartwig's Subterranean
    World. With Maps and Woodcuts.               Proctor's Light Science
    8vo. lor. 6d.                                    for Leisure Hours; Familiar Essays
                                                      on Scientific Subjects, Natural Phe
Hartwig's Aerial World ;                              nomena, &c. 2 vols, crown 8vo. Js. 6d.
     a Popular Account of the Phenomena                each.
    and Life of the Atmosphere. Map,
     Plates, Woodcuts. 8vo. lor. 6d.             Brande's Dictionary of
                                                      Science, Literature, and Art. Re-
A Familiar History of                                 edited by the Rev. Sir G. W. Cox,
                                                      Bart. M.A. 3 vols, medium Svo. 6y.
    Birds. By E. Stanley, D.D. Revised
                                                 Hullah's Course of Lec
     and enlarged, with 160 Woodcuts.                 tures on the History of Modern
     Crown 8vo. 6s.                                   Music. 8vo. 8s. 6d.

Rural Bird Life ; Essays                         Hullah's Second Course
     on Ornithology, with Instructions for           of Lectures on the Transition Period
     Preserving Objects relating to that             of Musical History. 8vo. lor. 6./.
    Science. By Charles Dixon. With
     Coloured Frontispiece and 44 Wood
     cuts by G. Pearson. Crown Svo. 5j.

Country Pleasures ; the                          Loudon's Encyclopaedia
Chronicle of  a Year, chiefly in a                   of Plants ; the Specific Character,
By George                             Garden.        Description, Culture, History, &c. of
              Milner. Second          Edition,       all Plants found in Great Britain. With
with Vignette Title-page. Cr. Svo. 6s.                12,000 Woodcuts. 8vo. 42s.

Rocks Classified and De                          Loudon's Encyclopaedia
                                                     of Gardening ; the Theory and Prac
    scribed. By Bernhard Von Cotta.                   tice of Horticulture, Floriculture, Arbori
     An English Translation, by P. H.                culture & Landscape Gardening. With
     Lawrence, with English, German, and              1,000 Woodcuts. Svo. 21r.

     French Synonymes. Post 8vo. l+t.            De Caisne & Le Maout's
                                                 Descriptive and Analytical Botany.
The Geology of England                           Translated by Mrs. Hooker; edited
     and Wales ; a Concise Account of
     the Lithological Characters, Leading        and arranged by J. D. Hooker, M.D.
      Fossils, and Economic Products of the
     Rocks. By H. B. Woodward, F.G.S.            With 5,500 Woodcuts. Imperial 8vo.
     Crown 8vo. Map & Woodcuts, 14/.

Keller's Lake Dwellings                          price 3 1s. 6d.

of Switzerland, and other Parts of               Rivers's Orchard- House ;
              Translated by John      E. Lee,        or, the Cultivation of Fruit Trees under
Europe.      F.G.S. With 206          Illustra        Glass. Sixteenth Edition. Crown Svo.

F.S.A.
tions. 2 vols, royal Svo. 42r.
                                                 with 25 Woodcuts, 5*.
Heer's Primaeval World
of Switzerland.           Edited                 The Rose Amateur's
Heywood, M.A.           F.R.S.     by James      Guide. By Thomas Rivers. Latest
                                  With Map,
Plates & Woodcuts. 2 vols. 8vo. 1zi.             Edition. Fcp. Svo. 4r. 6./.

The          Puzzle of LifeII             ;a     Elementary Botany,
      Short         of  Praehistoric             Theoretical and Practical ; a Text-
             story                    Vegetable
and AnLnal Life on the Earth. By A.              Book designed for Students of Science
Nicols, F.R.G.S. With is Ilhutra.                           By H. El \MNDU, B.Sc.
tioru. Crown Svo. y. 6d.                         Classic*.

                                                 With 312 Woodcuts. 1 ..p. Svo. 2s.
            WORKS published by LONGMANS &, CO.

CHEMISTRY and PHYSIOLOGY.

Experimental Chemistry                                  Annals of Chemical Me
fnoorldJus,nioMr.DS.tuFd.eRn.tSs..     By  J. E. Rey    dicine ; including the Application of
                                    Prof,
                                           of Chemis    Chemistry to Physiology, Pathology,
                                               PArT
try, Univ.  of Dublin.              Fcp. 8vo.           Therapeutics, Pharmacy, Toxicology
                                    2s. 6d.             & Hygiene. Edited by  J. L.  W.       Thu-
I. is. 6d.   Part II.                                   dichum, M.D, 2 vols.
                                                                               8vo.  14s.     each.
Practical Chemistry; the
Principles    ofTiQldueanlit,ativFe.C.SA.nalyFscips..   A Dictionary of Chemis
By W. A.                                                try and the  Allied  bByraHnechnerys  of other
8vo. is. 6d.                                            Sciences.    Edited                   Watts,

Miller's Elements of Che                                F.RS. 9 vols, medium 8vo. ^15. 2i. 6</.
     mistry, Theoretical and Practical.
     Re-edited, with Additions, by H.                   Practical Inorganic Che
    Macleod, F.C.S. 3 vols. 8vo.                            mistry. An Elementary Text-Book
                                                            of Theoretical and Practical Inorganic
Part I. Chemical Physics. 16V.                              Chemistry. By W. JAGO, F.C.S.
Part II. Inorganic Chemistry, 24/.                           Second Edition, revised, with 37 Wood
Part III. Organic Chemistry, $is.6d.                         cuts. Fcp. 8vo. 2s.

An Introduction to the                                  Health in the House ;
WSt.udAylloefnInMorigllaenri,c                   By          Lectures on Elementary Physiology in
                                    Chemistry.  late        its Application to the Daily Wants of
                                                            Man and Animals. By Mrs. Bucrton.
                                    M.D. LL.D.               Crown 8vo. Woodcuts, 2s.
Professor of Chemistry, King's College,
London. With 71 Woodcuts.
Svo. 3J. 6d.                                    Fcp.

The FINE ARTS and ILLUSTRATED
                    EDITIONS.

The New Testament of                                    Lord Macaulay's Lays of
     Our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ,                     Ancient Rome. With Ninety Illustra
     Illustrated with Engravings on Wood                     tions, Original and from the Antique,
                                                             engraved on Wood from Drawings by
     after Paintings by the Early Masters                    G. Scharf. Fcp. 4to. 2is.
     chiefly of the Italian School. New
     Edition in course of publication in 18             The Three Cathedrals
     Monthly Parts, Is. each. 4to.                           dedicated to St. Paul in London.
                                                            By W. Longman, F.S.A. With
A Popular Introduction                                       Illustrations. Square crown 8vo. 2 is.
to the History of Greek and Roman
Sculpture, designed to Promote the                      Lectures on Harmony,
              AanncdienAt pAprrte.ciatBioynWoafltteher       delivered at the Royal Institution. By
Knowledge                                                   G. A. Macfarren. 8vo. ixr.
Remains of
C. PErrY. With 268 Illustrations                        Moore's Lalla Rookh.
                                    Square crown
engraved on Wood.                                           Tennirl'S Edition, with 68 Woodcut
8vo. 3 1J. St/.                                              Illustrations. Crown Svo. ior. (td.

Lord Macaulay's Lays of                                 Moore's Irish Melodies,
  Ancient Rome, with Ivry and the                            Maclise's Edition, with 161 Steel
    Armada. With 41 Wood Engravings                          Plates. Super-royal Svo. 21;.
    by G. Pearson from Original Drawings
   by J. R. Weguelin. Crown 8vo. 6s.
       WORKS published by LONGMANS &· CO.                                   3

Sacred and Legendary                               Jameson's Legends of the
Art. By Mrs. Jameson.              6 vols,              Madonna, the Virgin Mary as repre
                                                       sented in Sacred and Legendary Art.
square crown 8vo. £$. I$s. (xl.                         With 27 Etchings and 165 Woodcuts.
                                                         1 vol. 2 1s.
Jameson's Legends of the
     Saints and Martyrs. With 19 Etch              Jameson's History of the
     ings and 187 Woodcuts. 2 vols. 3U. 6</.            Saviour, His Types and Precursors.
                                                       Completed by Lady Eastlake. With
Jameson's Legends of the                                13 Etchings and 281 Woodcuts.
     Monastic Orders. With 1 1 Etchings                 2 vols. 42J.
     and 88 Woodcuts. I vol. 21s.

The USEFUL ARTS, MANUFACTURES, &c.

The Elements of Me-                                A Treatise on Mills and
     chanisra. By T. M. Goodeve, M.A.                  Mill work. By the late Sir W. Fair-
      Barrister-at-Law. New Edition, re                 BAIRN, Bart. C.E. Fourth Edition,
     written and enlarged, with 342 Wood                with 18 Plates and 333 Woodcuts.
     cuts. Crown 8vo. 6>.                                1 vol. 8vo. 251.

Railways and Locomo                                Useful Information for
tives ; a Series of Lectures delivered
at the School of Military  J.EWng.inBeearrinryg,,  Engineers. By the late Sir W.
Chatham. Railways, by                              Fairbairn, Bart. C.E. With many
                                                   Plates and Woodcuts.  3 vols, crown
M. Inst. C.E. Locomotives, by Sir F.               8vo. 31s. (xi.
J. Bramwell, F.R.S. M. Inst. C.E.
With 228 Woodcuts. 8vo. 21s.
                                                   The Application of Cast
Gwilt's Encyclopaedia of                               and Wrought Iron to Building
     Architecture, with above 1,600 Wood               Purposes. By the late Sir W. Fair
     cuts. Revised and extended by W.                   bairn, Bart. C.E. With 6 Plates and
     Papworth. 8vo. 521. 6J.                            1 18 Woodcuts. 8vo. 16s.

Lathes and Turning, Sim-                           Hints on Household
     pic, Mechanical, and Ornamental. By               Taste in Furniture, Upholstery,
    W. H. Northcott. Second Edition,                   and other Details. By C. L. East-
     with 338 Illustrations. 8vo. 18s.                 lake. Fourth Edition, with 100 Illus
                                                        trations. Square crown 8vo. 14/.

Industrial Chemistry; a                            Handbook of Practical
Manual for Manufacturers and for Col
                                                       Telegraphy. By R. S. Culley,
leges  or Technical Schools  ;a    Transla             Memb. Inst. C.E. Seventh Edition.
tion   of Payen's Pricis       de    ChimU
InJustrielle. Edited by B. H. Pail.                     Plates & Woodcuts. 8vo. 16s.

With 698 Woodcuts. Medium 8vo. 42*.                The Marine Steam En

The British Navy: its                              gine.  A Treatise for the use of
Strength, Resources, and Adminis                   Engineering Students and Officers of
tration. By Sir T. Brassey, K.C.B.
M.P. M.A. In 6 vols. 8vo. Vols. I.                 the Royal Navy. By Richard
and II. with             Illustrations,  i.jr.     Sennett, Chief Engineer, Royal
                 many                              Navy. With numerous Illustrations
or separately,            lor. 6d. Vol.   II.
price Jr. 6J.   Vol. I.                            and Diagrams. 8vo. 21/.
14 WORKS published by LONGMANS 6- CO.

A Treatise on the Steam                      Cresy's Encyclopaedia of
Engine, in its various applications to            Civil Engineering, Historical, Theo
Mines, Mills, Steam Navigation, Rail             retical, and Practical. With above
                        By J. Bourne,             3,000 Woodcuts, 8vo. 25*.
ways and Agriculture.
C.E. With Portrait,     37 Plates, and       Ville on Artificial Ma
                                                  nures, their Chemical Selection and
546 Woodcuts. 4to. 42J.                           Scientific Application to Agriculture.
                                                  Translated and edited by W. Croores,
Bourne's Catechism of                            F.R.S. With 31 Plates. 8vo. 2ix.
the Steam Engine, in its various Ap
plications. Fcp. 8vo. Woodcuts, 6r.          Mitchell's Manual of
                                                  Practical Assaying. Fifth Edition,
BOUme'S Recent Im                                 revised, with the Recent Discoveries
provements in the Steam Engine.                  incorporated, by W. Croores, F.R.S.
Fcp. 8vo. Woodcuts, 6s.                           Crown 8vo. Woodcuts, 31/. 6d.

Bourne's Handbook of                         The Art of Perfumery,
the Steam Engine, a Key to the                    and the Methods of Obtaining the
Author's Catechism of the Steam En                 Odours of Plants ; with Instructions
gine. Fcp. 8vo. Woodcuts, gs.                     for the Manufacture of Perfumes &c.
                                                  By G. W. S. Pirsse, Ph.D. F.C.S.
Bourne's Examples of                               Fourth Edition, with 96 Woodcuts.
Steam and Gas Engines of the most                  Square crown 8vo. 21s.
recent Approved Types as employed in
Mines, Factories, Steam Navigation,          Loudon's Encyclopaedia
Railways and Agriculture. With 54                 of Gardening ; the Theory and Prac
Plates & 356 Woodcuts. 4to. Jos.                  tice of Horticulture, Floriculture, Arbori
                                                  culture & Landscape Gardening. With
Ure's Dictionary of Arts,                          1,000 Woodcuts. 8vo. 21r.
Manufactures, and Mines. Seventh
Edition,   re-written and enlarged by R.     Loudon's Encyclopaedia
          F. R. S. With 2,604 Woodcuts.           of Agriculture ; the Laying-out, Im
Hunt,                                             provement, and Management of Landed
4 vols, medium 8vo. £7. Js.                        Property ; the Cultivation and Economy
                                                  of the Productions of Agriculture. With
Kerl's Practical Treatise                         1, 100 Woodcuts. 8vo. 2U.
on Metallurgy. Adapted from the last
German Edition by W. Croores, F. R. S.
&c. and E. Rohrig, Ph.D.
8vo. with 625 Woodcuts, £4.    3 vols.
                             igs.

RELIGIOUS and MORAL WORKS.

An Introduction to the                       A History of the Church
     Study of the New Testament,                  of England ; Pre-Reformation Period.
     Critical, Exegetical, and Theological.      By the Rev. T. P. Boultree, LL.D.
     By the Rev. S. Davidson, D.D.                 8vo. 15r.
    LL.D. Revised Edition. 2 vols.
      8vo. 30J.                              Sketch of the History of
                                                 the Church of England to the Revo
History of the Papacy                            lution of 1688. By T. V. Short,
During the Reformation.        By M.              D. D. Crown 8vo. 7s. CJ.
Creighton, M.A. Vol. I.      the Great
Schism-- the   Council  of                   The English Church in
1378-1418.                   Constance,          the Eighteenth Century. By the Rev.
              Vol. II.  the  Council of         C. J. Arrey, and the Rev. J. II.
                                                 Overton. 2 vols. 8vo. 36V.
Basel-- the Papal Restoration, 1418-
1464. 2 vols. 8vo. 32*.
             WORKS published by LONGMANS 6- CO.                                                        iS

An Exposition of the 39                                    Smith's Voyage & Ship
     Articles, Historical and Doctrinal. By                    wreck of St. Paul J with Disserta
     E. H. Browne, D.D. Bishop of Win                           tions on the Life and Writings of St.
      chester. Twelfth Edition. 8vo. l6s.                       Luke, and the Ships and Navigation of
                                                                the Ancients. Fourth Edition, with nu
A Commentary on the                                            merous Illustrations. Cro\vn8vo. Js.6d.
     39 Articles, forming an Introduction to
      the Theology of the Church of England.               A Handbook to the Bible,
     By the Rev. T. P. Boultbee, LL.D.                          or, Guide to the Study of the Holy
     New Edition. Crown 8vo. 6s.                                Scriptures derived from Ancient Monu
                                                                ments and Modern Exploration. By
Sermons preached most                                           F. R. Conder, and Lieut. C. R.
     ly in the Chapel of Rugby School                           Conder, R.E. Third Edition, Maps.
    by the late T. Arnold, D.D. 6 vols,                         Post 8vo. is. 6d.
     crown 8vo. 30J. or separately, 5*. each.
                                                           Bible Studies. By M. M.
Historical Lectures on                                     Kalisch, Ph.D. Part I. The Pro-
the Life     EoflliOcuorttL,orDd.DJe. su8svoC. h1r2iss.t.                    Balaam.     8vo. IOJ. 6d.
                                                           pPhaecrita IIo.f  The Book  of Jonah. 8vo.
By C. J.
                                                           price tor. 6d.
The Eclipse of Faith ; or
aHeVnisrity  toRoageRresl.igioFucsp.            By         Historical and Critical
                                      Sceptic.
                                      8vo. 5*.             Commentary on the Old Testament ;
                                                           with a New Translation. By M. M.
Defence of the Eclipse of                                  Kalisch, Ph.D. Vol. I. Genesis,
                                                           8vo. I&f. or                      for the General
    Faith. By H. Rogers. Fcp. 8vo. y. 6J.                  Reader, 12s.      adVaoplt.edII.   Exodus, 15*. or

Nature, the Utility of                                     III.adapted for the General Reader, 12s.
bRyelJioghionn,SatnudaTrtheMisimll..  Three Essays         Vol.              Leviticus, Part I. 15*. or
                                       8vo. 101.6J.        ,'£adapted for the General

                                                           Vol. IV. Leviticus, Part
                                                                                             Reader,   &r.

                                                                                             II. its.   or

A Critical and Gram                                        adapted for the General Reader,

matical Commentary  ElolincoSttt.,         Paul's          The Four Gospels in
                                            D.D.               Greek, with Greek-English Lexicon.
Epistles. By C. J.                                             By John T. White, D.D. Oxon.
8vo. Galatians, &s. 6d. Ephesians,                              Square 32mo. $s.
8s. 6d. Pastoral Epistles, ic*. 6d.

Philippians, Colossians, & Philemon,
10s. 6J. Thessalonians, Js. 6d.
                                                           Ewald's History of Israel.
The Life and Letters of                                    Translated from the German by J. E.
                                                           Carpenter, M.A.   with Preface by R.
    St. Paul. By Alfred Dewes, M.A.                        Martineau, M.A.
    LL.D. D.D. Vicar of St. Augustine's                                         s v0's- 8vo. 63*.

     Pendlebury. With 4 Maps. Svo.7j.61/.                  Ewald's Antiquities of
                                                               Israel. Translated from the German
Conybeare & Howson's                                           by H. S. Solly, M.A. 8vo. 12s. 6d.

   Life and Epistles of St Paul.
Three Editions, copiously illustrated.
                                                           The New Man and the
Library Edition, with all the Original
     Illustrations, Maps, Landscapes on                        Eternal Life ; Notes on the Reiterated
     Steel, Woodcuts, &c. 2 vols. 4to. 42J.                     Amens of the Son of God. By A.
Intermediate Edition, with a Selection                         Jukes. Second Edition. Cr. 8vo. 6s.
    of Maps, Plates, and Woodcuts. 2 vols,
square crown 8vo. 21 s.                                    The Types of Genesis,

Student's Edition, revised and con                         briefly considered as revealing             the
densed, with                                               Development of Human Nature.                By
              46 Illustrations        and  Maps.           A. Jukes. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d.
I vol. crown  8vo. Js. 6d.
i6 WORKS published by LONGMANS e^ CO.

The Second Death and                                      The Wife's Manual ; or
                                                               Prayers, Thoughts, and Songs on
    the Restitution of all Things ; with                       Several Occasions of a Matron's Life.
                                                              By the lateW. Calvert, Minor Canon
     some Preliminary Remarks on the                           of St. Paul's. Printed and ornamented
     Nature and Inspiration of Holy Scrip                     in the style of Queen Elizabeth's Prayer
                                                               Book. Crown 8vo. 6s. -
    ture By A. Jures. Crown 8vo. y.6d.

Supernatural Religion ;                                   Hymns of Praise and
    an Inquiry into the Realily of Di                         Prayer. Corrected and edited by
     vine Revelation. Complete Edition,                       Rev. John Martineau, LL.D.
     thoroughly revised. 3 vols. 8vo. 36*.                     Crown 8vo. 4s. 6d. 32010. is. 6d.

Lectures on the Origin
and Growth of Religion, as illus
        bMy axtheMuRellleigrio,nsK.Mof.    India.
trated                                       8vo.         Spiritual Songs for the
                                                          Sundays and Holidays throughout
By F.
price ioi. 6d.
                                                          the Year.   By J.       S.  B. Monsell,
Introduction to the Sci                                   LL.D. Fcp.   8vo.     5.'.
                                                                                      l8mo. 2s.

ence of Religion, Four Lectures de                        Christ the Consoler ; a
livered at the Royal Institution ; with                       Book of Comfort for the Sick. By
Essays on False Analogies and the                             Eli.ice Hoprins. Second Edition.
MPhuilollseoprh, yKo.Mf M. ythCorloowgyn.    By F. Max         Fcp. 8vo. 2s. 6d.

                                           8vo. \os. 6d.

The Gospel for the Nine                                   Lyra Germanica ; Hymns
teenth Century.            Fourth Edition.
8vo. price 10s. 6d.                                       translated from  the German   by Miss  C.
                                                                             Fcp. Svo.  5/.
Christ our Ideal, an Ar                                   Winr worth.

gument from Analogy.                       By the same    Hours of Thought on
Author. 8vo. 8r. rV.                                                  Things ;  Two Volumes      of Ser
                                                          Sacred      By James   Martineau,
Passing Thoughts on                                       mons.                                   D.I).
                                                                      2 vols, crown Svo. "]s. 6d. each.
    Religion. By Miss Sewell. fcp. 8vo.                   LL.D.

      price 3*. 6d.                                       Endeavours after the
                                                          Christian Life; Discourses.            By
Preparation for the Holy                                                  Martineau,   D.D.      LL.D.
     Communion ; the Devotions chiefly                    JFaimftehs
     from the works of Jeremy Taylor. By                              Edition. Crown  Svo. "Js.  txf.
    Miss Sewell. 32mo. 3r.
                                                          The Pentateuch & Book
Private Devotions for                                         of Joshua Critically Examined.
YSoeuwnegll,Peris8omnos..                                     By J. W. Colenso, D.D. Bishop of
                              Compiled     by  Miss            Natal. Crown 8vo. 6s.

                           2s.

Bishop Jeremy Taylor's                                    Elements of Morality,
                                                          In Easy Lessons for Home and           School
    Entire Works ; with Life by Bishop                    Teaching. By Mrs. Charles              Bray.

     Ileber. Revised and corrected by the                 Crown Svo. 2s. 6d.
    Rev. C. P. Eden. 10 vols. .£5. 5t.

                TRAVELS, VOYAGES, &c.

Three in Norway. By                                       Roumania, Past and
                                                          Present.    By James Samurlson.
    Two of Them. With a Map and 59
                                                          With 2 Maps, 3 Autotype Plates & 31
     Illustrations on Wood from Sketches                  Illustrations on Wood. 8vo. 16V.
     by the Authors. Crown 8vo. 10s. 6d.
     WORKS published by LONGMANS 6- CO.                                              i7

Sunshine and Storm in                        Himalayan and Sub-
the East, or Cruises to Cyprus and               Himalayan Districts of British
                    By Lady Brassey,             India, their Climate, Medical Topo
Constantinople.                                  graphy, and Disease Distribution. By
Cheaper Edition, with 2 Maps and 114             F. N. Macnamara, M.D. With
Illustrations engraved on Wood. Cr.               Map and Fever Chart. 8vo. 2ls.
8vo. 7-r. td.

A Voyage in the 'Sun                         The Alpine Club Map of
     beam, our Home on the Ocean for         Switzerland, with parts of the Neigh
     Eleven Months. By Lady Brassey.         bouring Countries, on the scale of Four
      Cheaper Edition, with Map and 65       Miles to   an Inch. Edited
      Wood Engravings. Crown 8vo. "]s. td.                 F.R.G.S. 4    by R.       C.
      School Edition, fcp. 2s. Popular       Nichols,                    Sheets      in
      Edition, 410. (at.
                                             Portfolio, 42J. coloured, or 34*. un-
                                             coloured.

Eight Years in Ceylon.                       Enlarged Alpine Club Map of
    By Sir Samuel W. Baker, M.A.
     Crown 8vo. Woodcuts, "]s. td.               the Swiss and Italian Alps, on the
                                                  Scale of 3 English Statute Miles to I
                                                  Inch, in 8 Sheets, price is. td. each.

The Rifle and the Hound                      TheJohn    Alpine Guide.                By
     in Ceylon. By Sir Samuel W. Baker,           Maps
     M.A. Crown 8vo. Woodcuts, "}s. 6d.                 Ball, M.R.I. A. Post8vo.     with

                                                        and other Illustrations :--

Sacred Palmlands ; or,                       The Eastern Alps, ic*. 6d.
     Journal of   a Spring Tour in Egypt
the  the Holy                                Central Alps, including all
and              Land. By A. G. Weld.             the Oberland District, ys. td.

Crown 8vo. is. td.                           Western Alps, including
                                                  Mont Blanc, Monte Rosa, Zermatt, &c.
Wintering in the Ri                               Price ts. td.
viera ; with Notes of Travel in Italy
and France, and Practical Hints to

Travellers. By W. Miller. With

12 Illustrations. Post Svo. ys. 6d.

San Remo and the Wes                         On Alpine Travelling and
Hilltern Riviera, climatically and medi
cally considered. By A.  Hassall,            the Geology of the Alps. Price is.
                                             Either of the  Three  Volumes or Parts of
M.D. Map and Woodcuts. Crown                 the ' Alpine   Guide  ' may be had with
8vo. icu. td.
                                             this Introduction prefixed, is. extra.

                    WORKS of FICTION.

In Trust ; the Story of a                    Novels and Tales. By the
     Lady and her Lover. By Mrs. Ol.l-
     rilANT. Cabinet Edition. Cr. Svo. ts.       Right Hon. the Earl of Beacons-
                                                 field, K.G. The Cabinet Edition.
The Hughenden Edition
     of the Novels and Tales of the               Eleven Volumes, crown 8vo. ts. each.
    Earl of Beaconsf.eld, K.G. from
     Vivian Grey to Endymion. With           The Novels and Tales of
      Maclise's Portrait of the Author, a         the Right Hon. the Earl of Bea
      later Portrait on Steel from a recent      consf.eld, K.G. Modern Novelist's
      Photograph, and a Vignette to each          Library Edition, complete in Eleven
      volume. Eleven Volumes, cr. 8vo. 42/.        Volume?, crown Svo. price 22s. boards,
                                                  or 2ys. td. cloth.
i8 WORKS published by LONGMANS &> CO.

Novels and Tales by the                                    The Modern Novelist's
                                                           Library.     Each   work complete in         :--itself,
    Earl of Beacon sfi eld, K.G. Modern                    price 2s.  boards,   or zs. 6d. cloth

     Novelist's Library Edition, complete in               By the Earl of BeAConSfirld, K.G.
     Eleven Volumes, crown 8vo. cloth extra,
     with gilt edges, price 33/.                                       Endymion.
                                                                             Henrietta Temple.
Whispers from Fairy                                        Lothair.          Contarini Fleming, &c,
                                                                             Alroy, Ixion, &c.
    land. By Lord Brarourne. With                          Coningsby.        The Young Duke, &c.
                                                           Sybil.            Vivian Grey, &c.
     9 Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 3r. 6d.                   Tancred.

                                                           Venetia.

Higgledy-Piggledy. By                                      By Anthony Trollope.

    Lord Bralourne. With 9 Illustra                        Barchester Towers.
                                                           The Warden.
     tions. Crown Svo. 3s. 6d.
                                                           By Major Whyte-Melville.

Stories and Tales. By                                      Digby Grand.        Good for Nothing.
                                                           General Bounce.     Holmby House.
    Elizareth M. Sewell. Cabinet                           Kate Coventry.      The Interpreter.
                                                           The Gladiators.     Queen's Maries.
     Edition, in Ten Volumes, crown 8vo.
     pgrilicteed3g-re. s6:d--. each, in cloth extra, with  By the Author of 'The Rose Garden.'

                                                                       Unawares.

      Amy Herbert.    Gertrude.                            By the Author of ' Mile. Mori.'
                                                                           The Atelier du I. ys.
           The Earl's Daughter.                                              Mademoiselle Mori.
         The Experience of Life.
                                                           By Various Writers.
         Cleve Hall. Ivors.                                              Atherston Priory.
                                                                       The Burgomaster's Family.
         Katharine Ashton.                                                Elsa and her Vulture.
                                                                       Th« Six Sisters of the Valleys.
         Margaret Percival.

      Laneton Parsonnge. Ursula.

                POETRY and                                 THE DRAMA.

Poetical Works of Jean                                     Lays of Ancient Rome;
Ingelow. New Edition, reprinted,                           with Ivry and the Armada.              By Lord
with  Additional Matter, from                              Macaulay.
and   6th Editions of the two  the 23rd
                               volumes                     Carinet Edition, post Svo. y. 6d.
                                                           Cheap Edition, fcp. 8vo. is. sewed ;
respectively ; with 2 Vignettes. 2 vols,
                                                               is. 6d. cloth; 2s. <kl. cloth extra
fcp. 8vo. 12r.                                                with gilt edges.

Faust. From the German                                     Lord Macaulay's Lays of

    of Goethe. By T. E. Werr, LL.D.                            Ancient Rome, with Ivry and the
                                                               Armada. With 41 Wood Engravings
     Reg. Prof, of Laws & Public Orator
     in the Univ. of Dublin. 8vo. 12s. 6d.                      by G. Pearson from Original Drawings

Goethe's Faust. A New                                         by J. R. Weguelin. Crown Svo. 6s.
Translation, chiefly in Blank Verse ;
         complete Introduction
with a   Notes. By                    and                  Festus, a Poem.
copious  B.A. F.G.S.  James                                                                          By
Birds,                 Large      Adey                         Philip James Bailey. 10th
                                  crown                                                           Edition,

Svo. 12s. 6</.                                             enlarged & revised. Crown 8 vo. 12s. 6J.

Goethe's Faust. The Ger                                    The Poems of Virgil trans
     man Text, with an English Introduction                lated into English
    and Notes for Students. By ALBerT                      Conington, M.A.     Prose.             By    Joohj. x
     M. Selss, M. A. Ph. D. Crown 8vo. 5*.                                       Crown            Svo.
WORKS published by LONGMANS 6r CO.                                                iy

The Iliad of Homer, Ho-                         The JEntxd of Virgil.
mometrically translated  by C. B.
Caylev. 8vo. 12s. 6d.                               Translated into English Verse. By J.

Bowdler's Family Shak-                               Conington, M.A. Crown 8vo. gs.
     speare. Genuine Edition, in I vol.
     medium 8vo. large type, with 36 Wood       Southey's Poetical
     cuts, 14J. or in 6 vols. fcp. 8vo. 2\s.        Works, with the Author's last Cor
                                                     rections and Additions. Medium 8vo.
                                                     with Portrait, 14s.

RURAL SPORTS, HORSE and CATTLE
               MANAGEMENT, &c.

William Howitt's Visits                         Horses and Roads ; or,
     to Remarkable Places, Old Halls,           How to Keep a Horse Sound on his
     Battle-Fields, Scenes illustrative of      . Legs. By Free-Lance.
     Striking Passages in English History                                   Second
     and Poetry. New Edition, with 80
     Illustrations engraved on Wood.            Edition. Crown Svo. 6*.
     Crown 8vo. Js. 61/.
                                                Horses and Riding. By
Dixon's Rural Bird Life ;
                                                    George Nevile, M.A. With 31 Illus

                                                     trations. Crown Svo. 6s.

Essays on Ornithology, with Instruc             Horses and Stables. By
tions for Preserving Objects relating               Major-General Sir F. Fitzwygram,
                  Wi'.h 44 Woodcuts.                 Bart. Second Edition, revised and
to that Science.                                     enlarged ; with 39 pages of Illustrations
Crown 8vo. 5/.                                       containing very numerous Figures.
                                                     8vo. IOJ. (id.
A Book on Angling ; or,
     Treatise on the Art of Fishing in every    Youatt on the Horse.
     braDch ; including full Illustrated Lists      Revised and enlarged by W. WATSON,
    of Salmon Flies. By Francis Francis.            M.R.C.V.S. 8vo. Woodcuts, Js. 6d.
     Post 8vo. Portrait and Plates, I $s.
                                                Youatt's Work on the
                                                Dog. Revised and enlarged.
Wilcocks's Sea-Fisher                           Woodcuts, bs.                     8vo.
     man : comprising the Chief Methods
     of I look and Line Fishing, a glance at    The Dog in Health and
     Nets, and remarks on Boats and Boat        Disease. By Stonehengx. Third
     ing. Post 8vo. Woodcuts, 12s. 6d.          Kdition, with 78 Wood Engravings.
                                                Square crown Svo. Is. bd.
The Fly-Fisher's Ento-                          The Greyhound.
                                                    Stonehenge. Revised Edition,  By
   mology. By Alfred Ronalds.                       25 Portraits of Greyhounds,
                                                     Square crown Svo. 15*.       with
    With 20 Coloured Plates. Svo. 14J.                                             &c

The Dead Shot, or Sports                        A Treatise on the Dis
     man's Complete Guide ; a Treatise on       eases of the Ox ; being a Manual of
     the Use of the Gun, with Lessons in        Bovine Pathology specially adapted for
    the Art of Shooting Game of All Kinds,      the use of  BVeytJe. rIinI.arSytePeral,ctMit.ioRn.Cer.sV.aSn.d
     and Wild-Fowl, also Pigeon-Shooting,       Students.
      and Dog-Breaking. By MARKSMAN.            F.Z.S. With 2 Plates and 1 16 Wood
     Fifth Edition, with 13 Illustrations.
      Crown Svo. 10/. bd.                       cuts. 8vo. 15*.
WORKS published by LONGMANS cV CO.

Stables and Stable Fit                     A Plain Treatise on
    tings. By W. Miles. Imp. 8vo.              Horse-shoeing. By W. Miles. Post
     with 13 Plates, 15r.                       8vo. Woodcuts, 2s. 6d.

The Horse's Foot, and                      Remarks on Horses'
                                           Teeth, addressed to Purchasers.                       By
    How to keep it Sound. By W.            W. Miles. Post Svo. is. 6d.
    Miles. Imp. 8vo. Woodcuts, 12s. (xi.

WORKS of UTILITY and GENERAL,

                INFORMATION.

Maunder's Biographical                     Black's Practical Trea
Treasury. Reconstructed with 1,700             tise on Brewing ; with Formulae for
additional Memoirs, by W. L. R.                 Public Brewers and Instructions for
Cates. Fcp. Svo. 6s.                            Private Families. Svo. 10s. 6d.

Maunder's Treasury of                      The Theory of the Mo
Natural History ; or, Popular Dic
tionary of Zoology. Fcp. 8vo. with         dem    Scientific             Game    of Whist
900 Woodcuts, 6s.                          By   W. Pole,                 F.R.S.
                                                                                   Thirteenth

Maunder's Treasury of                      Edition. Fcp. Svo. 2s. 6d.

    Geography, Physical, Historical,       The Correct Card; or,
    Descriptive, and Political. With 7     How to             Play   at Whist    C; aampWrheilslt-
     Maps and 16 Plates. Fcp. Svo. 6s.                           By  Major A.
                                           WCataeclhriesmr,.  F.R.G.S. Fourth Edition.
Maunder's Historical
Treasury ; Outlines of Universal His       Fcp. 8vo. 2s. 6d.
tory, Separate Histories of all Nations.
Revised by the Rev. Sir G. W. Cox,         The Cabinet Lawyer; a
Bart. M.A. Fcp. 8vo. 6s.                        Popular Digest of the Laws of England,
                                                Civil, Criminal, and Constitutional.
Maunder's Treasury of                           Twenty-Fifth Edition. Fcp. 8vo. 9s.
Knowledge and Library of Refer
ence ; comprising an English Diction       Chess Openings. ByF.W.
ary and Grammar, Universal Gazetteer,           Longman, Balliol College, Oxford.
Classical Dictionary, Chronology, Law           New Edition. Fcp. 8vo. zs. 6d.
Dictionary, &c. Fcp. 8vo. 6s.
                                           Pewtner's Compre
Maunder's Scientific and                       hensive Specifier; a Guide to the
Literary Treasury ; a Popular En                Practical Specification of every kind of
cyclopaedia of Science, Literature, and         Building- Artificer's Work. Edited by
Art. Fcp. 8vo. 6s.                             W. Young. Crown 8vo. 6s.

The Treasury of Botany,                    Cookery and Housekeep
or Popular Dictionary of the Vegetable
Kingdom. Edited by   FJ..L.SLi.ndWleiyth,  ing ; a Manual of Domestic Economy
                                           fHorenLarrygeRaenedveS.malTl hFiardmiliEedsi.tionB,y  Mrs.
F.R.S. andT. Moore,                                                                              with
274 Woodcuts and 20 Steel Plates.
Two Parts, fcp. 8vo. 12s.                  8 Coloured Plates and 37 Woodcuts.
                                           Crown 8vo. Js. 6d.
The Treasury of Bible
Knowledge ; a Dictionary of the            Modern Cookery for Pri
Books, Persons, Places, and Events, of     vate Families, reduced to a System
which mention is made in Holy Scrip        of Easy Practice              a Series of
ture. By the Rev. J. Ayre, M.A.                                      in               carefully-
Maps, Plates and Woodcuts. Fcp.            tested Receipts.              By Eliza
                                                                                       Acton.
8vo. 6s.                                   With upwards of 150 Woodcuts. Fcp.
                                           Svo. 4 c. 6r/.
            WORKS published by LONGMANS &- CO.                                                                     21

Food and Home Cookery.                                       Health in the House ;
                                                                  Lectures on Elementary Physiology in
     A Course of Instruction in Practical                         its Application to the Daily Wants of
                                                                  Man and Animals. By Mrs. BucKTON.
      Cookery and Cleaning, for Children in                       Crown Svo. Woodcuts, 2s.
      Elementary Schools. By Mrs. BuCK-
                                                             Economics for Beginners
     ton. Crown 8vo. Woodcuts, 2s.
                                                                By H. D. Maclkod, M.A Small
Bull's Hints to Mothers
     on the Management of their Health                           crown 8vo. is. 6d.
      during the Period of Pregnancy and in
      the Lying-in Room. Fcp. 8vo. It. 6d.                   The Elements of Econo
                                                                  mics. By H. D. Macleod, M.A.
Bull on the Maternal                                             In 2 vols. Vol. I. crown 8vo. js. 6d.
      Management of Children in Health
      and Disease. Fcp. 8vo. is. 6d.                         The Elements of Bank

American Farming and                                             ing. By H. D. Macleod, M.A.
     Food. By FlNLAY Dun. Crown
     8vo. io/. 6d.                                                Fourth Edition. Crown Svo. $s.

Landlords and Tenants                                        The Theory and Practice
                                                                 of Banking:. By H. D. Macleod,
     in Ireland. By Finlay Dun. Crown                             M.A. 2 vols. 8vo. 26s.

       8vo. 6s.                                              The Patentee's Manual ;
                                                             a Treatise on the Law and Practice of
The Farm Valuer. By                                          Letters Patent, for the use of Patentees
    John Scott. Crown 8vo. St.                               and Inventors. By                      J. Johnson and

Rents and Purchases ; or,                                    J. H. Johnson.                         Fourth Edition,
      the Valuation of Landed Property,                      enlarged. 8vo. price ios. 6d.
     Woods, Minerals, Buildings, &c. By
    John Scott. Crown 8vo. 6s.                               Willich's Popular Tables
                                                             Arranged in a New Form, giving Infor
Economic Studies. By                                         mation &c. equally adapted for the Office
                                                             and the Library.         9th Edition,
    the late Walter Bagehot, M.A.                                                      Crown 8vo.             edited
    Edited by R. H. Hutton. 8vo. ios. 6d.                    by M. Marriott.                                  ios.

                                         INDEX.

Abbey &* Overton's English Church History               14   Atelier (The) du Lys                             ...  18
Abney's Photography                                     10   Atherstone Priory                                     18
Acton's Modem Cookery                                   20   Autumn Holidays of a Country Parson
Alpine Club Map of Switzerland                               Ayrt's Treasury of Bible Knowledge                      7
       -- Guide (The)                                   17                                                         20
                                                        17
--Amos'  s  jurisprudence
            Primer of the                                 5
                           Constitution                   5  Bacon's Essays, by Whattly                               5
           50 Years of English Constitution               5              Life and Letters, by Spedding
Anderson's Strength of Materials                        10               Works                                ...     5
Armstrong's Organic Chemistry                           10                                                            5
Arnolds (Dr. ) Lectures on Modern History                 2  Bagthot's Biographical Studies
                                                         6                    Economic Studies                       4
                      Miscellaneous Works                            Literary Studies                              ar
                                                        15
            Sermons                                      6   Bailey's Festus. a Poem                                  6
                                                         6
              (T.) English Literature                        Bain's  JaMmenetsalMainlldanMdorJa. l  S. Mill        18
                                  Poetry and Prose ...   9                                           Science
                                                                     on the Senses and Intellect                    4
Amotfs Elements of Physics                                                                                          5

                                                                                                                      5
22 WORKS published by LONGMANS 6* CO.

Bain's Emotions and Will                                  5  Critical Essays of a Country Parson                       7
Baker's Two Works                                            Culley's Handbook of Telegraphy.                         13
Balls Alpine Guides  on  Ceylon                         17   Curteis's Macedonian Empire
                                                                                                                       3
Balls Elements of Astronomy                             17
Barry on Railway Appliances                             10

           & Bramwcll on Railways, &c                   10   Davidson's New Testament
Bauerman's Mineralogy
                                                        13   Dead Shot                                                14
                                                        10   De Caisne
Beaconsfield 's (Lord) Novels and Tales 17 & 18                          a(nTdheL) e     Maouts                       19
                                                                                                  Botany              11
                                                             DDDDceuixwnocT'nsso''cssAqmuLReieufvreriilcaleaal'nnsBdirDFldaeertmmLteioifnrcesgracoyafnSditn.FAoPmoaduelrica.1..1&1219154
                     Speeches                           1
                                                        6
                     Wit and Wisdom
Becker's Charicles and Gallus
Beesly's Gracchi, Marius, and Sulla                     7    Irish Land Tenure                                        ai
                                                        3
Bingham's Bonaparte Marriages
Black's Treatise on Brewing                              4
                                                        20

Blackley's German-English Dictionary                      7  Eastlake's Hints on Household Taste                      13
Bloxam's Metals                                         10   Edmonds's Elementary Botany                              11
Bolland and Lang's Aristotle's Politics                      Ellicotts Scripture Commentaries                         15
Boultbe--c 1onHi3s9toAryrticolfesthe English Church...    5                Lectures on Life of Christ                 15
Bourne's Works on the Steam Engine                      15   Elsa and her Vulture                                     18
Bowdler's Family Shakespeare                            14   Epochs of Ancient History
Brabournc s Fairy-Land                                  14               English History                                3
                                                        19                  Modem        History                        3
                                                        18               History of      Israel                         3
                                                                                                                      15
         Higgledy-Piggledy                              18   Ewalds                                                   15
nBram ley-Moore's Six Sisters of the Valleys . 18
                                                                         Antiquities of Israel                        13
Brandt's Diet, of Science, Literature, & Art                                                                          13
Brassey's British Navy                                                                                                13
. Sunshine and Storm in the East .                      13   Fairbairn's Applications of Iron
                                                        17                       Information for Engineers             7
                Voyage in the ' Sunbeam'                                      Mills and Millwork                      19
Bray's Elements of Morality                             17                                                            19
                                                        16   Farrar's Language and Languages
                                                             Fitzwygram on Horses                                      2
Browne's Exposition of the 39 Articles                  15   Francis's Fishing Book                                    4
Brownings Modern England                                     Freeman's Historical Geography                             1
Buckle's History of Civilisation                          3  Froude's Caesar                                            1
                                                          2                                                            6
                                                                          English in Ireland                           4
Buckton's Food and Home Cookery                         21                History of England
         Health in the House                                                Short Studies
--Suits  Hints to                             12&21
         Maternal                                                           Thomas Carlyle
--                 Mothers     of Children.             21
                   Management                           21

Burgomaster's Family (The)                              18

Cabinet Lawyer                                          20
Calvert's Wife's Manual                                 16
Capes's Age of the Antonines                                 Gairdner's Houses of Lancaster and York                  3
         Early Roman Empire                               3  Ganot's Elementary Physics
CarlyW s Reminiscences                                    3                                                           9
Cates' s Biographical Dictionary                         4               Natural Philosophy                           9
                                                         4   Gardiner's Buckingham and Charles I. ...                 a
                                                        19               Personal Government of Charles I. a
Cayley's Iliad of Homer                                   7              Fall of ditto
Changed Aspects of Unchanged Truths ...                   2                                                           a
                                                        16               Outline of English History ... 2
Chesney's Waterloo Campaign                                              Puritan Resolution
Christ our Ideal                                          3              Thirty Years' War                            3
Church' s Beginning of the Middle Ages ...              16               (Mrs.) French Revolution
Colenso's Pentateuch and Book of Joshua .                                                                             3
Commonplace Philosopher                                   7                              StruggleagainstAbsolute      3
                                                          4
Comte's Positive Polity                                 15      Monarchy                                                3
Conder's Handbook to the Bible                          19   Goethe's Faust, by Birds                                 18

Conington' s Translation of Virgil's i^neid             iS               by Selss                                     18
                                                                         by Webb
. Pro^e Translation of Virgil's                           7                                                           18
                                                        15
Poems                                                   11   Goodeve's Mechanics                                      10

Contanseau' s Two French Dictionaries ...                 7                  Mechanism                                13
Conybeare and Howson's St. Paul                           3  Gore's Electro-Metallurgy                                10
                                                          3  Gospel
Cotta on Rocks, by Lawrence                               3  Grant's  (The) for          the Nineteenth  Century   .  16
                                                          3           Ethics of           Aristotle
Counsel and Comfort from a City Pulpit...                 3  Graver Thoughts of a Country Parson                        5
Cox's (G. W.) Athenian Empire                           14
                                                          3  Greville's  AJolguerbnraal  and  Trigonometry             7
, Crusades                                                3  Griffin's
                         Greeks and Persians            14   Grove on Correlation of Physical Forces...                 1
                                                             Gwilt's Encyclopaedia of Architecture                    10

Creighton's Age of Elizabeth                                                                                           9
--'          England a Continental Power                                                                              13
         -- Papacy during the Reformation
·^--     Shilling History of England ...

         Tudors and the Reformation                          Hale's Fall of the Stuarts                  of Shake     3
Cresy's Encyclopaedia of Civil Engineering                   Halliwell-Phillipps s Outlines                           4

                                                                speare's Life
                        WORKS published by LONGMANS &· CO.                                                                                -3

Hartwig's               Works  on  Natural     History,               II   Macalister s Vertebrate Animals                                  10
   &c                                                   IO&                Macaulay s (Lord) Essays
Hassatfs Climate of San Remo                                                                                                                  X
                                                                      17                               History of England ...                z
                                                                                                     Lays, Illus. Edits. ...12 & 18
                                                                                                              Cheap Edition... 18
Haughtow's Physical Geography                                         10                  --------1 ----
Hayward's Selected Essays                                               6                            Life and Letters
/leer's Primeval World of Switzerland
                                                                      11                                                                    4

Helmholtz s Scientific Lectures                                       9    ------ - Miscellaneous Writings                                  6
Hcrschcts Outlines of Astronomy                                       8                       ^--^-- Speeches
                                                                                                       Works                                6I
}/ofkins's Christ the Consoler                                        16                             Writings, Selections from 6
Horses and Roads                                                           MacCulIagh's Tracts
                                                                      19   McCarthy's Epoch of Reform                                       9
f/owi It's Visits to Remarkable Places                                19   McCulloch's Dictionary of Commerce                               3
Nullah's History of Modern Music                                      11                                                                    8
           Transition Period
                                                                      11

Hume's Essays                                                         6    Macfarren on Musical Harmony                                     12
            Treatise on Human Nature                                  6    Maclcod--s            Economical           Philosophy
                                                                                                 Economics           for Beginners            5
                                                                                                                                            21

Ihne's Rome to its Capture by the Gauls...                                                       Elements of Banking                        21
         History of Rome
                                                                        3                        Elements of Economics                      21
Ingclorw's Poems                                                        2                        Theory and Practice of Banking 21
                                                                      18   Macnamara's Himalayan Districts
                                                                           Mademoiselle Mori                                                i137

Jagds Inorganic Chemistry                                             12   Mahaffy's Classical Greek Literature                              3
J'Jeanmkeisnosn'sESleacctrreidcitaynadndLeMgeangdnaertyismArt         12   Marshman's Life of Havelock                                       4
Jerrold's Life of Napoleon                                            10   Martineau's Christian Life                                       16

Johnson's Normans in Europe                                            I                      Hours of Thought                              16
                 Patentee's Manual
                                                                        3                        Hymns                                    16
Johnston's Geographical Dictionary                                    21   Maunder s Popular Treasuries                                   20
Juhes's New Man                                                            Maxwells Theory of Heat                                        10
                                                                        8  May's History of Democracy
              Second Death                                                                                                                  1
            Types of Genesis                                          15            History of England                                      1
                                                                      16   Melville's (Whyte) Novels and Talcs                            18

                                                                      15   Mendelssohn s Letters                                            4
                                                                           Merivale's Fall of the Roman Republic                            a
Kalisch's Bible Studies                                                                                                             ...     a
                 Commentary on the Bible                                   ---- General History of Rome
                 Path and Goal                                        15              -- Roman Triumvirates                                 3
                                                                      15                   Romans under the Empire                          3
Keary's Outlines of Primitive Belief                                       MMeilreris/SoenltfsHorAsrei'tshmFeotoict
Keller's Lake Dwellings of Switzerland....                             5                                             and  Mensuration...  10
                                                                       6                                             and  Horse Shoeing
Kerts Metallurgy, by Crootts and Riihrig.                             11                                                                  19
                                                                           MMiilllls(Jo.n)     Horse's Teeth and          Stables         19
                                                                      14                       on the Mind
                                                                                                                                           4
                                                                                          (J.   S.) Autobiography
Landscapes, Churches, &c                                                                             Dissertations        &  Discussions    755554555 54
Latham's English Dictionaries                                         7                       '
                                                                      7                          --  Essays on       Religion             15
              Handbook of English Language                            7                              Hamilton's       Philosophy
Lecky's History of England                                            1                              Liberty
---- -- European Morals
------Lead^e--rs^--of   Rationalism                                   2                              Political Economy
                        Public Opinion                                2
                                                                                                     Representative Government
                                                                      4                              Subjection of Women
Leisure Hours in Town                                                 7                              System of Logic
Leslie's Political and Moral Philosophy                        ...    6
Lessons of Middle Age                                                                                Unsettled Questions
Lewis's History of Philosophy                                         7                              Utilitarianism
                                                                      2    Millard" Grammar of Elocution
                                                                                              s

Lewis on Authority                                                    6    ----Mi--lle^r--'s  Elements of Chemistry                          13
LLiidnd, IelellyxaaAnd                                                                         Inorganic Chemistry                  10&12
                        Scott's Greek-English   Lexicons                8  --                 Wintering in the Riviera
                        Moore's Treasury of    Botany ...             20                                                                n17

----Lloyd's Magnetism                                                   9  Milner's Country Pleasures                                        14
            Wave-Theory of Light                                        9  Mitchells Manual of Assaying                                      18
--Longman's (F. W.) Chess Openings                                    20
                                 Frederic the Great                        Modern Novelist's Library
      -- German Dictionary                                             3   Monet's Logic
                                                               ...      7  Monselts Spiritual Songs                                         6 7 733 5
                        (W.) Edward the Third                           2  Moore's Irish Melodies, Illustrated Edition                    16
---- ^--                Lectures on History of England                 2                                                                  12
                                                                                       Lalla Rookh, Illustrated Edition..                 13
                        St. Paul's Cathedral                          12   Morris's Age of Anne
    Encyclop--ae--dia-- --of       Agriculture                  ...
^-- ------Loudon's                 Gardening.                  ..11&  14   Motley's Reminiscences of Oriel College...
                                                                      14   Mailer's Chips from a German Workshop.
                                   Plants
Luiiock's Origin of Civilisation                                      11                 Hibbcrt Lectures on Religion ...                 16

Ludlow's American War of Independence                                 11                      Science of language
Lyra Germanica                                                                                Science of Religion
                                                                       3                                                                  16
                                                                      16
                                                                                              Selected Essays
24 WORKS published by LONGMANS <j> CO.

Neison on the Moon                                       8   Southey's Poetical Works                                             19
Nevile's Horses and Riding                              19                   cV Bowles's Correspondence
New Testament (The) Illustrated                         12                                                                        n4
Newman's Apologia pro Vita Sua                               Stanley's Familiar History of Birds
Nicols's Puzzle of Life                                  3   Steel on Diseases of the Ox                                          19
Northcoll's Lathes & Turning                            11   Stephen's Ecclesiastical Biography                                     4
                                                        13   Stonehenge, Dog and Greyhound
                                                             Stubbs's Early Plantagenets                                          19
Oliphant's In Trust                                     17   Sunday Afternoons, by A. K. H.B                                        3
Orsi's Fifty Years' Recollections                        4                                                                          7
Our Little Life, by A. K. H. B                           7   Supernatural Religion                                                16
Overton's Life, &c. of Law                               4   Swinburne's Picture Logic
Owen's (R.) Comparative Anatomy and                                                                                                 5
                                                        10
   Physiology of Vertebrate Animals                     10   Tancoch's England during the Wars,
                    Experimental Physiology ...
                                                          6     1765-1820      of  India                                           3
          (J.) Evenings with the Skeptics ...                Taylor's History                                                      2
                                                             Ancient and Modern History ...
                                                             (Jeremy) Works, edited by Eden                                        3
                                                             Text-Books of Science                                                16
Perry's Greek and Roman Sculpture                                                                                                 10
Payen's Industrial Chemistry                           12    Thomi's Botany                                                       10
Pewtner's Comprehensive Specifier                            Thomson's Laws of Thought
Piesse's Art of Perfumery                              13                                                                          6
Pole's Game of Whist                                   20
Powelts Early England                                        TThhoorrppee'sanQduaMntuitiart'isveQuAanliatalytisvies Analysis ...  10
                                                       14    Three in Norway                                                      10
Preece & Sivewright's Telegraphy                       20
Present-Day Thoughts                                                                                                              16
Proctor's Astronomical Works                             3   Thudichum s Annals of Chemical Medicine 12
. Scientific Essays                                    10
Public Schools Atlases                                       Tilden's Chemical Philosophy                                         10
                                                         7
                                                             Practical Chemistry                                                  12
                                                   8 &x9i
                                                             Todd on Parliamentary Government                                     2-
                                                          8  Trench's Realities of Irish Life
                                                             Trez-elyan's Life of Fox                                             6
                                                                                                                                  i.
                                                             Trollope's Warden and Barchester Towers 18
                                                             Twiss's Law of Nations
                                                                                                                                  5
                                                             TyndaWs (Professor) Scientific Works... g& 10
Rawlinson' s Ancient Egypt                                2
                Sassanians                                2
Recreations of a Country Parson
Rene's Cooker)' and Housekeeping                          7  Unawares                                                             18
Reynolds's Experimental Chemistry                       20   Unwin's Machine Design                                               10
                                                        12   Ure's Arts, Manufactures, and Mines ......
Puh's Dictionary of Antiquities                              Ville on Artificial Manures.,                                        14
Rivers' s Orchard House                                 n7
                Rose Amateur's Guide                                                                                              ,
Rogers's Eclipse of Faith and its Defence               11
Rogets English Thesaurus                                     Walker on Whist
Ronalds' Fly-Fisher's Entomology                        15   Walpole's History of England
                 Rise of the                              7  Warburton's Edward the Third
--R--owley--'s  Settlement    People               ...       Watson's Geometery                                                   20
                              of the Constitution       19   Watts' s Dictionary of Chemistry                                       1
                                                          3  Webb's Celestial Objects                                               3
Rutley's Study of Rocks
                                                        lo3  Weld's Sacred Palmlands                                              1
                                                             Wellington's Life, by Gleig                                          1
Samuelson's Roumania                                    16   Whately's English Synonymes
                                                                                                                                   1
·Stfwrfari'ijustinian's Institutes                        5                 Logic and Rhetoric
Sankey's Sparta and Thebes                                3  White's Four Gospels in Greek
Seaside Musings                                          7
Scott's Farm Valuer                                     21             and Riddle's Latin Dictionaries
                                                        21   Wilcocks's Sea-Fisherman
 ----Rents and Purchases                                  2  Williams's Aristotle's Ethics                  ...                        13
                                                             I Vi llich's Popular Tables
Seebohm's Oxford Reformers of 1498                        3  Wilson's Studies of Modern Mind                                           ij
-- Protestant Revolution                                13   Wood's Works on Natural History
Sennetfs Marine Swam Engine                             16
                Passing Thoughts on Religion       ...  16    Woodward's Geology                                                       at
----Sew--ctts   Preparation for Communion               16                                                                               (
                                                        18                                                                              -:
. Private Devotions                                     10
                Stories and Tales                                                                                                      11
                                                        14
Shelley's Workshop Appliances                             6
Short's Church History                                    8
Smith's (Sydney) Wit and Wisdom                           2  Yonge's English-Greek Lexicons                                             f
           (Dr. R. A.) Air and Rain                          Youatt on the Dog and Horse                                               i<
          (R. B. (Carthage & the Carthaginians            3
                Rome and Carthage                        15
                (J.) Shipwreck of St. Paul
                                                             Zeller's Greek Philosophy ,

                              SpotiisTvoo<le «5r«CV. Printers, Nciv-strttt Sqtiarr, London.

                                                                                   V3 V-                 /
\
                                                                            'PED

THE BORROWER WILL BE CHARGED
AN OVERDUE FEE IF THIS BOOK IS
NOT RETURNED TO THE LIBRARY ON
OR BEFORE THE LAST DATE STAMPED
BELOW. NON-RECEIPT OF OVERDUE
NOTICES DOES NOT EXEMPT THE
BORROWER FROM OVERDUE FEES.

     Harvard College Widener Library
Cambridge. MA 021 38 (61 7) 495-241 3

                                                     9

