Life of Sir William E. Logan, kt., LL.D., F.R.S., F.G.S., &c., first director
of the geological survey of Canada. Chiefly compiled from his letters,
journals and reports. By Bernard J. Harrington. With steel portrait
and numerous wood-cuts.

Harrington, Bernard J. (Bernard James), 1848-1907.
Montreal, Dawson brothers, 1883.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.b4168327

                                          Public Domain in the United States,
                                          Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-us-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain
                                                          in the United States of America. It may not be in the
                                                          public domain in other countries. Copies are provided
                                                          as a preservation service. Particularly outside of the
                                                          United States, persons receiving copies should make
                                                          appropriate efforts to determine the copyright status
                                                          of the work in their country and use the work accordingly.
                                                          It is possible that current copyright holders, heirs or
                                                          the estate of the authors of individual portions of the
                                                          work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert copyrights
                                                          over these portions. Depending on the nature of subsequent
                                                          use that is made, additional rights may need to be obtained
                                                          independently of anything we can address. The digital
                                                          images and OCR of this work were produced by Google,
                                                          Inc. (indicated by a watermark on each page in the
                                                          PageTurner). Google requests that the images and OCR
                                                          not be re-hosted, redistributed or used commercially.
                                                          The images are provided for educational, scholarly,
                                                          non-commercial purposes.
^^^^^^M^HM
                                       <8/o /<r^

I
               LIFE

                                         of

SIR WILLIAM E. LOGAN, Kt.
               LIFE

                                                                 OF

SIR WILLIAM E. LOGAN, Kt,

                           LL.D., K.R.S., F.G.S., &c,
               FIRST DIRECTOR OK THE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY

                                           OV CANADA.

Chiefly Compiled from his Letters, Journals and Reports.

     BERNARD J. Hi ARRINGTON, R.A., Ph. D.,

  PROFESSOR OF MININO IN M'OILL UNIVERSITY ; LATE CHEMIST AND MINERALOGIST
                                  TO THE OKOLOOICAL SURVEY OF CANADA.

        WITH STEEL PORTRAIT AND NUMEROUS WOOD-CUTS.

                       MONTREAL
    DAWSON BROTHERS, PUBLISHERS.

                                                        188U
                                      u 1H*

                                                   Earth

                                                         «LClB'ERNACRyEaS

Entered according to Act of Parliament by Dnwson Brothers in the year 1883 in the
                                 office of the Minister of Agriculture-

                            PRINTED BT THE QAZKTTK PB1KTUIO OOKPAHT, MOKTREAL.
                        PREFACE.

rflHE task of preparing a biography of Sir William

       Logan was not a self-imposed one, and was only
undertaken with feelings of great delicacy. There are
those who knew him longer and more intimately, and
who might have done far better justice to his memory.

But the work having been entrusted to me, I have
endeavoured to discharge it faithfully. My aim has

not been to write a eulogium or yet a lengthy criti
cism of Sir William, but rather to bring together such

of his own words as will recall him to the minds and
hearts of old friends, or enable those who were not
privileged with his acquaintance to form for them
selves an estimate of his character and work.

   Canadians cannot afford to forget the name of one
who laboured so long and so earnestly to promote the

interests of this his native land, and if the folio wine

pages in any way serve to keep green the memory of
Sir William Logan, their compiler will feel more than
repaid. We have plenty of Canadians able and willing

                      M223064
Vi. PREFACE.

to work for themselves, but too few who, like Logan,
are willing to work for Canada.

   My grateful acknowledgments are due to Professor
Geikie, now Director-General of the British Geological
Survey, for information incorporated in the text ; to
Alexander Murray, Esq., C.M.G., Director of the Geo
logical Survey of Newfoundland, for reminiscences of
Sir William ; to Dr. John Percy, F.R.S., of London, for

his estimate of Sir William's work ; to Mr. J. Gwyn

Jeffreys, F.li.S., for the reminiscences given on page
388 ; and to Dr. T. Sterry Hunt, who has kindly given
me the benefit of his advice on a number of points

about which I was in doubt. I would also express

my indebtedness to Dr. Dawson, for notes on the ori
gin of coal, for the use of a number of wood-cuts, and

for his article on the Quebec Group. The latter was

kindly prepared by him to serve for my assistance and

guidance ; but I was unwilling to mutilate
a                                                                                   and

                ;
                                                                     ;

                                              it
                                                                               it,
with his permission have given in full as an Appen

dix (A). My sincere thanks are due to Dr. Selwyn,
Sir William's successor, for the use of note-books and

of number of wood-cuts to Mr. G. R. Grant, one of
Sir William's executors, for his unvarying courtesy
and kindness in placing at my disposal letters, jour
nals, etc. and, among others, to my friend Professor C.
E. Moyse, of McGill College, for advice and assistance
in revising the proof sheets of the earlier chapters
PREFACE.  vir.

   The information concerning the origin of the Geolo
gical Survey of Canada is chiefly derived from ScobieV
Almanac. Most of the illustrations scattered through
the volume are copies of pen-and-ink sketches with
which the pages of Sir William's note-books and jour
nals abound. They have been reproduced on wood by
Mr. W. H. Walker, of Montreal. The steel portrait
forming the frontispiece is from a photograph by
Notman, taken in 1869. It represents Sir William in

his graver moments, and fails to give an idea of the
humour and brightness which so often pervaded his

countenance.
                   CONTENTS.

                                       CHAPTER I.  PAOI
BIRTH AND BOYHOOD,                                      1

                   CHAPTER II.                       12
                                                     32
LIFE IN LONDON,                                      52
                                                    62
                                  CHAPTER HI.        72
LIFE IN LONDON (Continued),

                                      CHAPTER IV.
COPPER-SMELTING AND COAL-MINING

                   CHAPTER V.

STIGMABIA,

                   CHAPTER VI.

CANADA REVISITED,
x. CONTENTS.                                      PAGE
                                                    101
                                 CHAPTER VII.
PENNSYLVANIA AND NOVA SCOTIA

                                CHAPTER VIII.     . 122
ORIGIN OF THE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY OF CANADA,

                                     CHAPTER IX.  143
3ASPK EXPLORATIONS, 1843,

                                     CHAPTER X.   177
GASPS EXPLORATIONS, 1844,

                                 CHAPTER XI.      227
EVENTS IN 1846 AND 1846,                          254

EVENTS OF 1846-53,  CHAPTER XII.

                                        :

                              CHAPTER XIII.

THE SELECT COMMITTEE ON THE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY, 282

                                    CHAPTER XIV.  . 297
THE PARIS EXPOSITION OF 1855, AND ITS FRUITS,

                    CHAPTER XV.

AMERICAN ASSOCIATION. -- LAURENTIAN. -- QUEBEC
GROUP,
                                                  324
                 CONTEXTS.                            xi.

                 CHAPTER XVI.

EXHIBITION OF 1862.-- PRECARIOUS EXISTENCE OP THE     PAGE

SURVEY.-- EOZOON CANADENSE,     . . . .346

                 CHAPTER XVII.

CLOSING YEARS                                         382

APPENDIX A.-- THE QUEBEC GROUP. By Principal Dawson,

C.M.G., F.R.S.,                                       403

APPENDIX B.-- LIST OF PAPERS, REPORTS, &c.  , .419
   .....LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.                  Frontitpiece.

PORTRAIT OF SIR W. E. LOGAN, from a Photograph
      by Notman, taken in 1869,

                                 WOODCUTS.  ....            PARE
ST GABRIEL STREET CHURCH IN 1839,                               3

CLARKSTONE, from a Sepia Drawing l>y Logan, . to face 27

STIGMARIA ROOTS OF ERECT SIGILLARIA. After Dawson, 63

SIGILLARIA, WITH STIGMARIA ROOTS. After R. Brown, . 69

ISLE PERCEE, sketched from the Steamer " Unicorn." (Logans  77

       Journal, 1840),

INCLINED PLANE ON THE PHILADELPHIA AND BALTI                105
     MORE RAILWAY, LOOKING DOWN TOWARDS PHILA
     DELPHIA. (Logan's Journal, 1841)

AMPHIBIAN FOOTPRINTS, DISCOVERED BY LOGAN AT
HORTON BLUFF, NOVA SCOTIA. After Dawson, .      .117

MY TENT. (Logans Journal, 1843)                             152

LITTLE BON AMI COVE, SHOWING CLIFFS OF THE GA8PE
     LIMESTONE, 700 FEET HIGH. (Logan's Journal, 1843), . 157
..........xrv. LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS.
                                                                                                                                                   PAfiR

SUPPOSED WORM-TRACKS FROM GASPE SANDSTONE. After
Logan,                                                161

SECTION NEAR MOUTH OF GRAND RIVER, GASPE After
.168Logan,
        .        .  .  .        .   .  .  .  .

SKETCH AT CAPE MAQUEREAU, NEAR JUNCTION OF
LOWER AND UPPER SILURIAN. (Note Book, 1843),
                                                      169

NEAR CAPE CHATTE, LOWER ST. LAWRENCE. (Logans

Journal, 1844),                                       187

VIEW ON THE CHATTE. (Logan's Journal, 1844), . . 195

PORTRAIT OF LOUIS. (Logan's Journal, 1844), . . .207

PILLAR SANDSTONES OF TOURELLE, LOWER ST. LAW    .217

RENCE. (Note Book, 1844),

BEDS OF CORRUGATED LIMESTONE IN SHALE, CAPE

GASPE. (Geology of Canada, p. 392)                    220

RESTORATION      BY DR. DAWSON OF PSILOPHYTON
      PRINCEPS,
                                                                                                             225

COLUMNAR TRAP IN UPPER COPPER-BEARING        SERIES.

       (Note Book, 1846),                             248

TRACKS FROM BEAUHARNOIS. (Geology of Canada, p. 104), 273

VIEW ON THE ST. LAWRENCE, NEAR QUEBEC. (Note

Book, 1854),                                          277

PITCHER PLANT. (Logan's Journal),                     280

HAMILTON'S FARM, ON THE RIVER ROUGE. (Note Book,

1858),                                                330

AN ERRATIC, sketched by Logan,                        337

CONTORTED GNEISS BANDS IN LIMESTONE. (Geology of

Canada, p. 27)                                        340
LIST OF ILL US TRA TIONS.                           XV.

GRAPTOLITKS FROM THE QUEBEC GROUP . . .3P4AC2E

EOZOON CANADENSIS. (Dawson-- The " Dawn of life,")  . 366

EOZOON CANADENSE. After Dawson,                     367

KOCKFIELD, SIR WILLIAM'S RESIDENCE AT "LOGAN'S
FARM.' From a Photograph by Henderson,
                                        . to face 380
                     CHAPTER I.

                              BIRTH AND BOYHOOD.

TN the County and Parish of Stirling, not far from the

-*· old Castle of that name, there lived, more than a
century ago, one James Logan. He was married to
Miss Margaret Edmond of the same neighbourhood, and
between 1756 and 1772 she bore him six sons and three
daughters. But death made sad inroads upon his
household, taking one after another of his little ones
from him, until but two sons and two daughters
remained. William, the elder of the surviving sons,
was born in the Parish of Stirling on the twenty-fourth
of September, 1759, while Hart, the youngest of the
family, was born on the twelfth of January, 1772.
According to the records of the Parish of Stirling, the
father was a burgess, and followed the calling of
"baxter," or baker. But, like many other Scotchmen,
he thought to better his fortunes in the New World,
and, taking his wife and two sons with him, sailed for
America, probably about 1784. He found his way to
Montreal, established a large bakery there, and, with
wise forethought, purchased considerable property in
2  PARENTAGE AXD BIRTH.                           [1794-98.

the vicinity of the city. In the last decade of the
century we find him comfortably settled on his farm,
his elder son managing the bakery, while the younger
was carrying on a prosperous importing trade.*

   In the spring of 1794, Miss Janet E. Edmond, of
" Conniehill," near Stirling, niece of Mrs. James Logan,

left her Scottish home, and more than one admiring

suitor, for Canada. Hither she came to be married to

her cousin, Mr. AVilliam Logan. Years before they had
been more than friends in the old country, and now
were to be more than lovers in the new. Husband and

wife, father and mother, the time-honoured sequence
was theirs, and, as years rolled on, they became the
parents of nine children, five sons and four daughters.

The third child, the subject of the present memoir, was
born at Montreal on the 20th. of April, 1708, duly
" inoculated for small-pox," and christened as William
Edmond Logan on the 16th. of the following month, in
the quaint little Presbyterian church which still stands
on St. Gabriel Street.

   The father seems to have fully appreciated the value

   * It has been frequently stated that Sir William Logan's grandfather was

one of the Loyalists who, at the time of the American Revolution, retained

their allegiance to the British Crown, and that he then removed from the

neighbourhood of Schenectady, New York, to Montreal. Of this, however,

wo have not been able to find any good evidence.  Sir William's

grandfather and father were both born in Scotland, and we know that the

family still resided there in 1772, and also that they were living in

Montreal in 1785. Shortly after returning to Scotland in 1815, Sir
William's father wrote to Mr. John Catanach, of Montreal, as follows: --

"It is vain for me to attempt to describe with what emotions I first set

foot on my native shores after an absence of more than thirty-one years.

It would require a long winter night to tell you all the ideas that rushed
upon my mind at that moment, and I must decline the task." From this

it would appear that he had left his " native shores " about 1784.
SKAKEL'S SCHOOL.  3

of education, .and sent William and his brothers to an
excellent school kept by Mr. Alexander Skakel, after
wards head-master of the Royal Grammar School, on
Little St. James Street. Skakel and his school are still

remembered by not a few of the citizens of Montreal.
He was a determined Scotchman, and, like many a
schoolmaster of his day and generation, was thoroughly
acquainted with the art of flogging. But he was also a

                                   ST. OABRIEL STREET CHURCH, IN 1839.

good classical scholar, and trained his pupils well.
Under him young Logan seems to have progressed
satisfactorily, and to have acquired among other things
a capacity for thrashing boys bigger than himself.
"Whether he had learned all that his Montreal master
had to teach him we are not told, but, at any rate, in
4  EDINBURGH HIGH SCHOOL.  [isu.

1814, the father determined to send both him and his
brother Hart to the High School at Edinburgh, in order

that they might have opportunities for acquiring more

varied knowledge.
   The Edinburgh High School was then in the zenith

of its reputation. There were no great public schools
in Scotland answering to the English type of Eton,
Harrow, or Rugby ; but the Edinburgh Seminary stood
forth above all the other schools of the country with a
kind of natural character. Many of the most distin
guished Scotsmen of the day had been educated within

its walls --Sir Walter Scott, Lord Brougham, Lord

Jeffrey, Dugald Stewart, Francis Horner, and others.
One of its distinguishing features was the wide social
range from which its pupils were drawn. Side by side
on the same forms sat the sons of noblemen and of

tradesmen. Future lawyers destined to rise to the
highest legal offices in the country, soldiers whose
names are now household words among us, clergymen
who have since become leaders of thought among their
fellow-men, were on terms of the closest daily intimacy
and friendship with those for whom fate had reserved
no more ambitious career than that of humble shop
keepers. The position of the school, in the heart of the

Old Town, likewise favoured a less friendly intercourse

with the boys of the poorer part of the population. In

near neighbourhood lay the Cowgate and other densely

inhabited thoroughfares, always ready to furnish plenty
of idle lads, with whom the High School boys could
wage the "Bickers," so graphically described by Sir
Walter Scott in his autobiography. The training given
JAMES PILLANS.  5

at the school was mainly classical, and was placed in

the hands of fonr masters and a rector. When a boy
entered he began in what was termed the first class.
He was carried by the same master onward in successive
years into the second, third and fourth classes, after
which he passed under the care of the rector for two

years. Accordingly a complete curriculum lasted six
years, after which the pupils were ready for the

University.

   It was in the autumn of 1814 that young "William and

his brother Hart were taken over to Edinburgh by their
uncle, Mr. Hart Logan, whose business required him to
make frequent voyages across the Atlantic. On presenting
themselves at the High School they were found to be
sufficiently well grounded to enter the rector's class at

once, without passing through the preliminary years
The rector at that time was James Pillans, afterwards
Professor of Latin in the University, and one of the most
advanced teachers of his day. He was a man of elegant
literary taste, full of enthusiasm in the cause of education,
and gifted with a power of kindling some of his own
fire in the breasts of his pupils. His class at the time
numbered over two hundred boys, and the Logans were
not long members of it before William gained the
enviable position of dux. The rector soon became fond
of him, and sometimes invited him to his house, an
honour which was fully appreciated. Learning on one
occasion that his pupil's great ambition was causing
him to burn the midnight oil, he took occasion to
admonish him on the folly of sacrificing health even to

learning.
6 A FAMILY MIGRATION  [wis.

   But the sending of two of his boys to Edinburgh was
only the beginning of a more general migration which
the father had been meditating for years. The old
people at the farm had gone to their rest;* business
had prospered, and wealth accumulated; the brother,

too, having been most successful as a Montreal merchant,
had transferred the headquarters of his business to
London, and established a large counting-house at 44
Cross Street, Finsbury Square. What more natural,
then, than that he should return to the land of his

early associations, live at ease, and give his family the
advantages, social and educational, which a new country
could not afford ! Leaving his eldest son, James, to look
after his interests in Montreal, he sailed from Quebec,
with his wife and remaining children, on the 14th. of
August, 1815, and reaching Greenock on the 17th. of the
following month, proceeded at once to Edinburgh.

   Soon after his arrival there he purchased from Lord

Napier a handsome residence on Queen Street (No. 71),
the situation of which had greatly pleased him. " There
are," he writes, " no houses on the opposite side of the

street, and from it there is possibly one of the finest
views in the country. The West Lothians, the Port of
Leith, the Firth, with the shipping at anchor, and the
coast of Fife, are in full view, and form a most beautiful

and interesting panorama." French and music masters
were obtained to instruct the daughters, while the two
youngest sons, Edmond and Henry, joined their brothers
at the High School, where they also soon took high

   * Mr. James Logan died on the ]5th. of Jannary, 1806, in the 80th. year
of his age ; his wife on the 28tb. of August, 1 803, in her 72nd. year.
1815-16.]  EDUCATION.  n

places. Education was, in fact, at once made the order
of the day. " The boys," writes the father to a friend,

in December, 1815, " are all at the High School, and I

feel proud in giving you an account of their progress.
Willie is frequently dux of the rector's class, in which
there are upwards of two hundred boys, and at last
examination he obtained two prizes. Hart is within a

few places of Willie in the same class, and obtained one

prize. Edmond is in the third class of 130, and only
two from the top. Your little friend Henry is in the
first or lowest class of 200, and has been dux for some

time. The masters are highly pleased with them all."
   In the following August young William wrote to his

brother in Montreal as follows : --
   " The examination of the High School took place on

the 9th. instant, and we were all pretty successful.
At the writing class Edmond was presented by the
Lord Provost with a beautiful silver medal, gilt, with
the following inscription engraved on it : ' Presented

by Alexander Smellie, College Baillie, to Edmond Logan,

for eminent proficiency in penmanship.' He came off
dux in his Latin class also, after remaining in that

honourable place for no less than six months, without

once coming down. He received as a reward lor his

good scholarship ' Goldsmith's Animated Nature,' in

4 vols., with plates. Hart's prize was a book called
' Constellation,' being a collection of select passages in
prose from different authors. And as to myself, for the

Greek, and more particularly for the geography, at

which I was second dux, I received ' Bell's Travels '
from the Rector. For Latin, I was presented by the Lord
8  VISIT TO ABBOTSFORD.  [i8ie-i7.

Provost with ' Bourne's Poems,' in 2 vols. The books

are all most elegantly bound, and have the Edinburgh
coat of arms stamped on their covers. The vacation

continues till the first of October.

   " To make this long reprieve from hard labour pass

pleasantly, I have accepted the invitation of one of my

school-fellows, Archibald Boyd, to spend a few days
with him at his father's estate, near Selkirk, on the

Tweed ; and I intend, at the same time, to pay a visit

to the son of the great poet, Walter Scott, who has
an estate only a few miles distant from the former

gentleman's."

   Scott's estate alluded to here was, of course, Abbotsford,
which, beginning in 1811 with the purchase of a farm
of one hundred acres on the banks of the Tweed,
was now rapidly extending its boundaries. As yet
Scott was not a baronet, nor was his baronial residence
erected ; but he had already made important collections

of historical curiosities, which he took much pleasure in
showing to his guests. During Logan's stay at the home
of his school-fellow, Boyd, in the autumn of 1816, the
two young men paid a visit to Abbotsford, where they
were received with great kindness by the poet, who not
only exhibited his curiosities to their wondering gaze,
but also, with his wonted hospitality, invited them to

dinner.

   On his return to Edinburgh, Logan became a student
in the University, and during the session of 1816-17
attended the classes in logic, chemistry and mathematics.
Among the professors in the University at that time
were John Playfair, the friend and illustrator of Hutton,
1817.]  AT THE UNIVERSITY.  9

and Robert Jamieson, who, as the exponent of Werner's

views in Britain, did so much to excite an interest in

geological speculation. But the teaching of these

probably had nothing to do with Logan's future devotion

to geology. During his one session at college he studied
with great diligence, and obtained the first prize in
mathematics, " with the good-will of all the competitors ."
His success he announced to his brother in Canada in

the following letter :--

                                                               "Edinrurgh, 8M. May, 1817.

  " My Dear Jamie, --If I were to shape out an apology

proportioned to the magnitude of my fault, four pages

would be scarcely sufficient to contain all that ought to
be said in extenuation of my negligence in not writing

to you before this ; but, indeed, I have not the shadow
of an expuse to offer. It would not do to say that my

classes and studies engaged the whole of my time. No ;

for had I been ever so much occupied by them, I might

still have stolen a few hours on a Saturday or Sunday

to write to you. It would not do to say that I had

forgotten you--no, no, that would be making bad worse.
It would be wronging myself; and besides, my mother

has been no way remiss in desiring me to 'write to
Jamie.' In fact, the best thing I can do is to say nothing

more about the matter, but to show by my future

regularity how sincerely penitent I am for my past

delinquency.

  " It is perhaps unnecessary for me to tell you that I

obtained the highest prize at Mr. Nichol's first geometry

class, that my name was inserted in the newspapers, &c. ;

for, if I mistake not, my mother, or Agnes, has told you
 10 DILIGENCE REWARDED.

already, and it is not for me to speak my own praise.
However, as you are a friend, and as it is probable that

you will derive the information from no other source, I

may venture to let you know the inscription engraved

on the quadrant. It is in Latin, as you will see, and
runs thus : --

                       GULIELMO E. LOGAN,

                               QUI ELEM. MATH. STUDEBAT, ANNO 1816-17,

                    ET BUM CLASSI3 FACILE PRINCEPS ERAT, A PR.KCEPTORE,

                                            GUALTKRO NICHOL, A.M., EDIN.

I will not speak of the logic class, for all that I got there

is a certificate ; and as to the chemistry, at it prizes are

never given .

   " It is my intention to send to Mr. Skakel, by the first

convenient opportunity, all the geometrical propositions
that were done at Mr. Nichol's class during the winter,
together with those given to us at the competition.
The number of them is not very great, and most of them

are simple, but it is to be hoped that Mr. Skakel will be

pleased. Perhaps I may also send an edition of Leslie's
Geometry, and an essay which I attempted at the

logic class. . . .

   " All hands here are busily employed in preparing for

my departure for London. . . . Ten days is all the

time that I have now got to spend in Edinburgh, and
this I shall employ in walking about and seeing all

the remarkable buildings in and near the city. For

although I have been three years here, yet I have not

gone through one of them, not even Holyrood House ;

and it would appear somewhat strange if at any time I
were asked what I thought of them, to answer that it
OFF TO LONDON.  11

had never entered into my head to examine them. I
know not yet whether I am to go to London by sea or
land ; bnt, at any rate, when I do go, Agnes is to

accompany me, and no doubt we will both of us be

much surprised and delighted with the wonders and

amusements of that mighty city. My regret on leaving

Edinburgh will be sincere, and although I carry along

with me so pleasing a companion to beguile the journey,
yet my thoughts will often recur to the dear friends

that I have left behind. . . .
  " I remain yours, very sincerely and affectionately,

                                                          ""W. E. Logan."
                   CHAPTER II.

                   LIFE IN LONDON.

IT appears Btrange that with such prospects for success,
     Logan's University career should have been brought

to a close so early. He seems, however, to have made up

his mind to enter upon commercial pursuits, and in this

he was probably encouraged by his uncle, Mr. Hart

Logan. The uncle, as we have seen, had taken up his

residence in London, and established a large counting-

house at 44 Cross Street, Finsbury Square. Fond to a

degree of his nephew, he now received him into his

London office, and gave him every opportunity of
acquainting himself with commercial life. Nor had he

cause to regret it ; for the nephew soon mastered the
details of the business, and released him from many

responsibilities.

For about ten years the great and busy metropolis

was Logan's home, and it is to this period that we must

look if we would obtain a view of many of his traits of

character, which in later life only came to the surface at

intervals.  If,  like his four brothers, he never married,

and if for years he lived much in the seclusion of his

Btudy, or far away from the busy haunts of men, often
CLARKSTONE PURCHASED.  13

with Indians as his sole companions, it was not from
any want of appreciation of domestic comfort or happi

ness, not that to him society was devoid of charms. He

was no misanthrope. But as he advanced in life, the
cause of science, which he had espoused, became more
and more a ruling passion, and often masked his true

nature and disposition.

   When he left Edinburgh in the spring of 1817 the
family still resided in Queen Street, but the father,
whose increasing deafness must have interfered with
his enjoyment of society, soon tired of city life with no
special employment, and in 1820 purchased a small
estate in the country. It was beautifully situated near
the Avon, about twenty miles from Edinburgh, and was
known as Clarkstone. On account of the young people
the town residence was kept up for a time, but it was
finally sold in 1822. At school and college the three
sons continued to be " an honour to all connected with

them." Hart eventually studied law, and made his first
speech at the Bar in 1829 Edmond became a Writer to
the Signet; while Henry, having chosen commerce as
"the road by which he wished to jog through life,"
went to London in 1825, and entered the counting-
house of Messrs. A. Stewart and Westmoreland. James,
the eldest son, remained in Canada, and one and another
of the daughters married and left the parental roof. But
ever and anon Clarkstone became the scene of joyous

family reunions.

   In his younger days Logan was an excellent corres
pondent, and not a few of his letters to other members
of the family have been preserved. As we shall see, they
14 A FOND SON AND BROTHER.

are full of all the warmth of family affection and of the
little details of every-day life, so gratifying to those who
have once daily gathered round the same fireside. But
not satisfied with writing often himself, he frequently
urges his brothers or sisters to do likewise, and sometimes,
by way of encouragement, praises the letters which he
receives : " Let me tell you, without joking," he says to
one of his sisters, " you write a very good letter. You
judge well what topics will please, and you express
them in a lively and agreeable manner. And now that
you have broken the ice that bound the spring of your
correspondence, and its waters are found to be so sweet
and pleasant that he who tastes once will ever thirst

after more, I hope you will not pour them out with a

niggard hand."
   To his brother he says, on one occasion : " Do, my

dear James, send us just a line now and then. You
cannot think how it would gratify us, and of how much
anxiety it would sometimes relieve our good father and

mother " And at another time : " When I was in

Scotland in August, there was a universal complaint at

Clarkstone that you never wrote. I really believe that

the reason of your not doing so is because you conceive
it necessary to take a great deal of pains in putting your
ideas on paper, and thus, making an unnecessary labour
of the matter, you are unwilling to enter upon and
defer from day to day But really you need not mind

what you say, you only say something Nobody

there disposed to criticise, and anyone were, am

sure they would have nothing to find fault with." In
this way, and by regularly causing the letters which he
is

           if
                                 if
                                                     I it,
1817.]  BOYS OF PROMISE.  15

himself received to circulate among other members of
the family he aided in keeping alive that union and
interest in family affairs which so often ceases when the
children grow up and become scattered.

    Portions of some of the letters written to his brother

James during this period are here transcribed as serving

to give a better idea of the man than could any narrative

based upon them :--

                                                              " London, 23rd. August, 1817.

   " My Dear Jamie, -- Agnes and uncle left on the
5th. instant, and got down to Edinburgh safe and sound,
and little fatigued, on the 8th. On the 11th. my father
and uncle set out for Crawford Moors, but owing to the

continual bad weather and incesssant rain, they have

not as yet been able to fire a shot. All the rest of the

family have gone to spend a few months at Kincardine
House, a delightful place which my father has hired for
half a year, near Auchterader, about twelve miles from
Perth.

   " It gives me very great pleasure to inform you that all

the boys, I mean Hart, Edmond and Henry, obtained

prizes at the examination of the High School, Avhich
took place on the 8th. inst. Hart was fifteenth of the

Rector's class, and got as his prize Allen's Demosthenes.
Edmond, of course, was dux of the fourth class, and got

Melmoth's Cicero, in three vols., 8vo., most superbly

and expensively bound. Upon my word I think that

 Edmond is a most astonishing fellow. He has been at
the head of his class, consisting of 180 scholars, ever
since you left England. Henry, poor fellow, was
twenty-fifth of the second class, which, for a boy of
16  RATIONAL AMUSEMENTS.  [i8iT.

his age, is extremely good, considering that the class

contains 230 scholars. For his diligence he got Hunter's
Livy in one volume ; as well as a fishing rod from his

father. . . .

  " I find myself very lonesome at present, and have been

so ever since the departure of my uncle and sister. My

time, however, with one thing and another, is pretty

well filled iip. Part of the day I read Italian and

French, write versions in those languages, and generally

in the evening translate Gil Bias, with Alex. Gillespie,
Jnr., who, by-the-by, is the greatest companion I have
here. Now and then I have a look at Homer and Cicero,
and mathematics is not neglected. Indeed, I carry
on a correspondence with one of my fellow-collegians,

Mr. Cockayne, who resides in the north of England.

He sends me propositions, which, after having solved, I

return to him with the demonstrations, annexing at the

same time propositions to exercise his knowledge of

geometry. This, in my opinion, is a rational and useful

means of keeping up an acquaintance. Sometimes the
flute amuses me, and I hope you have not given up

playing on that instrument. When we meet we must

have some duets together. On Sunday, of course, I go to

church. Uncle has taken two seats in London Wall

Church, where once a week I have the pleasure of

listening to one of the worst preachers that ever wagged

his head in a pulpit.

  "In my uncle's absence I act as his agent. When
letters come to hand, I send him copies of them ; when
bills arrive, I carry them to be accepted ; when drafts
on him from H. L. & Co. make their appearance, I
1824.]  A MOTHERS VISIT.  33

and killed more than all of us put together. My uncle,
agitated by a desire to show how well he could shoot,
shot very ill , Edmond killed right and left, and I, poor

wight ! was obliged to hide my diminished head, lor I

wasted a great deal of powder and lead."

   In the summer of 1825, his mother came to visit her

married daughter near London. Her coming had long
been looked forward to with delight, and the occasion

of her arrival was enthusiastically described by Logan
in one of his long letters to Clarkstone. The letter

shows not only his fondness ior his mother, but also the
interest which he took in the sayings and doings of

children : " It gives me great pleasure," he writes, " to

announce to you the safe arrival oi our good mother.

  I. . found that the steamboat was expected about

noon on Monday ; so all was prepared to receive our

mother at that time. Agnes sent the carriage from

Woodford, and I went down to meet the boat, which
got up to her anchorage about three o'clock. I was in

a small boat on the river, and was the first person who

put foot on board the steam packet ; so that while my

mother was looking towards the shore and straining

her eyes to see if she could distinguish there anyone
she knew, I surprised her by taking hold of her hand.

We soon got ashore and into the carriage, and made a

short journey of it to Woodford, I asking and she

answering many questions, in which you were not
forgotten." Then follows a description of the meeting

at Woodford, and the delight of the children, particu
larly when they found that their grandmother had " no
less than half a dozen parcels " of the good things which

                                                                    3
34 JUVENILE DISPUTANTS.

grandmothers are wont to carry with them when they
"go visiting." "The little ones hnng to her, and called
her all sorts of honeyed names -- ' Dear Grandmamma,'
' Sweet Grandmamma,' ' Pretty Grandmamma,' &c.
So that she looked like the Goddess of Fortune, and

they her votaries, upon whom she bestowed her excel
lent gifts. And as it happens with the big children of
the world, so it happened with them -- the one became

envious of the goods which fortune dispensed to another :
' Your sugar-plum is bigger than mine,' and ' you have

got an almond more than I have,' said Alexander to

Agnes. Then replied Agnes, ' But you have got three

caraway seeds, and I have not got any.' Then came

clamour : ' Grandmamma, give me three caraway
seeds ;' ' Grandmamma, give me an almond ;' ' Mamma,
make Grandmamma give me one of the big ones.'

1 Agnes, you're a very naughty girl ;' ' Alexander, I'll
send you upstairs.' Then came crying ; so that it was
not more than half an hour after Grandmamma's arrival

before she heard how nicely they could tune their
pipes."

   In 1826, his uncle having given him a short leave of

absence, Logan visited Paris for the first time. Passing
through Normandy on his way to the great French
capital, he was much struck by the numerous points
of resemblance between the people of that Province

and the French-Canadian peasants, or habitants, with
whose appearance, manners and customs he had of
course been familiar as a boy in Montreal. Of the
Parisians he shortly after wrote to his brother James as,
follows :--
1826.]  PARIS AND TEE PARISIANS.  35

   " They are the gayest of beings that can be conceived
of-- constantly in search of amusement. In the summer
all the world seems to live in the open air, making use
of houses merely as dormitories. The Boulevards, the

Champs Elysees, the public gardens, the theatre, and all
places of entertainment, are continually frequented by
crowds, eager to participate in such diversions as are
going on. The male part of the population dresses ill,

and cuts but a sorry figure ; but the females put on
their clothes to perfection --much better than the ladies

of this country. Fine rotundity of form, however, is so
universally met with, that I cannot but imagine that
part of it is occasionally derived from the cork-cutter or

the milliner. Indeed, a milliner is thought nothing of

who cannot artificially supply the greatest defect or

remedy the greatest deformity. The ladies all affect an
air mignon, and with the head a little on one side, a
smirk on the face, and a pretty little trip in the walk,

they go about all day as if they had studied an attitude

before the glass in the morning, and meant to carry it

to bed with them at night. But it is only when dressed
for show that a French lady looks well ; take her at any

other time and she is a slattern. So great is the contrast

between her deshabille and her toilette, that, seeing her

in the one and in the other, brings to mind the change
a caterpillar undergoes in becoming a butterfly."

   Logan was always fond of music, and not only sang
himself, but also played the flute. London, during the
time of his residence there, being, as now, the great
centre to which the most celebrated musicians of Europe
resorted, he had ample opportunity for gratifying his
36  MUSICAL TASTES.  [182T.

musical tastes, and was frequently to be found at the
opera, at concerts, or at musical parties. At this time,

also, it happened that there were numbers of Spaniards

in London, who, driven from their own country, had
taken refuge there. With their foreign manners, their

language, and their peculiar music, he Avas greatly
charmed, and being often thrown into their society, he

soon acquired such a knowledge of Spanish as to be

able to converse with them in their own tongue. In

the winter of 1821 a private concert was given at the

house of one of his friends, at which many of these

Spaniards were present, and in one of his letters he
describes it in the following amusing manner: --

    " Before the concert there was a dinner party, at
which it was not my lot to be present, the beckoning
finger of good fortune not having invited me, perhaps

because there was no room. It is, therefore, out of my

power to describe that part of the ceremony, the only
good thing of which that came to my knowledge, with
the exception of the many good things that made their
re-appearance at supper, was one that came out of the

mouth of a celebrated wit of our acquaintance, better
than anything that went into the mouths of all the
rest ; for he, upon the all-devouring General V

 complaining that he had lost his stomach and could not
eat, replied that, judging from the quantity sent down

his throat, he was inclined to believe that if he had lost
 any part of his stomach it must be the bottom. . . .

   "Being a fashionable man, I did not attend until

 half-past ten o'clock, and when I ascended the staircase

and entered the small drawing-room, a dead silence.
1827.]      SPANISH ACQUAINTANCES.                    31

was prevailing. Madame V   was about to sing.

There was no passing into the front room. The folding-

door was completely blocked up by a crowd of

Spaniards and other foreigners, all of distinction, who

clustered round like bees at the mouth of a hive.

There was Mr. G   , with his wide-swelling nostril ;

General V        , with his nose for four, and Mr. S       ,

with his whiskers to match ; Mr. L       , with his

mouth shut, and Mr. B      , with his mouth open ;

Mr. D       , Mr. De la T  , &c., &c.

" Not without a world of difficulty, I squeezed myself

through this world of men, just so far fbrward as to get

a peep at what was going on. The musicians were

collected about the piano, the fascinating little syren

in the midst, L   seated at the instrument. All were

preparing to listen -- the Miss De la T  s with envy,

the Miss G       s with pleasure, the M  s with apathy,

and our friend L  (seated on the sofa, the beautiful

Miss M      on one side, and the beautiful Madame de

L , magnificent in a black velvet Parisian hat and

plume of white feathers, on the other), with ecstacy and

delight. Ombra adorata was the song, and how exqui

sitely the little woman sang it ! Mr. B  was, as

usual, overflowing with high spirits. He constituted

himself master of ceremonies, and unceremoniously

made enough noise for the whole party. After favouring

us with one of his best songs, in the execution of which,

to his wife's accompaniment on the piano, he showed

himself to be in capital voice, he allowed no intermis

sion to take place in the performances that succeeded.

More than once again Spanish and Portuguese airs,
38         SPANISH MUSIC.                     [i827.

many of which I had never heard before, flowed in the

richest perfection of melody from the soul of La de
V . The De la T s sang solos, duets and trios,

sometimes accompanied by the piano, sometimes by

the guitar, and there was a trio to the latter instru

ment, which I mention in particular, because the

words are the production of the fertile brain which

lodges in the head of their great brother, the renowned

scholar, Sr. Don Manuel de la T  .L  dashed

out a grand fantasia on the piano, and Mr. B             ,

a Spaniard, a professor and divine performer on the

guitar, astonished and enraptured our ears by some

most beautiful and peculiar music, such as I had no

idea the instrument was susceptible of, and such as

certainly cannot be played on any other. I did myself

the honour of tripping it on the light fantastic toe with

Miss Monica de la T  , who in the course of conver

sation told me that the Duke of Wellington had heagle's

heyes, and that she had a few days before attended a

juvenile party, where she had seen a child that was

quite an Eeb (meaning a Hebe)."

    The same General de V        and his wife subse

quently gave a concert at the residence of Sir Francis

Burdett, the noble baronet placing at their disposal

a suite of brilliantly-lighted rooms, and supplying
refreshments for the entire company -- the condition,

however, being that the tickets should not be less

than a guinea each. Logan, who was at the concert,

tells us that altogether about a thousand tickets were
disposed of, putting about .£800 in the pocket of the

Spaniard.
1827.]  SOLID AYS.  39

   The artificial life of a city has with some the effect
of diminishing appreciation of the beauties of nature,
while with others it only makes that appreciation more
keen. With Logan the latter was the case, and the
longer he lived in London the more did he sigh for the

freedom of the country. Fond as he was, too, of home

and its associations, it is not to be wondered at that in

the confinement of the counting-house a visit to the

country home at Clarkstone was long looked forward
to with pleasure. Four years have elapsed since he
was last there, in 1823, and now he expects to go again.

In anticipation of the happy event, and also of meeting
his brothers from Edinburgh, he writes to one of his
sisters : " It is to be hoped that Edmond will have it
in his power to make our stay the season of his annual
holiday, and then, as it will be vacation time with
Hart, we shall have glorious fun, and make the welkin
ring again with our songs and merriment." On this

occasion he was accompanied to Clarkstone by a
friend, Mr. A. L. Gower, who subsequently became his
brother-in-law. His hopes of meeting his brothers
were also realized, and, after a short stay at Clarkstone,
the four young men left together for a tour through
the Highlands. This was afterwards described in a
letter to his brother James (London, May 9th., 1828,)
from which we transcribe the following :--

   " We set out from Clarkstone on foot one morning
early, and got to Stirling about noon, well ducked by a
thunder-storm which overtook us before we had paced
many miles of the journey. At Stirling we paid our
respects to Mrs. Irvine, and the same afternoon pro
40  A SCOTTISH TOUR.  [i827.

ceeded in a stage-coach to Callander, where we slept
that night, after taking an up-hill promenade, with
half a dozen Highland boys and girls as guides, to see

the beautiful cascade at Bracklinn Bridge, distant about
three miles from the village. Next day, after taking a
peep at the Pass of Leny, we walked along the shores
of Loch Vennachar and Loch Achray, to the Trosachs,
winding, as we went, round the base of Ben Ledi ; and,
having refreshed ourselves at Stewart's Inn, which we

reached about twelve o'clock, we visited all the remark

able and beautiful scenery of the neighbourhood, and
then ascended to the top of Benvenue-- about 3,500
feet high -- whence we had a magnificent prospect of

mountain and flood. Our eyes commanded the whole
of the scene of Sir Walter Scott's ' Lady of the Lake.'
We beheld five Lochs immediately under our feet,
three of which, Vennachar, Achray, and Katrine, joined
in succession by a small stream flowing from one to the
other, bound the base of the mountain like so many
links of a chain ; and there arose up round us a

thousand gigantic hills. Fatigued with our exertions,
we slept that night at Stewart's Inn, which was filled
with visitors, even to the very barns and stables, and,
among others, the Duchess of Gordon honoured the
place with her presence. The following morning we
took to a boat, and were rowed by a couple of High
landers to the upper extremity of Loch Katrine, and
then crossed the country on foot to Loch Lomond,
visiting on our way the dirty, smoky, mud-hut (very
much resembling a pig-sty), in which the celebrated
Helen McGregor was born, and where is still preserved
1827.]           A SCOTTISH TOUR                  41

a tremendous long gun, once the property of Rob Roy,

to whom the old Highland wife, who reigns the blear-

eyed queen of the place, is related. We came upon
Loch Lomond at Inversnaid, where we were in time

for a passing steamboat, which conveyed us to Rowar-
dennan, at the foot of Ben Lomond. There we

waited twenty-four hours, with an intention to ascend

the mountain should the weather prove favourable.

But it rained all the time, and clouds upon clouds

capped the summit, without even seeing which,

much less touching  we embarked again on board
                 it

                        it,

                                                                             a
                                                                                      a
the steamboat, and sailed to the lower extremity of

the lake, where     flows into the Leven, stream

celebrated by the pen of Smollet, who had, and

whose family (some of the members of which were
companions of mine at the High School) still have
a small property on its banks. Here we got into

coach, and proceeded to Dumbarton, thence to Dunglas
(the termination of the wall built by the Romans
between the Forth and the Clyde), where we boarded

one of the thousand steamboats that ply on the river,

and from we soon landed on the pier at Greenock.
        it
Mr. Lewis Gower having some friends there, we were
          I
on his account obliged to remain in that dirty, disagree

able place for two days and have to reproach myself
with not having written to you thence. There was
plenty of opportunity for the Cherub,' and one or two
                    ;
                        ;

                           I

                                            '

other vessels sailed at the time. But hate writing at
                                               I

all times, and was then particularly lazy.

"Again resuming our tour, steamboat took us to
                    a

Holy Loch, our legs to Loch Eck, to the upper extremity
42  A SCOTTISH TOUR.  [i827.

of which we were conveyed by an iron steamboat. We
were again indebted to our legs for carrying us to
Strachur, where we once more took to a steamer, and,
sailing along the beautiful banks of Loch Fyne (famous
for its herrings), landed at Inverary, a very neat and

commodious village, much frequented by bathers and
all those gadding people who cannot stay at home
during a line summer. The Duke of Argyll has a fine
castle in the neighbourhood, which, of course, we saw.
The park about it is very pretty, and is adorned with

some of the most beautiful lime-trees I have seen any

where. We supped at one of the inns, of which there
are two, large and convenient; but, strange to say,
notwithstanding the celebrity of the place for herrings,
we were served with some so offensive to our olfactory

nerves that we were obliged to send them from the
table. From Inverary we took a moonlight ramble to
Dalmally, about twelve miles distant, which we reached

about two hours after midnight. In the course of our
walk we saw two beautiful lunar rainbows. The day's

journey had fatigued us most completely, and, being
accommodated with comfortable quarters, we slept like
so many tops. Next day, notwithstanding it was Sun
day and we were in Scotland, we started like giants
refreshed, and walked through the uncultivated valley
of Glenorchy, along the stream which gives to the valley
its name. We disembogued upon Inverouran, where
we took dinner, which, by the by, consisted of tea, with
oat-cakes and other things fit to choke any man of
sensibility ; but hunger enabled us to get them down.

We had walked about sixteen miles, and there were
1827.]    A SCOTTISH TOUR.                                                             43

about twenty-five more to get over before we should

get to Ballahulish, where we meant to rest for the
night. Some of our feet were blistered, and all our

legs were tired, and it was unanimously resolved that

we should drive the rest of the way, provided we
could get a cart -- the only carriage, fit for a gentleman,

to be found in that part of the world. The inn-keeper

had a cart, which had been used to carry manure the

day before, and, therefore, possessed a most savoury

smell, as you may suppose. This we applied for. But

mine host, a fellow with a huge purple nose and
scarlet face, studded with carbuncles, who was, I dare

say, scarcely ever sober, whether Sunday or Monday,

forsooth could not let us have the fragrant vehicle,

because it was the 'Lord's Day.' But we saw through

his drift, which was no other than to get a little more
of our money, by causing us to sleep at his inn; and,

meeting his ruse by one in return, we informed him

we should walk on. Then, fearing to lose the oppor

tunity of letting his cart, he said we might have

          went much agin his conscience.'
a it,although
                     a it
                                    a
                                    is

                                                                             '

                                           I

                                                                                 is a
The bottom of the cart was forthwith covered with

heather, the horse 'put to,' and, packed in like four

logs, we set out. After passing along on                                               most

beautiful military road, through some of the most

desolate and solitary country that, daresay, to be

found on the face of the globe, where not a mud hut, or

creature, or tree, to be seen for miles and miles,

we reached King's House, and while the horse was
baiting, ascended hill called the Devil's Staircase.

We again got into the cart, and entered the Valley of
44  A SCOTTISH TOUR.  [i827.

Glencoe, famous as the birthplace of Ossian. and noted
for the horrible massacre perpetrated on the unsus
pecting inhabitants by the Government troops in 1691,
in the reign of William and Mary. The valley is wildly

romantic. It is very narrow, and in the bottom of
it runs the small stream of Cona, from which the

mountains rise upon each side, rugged, broken, and
precipitous, to the very great height of 3,000 feet. They
overhang the road, and stand out in some of the most

striking and terrific attitudes ; sometimes approaching
so near to each other from the opposite sides as to shut
out the light of heaven. They threaten to fall upon
the passenger, and bury him in a tremendous ruin;
and it is not without a feeling of secret dread that one
beholds this awful scenery, which in its character is
not equalled by anything in the British Isles. We
reached Ballahulish about midnight, after a fine moon

light drive along the shore of Loch Leven. But it was

too obscure to see the slate-quarry, for which the place
is famous. The subsequent day we walked to Fort
William, about fourteen miles, and then ascended to
the summit of Ben Nevis, seven miles more, where we

found ourselves on the highest land in Britain, being

4,500* feet above the level of the sea. We had a most

extensive prospect from this position. We could see

the Isle of Skye, the Isles of Mull and of Rum, about

sixty miles off, and the Atlantic beyond them ; on the
other side, the Grampian Hills. The commencement
of the Caledonian Canal was almost under our feet.

Never did I endure such dreadful fatigue as I experi

    * 4,406, according to the Trigonometrical Survey.
1827.]  A SCOTTISH TOUR.                              45

enced in ascending and descending this great mountain,
the summit of which is a barren, naked rock, without

is

                          I

                                                  it,
                                                                         is

                                                                                     a

                                                                             it
a single particle of earth on                         but here and there

covered with snow all the year round. . . . About

3,000 feet above the level of the sea there           spring of

very fine water, which made a point of tasting, as

   the highest water in the island.
   " Completely knocked up with our exertions, we slept

that night at Fort William. Next morning we took

the steamboat, and coasting along Argyleshire, and

passing through the Crinan Canal into Loch Fyne

again, we threaded the Kyles of Bute, and returned to
Greenock the following morning, in company with

about 300 Highlanders, male and female, who at 3s. a

head had made this descent on the Lowlands for the

purpose of getting employment as reapers during the

harvest. Leaving Greenock, we soon got to Glasgow,

and there taking coach, again showed our faces, some

what sunburnt, at Clarkstone, just at dinner-time, after

an absence of ten days, during which we had walked

one hundred and twenty miles, coached fifty miles,

carted twenty-five, boated twelve, and steamboated

three hundred and fifty climbed one hill of 3,600 feet
in height, and another of 4,500 feet."
        :
                                                   ;
After his return to London, he wrote the following

letter to Clarkstone, giving further details of his tour in
Scotland --

                                                                   "London, 2nd. September, 1827.

  "My Dear Mary, --Ever since my return to this

great bustling and noisy place, what with making up
the lee-way my absence has occasioned in the counting
46  SCOTTISH FRIENDS.  [war.

house, what with the hurry-skurry produced by my
uncle's departure from town in time to get to Kentwell

to shoot on the first, and my aunt and Mrs. Parker's

preparations for their final removal to the country, I

have not had a moment's leisure to put pen to paper on

any other subject than business. Just at the instant of
Dr. Dickson's departure for Scotland I was particularly

engrossed, and could not write by him to give you an
account of my journey hither, and a few of the various

adventures that befell Lewis and myself on the road.

By the boy that drove us to Lanark, I returned a note

to Edmond, to let him know that we had got that far.
I told him that we had seen the Falls of the Clyde,
which are very beautiful, and that we intended to

proceed southward the next day. But next day we

did not proceed ; and it was altogether the fault of
Lewis, who broke through an agreement we had made

to prevent delay either at Lanark, where I had friends,
or at Newton Stewart, where he had friends. I knew
that if I called on the Gillespies at Sunnyside, I should

be pressed to stay another day ; and he knew that at the
Manse of Kirkowan he would be pressed to stay a week

instead of a day, the time we had set down as all we

could spend there. So we agreed that among my friends
he should pretend a great hurry to be up to town, and

that among his friends the hurry should be mine. . . .
Having satisfactorily arranged this plan while we were
at dinner at the Clydesdale Inn, towards evening we
went with Mr. Menzies to pay our respects to Mrs.
Gillespie, at her beautiful villa on the banks of the

Clyde. But on our way thither we visited that romantic
1827.]  A BROKEN COMPACT.  47

glen, the Cartland Crags, through which the Kiver

Mouse runs, between lofty, rugged and precipitous,
but thickly wooded sides, to join the Clyde, passing, as
it flows along, under a new bridge, built of freestone,
and consisting of three arches, of which the middle

one is 150 feet high.* It was rather late when we
reached the glen, and in the obscurity of the evening

we had but an imperfect view. But it appeared to my
companion so romantic a place that, wishing to observe
it by a more perfect light, he silently determined to
break through our settled plan of proceeding on our

journey in the morning. This I found out when, after

spending the evening very agreeably at Sunnyside, and
being on the point of returning to our inn, Mr. Gillespie,

as had been anticipated, most urgently pressed me to
remain next day in the neighbourhood, where there
was a great deal worth seeing, and to dine with him in

the evening. Agreeably to arrangement, I said that
nothing would give me greater pleasure, were not my

friend, Mr. Gower, pressed for time to such a degree
that it would be out of our power. Mr. Gillespie then

turned the battery of his eloquence to Lewis, who,

at once, and to my utter astonishment, said that he
could and would with pleasure spend all next day in
visiting the beautiful scenery about Lanark, and dine at

Sunnyside in the afternoon. Our concerted plan thus

frustrated, I could, of course, be nothing less than very

happy to do the same.
    " Next morning we got up very early, breakfasted at

   * Black says: -- "About thirty years ago a bridge was thrown across
this ravine, consisting of three arches, 128 feet in height." -- 1861, p. 391.
48  INCREASED RESPONSIBILITIES.  [i82T.

the Manse, where tea was made for us by the fair hand
of Miss Menzies, and thence proceeded in Mr. Gillespie's
gig, first five miles along the banks of the Clyde, above
Lanark, and then ten miles by the same beautiful
stream, below Lanark, visiting all that was worthy of a
stranger's attention, not omitting Tillytoodlem Castle,
and taking another peep at the Cartland Crags. We
dined with Mr. Gillespie in the afternoon, and met

Mr. Patterson and Mr. Greenshields at his table. Next

morning we proceeded in a hired gig round the base of
Tinto to Chester Hall Inn, a distance of about ten miles.

There we met an Edinburgh coach, which took us by
the stupendous vale of Dalven, and the wooded vale of
Nith (where we had a glimpse of Douglas Castle, the
seat of the Duke of Buccleugh), to Dumfries. . .

Believe me very affectionately yours, "W. E. Logan."

   Logan's uncle seems to have given up his London
residence in 182V, and gone to reside all the year round

at his country-seat in Suffolk, leaving to his nephew
the responsibility of managing the business in the

metropolis. The change, on the whole, appears to have

been pleasing to the latter, who was beginning to tire
of the many parties and dinners to which he was
subjected while living with his uncle on Wimpole

Street.

  " I shall not," he says, " much lament the change, for
then I shall get lodgings in the city, and thus be
nearer to the scene of business, and save the time I

now daily lose in walking to and from the counting-

Ihouse -- two hours, at least. Besides, shall be able to
183031.]  SCIENTIFIC TENDENCIES.  49

lead a more quiet life. . . . Much company, rich food,
and rich wines, are things disgusting to my taste and

prejudicial to my health. Henry and I will lodge

together, and those evenings that are not taken up
with business we shall occupy, sometimes with a little
music, sometimes with a little drawing, and very often
with much reading."

   Writing to Montreal in the spring of 1830, he says :--

" I do not think I have ever informed you that Henry
and I have taken up our quarters in Finsbury Square,

number 47. We reside with a young gentleman who

is an old school-fellow of Henry's, and who, having
spent many a day at Clarkstone, is well acquainted
with all of us. Robert Dickson is his name, and Doctor

is his title."

   To what extent, during his life in London, Logan

devoted himself to pursuits or amusements of a scientific

nature, we do not know ; but the study of geology was
apparently not begun until after he went to live in

Wales. Shortly after his arrival there, in the spring of

1831, he wrote to his brother Henry, asking him to
send him some of his " goods and chattels," which had

been left in London. " In the first place, put into my
trunk as many of my old clothes as I have left behind.
This will be a famous place to wear them out, and,

indeed, at the works it would be a sin and shame to

wear anything else than old clothes. In the next
place, put into it as many of my scientific books as you
can, particularly such as are connected with mechanics
and chemistry ; and I will thank you to purchase and
add to such as you find, the 3rd edition of Turner's

                                                                   4
50  MINERALOGY AND GEOLOGY.  [1833.

Chemistry, and some good work on mineralogy and

geology. Dr. Dickson will be able to tell you which
are the best. In the third place, stuff into it my

pencils, drawing-boards and drawing-paper, and my

case of instruments ; and if it will hold any more, put

in some of my flute-music." In a letter written to his

brother James two years after this (June, 1833,) he
says : " The study of the ores of copper has gradually

led me to that of mineralogy and geology, and of

specimens in both departments I have become a bit of a
collector. Now, if you could assist me to a few of

Canadian origin, I should be obliged. Any steamer

...coming to Swansea or Neath would bring them almost
to the door.  At first you need not be very parti

cular in your choice ; even a collection of the pebbles

of various kinds to be found in the river would be

welcome, and so would small fragments broken off

from any of the strata near or far from you, such as
from the mountain, from Cape Diamond, Quebec, &c.,

&c. Specimens having the appearance of shells, or

organic remains of any kind, would be preferred. Let

me know where they come from as exactly as possible,

and you can say, also, what you consider them to be.

By the way, I am informed by our good cousin, William
Edmond, who, you are, I take it for granted, aware, is

here with me, that his brother James has provided him

with a collection of whatever he meets with that is
curious. If, therefore, he has been practising, he will

assist you.
   " Did you ever hear of any copper ore in Canada, or

anywhere near it? If any were discovered it might
1833.]      COPPER IN CANADA.                   51

become a matter of profit to us, if we could get hold of

and proved of good quality. Recollect this, and
it,

         it

                   I

                                    it

                                    I

                                                                          is

                                                                 if
keep the matter before you.  understand there has

recently been a mine of discovered in the State of

Connecticut, and am told, also, that there copper in

Nova Scotia. It would be no matter of surprise

some were found in Canada within reach of the St.

Lawrence."
                   CHAPTER IV.

               COPPEIt-SMELTING AND COAL-MINING.

                the year 1828, a process having been discov

ABOeUreTd in Wales for extracting copper from the slags

which had previously been abandoned as useless, the
inventor communicated the secret, for a consideration,
to certain gentlemen, who soon bought up, at very little
cost, millions of tons of slag, and began smelting
operations in the neighbourhood of Swansea.* In
securing the necessary capital for their enterprise they
were greatly assisted by Logan's uncle, to whom, in
return for his services, they afterwards gave an eighth
share in the business, on the condition, however, that
he should contribute £10,000 in money. In the terms
of co-partnership, the uncle, who was desirous that his

   * From information kindly supplied by Dr. Percy, of London, it
appears that the process mentioned here, for the extraction of copper from

ore-furnace slag, did not prove a success. Dr. Percy says : " I have

visited the works where the process was to be conducted ^rtcar Neath),
and remember seeing some of the very slag accumulated thero. But
certainly the process came to nothing." The smelting operations super
intended by Logan were, therefore, probably carried on in accordance
with the ordinary Welsh process.
1831.]  A NEW LINE OF LIFE.  53

nephew should represent his interests in the business,

reserved the right of giving him part of his own

share. But the young man preferred accepting a salary

" Having," he says, " nothing to lose, I am unwilling to

become responsible as a partner, and have stated to our

uncle that I will not accept a share until I have become

acquainted with the business, and am able to satisfy

myself from experience and personal observation that it
is of the profitable nature his friends represent and he

thinks. In the meantime I shall require a salary,
which, he said, should be £1,000 ; but, for my part, I
shall be content with less. When I was in Scotland in
August (1830), I spoke to our father on the subject, and

he thinks with me, that a salary would, at first, be
preferable to a share. If, when the business is ulti
mately proved to be so profitable, those concerned will

not give me a share, why I cannot help it ; but I hope
to make myself so useful that they will not refuse."

In this we have a glimpse of the characteristic caution

which afterwards proved so valuable to him in his

professional career. Though less sanguine than his

uncle with regard to the enterprise, he was nevertheless
pleased with the prospect of a new line of life in Wales.

" It has," he writes, " been arranged that I shall go

down to Wales, where it is intended that the chief part

of my duty will be to attend to the accounts of the
establishment ; but you may be assured I shall spare no

pains to make myself master of every branch of the

business, and as it is of a scientific nature, I am pretty
sure I shall like it." The difficulty, however, was to

get some one to assume the management of affairs
54  WORK 1M WALES.  [mi-33.

in London. At first it was planned that his brother
James should leave the Canada branch of the business,
and go to London; but this was afterwards found
inexpedient. Other arrangements having finally been
made, Logan left for his Welsh home in the spring of
1831, and began his labours at the Forest Copper
Works, Morriston, near Swansea. For a time he was
chiefly engaged in the counting-house, where, he tells
us, he toiled from six or seven o'clock in the morning
until midnight, in order to establish a proper and
regular system of accounts. But eventually he had to

attend both to the smelting of copper and mining of

coal.* " Here I am," he writes to his brother, in June,

1833, "out of the world altogether, and attending to

nothing else but the making of copper and digging of

coal from morning till night." From the digging of coal,

however, he was led not only to thoroughly investigate
the question of its origin, but also to study the structure
of the Glamorganshire coal-field, in which his uncle's

mines were situated. A theodolite, compass, and other

instruments, were purchased at his own expense, and
all the spare time which he could command enthusias

tically devoted to the production of a geological map
of the district.! His measurements, as they were
obtained, were laid down upon the one-inch sheets of
the Ordnance Survey, and with a minuteness of detail

   * Owing to his close application to office-work, his eyesight was for a
time seriously affected.

   t Writing in 1832, to his brother in London, about the purchase of a

theodolite, he jokingly says : " If a pound or two more would make the
theodolite much better, I should be disposed to give it. I'll live on milk

diet, and save the money in a short time. But do not let ornament have
anything to do with the additional expense."
1833.]  GEOLOGICAL CONSOLATION.               55

which had probably not been observed before in any of
the geological maps of the country. When Sir Henry
de la Beche began his geological survey of that region,

he must have been not a little surprised at the extent and

thoroughness of Logan's work, and when the modest

amateur generously handed over to him his maps, De la

Beche not only accepted them, but adopted them for the

Government Survey, on the early sheets of which
Logan's name is engraved, together with those of De la
Beche, Bainsay, Phillips, and Aveline. In the capacity
of a volunteer on the staff of the Survey in South "Wales,

Logan also proved of great assistance, and, among other

services, introduced horizontal sections on a true scale

of six inches to a mile, which served as models for the

large sections of the Survey.

   In the spring of 1833 he was obliged to go to
London to attend to some of the affairs of the " Copper

Company," and was greatly annoyed at being detained

there awaiting certain legal decisions. "Here I am,"

he writes to his brother Hart, " tied by the leg until the

lawyers have brought to a conclusion the arrangement

that is on foot to push Mr.  out of the Forest

Copper Company ; and when I think of the work that

is accumulating for me at Swansea against my return, I
Iffeel as sick of London as possibly can be.
                                              it were

not for the consolation of a little geology, a leap from

London Bridge would be my only care."

By way of obtaining the desired consolation, he went

to the Island of Sheppey on a geological excursion, the

incidents of which afforded him much amusement.

Possessed of that rare faculty of adapting himself to his
56 A GEOLOGICAL EAVURS10K  [i833.

surroundings, and of heartily entering into whatever

most interested those into whose company he happened

to be thrown, he everywhere made friends, and at the
same time acquired --often from the most unlettered -- a
great deal of valuable information. Gifted, too, with a
keen sense of humour, and supplied with a never-failing
fund of anecdotes suitable for various occasions, he was

equally welcome in the drawing-room, the country inn,

the farm-house, or the stage-coach. Some of these charac
teristics appear in the following account of his excursion
to Sheppey, taken from a letter to his brother Hart : --

   " I had a very satisfactory excursion on Saturday and

Sunday last down to the Island of Sheppey, to examine

the London Clay formation. Starting at two o'clock on

the first-mentioned day, I got to Chatham about six,

and put up at the inn where the coach stopped --not

the very best in the world, but good enough for the

occasion. I was put into the only sitting-room in the

house, had my tea, bespoke a bed, and intended to take

mine ease in mine inn till bed-time, sitting at the fire,
with ' Phillips and Conybeare ' in my hand. But about
eight o'clock my studies were broken in upon by a
smoking club, which had met in that room every

Saturday night for the last forty years. The members
were ushered in with all the insignia of their solemn

duties : pipes, tobacco, spitting-boxes, and each a glass

of brandy and water--some hot, some cold with, and

some cold without. There was the Mayor of Tiochester

among them, the parish clerk, a political tradesman or

two, a few ship breakers-up, and mine host himself. I

called for a glass of negus, and joining in the conversa
1833.]  PARTY POLITICS.  57

tion, which was sometimes political, and sometimes

trade-ical, I was a good deal entertained. One of the

political tradesmen read us occasional extracts from a
newspaper, always making v's to's and w's v's, putting in
A's where there were none, and leaving them out where

they ought to be ; and these said readings universally
led to discussion. The reader, as you may imagine from
his style, showed himself a Whig and a Radical ; but
we had our Tories and Conservatives too, and they
were represented by the Mayor, who seemed the only
one approaching to a gentleman among the whole set.
After filling the house with the vapours of their argu
ments, pipes and brandy, these my friends paid their
scores and turned out about eleven o'clock ; so 1 went
to bed. But I was up again at three in the morning, to
start for Sheerness by a forty-ton vessel, half boat, half

smack, which goes every tide. In the cabin, where it

was impossible to stand upright, I found myself among

another queer set, sailors and their wives, &c., drunk

and sober, some going on board merchantmen, some ot

men-of-war, and all as noisy as the devil. I selected

for my especial companion an elderly Irishman, who

happened to be a tailor in Rochester, and was on a

voyage to pay a visit to a son, bandmaster on board the

'Donegal 74', just arrived at Sheerness. I was nrach

entertained with the man's stories, for he had been a

regimental tailor in the 39th Infantry, and had seen a
good deal of service in the Peninsula and in Canada.

   "I got to Sheerness and to breakfast about seven

o'clock, and then started forth geologizing along the
northern coast of the island, and having the good
58 A JOURNEY TO FRANCE AND SPAIN. [i834.

fortune in the course of my walk to meet with another

Irishman, and to fall into conversation with him, I

found he was what was called the curiosity-man in
Sheerness, from his occasionally walking forth in search
of such things as I was looking for, when he was out of

work. I could not have got into better hands, for he

showed me all that was curious, and where to get

the best fossils. I got several fossil crabs, lobsters,

shells, wood, seed-vessels, &c., &c. The coast is very

well described in ' Phillips and Conybeare,' and I saw

places where there had been slips of huge masses of the
soft cliff that stretches for miles along the shore, and in
one spot there appeared about four acres of a wheat-
field, which was cracked in various directions, and only
awaited very wet weather to be precipitated into the

sea."

   In 1834 Logan went on a journey to France and

Spain, and was absent for several months. The journey
was probably undertaken in the interests of the Forest
Copper Company, as he visited a number of the Spanish
copper mines, and made notes with regard to the cost
of mining, price of ores, &c. The knowledge of the
Spanish language which he had acquired while in
London, now stood him in good stead, as did also the
many letters of introduction which he carried with him

from some of his old Spanish friends. In those days

travelling was a slow process. From London to Dover

by coach occupied ten hours ; from Calais to Paris, by
diligence, from noon one day until eight p.m. on the

next. From Paris to Bordeaux, again, was a journey of

two days and three nights. Logan spent several days
1837.]  ELECTED F. G. S.  59

in Paris, and while there saw the funeral of Lafayette,
which, he says, was "not very imposing." He had
his sketch-book with him, and took views of Calais,
Bordeaux, and many other places in both France and
Spain. He also made notes on the geology of the

country through which he passed. Notwithstanding
the danger of travelling through the mining regions of

Spain at that time, owing to the numerous robbers who

constantly prowled about in search of the unwary, he

seems to have escaped molestation.

    During his residence in Wales, Logan's fondness for
geology daily increased, and it was not long before his
work began to attract the attention of some of the

leading British geologists of the day. In 1837 he was
elected a Fellow of the Geological Society, and the same
year was present at the meeting of the British Associa
tion, at Liverpool, where he exhibited his map of the
South Wales coal-district. It was greatly admired, as

no such work had previously been executed, unless by
the Ordnance Survey. Early in the same year he

wrote to his brother in Montreal as follows : " If I

mistake not, I have more than once asked you to send
me a collection of Canadian minerals, which, however,
have never made their appearance. I am anxious to

have them, because we have set up a museum here, of

which I have the honour to be Secretary. You have
a museum in Montreal, have you not ? Now, if

exchanges could be effected, it would be a capital

thing. We have here all the ores of copper and iron
in great abundance, and are located in the midst of a

coal-basin, which abounds in vegetable remains. I am
60 CURATOR OF A MUSEUM.

anxious to know what you have in your neighbour

hood. You must know that I have become a bit

of a geologist of late years, and am now entitled to
write after my name F. G. S. --being a Fellow of the
Geological Society. I take a great interest in the

science, and some day or other I may appear in print.
The locality to which I have especially directed my

attention is this immediate neighbourhood, of which,

during leisure hours, I am gradually getting up a

geological survey and sections. If ever I return to

Canada again I shall geologize there." This was only
six years before he became Director of the Canada
Survey. The museum to which he alludes in his

letter was that of the Royal Institution of South Wales,
for the interests of which he was an active worker

during his stay near Swansea. Not only was he

Honorary Secretary, but Curator of the Geological
Department, and the Institution is indebted to him

for valuable collections of minerals and metallurgical

products, books, drawings, laboratory apparatus, and
a fine collection of the indigenous and migratory birds

of Canada. The birds he himself both shot and stuffed

when on a visit to Canada, and among them several

previously unknown or undescribed species were disco
vered. Subsequently, it is stated, Mr. Logan was
appealed to by Audubon, the ornithologist, for aid in

the accomplishment of his great work upon the birds of
North America.*

   In 1838, his uncle, who had ever taken a lively

   * The above statements with regard to Logan's ornithological proclivi
ties are given on the authority of Alexander Murray, Esq., C. M. O., of St
John s, Newfoundland.
1838.]  RESIGNS POSITION IN WALES.  61

interest in his welfare, died, and not long after Logan
resigned his position in Wales--a position in which
he had enjoyed the best of opportunities for the deve

lopment of his eminent talents as a stratigraphical
geologist. Then, as afterwards, he had a keenly obser
vant eye for all the phenomena presented to him in the
progress of his researches, and the question of the origin

of coal happening to engage his attention, he devoted
himself to it with great enthusiasm. His work in

connection with this subject will be considered in the

next chapter.
                    CHATTER V.

                                      STIGMARIA.

AT the time of which we write, the questions
         relating to the origin of coal were in a somewhat

unsettled state. It was generally admitted that coal is
of vegetable origin, and many species of Carboniferous

plants from the shales and sandstones accompanying
the coal-beds had been described and figured. But the
precise circumstances under which the coal accumu
lation had taken place still remained an open question.
On the one hand, the coal-seams had been likened to
the accumulations of drift-wood, which take place in
certain lakes and at the mouths of great rivers draining
wooded countries. On the other, they had been sup
posed to have grown in the manner of peaty swamps.
These theories of growth and driftage were warmly
agitated, and objections of various kinds arising from
the supposed climate of the Coal-period, the character
of its vegetation, the difficulty of accounting for the
regularity, purity, and uniformly-bedded conditions of
the coal-seams, could be urged against both theories.
VNDERCLAYS AND STIG MARIA.                                              63

   In these circumstances, Logan had the sagacity to
observe and turn to account a fact which has settled
forever the question of the origin of coal in favour of
the theory of growth in situ. Under eighty or more
coal-seams which occur in the Welsh coal-field, the

miners had observed the invariable presence of a bed of
more or less tenacious and bleached clay, which they
called the " underclay " of the coal, and which was
often of practical importance as affording facilities for
undercutting the coal. The constancy of this fact
Logan confirmed by his own observations, and added to
it the further and important discovery that in all these

STIOMARIA ROOTS OP ERECT 810ILLARIA, SEEN PROM ABOVE APTER REMOVAL      OP

     Tng trdkk (port hood, nova Scotia.) -- Dawson, "Acadian Geology."

underclays there occurred abundance of remains of the
peculiar plant known as Stigmaria, in such circum
stances as to show that the plant was in situ, and not
drifted. The conclusion to be deduced from this was
obvious. The constant occurrence of an underclay
containing a particular plant was altogether adverse to
64 PAPER ON UNBERCLAYS.

the theory of drift, while it gave the strongest support to

that of growth, with the additional indication that the
plant which had been mainly instrumental in promoting

the growth of coal was that known as Stigmaria.

   Mr. Logan laid the results of his researches in this

matter before the Geological Society of London, in
February, 1840, in a paper entitled, " On the Characters

of the Beds of Clay immediately below the Coal-Seams
of South Wales." As this paper is interesting in itself,

and affords a good example of Logan's style at this

early period of his career, a considerable portion of it is
reproduced here: --

   " In South Wales, immediately below every regular

seam of coal, and co-extensive with lies a bed of clay,
it,

         it is

                  a
                     is

                                             it,
                                                             it,

                                                                is

                                                                                                                    a
which commonly called underclay, undershift, under-

stone, bottomstone, or pouncing. It of so peculiar

character, and the miners are so well acquainted with

that there scarcely one who would not immediately

recognize specimen of  and state its position in

relation to the coal.

"From several sections made with care in various

places,  has been clearly ascertained that the coal-

measures of South Wales, from the mountain limestone

upwards, attain in the deepest part the great geological

thickness of 12,000 to 13,000 feet. They contain nearly

100 thick and thin seams of coal, about one-half of

which, measuring a foot and upwards in thickness,

have in various places been more or less worked, and
         is

                     a
                                                                 a

                                                                                                   ;

                                                        I
am not aware of single instance of seam unaccom

panied in any part by this subjacent bed indeed, so

thoroughly the Welsh miner persuaded that the two
PAPER ON UNDERCLAYS.  65

things are essentially conjoined, that he would as soon
expect to live in a house without a foundation as to
work in a coal-seam which did not rest upon underclay.

It is very necessary that he should be familiar with the
material, as it occasionally serves a most important

purpose in prosecuting the work of a coal-mine ; for,

though there is never coal without a subjacent bed
of underclay, there is sometimes underclay without
superincumbent coal. A seam of coal which becomes

thinner by degrees will occasionally vanish altogether ;
but, after a short distance, it will appear in increased

thickness, and ultimately regain its original dimensions.
When a collier, meeting with an irregularity of this

description, perceives the coal disappear, he might find
it difficult to know whether he had not suddenly come

upon a fault completely dislocating the measures if he

had not the underclay to guide his course; ; and it is
only when this fails that he feels assured the direction
of his search must be changed.

   "This underclay, as its name imports, is generally

more or less argillaceous, but is never without a consid
erable admixture of sand ; and it is always of a fine

texture, yielding, in most cases, a very good fire-clay.

In many parts of the coal-deposit of South Wales it is

tough, though not very hard, when fresh cut ; but on
exposure to the weather it slacks, splits, and crumbles

into a greyish mass. It is occasionally quite black

from an admixture of carbonaceous matter, and is then

sometimes sufficiently consistent to resist the effects of
weather ; and under some of the lowest seams of coal

between Swansea and the Bury River, it yields a hard,
66 PAPER ON UNDERCLAYS.

durable, fine-grained, siliceous stone, very much resem
bling quartz rock.

   " It is not, however, by the mineralogical composition

that these beds are so thoroughly marked, for they not
only vary considerably, but many strata occurring in
other parts of the coal-measures, are precisely identical
in mineral contents. The grand distinguishing feature
of the underclays is the peculiar character of the vege
table organic remains : these are always of one kind
(Sligmaria Ficoides), and are so diffused throughout
every part of the bed, that by their uniform effect alone
the clay is readily recognized by the eye of the miner.

   " The beds, varying in thickness from six inches to
more than ten feet, and averaging about three, are

crossed and penetrated vertically, horizontally and
obliquely, by a confused and tangled collection of long,
slender, fibrous casts, with a thin coating of carbon

aceous matter. These fibres are sometimes cylindrical,
though generally flat, and are usually about a quarter
of an inch in breadth ; but they are very often traceable
to a junction with a stem or branch, sometimes flattened,
sometimes not, and varying in diameter from about two
inches to half a foot. From this stem or branch, which
is usually of considerable length, and always lies in the
plane of the bed, but rather nearer the top than the
bottom, the fibres radiate in all directions, and take
such a tortuous, irregular course that it is impossible to
follow any one of them to the natural termination,
though it is easy to see that the range is very consider
able. This fossil, the Sligmaria Ficoides, taking for
granted that the slender, fibrous impressions belong
                      PAPER ON UNDERCLAYS.                                              67

always to so completely fills every bed of underclay,
      it
          is

                it,

                                              It

                                                               is
that         not possible to cut out a cubic foot which does

not contain portions of the plant.                                 always worthy

of remark that specimens with the fibres emanating

from the stem or branch, are to be discovered only in

the underclay

   " It proper, however, to state that such specimens,
      if is
even they did exist in other beds, are not so likely to

become exposed in them; whereas the operations of

extensive colleries naturally afford the opportunity of

making vast collections from the underclay for when
                                                                   it
a coal-seam either throughout or partially too thin to                 is s
             is
                                                                         is ;
permit the excavation of the coal without the removal                            a

of some portion of the ground in juxtaposition to it, the                           is

superior softness of the floor induces the miner to make

the required cuttings in rather than in the ceiling
                      it,                                                               is ;
                          it
                               is
or when               becomes necessary to obviate the effects of
a

    '
                   '

               it
creep in any of the roads,          again the floor that

pared down, and in these and other ways                                               large

amount of specimens in the underclays                              exposed.

Sometimes, however, the ceiling of one coal-seam the

floor of another, and in such instances, if the collector

were on the lower bed, he might discover above him

specimens that would appear to contradict what                                          is

above stated to be a general rule, while                           obvious an

attentive examination of the case would only confirm

the truth of it. That bare stems or branches of Stig-

maria have been found in other beds there can be no

doubt --indeed,       would be very surprising if many
                      it

                                                          ;

                                                  if
such instances did not occur for even the underclay

were the natural and original site of the plant, speci
68 PAPER ON UNDERCLAYS.

mens must have been occasionally washed out of their
first position, and deposited in some superior bed at the
time of forming. . . .

   " When it is considered that, in so wide a district of
country abounding in coal, there is not a seam which is
not immediately underlaid by a bed wholly monopolized
by these peculiar vegetable organic remains, it is impos

sible to avoid the inference that some essential and

necessary connection exists between the production of
the one and the existence of the other. To account for
the unfailing combination by drift, seems an unsatisfac
tory hypothesis; but whatever may be the mutual
dependence of the phenomena, they give us reasonable
grounds to suppose that in the Stigmaria Ficoides we
have the plant to which the earth is mainly indebted
for those vast stores of fossil fuel which are now so
indispensable to the comfort and prosperity of its inha
bitants."*

   At the time when Logan's paper on underclays was
written, the plant known as Stigmaria was little under-
stood as to its precise nature and affinities. Its branches,

which are among the most abundant fossils of the coal-
measures, present round depressed spots, or areoles,

arranged in spiral order, and when the interior structure
is preserved, they show a central axis of fibrous texture
(scalariform fibres), surrounded by a thick cellular bark,
and this enclosed in a dense rind or outer bark. The
organs attached to the areoles of the surface are very
long, cylindrical, soft bodies, about a quarter of an inch
in thickness, whether roots or leaves, radiating in all

   * Transactions of the Geological Society of London, VI., p. 491.
STIGMARTA.                                                   69

directions, an attached to the branch by a distinct

articulation, leaving a clean scar where they have been
removed. When complete specimens were found they

presented a central cylindrical or dome-shaped mass,
from which the branches were given off by a regular
bifurcation. At first the regularity of these bodies and
the definite arrangement and true articulation of the

organs attached to them seemed to negative the idea

of their being roots, while the fibrous structures and
tendency to exogenous growth in the branches pre
vented them from being regarded as aquatic plants of
low organization. The tendency among botanists was
thus to regard Stigmaria as an aquatic plant of high
organization, which had established itself in ponds or
lagoons, filling these up with its growth, so as ultimately
to form a vegetable deposit which might support other

kinds of vegetation. Later observations, however, both
in Europe and America,* have shown that Stigmaria

8IGILLARIA, WITH STIfiMARIA HOOTS (SYDNEY), AFTER R. BROWN.
                            From "Acadian Geology."

was functionally a root, and that     it supported the
trunks of trees known as Sigillaricc
                                      and Lepidodendra,
  ' By Binney, Brown and Dawson.
70 ORIGIN OF COAL.

and their allies, which are the most common trees of the
coal period, and out of whose debris the greater part of
the coal was formed. Under the microscope the coal
itself has revealed the structures of Sigillaria and other
trees having Stigmaria roots*, while the leaves and
other aerial parts of such trees have been found in
abundance in the shales forming the roofs of the coal-
beds. Numbers of erect trees occur with their roots
fixed in the coal-beds, and other beds of sandstone or

shale have been found to contain erect trees of the
Sigillaria type, with their roots fixed in Stigmaria
underclays, which thus not only support coal-beds, but
sometimes fossil forests, which did not exist sufficiently
long, or in sufficiently favourable circumstances to
produce beds of coal.

   Thus the theory of the growth of coal in situ is now
firmly established, and in connection with this we are
in a position to assign due importance to the extensive
swampy fiats of the coal-period as favouring its deposit ;
to the protection of these areas from the inroad of sand
and mud by the fringes of Calamites and other reed
like plants growing along their borders, and to the
character of the dense Sigillaria forests as affording
abundance of fallen trunks, of leaves and fruits,
and of smaller herbaceous vegetation, to promote the
accumulation of beds of vegetable matter more exten
sive and important than those of any other geological

period.

   * Gocppert has observed these facts in Germany, and Dr. Dawson has
described the structures found in about eighty distinct coal-beda of the
coal-field of Nova Scotia in the Journal of the Geological Society, and in
his " Acadian Geology."
ORIGIN OF COAL.  71

   Some points still remain open to discussion. Accord

ing to Dr. Dawson, an undue importance has been
attached by certain observers to the spore-cases found in
certain layers of coal, whereas cortical or bark tissues in

general, including those of spores or spore-cases, should
be credited with the greater part of the material of coal.
The exact botanical affinities of the Sigillaria are still

in some doubt, and though these trees have borne the
principal part in coal accumulation, there is also much

to be attributed to Catamites, Lepidodendra, ferns and

other plants of the period.

   All these subjects have been fully discussed by Dr.

Dawson in his various papers, and in his " Acadian
Geology," to which the reader is referred.
                   CHAPTER VI

                               CANADA REVISITED.

                     for so many years resident in Great

THOBUriGtaHin, Logan never lost his interest in his

native country. While in London he was Vice-
President of the Canada Club, and he always kept
himself informed with regard to the political move
ments and commerce of the colony. Now that geology
had become his favourite pursuit, he longed to scan
with critical eye the rocks over which he had climbed
as a boy ; and accordingly, being free from business
engagements, he set sail from Liverpool in August,
1840. Among his fellow-passengers on the steamship
" Acadia" were Sir George Seymour, Sir Joseph Copley,
Lt. -Colonel Balfour of the Guards, and several other
military men ; also, the late Mr. John Greenshields, of
Montreal.

   The daily incidents of the voyage were duly chron
icled by Logan in his journal ; but as nothing of
special interest occurred, we extract only what is said
of the 15th. of August, the day on which the vessel
arrived at Halifax :--
1840.]  ON SHIPBOARD.  73

  " Up at six. I got a sight of the land. The place is

supposed to be Garsons Point [?]. But now, after break
fast, the weather has got as thick as mustard, and

we cannot see 100 yards from the ship. We are firing

guns and ringing our bell, the first to attract a pilot, if

there is one within hearing, and the other to keep off
a vessel which we approached rather closely a few

minutes ago.
   " At 10 a.m. we supposed ourselves to be off Halifax

Harbour, and kept firing occasional guns until dinner
time, the fog continuing very thick, and damping the
spirits of us all, as well as our clothes. When the

clergyman commenced asking a blessing at dinner, a
shot was fired on deck from a twelve-pounder, which

rather disconcerted him. He, however, did not forget

to pray, among other things, for the removal of the
impediment offered to the termination of our voyage ;
and no sooner had he uttered the request than our shot
was replied to by two from the shore. When the

clergyman sat down he instanced the fact as exhibiting
the influence of prayer.

    " Before we had finished dinner another shot from us

was replied to, and shortly afterwards we heard the

sound of a pilot's horn. The boatswain then got a
musket, and fired away in reply to the horn, and the
horn sounded in replication to the musket, gradually
approaching all the while, until at length a couple of
small sails emerged from the mist and showed us the
boat, dimly visible at first, but at length sufficiently

distinct to exhibit two men. The boat soon got along

side, and the pilot sprang on deck. I never saw such
74  ARRIVAL AT HALIFAX.  [i840.

a regular built Dutch figure that did not speak the
language of Holland. The first thing he did was to

tell us our head was pointing the right way, and that

all we had to do was to paddle on. In five minutes we
got out of the fog, which we found to be, after all, but a
partial one, extending across the mouth of the harbour
like a wall ; and when we had done so we found our

selves close to Sambro Lighthouse, not more than two

miles from the land, and about fifteen from Halifax.

  "All our steam was put on, and we shot up the

harbour like a dart, passing rocks of granite on each
side, and fortification after fortification. At length,
approaching the lower end of the town, we were

saluted by cheers from assembled thousands, and from
every wharf in succession, until we swung round to the
wharf of our destination, alongside of which we were
soon placed, after smashing our figure-head against a
wooden building, which was very nearly carried away

by the shock.

   " I suppose it was about half-past seven or eight

o'clock when we became stationary, but I forgot to look

at my watch for the purpose of ascertaining. Then

came a great bustle, as we heard the vessel was to start

again for Boston in two hours, and that the mail for
Pictou and Quebec would be off in less time still.
Where the coach-office was, or what was to be done to

get a place, or whether there were any places, or places

enough for those who wished to go the Pictou way,
were questions to which we could get no satisfactory

answers, and I began to debate whether it would not

be safer to go by way of Boston. Having, however, in
1840.]  HALIFAX TO PICTOU.  IS

a short time, thanks to Mr. Deblois, and his nephew,
who came on board to see him, obtained the requisite

information, I secured a place to go by Pictou. I put

my baggage into a truck, left the ship, and proceeded to

the coach-office, where I paid £2 5s. for my seat, and 7s.

for my baggage, over forty pounds weight."
    Forty years have elapsed since the occurrences of

which we write, and now great ocean steamers ply up
and down the beautiful harbour of Halifax almost

unnoticed. There are no cheering thousands on the

piers, for steamers have ceased to be a novelty ; no

eager multitude looking for the monthly mails from

Europe. Now there are almost daily mails from conti
nent to continent, and silent messages pass and repass

along the Atlantic Cable, telling of far-off events almost

as soon as they have transpired.
   At nine o'clock on the evening of his arrival at

Halifax, Logan left for Pictou. Crossing the harbour in
a small boat, he found the coach-and-four in readiness

at Dartmouth, and soon began his drive of 100 miles.

" As it was a bright moonlight night," he says, " I
determined to remain outside, in order that I might see

something of the country ; while my companion (Col.
Balfour) determined to stay inside, in order that he might
shut his eyes and have a view of the Land of Nod."
In the morning, shortly before reaching the village of
Truro, they met Sir Charles Fitzroy, Governor of Prince
Edward Island, who stopx^ed them in order to obtain
the news. Logan informed him of the death of Lord
Durham, late Governor of Canada, the elevation of
Poulett Thompson to the Peerage, and other events in
which he was likely to be interested. A son of Sir
76                PTCTOU TO MONTREAL.  [i8«>.

George Seymour accompanied the Governor, and was

gratified by hearing of his father's safe arrival at

Halifax.

   From Pictou to Quebec, Logan's journey was con
tinued on board the steamer "TInicorn," which he

recognized as one which had formerly plied, between

Liverpool and Glasgow. Arriving at Quebec on the
afternoon of the 19th., he remained there but a few
hours, and then left by the steamer "Canada" for
Montreal, which was reached at five o'clock on the

afternoon of the following day. Those who are familiar

with the journey from Quebec to Montreal, and with

the swift and commodious steamers by which it is now

performed, will read with interest the following extract

...from Logan's journal of 1840 :--
    "Aug. 19//t.  At 7 pm. embarked on board the

" Canada," which is said to be one of the best steamboats

on the river. It has a boiler and cylinder for each

wheel, and there is no connecting spindle between the

wheels ; so that they revolve independently of each
other The beam of each engine is above the deck, and

the two bob up and down in the most independent

style, without any regard to regularity. One was
going twenty strokes, while the other did not exceed
eighteen per minute. We took a large barge in tow,

and stopped alongside of a couple of brigs for the
purpose of taking on board a lot of Irish and Scotch

emigrants. I understand that 20,000 have come out

this year. We got fairly away at nine o'clock, just as
the evening gun was fired from the sloop-of-war, which
is in port. The engines being on each side of the boat,
 --^</                                          a *»
            ).
 ;

/

                                 S3         'V

 / "1

 1

v\ \

                                        77
78  ARRIVAL AT MONTREAL.        [i840.

the centre part is left free for cabins for passengers, and

for space to hold cargo.

   "Just as the boat got under way a most beautiful

aurora borealis was displayed. The coruscations first

shot up vertically from one point, and then spread in

the form of a broad, irregular arch across the sky. One
extremity of the arch afterwards folding round, it

assumed the shape of a magnificent ostrich plume ;

and from this as a base there ultimately shot up into

the zenith a multitude of vertical lines, fading as they

rose. The whole mass at length diffused into a volumi

nous cloud, and by degrees vanished.
   "Aug. 20lh. . . . We went down to dinner at four

o'clock, and when I returned on deck, lo and behold!

there we were just by the ship-yard (at Montreal), with
a brewery on one side of it and a foundry on the other.
The current ran as fast as it used to ; but the town

appeared to me shorter and more crowded than of yore.

I took the Bonsecours Church for some new one, which
I fancied had been built in the middle of the Quebec

Suburbs. The grand new Catholic Church produced a

magnificent effect, towering as it did above all the

houses of the town. . . .       the wharf was John
                                as ever. There were
  "The first person I saw on

Molson --looking just the same

multitudes of calashes (the hackney coaches of the

district) on the wharf, and Molson got one for me, in

which I drove to Miss Dupirer's to look for James.

When I got there I found that he had gone to look for

me ; so I sallied forth again to look for him, but did not
proceed twenty yards from the door when I met him
1840.]  A JOURNEY TO MAINE.  79

turning the corner of the street, and looking as thin

as a whipping-post."
   On this his return to his native city, there were many

old friends and many old haunts to be visited. The
stores of Hart Logan & Co., on St. Sacrament Street and
at Fointe a Calliere, the old farm, where a new house*
of stone was now being erected in the place of the

old one of wood, the Natural History Museum, on
St. James Street, the mineralogical collection of Dr.
Holmes, the Lachine Canal -- these and many other
places he wished to see. But more important still,

there were many rocks to be examined. Accompanied
by his brother James, frequent geological excursions
were made to various points in the vicinity of the city,
and the relations of the stratified and eruptive rocks of

the region studied. In this way a fortnight was plea

santly spent, and then he set out on a journey to the
State of Maine, the object of which appears to have
been to examine lands in which some of his friends
were interested. The journey occupied several weeks,
and was indeed a rough one, giving him a foretaste of
the kind of life through which he was subsequently to

pass for many years.
   There was then no Victoria Bridge, and not even a

steam-ferry to Longueuil. A steam-ferry had, it is true,
been tried, but had not proved a success, and now the
river was crossed by a horse-boat, which, owing to the
swiftness of the current, required fifteen horses for
its propulsion. From Longueuil Logan proceeded to

   * This bonse subsequently became Sir William's residence, and was
known as " Rockneld."
80  A SEARCH FOR TIN.  [i840.

Sherbrooke by coach, and learning here that at a moun
tain known as the Carbuncle, not very far off, a vein of
tin ore had been discovered, he determined to visit the

locality, in order to ascertain whether there was any

truth in the reports. " I left Sherbrooke," says his

journal, " in a single-waggon at twelve, and passed
over an undulating country of slate to Hops' tavern, at
the upper end of Brompton Lake, where we arrived at

two p.m. . . .
   "About four p.m. we started, Hops, the driver, and

myself, in a canoe made out of the trunk of a tree, and
went down a small stream, still and deep, for five or six

miles, and then came upon a lake, along the shore of
which we continued our course. As we proceeded
down the brook we raised a couple of ducks, but the
driver, who had brought with him a long single-
barrelled gun, could not get a shot at them. On the
lake we heard the cry of an aquatic bird, which my
friends informed me was a loon, and we came in
sight of two of them ; but they seemed very shy, as
they dived and made off the moment they saw us
approaching, while yet a long way off and wholly out
of reach of shot. Their cry was very like a laugh, and
it seemed to be a laugh at my friend the driver's gun.

   " Just as it was getting dusk, we reached the shore of

the lake at the point most convenient to make our
ascent of the silver mountain, and, after securing the
canoe, we hastened to find a spot convenient for
camping on. This we discovered at a few rods from

the shore, and immediately Hops proceeded to cut
down some dry timber to get up a fire. Log after log
1840.] ALL NOT TIN THAT GLITTERS.  81

was heaped up. and very shortly we had a blaze suffi
cient to roast not one ox, but a dozen of them. Hops
continued to ply his axe, at which he seemed very
expert, and, having secured a sufficient quantity of soft

wood, he cut down also a supply of maple and other

hard woods to give the fire durability. This done, a

quantity of hemlock boughs were strewn upon the
moss near the fire, and we then quickly made ourselves

a home for the night. We had no ceiling but the

branches of the trees above us and the canopy of

heaven ; and as this canopy was a clear, bright blue,
spangled with many stars, and illumined by the moon,
without a cloud to show a chance of rain, we were

content. Hops had brought some buckwheat cake, and

when work was done his basket was produced, but I

could not manage the cake. It seemed to me a cake of
sand. So I rolled myself up in my mackintosh, and
tried to sleep. But the wolves howled about us in all

directions ; so we sat up again, and began a set of
stories and anecdotes about wolves and bears, which
was quite enlivening. However, we became quiet by
degrees, and dropped off to sleep, one after another. . . .

The wolves howled all night long, but I slept pretty
well notwithstanding, and when I awoke felt myself

quite ready for our ascent. We started from our camp,
and came upon a sort of path among the trees, which

led us over fallen trunks and stones, and all kinds of

entanglement and confusion, to the Carbuncle. No

sooner did I put my eyes on some small pieces of the

ore, than the tin turned out to be copper. Green

carbonate and yellowish sulphuret are the kinds of

                                                                               6
82  A QUEBEC HOTEL.  [i840.

ore, but the lode does not seem worth working. . . .

After examining all we could at the foot of the rock, we
went round and attained its summit, clambering over
moss-grown prostrate trunks, and moss-grown frag
ments of the rock itself; and from thence we had a
magnificent view of the lake and the surrounding
forest-covered hills. A mist was rising from the lake,

but gradually cleared off, and we saw that other mists
were rising from other lakes in the distance. One

hovered over Massawippi, and one over Magog. Having
supplied myself with specimens of the ore and of the
rock of the mountain, we returned the way we came,
visiting on the route a couple of small islands in the
lake, one of which consisted almost wholly of serpen
tine, studded with oxydulated iron in crystals. Both
were covered with a most delicious blueberry, on which

I made my breakfast."

    From Sherbrooke Logan continued his journey in
gigs, carts, and waggons of every description ; or

where no vehicles were obtainable, on horseback, or

even on foot. Having finally reached his destination
in Maine, about the 20th. of September, and examined

the lands which he had gone to see there, he returned
by a different route, which brought him out to the St.
Lawrence at Point Levis, opposite Quebec. Not know
ing the hotels at the latter place, he requested the
boatman with whom he crossed the river to conduct
him to a good one, and was taken to the " Montreal,"
which the boatman said was " the best auberge in

Quebec." In this opinion he did not long share ; for,

on entering, he saw that the guests were chiefly pilots.
1840-41.] INTERESTING INVESTIGATIONS.  83

and sailors from schooners. On wishing to retire for
the night, he was shown into a room in which there
were five beds, all of which, except one, which had
been reserved for him, already had two occupants,
sufficiently drunk to be in a mood for fighting. So
noisy were they, in fact, that the people of the house
soon threatened to call in the police, and Logan began
to fear that he might be lodged in Quebec jail as one of
the brawlers. "On getting up in the morning," he
says, " daylight showed me a rare pig-sty of a house,

which I made all haste to quit."*

   Having returned to Montreal, he went in the follow
ing month to examine the effects of a land-slide, which

had occurred a few months before on the River
Maskinonge, below Montreal. The winter of 1840-41

was spent in Canada, and it was then that he made a

study of the phenomena connected with the annual
freezing over of the St. Lawrence. The facts obtained
with reference to this subject and the landslide were
afterwards embodied in an admirable paper which he
read before the Geological Society of London in 1842,
and much of which we reproduce here, as few have

ready access to the original paper. It shows that he

had become not only a careful and accurate observer,

but also knew how to state clearly the results of

his observations. Some years after, when George
Stephenson, the engineer, undertook the construction

   * It was during this trip to Maine that Logan's attention was first drawn
to the serpentines of the Eastern Townships. While at Quebec, also, he
went over to Point Levis, and made his first examination of the rocks

there.
84  LOGAN ON PACKING OF ICE.  [i84i.

of Victoria Bridge across the St. Lawrence, he is
said to have obtained many useful hints from Logan's
investigations, to which his attention was probably
drawn through the Report of Mr. Thomas Keefer

on the Bridging of the St. Lawrence (1853). In

recommending what he considered as the best site
for a bridge, Keefer supported his arguments by the

observations of Logan, and Stephenson seems to have
fully recognized the force of what they had both
written on the subject.

On the Packing of Ick in the St. Lawrence,
     and on a Landslide in the Valley of the
      Maskinonge.*

                                        [Read June 15/A, 1842.]

   " The island of Montreal stands at the confluence of
the Rivers Ottawa and St. Lawrence, and is the largest
of several islands splitting up these mighty streams,
which cannot be said to be thoroughly mingled until
they have descended some miles below the whole
cluster. The rivers first come in contact in a consid
erable sheet of water called Lake St. Louis, which
separates the upper part of the island of Montreal
from the southern main. But though the streams here
touch, they do not mingle. The waters of the St.
Lawrence, which are beautifully clear and transparent,
keep along the southern shore, while those of the

   *Quart. Journal of the Geological Society of London, Vol. ii. 1846,

p. 422.
   LOGAN ON PACKING OF ICE.                                                                                       85

Ottawa, of a darker aspect, though by no means turbid,

wash the banks of the island ; and the contrast of

colour they present strongly marks their line of contact

for many miles.
   " Lake St. Louis at the widest part, about six miles

broad, with length of twelve miles. It gradually
   it, a
               is,
narrows towards the lower end, and the river, as
                                   it
                                        is
                                              is
                                                it is

                                                           it
issues from becoming compressed into the space of
half a mile, rushes with great violence down the

Rapids of Lachine, and, although the stream known

to be upwards of eight feet deep,  thrown into

huge surges of nearly as many feet high as passes

over its rocky bottom, which at this spot composed

of layers of trap extending into floors that lie in succes

sive steps.

   " At the termination of this cascade the river expands

to breadth of four miles, and flows gently on, until                                                              it
a

becomes cramped up by islands and shallows opposite
the city of Montreal. From Windmill Point and Point

St. Charles, above the town, several ledges of rock,

composed of trap, lying in floors, which in seasons of

low water are not much below the surface, shoot out

into the stream about 1,000 yards; and similar layers,

pointing to these, come out from Longueuil on the
opposite shore. In the narrow channel between them,

the water, rushing with much force, produces the

Saull Normand, and cooped up little lower down by
   it
                                  it

                                                      a

                                                                                                               ;
the island of St. Helen and several projecting patches

of trap, forms St. Mary's Current.
   " The interval between St. Helen and the south shore

is greater than that between and Montreal but the
86 LOGAN ON PACKING OF ICE.

former is so floored and crossed by hard trap rocks that
the St. Lawrence has as yet produced but little effect
in wearing them down, while in the latter it has cut

out a channel between thirty and forty feet deep,
through which the chief part of its waters rush with a

velocity equal to six miles per hour. It is computed
that by this channel alone upwards of a million of tons

flow past the town every minute.
    " Between this point and Lake St. Peter, about fifty

miles down, the river has an average breadth of two
miles, and, proceeding in its course with a moderate
current, accelerated or retarded a little according to the
presence or absence of shoals, it enters the lake by a
multitude of channels cut through its delta, and form
ing a group of low, flat, alluvial islands.

    " The frosts commence about the end of November, and
a margin of ice of some strength soon forms along the
shores of the river, and around every island and project
ing rock in it ; and wherever there is still water it is
immediately cased over. The wind, acting on this
glacial fringe, breaks off portions in various parts, and
these, proceeding down the stream, constitute a moving
border on the outside of the stationary one, which,
as the intensity of the cold increases, is continually
augmented by the adherence of the ice-sheets which
have been coasting along it ; and as the stationary
border thus robs the moving one, this still further
outflanks the other, until in some part the margins
from the opposite shores nearly meeting, the floating
ice becomes jammed up between them, and a night of
severe frost forms a bridge across the river. The first
LOGAN ON PACKING OF ICE.                         87

ice-bridge below Montreal is usually formed at the

entrance of the river into Lake St. Peter, where the

many channels into which the stream is split up greatly

assist the process.
   " As soon as this winter barrier is thrown across

(generally towards Christmas), it of course rapidly

increases by stopping the progress of the downward-

floating ice, which has by this time assumed a character
of considerable grandeur, nearly the whole surface of

the stream being covered with it ; and the quantity is

so great that to account for the supply, many, unsatisfied
with the supposition of a marginal origin, have recourse

to the hypothesis that a very large portion is formed on

and derived from the bottom of the river, where rapid

currents exist. But whatever its origin, it now moves

in solid and extensive fields, and wherever it meets

with an obstacle in its course, the momentum of the

mass breaks up the striking part into huge fragments

that pile over one another ; or if the obstacle be station

ary ice, the fragments are driven underis     and there
                                         it,
closely packed. Beneath the constantly widening ice-

barrier mentioned, an enormous quantity thus driven,

particularly when the barrier gains any position

where the current         stronger than usual. The
                 is
augmented force with which the masses there move,is

                                is
pushes and packs so much below, that the space left

for the river to flow in            greatly diminished, and

the consequence    a perceptible rise of the waters

above, which, indeed, from the very first taking of

the bridge, gradually and slowly increase for consid
                                              a

erable way up.
88 LOGAN ON PACKING OF ICE.

    " There is no place on the St. Lawrence where all the
phenomena of the taking, packing, and shoving of the
ice are so grandly displayed as in the neighbourhood of
Montreal. The violence of the currents is here so
great, and the river in some places expands to such a
width, that whether we consider the prodigious extent
of the masses moved, or the force with which they are

propelled, nothing can afford a more majestic spectacle,
or impress the mind more thoroughly with a sense of
irresistible power. Standing for hours together upon

the bank overlooking St. Mary's Current, I have seen

league after league of ice crushed and broken against
the barrier lower down, and there submerged and
crammed beneath ; and when we reflect that an opera
tion similar to this occurs in several parts from Lake St.
Peter upwards, it will not surprise us that the river
should gradually swell. By the time the ice has
become stationary at the foot of St. Mary's Current, the
the waters of the St. Lawrence have usually risen
several feet in the harbour of Montreal, and as the
space through which the current flows affords a deep
and narrow passage for nearly the whole body of the
river, it may well be imagined that when the packing
here begins, the inundation rapidly increases. The
confined nature of this part of the channel affords a
more ready resistance to the progress of the ice, while
the violence of the current brings such an abundant
supply, and packs it with so much force, that the river,
dammed up by the barrier, which in many places
reaches to the bottom, attains in the harbour a height

usually twenty, and sometimes twenty-six feet above
           LOGAN ON PACKING OF ICE.                                             89

its summer level ; and it is not uncommon between
this point and the foot of the current, within the
distance of a mile, to see a difference in elevation of

several feet, which undergoes many rapid changes, the

water ebbing or flowing according to the amount of
impediment they meet with in their progress from

submerged ice.

   " It is at this period that the grandest movements of

the ice occur. From the effect of packing and piling,

and the accumulation of the snows of the season, the

saturation of these with water, and the freezing of the
whole into a solid body, it attains the thickness of ten
to twenty feet, and even more ; and after it has become
fixed as far as the eye can reach, a sudden rise in the

water, occasioned no doubt in the manner mentioned,
lifting up a wide expanse of the whole covering of the
river, so high as to free and start it from the many
points of rest and resistance offered by the bottom,

where it had been packed deep enough to touch the
a

   it

          is

                                              ;

                                        it
                                                  it it

                                                                             a
                                                                           it,
vast mass  set in motion by the whole hydraulic

power of this gigantic stream. Proceeding onward

with truly terrific majesty,  piles up over every

obstacle encounters and when forced into narrow
part of the channel, the lateral pressure there exerts

drives the bordage up the banks, where sometimes

accumulates to the height of forty or fifty feet. In

front of the town of Montreal there has lately been

built a magnificent revetement wall of cut limestone to

the height of twenty-three feet above the summer level

of the river. This wall       now a great protection
                         is
                                                       it,
against the effects of the ice. Broken by                   the ice
90 LOGAN ON PACKING OF ICE.

piles on the strest or terrace surmounting and there
                              I
stops but before the wall was built, the sloping bank
;                                               it it,
guided the moving mass up to those of gardens and
          ahouses in very dangerous manner, and many accidentsa
           aused to occur. It has been known to pile up against               a

the side of house more than two hundred feet from

the margin of the river, and there break in at the

windows of the second floor.                        have seen mount

terrace garden twenty feet above the bank, and crossing

the garden enter one of the principal streets of the

town.  A  few years before the erection of the revete-

ment wall, a friend of mine, tempted by the commercial
advantages of the position, ventured to build large

cut-stone warehouse, 180 feet long and four or five
stories high, closer than usual upon the margin of the

harbour. The ground-floor was not more than eight

feet above the summer level of the river. At the taking

of the ice, the usual rise of the water of course inun

dated the lower story, and the whole building becoming

surrounded by frozen sheet,                         general expectation
              a

                     it

                                                 a
was entertained that would be prostrated by the first

movement. But the proprietor had taken a very simple

and effectual precaution to prevent this. Just before

the rise of the waters, he securely laid against three

sides of the building, at an angle of less than 45°,                 it a

number of stout oak logs, a few feet asunder. When

the movement came, the sheet of ice was broken and

pushed up the wooden inclined plane thus formed, at

the top of which, meeting the wall of the building,

was reflected into vertical position, and falling back,
              a

in this manner such an enormous rampart of ice was in
LOGAN ON PACKING OF ICE.  91

a few minutes placed in front of the warehouse, as

completely shielded it from all possible danger. In

some years the ice has piled up nearly as high as the

roof of this building. Another gentleman, encouraged
by the security which this warehouse apparently
enjoyed, erected one of great strength and equal
magnitude on the next water lot, but he omitted to
protect it in the same way. The result might have been
anticipated. A movement of the ice occurring, the great

sheet struck the walls at right angles, and pushed over

the building as if it had been a house of cards. Both

positions are now secured by the revfitement wall.
   " Several movements of the grand order just mentioned

occur before the final setting of the ice, and each is
immediately preceded by a sudden rise of the river.
 Sometimes several days, and occasionally but a few

hours, will intervene between them ; and it is fortunate
 that there is a criterion by which the inhabitants are

 made aware when the ice may be considered at rest for
 the season, and when it has therefore become safe for

 them to cut their winter roads across its rough and
 pinnacled surface. This is never the case until a longi
 tudinal opening of considerable extent appears in some

 part of St. Mary's Current. It has embarrassed many
 to give a satisfactory reason why this rule, derived from
 the experience of the peasantry, should be depended on.

 But the explanation is extremely simple. The opening
 is merely an indication that a free sub-glacial passage
 has been made for itself by the water, through the
 combined influence of erosion and temperature, the
 effect of which, where the current is strongest, has been
92 LOGAN ON PACKING OF ICE.

sufficient to wear through to the surface. The forma
tion of this passage shows the cessation of a supply of
submerged ice, and a consequent security against any
further rise of the river to loosen its covering for any
further movement. The opening is thus a true mark of

safety. It lasts the whole winter, never freezing over,
even when the temperature of the air reaches 30° below
zero of Fahrenheit ; from its first appearance the waters

of the inundation gradually subside, escaping through
the channel of which it is the index. The waters
seldom or never, however, fall so low as to attain their

summer level ; but the subsidence is sufficiently great
to demonstrate clearly the prodigious extent to which
the ice has been packed, and to show that over great
occasional areas it has reached to the very bottom of

the river. For it will immediately occur to everyone,
that when the mass rests on the bottom its height will
not be diminished by the subsidence of the water, and

that as this proceeds, the ice, according to the thickness

which it has in various parts attained, will present
various elevations after it has found a resting-place
beneath, until just so much is left supported by the

stream as is sufficient to permit its free escape. When
the subsidence has attained its maximum, the trough
of the St. Lawrence therefore exhibits a glacial lands
cape, undulating into hills and valleys that run in
various directions, and while some of the principal
mounds stand upon a base of five hundred yards in
length, by a hundred or two in breadth, they present a
height of ten to fifteen feet above the level of those

parts supported on the water. . . .
LANDSLIP ON THE MASKINONGK  03

   " The country to a considerable distance on both banks
of the St. Lawrence, from Montreal to Lake St. Peter,
and even to Quebec, is very level, and it is in general
covered with a deep and highly levigated deposit of

argillaceous, arenaceous and calcareous matter, the
constituents of which vary in their proportions in
different localities. This deposit rests upon a shallow

trough of black shale and black and grey limestone,
the fossils of which are palaeozoic, and resemble those
figured as belonging to the Lower Silurian rocks of
Britain. This trough is bounded on the N. W. side by

a range of moderately elevated granitic and syenitic
hills, which rise up without tilting or much disturbing
the limestone, and follow the river all the way to
Quebec ; and from below the limestone on the S. E.
there crops a hard quartzose conglomerate, succeeded
by a formation of pyritiferous clay slate, with a cleavage
cutting the layers of deposit in a N. E. and S. W.
direction, which is that of their general strike. The

bounding rocks on both sides of the trough present a
surface undulating into hill and dale, and those on the
S. E. give rise to a picturesque country, very much
resembling some of the slate counties of Wales. The

plains between them covering the trough constitute
the valley of the St. Lawrence, and may occupy a
breadth of forty miles, and the nature of the material of
which they are composed renders it impossible to
conceive a region more fitted for the purposes of

agriculture.
    " Between Montreal and Lake St. Peter, the plains on

the south side of the river do not appear to attain the
94: LANDSLIP ON THE MASKINONGE.

elevation they exhibit on the N. W. Occasionally so
low, close by the margin of the stream on both sides,
as to allow the formation of marshes, the banks in
general present a height of twenty to thiity feet above
the level of the water ; but on the N. W. side, and
ranging with the river, at a distance varying from one
to six miles from the water's edge, there occurs a
sudden upward step in the land of about 100 feet,

forming an elevated terrace between this point and the
granitic country already mentioned, which rises up in
another step, and though undulating in the interior,
has a general additional elevation of 200 to 300 feet.

   "The terrace at the foot of the granitic step has a very
even surface over a great area, slightly modified in a
few places by the protrusion of the underlying lime
stone through the soft deposit of which it is composed.
It is chiefly, however, in the beds of the rivers which
cross the plain in their course to the St. Lawrence that
the limestone strata are visible ; and some of these
tributaries, dashing down the side of the granitic step,
cut at once into the terrace below, very nearly to the
level of the main stream, and winding through the
deposit in question, show it to possess considerable
depth. When any tributary has excavated so deep a
passage, the banks are occasionally subject to landslips,
sometimes of a very serious character, and having
visited the scene of one on the banks of the Maski-
nonge, it appears to me worthy of particular notice.

   " The waters of the Maskinonge take their rise in a
chain of mountains to the N. W., and passing through
a series of small lakes, fall into one about nine miles in
    LANDSLIP ON THE MASKIJSONGE.                           95

circumference, bearing the same name. Issuing thence,

they flow through about twelve miles of country

before they are precipitated in a beautiful cascade

down the side of the granitic step on to the plain at its

foot. Making a deep section into this, they wash bare

the outcrop of some limestone strata, which exhibit a

gentle dip of 3° to 4° southward , and from this point
to the mouth of the tributary at the head of Lake St.

Peter, there is very little fall, with the exception of a

spot six miles below the cascade, where there is an

accumulation of large boulders, evidently derived from
the granite further up. At this spot, a mill dam across

the stream occasions a fall of about fifteen feet, which,

with a very small addition, will represent the whole

amount of descent in the river from the granite hills to

the lake receiving a distance of twelve miles.
   " The general course of the river from N. W. to
               a         is                                E.,
                                      it
                    it,
                                            it

                                                       S.
with, however, few meanderings. Where the land

slip occurred, about nine miles below the cascade, the

stream from ten to twenty yards wide. Flowing
    is

nearly south,  it  suddenly turns to the west, and

running in that direction for about 700 yards, again

turns direct south. The valley in which winds its

way of uniform breadth, the summit of the banks
is

being about 200 yards apart. The banks, as may be

inferred from what has been said, are about 120 feet

high, and the landslip in question took place on the,

right bank, in the middle of the western turn men

tioned.

   " On the 4th. of April, 1840, while the snows of winter

were yet upon the ground, about eight o'clock in the
90 LANDSLIP ON THE MASKINONGE.

morning, the inmates of the farm-houses on the spot
were alarmed by the agitation of their wooden dwell
ings, and looking from the windows, became aware
from changes in the relative positions of the trees in
the neighbourhood, that the ground on which they
stood was in motion. They, of course, quitted their
homes with precipitation, and fled in great terror to
rouse the country around, and the confusion and dread
which the event occasioned while in progress, disabled
the population from making very accurate observations
of the phenomena with which it was accompanied ;
but from an examination and survey of the spot after it

had happened, and such accounts as I could collect, it

would seem that a mass of the soft deposit, covering
the solid rocks, about 200 yards wide and 700 yards
long, but how deep is uncertain, slipped out of the
bank endways towards the river. This was followed
in quick succession, at intervals of a few minutes, by
four others, occupying with the first an area of about

eighty-four acres, of an irregular form, somewhat
resembling the section of a long-necked flask, the
whole length of which was 1,300 yards, and the
widest part, removed a considerable way back from
the river, was 600. The contents of this huge trough,
consisting of a marly clay, slipped out at the long,
narrow spout where the movement began, crossed the
river, struck the opposite bank, and splitting into two
parts, one-half proceeded up the stream about three-
quarters of a mile, the other an equal distance down,
and thus completely blocked up the valley for half a
league. The whole operation was completed in about
LANDSLIP ON THE MASKINONGA  97

three hours, and for a considerable time after it began

the surface of great patches of the moving mass con
tinued unbroken. More than half the amount was
covered with fine sugar-maple trees, and these for the
most part travelled in an erect position on the surface

of the earthy deluge, as it poured both ways through
the valley ; but occasionally a tree or two in different
places would be prostrated, and a few, caught below,
were crushed and engulfed. Two farmsteads were
carried away, and though the people escaped, horses,
cows and sheep were not so fortunate. Those remain
ing shut up in the stables perished with them, as the
houses one after another were crushed and sunk in
various places. But of the poultry, two hens, and also
a cock that was heard to crow most lustily as the
mansion in which he was cooped up sailed along, were

found alive after the event.
   " The masses that blocked up the valley travelled with

a height of about sixty feet, and while their surface was
slightly culminated, the front of each terminated in a
blunt point projecting in the middle and lower part.
As these great double-acting ploughshares were pro

pelled along, they turned up the soft mud from the
bed of the river, casting it on the bank on each side ;
and the stench which arose during the operation,
caused probably by the disengagement of sulphuretted

hydrogen from the decaying vegetables displaced, was
so utterly intolerable, that no one could approach the
river to within 100 yards. Where the first mass struck
the opposite bank, the height it attained was seventy-
five feet, and from this the culminating ridges gradually

                                                                             7
98 LANDSLIP ON THE MASKINONGE.

recurred until they gained a position in the middle of
the valley, gradually lowering also until they reached
the height of sixty feet, as above mentioned.

   " No sooner was the valley thus blocked up than the
water above the impediment began to rise. Houses,

logs and planks, and indeed everything composed of
wood, were set afloat for nine miles up, being as far as
the granite hills. But it was two days before the lake
thus formed attained a sufficient height to overtop the
obstacle. The water first found an escape by the
gulley. between the original bank on the left and tho
slope on the east side of the culminated impeding mass,
making a slight detour where favoured by a depression
through a wood round the point where the launch first
struck the bank in question ; and its erosive action
thus put into operation was sufficient, in the course of
six months, to carry away nearly the whole of the clay
lodged in the valley. The quantity must have been
several millions of tons ; and in the month of October

so much had been swept into Lake St. Peter, that the
Maskinonge above the slip was then not more than ten

feet beyond its ordinary depth.
   " Though the surface of the great area disturbed

remained for some time unbroken after the general
movement began, it gradually sunk as this continued,

and at the period I saw the place, in the subsequent

autumn, the bottom of the chasm was thirty feat below
the level of the surrounding country, while about 400
yards from the river there was a sudden descent of fifteen
feet more, from which the ground sloped gently to the
water's edge. There was then very little of the original
LANDSLIP ON THE MASKINONGE.  99

surface to be seen. Here and there was visible a small

grass-covered patch, and occasionally there might be
 seen, still entire, twenty or thirty yards of the wooden
fence used in the country for the divisions of property.
 15ut nearly the whole area exhibited the greatest confu
 sion, being thrown up into a multitude of parallel clay
 hillocks, from three to four feet high. No doubt these
mounds were occasioned by the pressure of mass
against mass in the direction of motion, at right angles
to which would be their greatest diameter. From the
shape of the mounds, it appeared that the motion of
the landslip must have been down the middle of the
chasm towards the river, and from the sides to the

centre.

   " A circumstance connected with the form of the area
affected by the slip appears singular. The ground
moved constituted part of the general plain of the
neighbouring country ; but on all sides of it, with the
exception of the northern extremity, there was a depres
sion iii the surface, between which and the chasm

produced, there remained after the slip a narrow ridge
at the original height, forming a bounding rim to the
cup which the chasm presented. The depression on
the east side was formed by the slope of the right bank
of the river, and an offset or bay of lower land than
the general plain of the country, and on the west by a
dingle furnished with a brook. The rim was not
many feet wide on the top, but its parallelism to the
depression was remarkable, and it was only broken
through in one place, where a tributary dingle had

joined the one on the west.
100 LANDSLIP ON THE MASKINONGE.

   " It would not be very difficult to prove that there

is scarcely any other mode of satisfactorily accounting
for the movement of this mass of land than its pressure

on an inclined surface, assisted by the action of water
on some bed below. The layers of the deposit itself
appeared all perfectly horizontal: the slip, therefore,
could not have been on one of them. But the dip of

the underlying limestone, wherever I could detect its

appearance for miles around, was precisely in the
direction of the slip, with an inclination of about 4° ;

and although none of it was visible near the spot, I am

persuaded it could not be very deep below the bottom
of the river. It is highly probable that the surface of
one of its beds presented the plain which gave occasion
to the launch. Supposing any boulders to exist at the
bottom of a deposit moved in the manner described, it

is easy to see that parallel grooves and a polish on

..."surfaces of rock may not, in all cases, be attributable to

the agency of ice.
                CHAPTER VII

                  PENNSYLVANIA AND NOVA SCOTIA.

ON the 11th. of August, 1841, Logan left Montreal

        with the intention of returning to Britain by
the first packet from New York; but his plans were
subsequently changed, and as we shall see, he remained
in America until the 8th. of October. The journey
from Montreal to New York was in those days, to say
the least, a tedious one, and even in summer, when
water communication could be taken advantage of to
the fullest extent, occupied several days, instead of
about fifteen hours, as at present. The luxurious
traveller of to-day enters a "Pullman" or a "Wagner"
at Montreal in the evening, and the following morning
wakes up in New York ; but look at the journey of
forty years ago: Montreal to Laprairie by boat;
Laprairie to St John's, on the Richelieu, by wooden
railway ; thence by steamer through Lake Champlain to
Whitehall ; from Whitehall to the Hudson, by canal-
boat , and, finally, down the Hudson to New York by
steamer No wonder that, with so many changes,
102          MEETS LYELL IN NEW YORK.                             [i84l.

Logan lost his hat-box. Travelling by canal-boat was a

new experience to him, and afforded him no little

amusement. The Whitehall Canal, he tells us, was

crossed by a great number of bridges, so low that it

was necessary to look out sharply when on deck

to prevent your head from being knocked off. On

approaching a bridge, the helmsman called out "bridge,"
or sometimes " low bridge," and all on deck were flat in

an instant.

On arriving at New York, Logan, and a pet turtle

which he carried with him, took up their quarters at

the Astor House. This was the fashionable hotel of

the day, and with its proportions and grandeur he was

much astonished. With reference to an entry in his
journal says " It certainly most magnificent estab

lishment. The front and the north side are of granite,
             :

                       is

                                                   a

                                                          it,

and the building looks more like a palace than a hotel.

To-day there have been 192 arrivals. The number of

my bedroom         daresay there may be 300 bed
             is237.

                       I

                                                               a
rooms in the house." Finding that gentleman with

whom he had business to transact was absent from the

city, he determined to postpone his return to England

until the next packet, and meantime to visit the coal

fields of Pennsylvania, and, possible, that of Pictou,
             a
                     a

                      I
                         I
                            if

                                           I
in Nova Scotia. While hurrying along the street,
busied with preparations for his journey to Phila

delphia, he was not little surprised at seeing Lyell,

the geologist, who happened at this very time to be
travelling in America. " had," says the modest
Logan, " a huge inclination to go up and speak to him,

but did not, like fool as am. However, have found
1841.] AN AGREEABLE INTERVIEW.              103

that he is at the Astor House, and have, therefore,

determined to stop until Monday, and endeavour to
have an interview with him." In this he succeeded,

as will be seen from the following entries in his

journal :--

   " Sunday, August 15th. -- I met Mr. Lyell in the lobby

this morning, and introduced myself to him. He knows

me very well, I find, and immediately, to my great

gratification, spoke of my interesting (as he termed
paper on underclays, and Buckland's confirmation of
           I

                  is
                                                       is

                                          aI
                                                I -I

                                                                                       it)
my facts. He says he means to notice the paper at
some length in the next edition of his work. He intro

...duced me to Mrs. Lyell, and said he would call at my
room in the course of the day.   saw Mr. Lyell

after dinner, and had about an hour's conversation with

him. He considered several of the facts mentioned

with regard to the changes of quality in our Welsh

coal-field as very striking and beautiful.  took tea

with him and Mrs. Lyell, who     most lady-like

person. She a daughter of Leonard Horner. Mr.

Lyell starts to-morrow morning for Albany. He means

to visit Canada in the spring. He considers the disco

very that  have made there of fishes' teeth in the

limestone of great importance."

The following day he wrote to his brother James,

telling him of Lyell's intended visit to Canada, and

urging him to make collections of organic remains with

which to delight the great geologist on his arrival.
" Lyell," says the letter, " will be in Montreal some time

in the spring, and you in your leisure walks will
a

                 if
make collection of all the organic remains you can for
104 IMPRESSIONS OF PHILADELPHIA. [1841.

him, you will not only be serving him, but also the
cause of geology. It is not necessary that a man should
be a geologist to make a collection. All that you have
to do is to note the locality with some accuracy, and the

best way to do this is to put a number on the specimen
and a mark on the map of Montreal, of which you can
get a copy at Fabre's. Keep the specimens distinct, so
that no confusion may arise when you come to point

out whence each is derived.
   " The shells in the clay should also be collected, and

you should endeavour to ascertain as nearly as possible

the height of each locality above the level of the water

in the harbour."

   Having gratified his desire to meet the distinguished
Lyell, Logan left the following day for Philadelphia,
and in his journal we find the following entry : " At

half-past three reached Philadelphia. The buildings on
the water-side are all of brick. After walking about

the town for a couple of hours, I find that one street is

so like another that it is unnecessary to take more

trouble to see the whole. IThose have seen are pro

bably a good sample of the rest. Chestnut Street

contains the best shops and is the street of the town. It

is the Philadelphia Broadway or Bond Street. The

hotel at which I am is on the said street, and goes by
the title of Congress Hall. It does not, however, seem

to be any better conducted than Congress itself, and is

on the whole rather a shabby affair. I came to it on

the recommendation of a blackey on board the steam

boat. I have been to two booksellers' after Silliman's
account of the Pennsylvania coal-fields, but cannot find
1841.]  PHILADELPHIA.                                                       105

it. . . . There are in Philadelphia some marble buildings
that look remarkably well. The U. S. Bank is one of
them. . . . The streets in general are not very wide.
They are all at right angles to one another, dividing the
town into rectangular blocks. The town is lighted
with gas, and cuts a respectable figure by night.
Everything, however, is more neat than grand."

        INCLINED PLAIN ON THE PHILADELPHIA AND BALTIMORE          RAILWAY,
                             LOOKING! DOWN TOWARDS PHILADELPHIA.

                                      Logan's Journal, 1841.

   Eager to get a glimpse of the coal-fields, and to ascer
tain whether the Stigmaria underclays, in which he
was so much interested, occurred beneath the coal-seams
of Pennsylvania, he hastened on to the Pottsville
106  MaUCH CHUNK.  [i8<i.

region. Here he spent several days; but finding the
opportunities of seeing the underclays rather poor,
owing to the galleries being cut chiefly in the coal, he
proceeded to Mauch Chunk. " Immediately on arriving

here," says his journal, " I sallied forth for the coal

mines, which are about half a mile from the Summit
Hotel. On seeing them I certainly was greatly struck
with the quantity of coal in sight. The seam or collec

tion of seams is worked open to day, fifty feet thick ; and
standing on the top of the coal, looking down the black

precipice to where the workmen were busy at the

bottom boring and breaking the coal, just as rock is

broken and quarried, one beholds a very curious sight.
But independent of the astonishment arising from the

thickness of the seam, I felt great delight at finding
under it my underclay in all its glory, crossed by fibres
coated with carbonaceous matter, and presenting pre
cisely the character of the underclay of the South Wales
seams. In this anthracite district the underclay is very

dark grey. It is quite argillaceous, and I am persuaded

it would make an excellent fire-clay, although the
miners do not seem to be aware of it. There is a seam

of underclay in the mass of coal, showing that it consists

of more seams than one. I have brought away whack
ing specimens of each, but I shall return to-morrow to

look after more.
   " At 5.30 p.m. we got into the railway-car, and in

twenty minutes ran down to Mauch Chunk by an
inclined plane, which carried us down 1,000 feet in eight

miles. The flight down this Montague Russe strikes

one as being very odd. Away the car goes, without
i84i]  FACILIS DESCENSUS.  107

either steam or horse-power, slow in its motion at first,
but gradually increasing in speed, until a rapidity of

about twenty-five miles an hour is attained. The

vehicle seems instinct with life, and one feels as if on a

horse which is running away. The conductor has
power over a friction-strap, by which he can diminish
the rate of speed, but there are many short turns on the

road, and as the track is single, the descending car
might happen to come in contact with an ascending

train as it is drawn up by mules. A pretty concussion
would ensue. A good deal of skill is displayed in

placing the rails at the turns. The outside rail of

the sweep is always higher than the other, to pre
serve the equilibrium of the rapidly-descending car.
Accidents have happened on the road ; pigs, cows,

and men have been run over and killed. A deaf
and dumb man, lying drunk on the rail, was cut in

two.
   " The coal is carried down this road from the mine at

Summit Hill, and the whole train, consisting of some
times seventy waggons, descends in four divisions in
about thirty minutes. The empty waggons are drawn
up by mules, ten mules to each sixteen waggons. The
mules are, of course, brought down the incline in cars
--riding like gentlemen, not pulling like horses. It
is amazing to see with what sagacity they take their
places, both in entering the cars to descend and in dis
mounting at the bottom of the incline. The Company,

called the Lehigh Coal Company, has 300 mules for the
performance of the work, which is so hard that horses
could not stand it.
108 MAUC 11 CHUNK AND WILKESBARRE. [i84i.

    " The operations of this Company have been crippled
by a tremendous freshet, which occurred in the month
of January last. The water of the Lehigh rose above
all former marks, and swept away mills, bridges, dams,
houses, and all description of materials. The Company
lost $300,000 in destruction of standing works, inde
pendent of the injury which has been sustained by the
interruption of the navigation, and the consequent
suspension of their trade, which may be estimated at
$100,000 more. Three mills were swept away from a
point immediately in front of the Mauch Chunk Hotel,

in which I have taken up my quarters.

   "Mauch Chunk is remarkably situated, in a deep
valley, with grand and lofty mountains of conglomerate
and red shale rising up abruptly from the River
Lehigh, which flows through it. Day is almost shut
out from the town, and looking down upon it from the
high point above, where the car stopped, it seemed
buried amid rocks and woods."

   After Mauch Chunk, Wilkesbarre was visited, and a

week fully occupied in examining the coal-measures of
that interesting district. A geological section, extend
ing across the coal-field for a distance of about four
miles, was made, and coal discovered where its existence
had not previously been known. In this work he
obtained much valuable assistance from Capt. Bowman,

a gentleman whom he had the good fortune to meet
at Wilkesbarre. His journal for the week contains
little besides geological measurements, but on the 31st.
of August, the day before leaving Wilkesbarre, he made

the following entry :--
1841.]  WILKESBARRE.  109

   "Though I have not kept a registration of days in my

journal since my arrival at Wilkesbarre, yet there is

evidence enough in it that I have not been idle. Capt.
Bowman, to whom I was introduced on my arrival,

has been my right-hand man, and has given me very

great assistance in making a section of the measures of
this great Wyoming coal-field, and in obtaining good
specimens of underclay. He is a man of talent, and a

gentleman. He took a high prize at West Toint

University, and is esteemed a good officer in the United
States Service. I have given him a hint or two that

may enable him to make money in coal.
   " Coal speculations in this valley might be made to

very great profit. The mineral is just beginning to
obtain a vent. It is only lately that a canal has been
made to convey the produce of the mines to the sea

board, and several good collieries have been established.
Capt. Bowman is opening one in the 24-feet seam,

which cannot fail to be profitable. The farmers, how
ever, do not yet know the nature of coal-ground, and
have not much idea of the constancy of coal-seams.

When they do not see coal, they scarcely believe it will
be found on their field because it is on the next one and
running towards it. The consequence is that they will
sell their lands at a little more than the value of the

surface. Any one making himself master of this coal
field, which is pretty extensive, and keeping his eye on
the points from which an easy exit might be obtained,

could scarcely fail to make money if he had capital to
invest. I rather think Capt. Bowman has opened his
eyes to this fact. Being an engineer, he will soon be
110 THE WORKSHOPS OF THE WORLD. [i84i.

able to unravel the secrets of the stratification of the

district.

  " Under every seam of coal that I have seen I have

found my underclay. There is one, however, in

Gully, which some may think an exception. I fancy it

is not ; for though the lowest rock is hard and compact,

I think I see the carbonaceous streaks that indicate

Sligmaria."

   Sufficient had now been seen by Logan to convince
him that the views which he had held concerning the

Welsh coal-seams and their underclays were equally
true with regard to those of Pennsylvania. Accordingly
he decided not to prolong his stay further, but to return
at once to New York, complete his business there, and
then proceed by way of Boston to Nova Scotia. With

the importance of the Pennsylvania coal-fields he was
greatly impressed. " Such a sight," ho writes, " as the

Lehigh mines present, is to a collier overwhelming.
Imagine a seam of coal fifty feet thick, with its covering

taken off for a space of 500 or 600 yards square, and
worked to open day like a quarry !--cut into great
precipices and ravines, and giving to the eye a picture
as black as Erebus." And again : " When it is recol
lected that with the coal are associated vast veins and
seams of iron ore, and huge beds of limestone, it would

seem as if Providence intended that Virginia, Pennsylva

nia, and Ohio should become the workshops of the world.
The wealth that these three States will, in the course of

of a quarter or half a century, arrive at, is incalculable."
   Logan even talked of settling in the United States as

a coal-viewer ; but in reality his heart was already set
Ill1841.] THOUGHTS OF A CANADIAN SURVEY.

upon the almost vacant geological field which Canada
afforded. While in Philadelphia, on his way back to

New York, he met with Dr. Rogers, of Virginia, and in
the course of conversation mentioned to him his desire

to undertake a geological survey of his native Province.

Only a few days after this, also, he wrote to one of his
"Ibrothers saying,
                    have almost made up my mind,

if I can make the necessary arrangements in business

matters, to offer myself as a candidate to undertake the

survey of Canada, and if I once begin, it will not be my

fault if it does not go ahead." No doubt his wish to

take this great work in hand was stimulated by his

meeting members of both the Pennsylvania and New

York Surveys, and seeing how much had already been

accomplished by them.
   On his return to New York, Logan's business

engagements detained him for several days ; but still

he was determined not to go back to England without

seeing the Pictou coal-field. On his way thither Boston
was visited. " We crossed," says his journal, " a sheet

of water on a long, low, narrow bridge, and entered

Boston at 11.45. I got my baggage, and gave it to the

first cabman who appeared. He had ' Marlboro' ' on

his hat; so to the Marlboro' Hotel he took me, and

there I find myself in a small room, number 43.

The regulations of the house are rather odd for an

hotel : Prayers at 9.30 p.m. ; prayers at 6.30 a.m. No

spirituous liquors ; no cooking on Sunday ; no pay

ment received on Sunday ; grace before meat at the

ordinary, both at dinner and tea, and I suppose at

breakfast"
J12  A BIRD'S-EYE VIEW OF BOSTOX.  [i84i.

Although only a day was spent in Boston, the

beauties of the place did not fail to excite Logan's

admiration, and in his journal we find the following

description :--

  " Boston is certainly a grand city. I went to the

look-out on the cupola of the State House, and thence

had a magnificent view. The main part of the city

(called North Boston) was down below me, consisting
of parks and trees, and thousands upon thousands of

substantially-built brick houses, studded with spires,

cupolas, and edifices taller than others, and surrounded

with wharves, quays, and docks, all on a peninsula

joined to the mainland by a low, narrow neck, and to

South Boston (standing on another peninsula) by two
long, very low, narrow bridges. From many points
landward, also, there stretched to North Boston sundry

other long, low, narrow bridges, over salt marshes and
shallow waters, for the purposes of common roads and

railroads. And then there was East Boston on another

peninsula, joined to North Boston and to the mainland

by still another set of long, low bridges. Seaward
were a multitude of islands and capes, completely
locking in the harbour, on whose bosom floated ships

of war and ships of trade, some at anchor and some in

motion, and steamboats, great and small, sending their

black smoke and their hissing white smoke in clouds

aloft, some coming and some going. Into the shallow

water to the west a couple of quiet rivers flowed,

giving perspective to the middle distance by their con

...verging shores, on which were country seats peeping
out from embowering woods.  To the south an
1841 ]  REACHES NOVA SCOTIA.  113

outline of hills, which came up sharply against the
sky, showed in their eastward course that the rocks
which compose them have been the barrier which pro
tects from the attacks of the ocean the promontory that
chiefly shields the bay.

   " Up from the city came a busy hum, with the noise
of clattering hoofs and rattling carriages, the clinking
of hammers and the ringing of bells, mingled with the
cries of trade and the barking of dogs ; and ever and

anon a cock would crow his note of defiance, to be
answered by another. Men looked like pigmies in the
streets below, and it seemed impossible that such little

creatures could be the authors of such great works as

were spread around.
   " North Boston is like the body of a great spider, and

all the long, narrow bridges that emanate from it look

like the spider's legs."
   Leaving Boston by steamer, on the 11th. of Septem

ber, Logan proceeded to St. John, in New Brunswick,
and then crossing the Bay of Fundy, arrived at
Windsor, in Nova Scotia. At St. John he had hoped

to meet Dr. Gcsner, the author of a number of reports

on the geology of New Brunswick ; but in this he was

disappointed, for Gesner was absent on a geological
excursion to Miramichi. The geology of Windsor and

its vicinity appeared so enticing to Logan that he could
not pass it by, but resolved to remain there for several
days. At that time Judge Haliburton, the author of
" Sam Slick," resided near the town, and worked the

extensive deposits of gypsum that occurred on his pro
perty. His quarries being in sight of the inn, attracted

                                                                               8
114 DISCOVERY OF AMPlflBTAN TRACKS. [i84i

Logan's attention, and on going to examine them, he
encountered the author himself, and began to ply him
with questions about the geology of the neighbourhood.
" The Judge," he says, " answered them as well as he
could, but evidently he is not deep in the mysteries of

stratification. He, however, gave me some local infor

mation that was very useful in respect to quarries

where I might gather fossil remains."

   On the wharf at Windsor some building-stone hap
pened to be lying. To the ordinary observer, no
doubt, it was so much building-stone, and nothing
more ; but there was something about it which excited

Logan's interest, and made him desire to see the locality
from which it had been derived. On enquiry, he
learned that it came from Horton Bluff, about fifteen
miles off; and so to Horton Bluff he went. The rocks
there belong to the Lower Carboniferous formation,
and Logan was rewarded by finding in one of the beds
the tracks of a batrachian animal. The discovery was
one of great importance, as it was the first instance in
which any evidcnce had been obtained of the existence
of such animals at so early a period in the history
of our globe. At the time, however, it failed to attract
the attention which it deserved, and the credit of
making the first observations of the kind fell to others.

It is right, therefore, that the facts of the case should

be noticed here, and we give them as stated by Dr.
Dawson, in his work on the " Air-Breathers of the Coal

Period," published in 1863 :--

   " It has often happened to geologists, as to other
explorers of new regions, that footprints in the sand
AN IMPORTANT DISCO VER Y.  113

have guided them to the inhabitants of unknown lands
The first trace ever observed of reptiles in the Carbon

iferous system, consisted of a series of small, but
well-marked footprints, found by Sir W, E. Logan, in
1841, in the lower coal-measures of Horton Bluff, in

Nova Scotia; and as the authors of all our general

works on geology have hitherto, in so far as I am
aware, failed to do justice to this discovery, I shall
notice it here in detail. In the year above mentioned,

Sir "William, then Mr. Logan, examined the coal-fields
of Pennsylvania and Nova Scotia, with the view of
studying their structure, and extending the application
of the discoveries as to Stigmaria underclays which he
had made in the Welsh coal-fields. On his return to

England, he read a paper on these subjects before the
Geological Society of London, in which he noticed the

discovery of reptilian footprints at Horton Bluff. The

specimen was exhibited at the meeting of the Society,

and was, I believe, admitted on the high authority of

Prof. Owen, to be probably reptilian. Unfortunately
Sir William's paper appeared only in abstract in the
Transactions ; and in this abstract, though the foot

prints are mentioned, no opinion is expressed as to
their nature. Sir William's own opinion is thus stated
in a letter to me, dated June, 1843, when he was on
his way to Canada, to commence the survey which

has since developed so astonishing a mass of geological

facts :

   " 'Among the specimens which I carried from
Horton Bluff, one is of very high interest. It exhibits

the footprints of some reptilian animal. Owen has no
110 AN ERROR CORRECTED.

doubt of the marks being genuine footprints. The

rocks of Horton Bluff are below the gypsum of that

neighbourhood ; so that the specimen in question (if

Lyell's views are correct*) comes from the very bottom
of the coal series, or, at any rate, very low down in
   it
                                                                             ' it,
and demonstrates the existence of reptiles at an earlier

epoch than has hitherto been determined; none having

previously been found below the magnesian limestone,

or, to give Murchison's new name, the Permian era
   " This extract," continues Dr. Dawson, "is of interest,

not merely as an item of evidence in relation to the
matter now in hand, but as a mark in the progress of
geological investigation. For the reasons above stated,

the important discovery thus made in 1841, and pub

lished in 1842, was overlooked; and the discovery of

reptilian bones by Von Dechen, at Saarbruck, in 1844,

and that of footprints by Dr. King, in the same year, in

Pennsylvania, have been uniformly referred to as the

first observations of this kind. This error now desire
                           ;

                                   II
to correct, not merely in the interest of truth, but also
in that of my friend, Sir William Logan, and of my

native Province of Nova Scotia and     trust that

henceforth the received statement will be, that the

first indications of the existence of reptiles in the

coal-period were obtained by Logan, in the Lower Coal

formation, in 1841. Insects and arachnidans,  it  may

be observed, had previously been discovered in the

Coal formation in Europe.

*    Sir Charles Lyell had then just read a paper announcing his discovery
that the gypFiferous system of Nova Scotia Lower Carboniferous, iu
which he mentions the footprints referred to as being reptilian.is
AMPHIBIAN FOOTPRINTS.  Ill

   " The original specimen of these footprints is still in
the collection of Sir William Logan. It is a slab of
dark-coloured sandstone, glazed with fine clay on the
surface, and having a series of seven footprints in two
rows, distant about three inches; the distance of the
impressions in each row being three or four inches,
and the individual impressions about one inch in

length. They seem to have been made by the points
of the toes, which must have been armed with strong

AMPHIBIAN FOOTPRINTS, DISCOVERED BY LOGAN AT HORTON BLUFF, NOVA SCOTIA.

                (1 ) One-fourth natural size; (la.) natural size.
                     Dawson -- " Air-breathers of the Coal- Period."

and apparently blunt claws, and appear as if either the
surface had been somewhat firm, or as if the body of
the animal had been partly water-borne. In one place
only is there a distinct mark of the whole foot, as if the

animal had exerted an unusual pressure in turning or

stopping suddenly. One pair of feet, the fore-feet, I

presume, appear to have had four claws ; the other paii
may have had three or four, and it is to be observed
that the outer toe, as in the larger footprints discovered
118  A WEEK IN PICTOU COUNTY.             [i84i.

by Dr King, projects in the manner of a thumb, as in

the cheirotherian tracks of the Trias."

At last Logan reached Pictou. We say at last, for it

was a long, tedious drive there from Windsor, by way

of Halifax. Expecting to sail from the latter port for

Britain on the 4th. of October, there was only a week

left in which to see the Pictou coal-field. But anyone
who has seen him work when pressed for time, will

have an idea of how he worked on this occasion, pacing

from dawn till dark across the measures, searching

under every coal-seam for an underclay, and every
where finding it. Nominally he stayed at " Mount

Rundle," with Mr. Poole, Superintendent of the Albion

Mines, who showed him every possible attention ; but

if night overtook him in his wanderings, he craved a

lodging at the first farm-house to which he came.
"I"One day," he tells us in his journal,
                                          measured

away for about two miles up the East River, and when

it was dark called in at the nearest house, which

I found to be that of a farmer of the name of

McNaughton. I asked him several questions about

the limestone in the neighbourhood, and was about

to enquire where I could get quarters, when Mrs.
McNaughton said that of course I could not think of

going farther that night, and that she would supply

me with supper and bed, such as they had. To thia I

readily agreed. They were at tea in another room, to

which we adjourned, and I had my tea. The family

consisted of a son grown up to man's estate, and three

daughters in regular gradation of age below the son.

They were all very kind, and seemed to make me
1841.]  A PICTOU FARMHOUSE.  113

 welcome. At table there was a shoemaker, who was
staying in the house for a few days to renovate their

 pedal integuments.

    "After tea, 'Bring me the book,' said the father of
the flock. So the book was brought, and forthwith he

read a hymn, first the whole and then two lines, which
were sung, and so on. Then he read a chapter in the

Bible, and then we all knelt down, and he gave us a

prayer of which I could not understand two successive

words. It was given with a strong Highland accent

and drawl, and the utterance of each word was so slow

and so long that I forgot the sound of the beginning

before the end came. This lasted about twenty minutes,

and after it we began to talk. I produced a map

of the country, and asked many questions about lime
stone and copper, for which a trial was made in the

neighbourhood some years ago. The map was accurate,
and seemed to please wonderfully. My feet were a
little wet, and Mrs. McNaughton offered to supply me

with a pair of dry stockings. To this I assented very

readily, and then we all adjourned to the kitchen fire.
Here a huge log was blazing, and small sticks were
heaped on the dog-irons. My stockings were hung up

to dry, and one of the daughters set about making
bread for the morrow- . . . The son, who had been

down to the mines, produced a newspaper, and

one of the daughters read it aloud. The first thing

she fell upon was a case of breach of promise of

marriage, the perusal of which produced a great deal
of merriment. The reason the gentleman gave to
justify his desertion of the lady was that she pro-
120  AN ESTABLISHED FACT.  [i84i

nounced rise ris, that slie had tickled his sister,

slapped her, &c., &c.

   "When it approached 10 o'clock, I began to give
signs of being a little fatigued, I fancy ; for the good

woman told me the bed was ready. But she said she

supposed I would have no objection to the other gentle

man occupying a part of it. The other gentleman was

nobody less than the shoemaker. What could I say ?
I said nothing, and went to bed with my flannels on,

and kept as near the edge of the wall side of the bed

as I could. I soon fell asleep, and never knew when

the shoemaker took to his repose. The intimation of

his having done so at all was at daylight, when he

awakened me by getting up. I got up soon after him,

and after breakfasting on bread and milk, bade Mr. and

Mrs. McNaughton good morning, and set about the
continuation of my section."

    When Logan reached Halifax he wrote to his brother

James as follows : " I have been to Pictou, where I

have thoroughly examined the district about the

Albion Mines. I now know what the ground con

tains for about a mile deep in that neighbourhood, and

in every case where I have seen a seam of coal it is

accompanied by one of underclay, filled with Sligmaria

ficoides. My fact, therefore, I now consider established

beyond controversy.
    "The deposit of coal at the Albion Mines does not

equal that of Pennsylvania at Mauch Chunk, but it is

a magnificent one, notwithstanding. There are at

least six or seven seams overlying one another, and the

largest, which is the one worked, is twenty-four feet
mi.]  MEETS DAWSON AT PICTOU.  121

thick in clean coal, independent of bituminous shale,
which by many would be considered a part of the
seam, and make it twelve feet more."

   It was on the occasion of this visit to Pictou that

Logan first met Dr. Dawson, who was then beginning
his researches in the geology of Nova Scotia, and was
delighted at having an opportunity of visiting some
parts of the Pictou coal-field in company with so expe
rienced a worker.
               CHAPTER VIII.

                        THE ORIGIN OF A SURVEY.

TilOR years before the establishment of the Canadian
.*· Geological Survey its need had been realized by
many of the more intelligent people of the country. A
few papers on local Canadian geology had, it is true,
been published, and important collections of minerals
made by Dr. Holmes of Montreal, Dr. Wilson of Perth,
and others ; but no extended systematic work had been
carried on, and almost nothing was known of the
relative age of the various formations and of their
distribution.*

   * Among the pupers on Canadian Geology published previous to the
establishment of the Geological Survey may be mentioned the follow
ing;--

      Notes on the Geography and Geology of Lake Huron. By Dr.
         Bigsby, F. L. S., M. G. S. Trans. Geol. Soc., Ser. II., Vol. p. 175.
           (Read in 1823).

      Notes on the Geology of the North Coast of the St. Lawrence. By
         Capt. Bayfield, R. N. Trans. Geol. Soc., Ser. II., Vol. V., p. 89.
           (Read Nov. 20th., 1833).

       On the Geology of Lake Superior. By Capt. Bayfield, R. N. Trans.
          Lit. Hist. Soc. of Quebec, Vol. p.
&

                                         I.,

                                                                          1.

                                                                            I.,
ORIGIN OF CANADIAN SUR VEY.                         123

   The first person to move in the matter of a geological
survey seems to have been Dr. Rae. As early as
January, 1832, a petition from this gentleman, praying
for pecuniary assistance to prosecute a geological and
statistical survey of the Province, was sent down to the
House of Assembly by Sir John Colborne, at that time
Lieutenant-Governor of Upper Canada. But notwith

standing its being accompanied by a favourable recom
mendation from the Lieutenant-Governor, it was not so

On some of the Bocks and Minerals of Upper Canada.  By Capt
   Bonnyc iistlc, B. N. Ibid., p. 62.

On the Geology of a Portion of the Labrador Coast. By Lieut.
   Baddeley, R. E. Ibid., p. 71.

Bemarks on the District traversed by the St. Maurice Expedition in

  the Summerof 1829. By Lieut. Ingall, 15th Bcgt. Ibid., Vol. II., p. 7.

Notes on the Country in the Neighbourhood of Montmorency. By
   William Green. Ibid., p. 181.

Additional Notes on the Geognosy of St. Paul's Bay. By Lieut
   Baddeley, B. E. Ibid., Vol. II., 1831, p. 76.

An Essay on the Localities of Metallic Minerals in the Canadas, with

   some Notices of their Geological Associations and Situation, fcc.

  By the same. Ibid., Vol. II., p. 332.

On the Magdalen Islands. By tbe same. Ibid., Vol. III., p. 128.

A Geological Sketch of the most South-eastern Portion of Lower

  Canada. By the same. Ibid., Vol. III., p. 271.

Notes upon the Country in the Vicinity of Quebec.   By II. D.

  Scwell, M. A. Ibid., Vol. III., p. 298.

A Sketch of the Geology of the Island of Montreal. By Dr. Bigsby,
   F. L. 8., Ac. Annals Lye. of Nat. Hist., N. Y., 1826.

I.,On the Transition Bocks of the Cataraqui. By Capt. B. H. Bonny-

  castle, K. E. Am. Jour. Sci., Ser. Vol. XVIII., 1830, p. 85, and

   Vol. XX., 1831, p. 74.

Mincralogical Examination of the Sulphate of Strontian, from Kings

   ton (U.C.), with Miscellaneous Notices of the Geology of the
   Vicinity. By Lieut. Baddeley, B. E. Am. Jour. Sci., Ser. I., Vol.

  XVIII., 1830, p. 104.

    Concerning several of the above-named writers, Sir William, who was
always very particular about acknowledging information derived from the
a124 ORIGHSf OF CANADIAN S UR VE Y.

           it,much as considered by the Committee of Supply, to
which it had been referred.
                                                  a
   In December of the same year, the York Literary and
   it
Philosophical Society presented a petition praying forJ.
a grant of money to provide for an investigation of the
;geology, mineralogy, and natural history of the Pro
vince. But this shared the fate of its predecessor,
although too, served to draw attention to the matter.
No further action seems to have been taken until 1836,
when, on the motion of Mr. W. L. Mackenzie, seconded
by Mr. Durand, Messrs. R. G. Dunlop, Gibson, and
C. Duncombe were named Committee to consider and
report on a plan for a geological survey of the Province.
The report was printed, but again was not considered.
Nothing daunted, however, Mr. Dunlop gave notice in
the following November of a motion for leave to bring

in Bill for the purpose of instituting a geological
examination of the Province. The Bill was not pro

 ceeded with, but later in the some month, on motion of
 the last-named gentlemen, seconded by Col Prince, the

 labours of others, afterwards wrote in the preface to the Otology of Canada.
 1863, as follows: --

      11Admiral Bayfield has communicated to the Literary and Historical
 Society of Quebec, and to the Geological Society of London, various inte
  resting papers on subjects connected with Canadian geology, with the
 facts in which will be found that we have on several occasions avail jd
  ourselves.

      '.Among the pioneers in Canadian geology, no observer was more

 accurate than Dr. J. Bigsby, Secretary to the Boundary Commissioners

 under the Treaty of Ghent. His range of investigation extended from
 Quebec to Lake Superior, and beyond the limits of the Province in that
 direction and he has accumulated and published a great store of facts,
  upon the exactness of which the greatest reliance can be placed.

     "Lieutenant, now Mnjor-Gcncral Baddcley, of the Royal Engineers,
 when in Canada, now nearly forty years since, was an ardent promoter of
ORIGIN OF CAN A VIA N S UR YE Y.  125

Hcrase went into a Committee of the Whole to consider
the expediency of a geological survey. On the report
of the Committee it was resolved that an address
should be presented to His Excellency the Lieutenant-
Governor, Sir F. B. Head, with reference to the practica
bility of the desired survey ; but for some unexplained

reason the address was never presented.

   Again, in December,- 1836, Mr. Dunlop, with charac

teristic pertinacity, gave notice of an address to the
King for a grant of wild lands to defray the expense of

a geological survey ; but again the address failed to be
presented. Here the matter dropped, not to be revived
until after the union of the Provinces, during the
administration of Lord Sydenham, a man who fully
appreciated the importance of ascertaining the nature
and extent of the mineral resources of Canada.

   The first united Parliament met in 1841, and in the

month of July the Natural History Society of Montreal,

through Mr. Benjamin Holmes, and the Literary and
Historical Society of Quebec, through Mr. Henry Black,

geological enquiry, and his services were made available to the Provincial
Government in explorations in the region of the Saguenay, and in the
peninsula of Gaxpe. To him we arc indebted for the first published notice
of the Lower Silurian limestones on Lake St. John, Bay St. Paul, and
Murray Bay, as well as of the existence of gold in the drift of the Eastern
Townships. Lieut. F. L. Ingall was another explorer, who about that
time did good mineralogical scrvico on government expeditions; the

district to which his attention was directed being the country between

the St. Maurice and the Ottawa. Captain R. H. Bonnyoastle, B. E..

at a somewhat later period, interested himself in the examination

of various mineralogical and geological phenomena, more particularly
in the neighbourhood of Kingston, where his military duties had
placed him. The results of his observations were given in Silliman's
Journal in 1831, and in other publications, and have been cited in this
Report."
126 CHOICE OF PROVINCIAL GEOLOGIST. [i84i-42.

petitioned for aid to carry out a geological survey. The
result was that the matter was taken up by the
Government, and on the motion of the Hon. S. B.
Harrison, the sum of £1,500 sterling, for the purposes
of a survey, was included in the estimates.

   But it was not for Lord Sydenham to carry into
effect the wishes of, or even to prorogue the Parliament
which he had summoned. On the 5th. of September,
while riding near Kingston, the town which he had
selected as the capital of United Canada, he was thrown
from his horse, and so seriously injured that he died on
the 19th. of the same month. In January, 1842, he
was succeeded by Sir Charles Bagot, upon whom
devolved the appointment of a Provincial geologist.
Logan, as we have seen, was in England at the time ;
but his friends in Montreal, knowing his desire to
obtain the position, took occasion to place his name

before the Governor. Sir Charles, however, referred
the matter to Lord Stanley, then Secretary of State for
the Colonies, and the result was that His Lordship, on
recommendation of De la Beche, Murchison, Sedgwick,
and Buckland, offered the position to Logan in the
spring of 1842. In reply to the enquiries concerning
his qualifications, addressed to these distinguished
geologists from the Colonial Office in London, the
following letters were received by the Under Secretary,
Mr. G. W. Hope, M. P. :--

"Ordnance  Geological  Sprvey of Great     Britain,  j1
                       "ilh. April, 1842.

" Sir, -- I have the honour to acknowledge the receipt

of your communication of the 2nd. instant, accompany
1842.]  TESTIMONIALS.                                                      127

ing the copy of a letter to Lord Stanley from His Excelit it
lency the Governor-General of Canada, on the subject ofit it,
the qualifications of Mr. "YV. E. Logan to undertake the
geological examination of Canada, for which the Proit,
vincial Legislature has voted the sum of ,£1,500.
                                     it
   " I would request you to do me the favour to represent              it
to Lord Stanley that I consider Mr. W. E. Logan perfectly

qualified for the task, having had occasion, during the
progress of the Ordnance Geological Survey in South
Wales, to examine the labours of that gentleman upon

the important coal district contained in large portions of

Glamorganshire, Carmarthenshire, and Brecknockshire.
   " Prior to the appearance of the Geological Survey in

that part of the country, Mr. W. E. Logan had carefully

investigated and at the meeting of the British Associa
tion for the Advancement of Science, held at Liverpool,

in 1837, he exhibited a beautifully-executed map of it.
   "The work on this district being of an order so

greatly superior to that usual with geologists, and

corresponding in the minuteness and accuracy of its
detail with the maps and sections executed by the

Ordnance Geological Survey, we felt desirous of avail
ing ourselves of when Mr. Logan most handsomely
placed at our disposal. Having verified this work
with great care, we find so excellent that we shall

adopt for that part of the country to which relates,

considering but fair and proper that Mr. Logan should
obtain that credit to which his labours so justly entitle
him.

   " His sections are all levelled and measured carefully,
with proper instruments, and his maps are executed
128 TESTIMONIALS.                          1812

with a precision only as yet employed, except in his

case, on the Ordnance Geological Survey ; it being con

sidered essential on that Survey, for the right progress
of geology and its applications to the useful purposes of

life, that this accuracy and precision should be attained.

  " Personally, I have examined several portions of

country with Mr. W. E. Logan, and can safely affirm

that no one can be more careful, able, or desirous of

attaining the truth.
   " He has made communications to the Geological

Society respecting points of high interest connected
with the formation of coal, and recently has communi

cated to the same Society a memoir on Nova Scotia
and Pennsylvania, important in various respects, more

particularly as relating to Canada.

  "I would further observe that Mr. Logan is highly

qualified as a miner and metallurgist to point out the
applications of geology to the useful purposes of life, an

object of the highest importance in a country like Canada,

the mineral wealth of which is now so little known.

  "I should anticipate the best results, both to the

science of geology and its applications, from the

employment of Mr. Logan on the Geological Survey of

Canada.-I have, &c.,  R,, T Dfi LA Bech£i

                      "Director Geological Survey."

                                              " 16 Belgrave Square, 3rd. April, 1842.

   " Sir, --In reply to the letter of yesterday, which you

did me the honour of addressing to me by the desire

of Lord Stanley, and in which my opinion is asked
respecting the capability of Mr. W. E. Logan to under
I8«.]  TESTIMONIALS.                  129

Itake a geological survey of Canada,  have great

pleasure iu saying that I consider him to be eminently

qualified to execute the task.

  " I beg to state that I recommend Mr. Logan not

merely from my acquaintance with his works in
general, but also from a knowledge of certain very
skilful labours in the South Wales coal-field, which

drew from me a strong expression of my sense of their

value in an account of the map of the Silurian region.

  " I would add that, having chiefly studied the older

rocks, including the carboniferous deposits, Mr. Logan

is admirably prepared to develop the structure of the

snb-soil of Canada, which consists in a great measure

of such strata ; and I venture to assure Lord Stanley
that if his Lordship should approve of the suggestion of
Sir Charles Bagot, he will render essential service to

^that important colony, and materially advance geolo-
gical inquiry.-I have, &c, ,,  j MuRcmsoN ,,

                                                                     "Camrkidge, 5/A. April, 1842.

  " Sir, --I take the earliest opportunity of replying to

your letter of March 31st., containing a copy of a
despatch from Sir Charles Bagot on the subject of a geolo

gical survey of Canada. Of Mr. Logan I personally know
very little ; but I know his character, and something

of his labours. He is an excellent field-geologist, as he

has proved by his admirable map and sections in South

Wales ; and he has extended his observations into the

coal-fields of the United States, having, as I am

informed, read an excellent paper on the coal-fields

of Pennsylvania. I had not, however, the good fortune

                                                                               9
130                TESTIMONIALS.  [i8«

to be present when this paper was lately read at a

meeting of the Geological Society. I have no hesitation

in recommending Mr. Logan, and I have no doubt that,

if appointed to the Survey of Canada, he will enter on

the labour with unbounded zeal and with very great
skill-I have, &c,
                                  "A. Sedgwick."

                                                                       ·Oxford, 2nd. April, 1842.

  "Sir, --My absence from Oxford has prevented me
from receiving until this day your letter of the 31st.

March, asking my opinion as to the qualifications of

Mr. W E. Logan for undertaking a geological survey of

Canada.

  " I beg in reply to state that I was recently on the

point of writing to Sir Charles Bagot for the purpose of

recommending him as pre-eminently qualified for this

service, but I withheld my application, because I con

sidered that his services might with still greater

advantage to this country, be applied to a survey of

Nova Scotia, where there is a large and very valuable
coal-field belonging to the Crown, with which he is

better acquainted than any man living, and respecting

which, and also the coal-field of Pennsylvania, he read

a most valuable paper ten days ago, before the Geologi
cal Society of London.

   " About a fortnight ago I wrote a letter to Sir Robert

Peel, requesting his attention to the expediency of

employing Mr. Logan to make a geological survey of

Nova Scotia. Should Sir Robert have forwarded this

letter to Lord Stanley, I beg to refer to it in evidence of
my opinion of Mi Logan, and bis high qualifications,
1842.]             QUALIFICATIONS.  131

as the most skilful geological surveyor of a coal-field I

have ever known.
   " Mr. De la Beehe has adopted in toto for his geological

survey of the Ordnance Map of "Wales the work he
found completed by Mr. Logan as to that part of the
South Wales coal-field which is near Swansea, and I will

procure from Mr. De la Beche to-morrow a statement of

his opinion as to Mr. Logan's work done in Glamorgan

shire, which I will take the liberty cf submitting to

you.-I have, &c.,  ,, w BucKLAND ,,

   On the 22nd. of June while Sir Charles Bagot
was on a visit to Montreal, he was waited on by a
deputation from the Natural History Society, who pre
sented him with an address requesting him to become
the Society's patron. After His Excellency's reply to
the address, he entered into conversation with the

members of the deputation, and took occasion to remark

that "he had recently been called upon to appoint a
geologist for the Province. The selection he had made

--that of Mr. Logan --he was sure would give as

much gratification to the Society as it had to himself.
Previous to his appointment of Mr. Logan, he had
considered it proper to refer to England for an account
of his qualifications, and the result was that a mass of
testimonials was sent out . . . affording ample testi
mony that to no one could the important office be more

appropriately entrusted than to that gentleman."
   Sir Charles Bagot also communicated to one of the

members of the deputation the following letter with
reference to Mr. Logan, which had been addressed by
132     GOOD WORDS.  [1842.

the learned geologist, Dr. Buckland, to the Bishop of
Oxford :--

                                                "Christ Church, 23rrf. April, 1842.

" My Dear Lord, --I have recently sent to Sir Robert

Peel and Lord Stanley two official certificates, stating
my opinion of the high qualifications of Mr. Wm.

Edmond Logan, F. G. S., to execute a geological survey

of Canada. I am further anxious, and feel it a duty I owe

to the public service, to submit, through your Lordship,

to Sir Charles Bagot, a few points relating to this gentle

man, which I could not mention in a public document.
   " His talents as an accurate mineral surveyor are of a

very high order, and are known to the scientific world
by his description of portions of the great coal-fields of

Glamorganshire and Pennsylvania, illustrated by most

accurate and valuable maps and sections, constructed
by himself, which he has laid before the Geological
Society of London. Moreover, he is not only enthusias
tically devoted to and highly qualified for field-work in

geology, but he is also a man of modest and gentlemanly
demeanour, and of high principle, and good conduct
and right feeling, with whom it is pleasing to have
intercourse, and in whom it is quite safe for persons in

authority to place confidence.
   " Believe me, my dear Lord, very faithfully and truly

yours"  "William Buckland."

   Logan's appointment having been confirmed, he
arrived in Canada late in the month of August,
and at once reported himself at Kingston, the seat of
Government. Here be spent several weeks awaiting
1842.]  PRELIMINARY WORK.  133

instructions, and at the tame time " culling facts from

the members and casting about for maps." Writing to

his brother James, on the 19th. of September, he says :
" Rawson* informed me on Saturday that the political

storm which had been blowing rendered it impossible

to attend to my affairs. I told him that in that case I

should make an excursion, and give time for the
ground-swell, which might continue a few days longer,
to settle into quiet water." An excursion was accord
ingly made to Marmora, to see the iron mines of that
region, and another to Brockville, "to ascertain the
spread of the Silurian limestone." A visit was also
paid to Dr. Wilson of Perth, a physician " who had
collected a good deal of information with respect to the
country in which he resided." Having finally escaped

from Kingston, he spent several weeks in making
a geological examination of different parts of the
Province, and in adding to his knowledge of its
topography. He also prepared a " Preliminary Report "
for the Government, giving a concise statement of

the general views which he had then formed of the
geology of the country, For this work no charge
whatever was made to the Government.

   In the month of December, with the Governor-

General's permission, he returned to England, in order
to fulfil professional and other engagements during the
winter. His father had died at Clarkstone in 1841,f

    * Rawson W. Rawson, Esq., at that time Civil Secretary to the Gover
nor-General of Canada.

    t Mr. William Logan died either on the 14th. or 15th. of June. 1841,
and was buried on the 19th., in Polmont Churchyard. His wife died
several years before.
134  FRIENDSHIP OF DE LA BECHE.  [i842.

and no doubt there was much to be attended to in

connection with the settlement of his affairs. Before
his death he had signified his willingness to have
Clarkstone remain in the possession of the family ; but
the members were now so scattered that this was found

impracticable, and the estate was sold.

   Sir Henry de la Beche was for years one of Logan's
warmest friends, and did all in his power to encourage

and assist him in his geological work. Just before

Logan's departure for Canada he sent him the following
letter :--

                                                     "Llandovery, Z\sl. July, 1842.

" My Dear Logan, -- Herewith I send two letters to

Rawson. The one open is nothing but the usual sort

of affair, to be presented by yourself; the other, sealed,

is the right thing, and you must take care to have it

sent to him by post, or otherwise, as you may think

Tight, before the other is presented, so that he may know
Ifall about matters before he sees you. Mind this.
                                                    you

send the sealed note by post, pray pay the post thereof

   " In my note in answer to yours, and sent to Swansea,
I said the best and safest way would be to leave the

maps and sections* with Mr. Trenham Reeks (our
Secretary at the Museum of Economic Geology), to be

kept with other Ordnance matters he has in charge

for me.

  " Now, my dear Logan, as I want to do you every

justice, had you not better give me some account of the

coal-beds themselves, which I can quote as yours, or at

    * Referring to Logan's maps and sections of the Glamorganshire coal
field.
1842.]  A HERCULEAN TASK.              135

any rate let me have the information which I can
give as from you. Suum cuique is a motto that I like,

and you must have the full credit for what you have

done.

  " Now, mind you, if you think I can be of any use to

you in the Canadian Survey, don't scruple to say so, as

I am fully in earnest, and no mistake. There may be

odds and ends of things which can be usefully done by
us, and so you must consider us as a kind of colleagues,

all working for the same end, and that the cause of

truth

   " But not to get prosy, mind and use me when you

like in this survey, and the more you do so the more I

shall like it.* Wishing you all health and happiness,

believe me ever yours,  ^^,, R T Dp ^  ,,

   The survey upon which Logan had embarked in
Canada was characterized by Sedgwick as a " Herculean

task." No one, however, understood the difficulties

better than did Logan himself. At the same time he
was full of enthusiasm and had no hesitation in under

taking the work. He saw in Canada a most tempting
field for original research, and felt, no doubt, that the

greater the difficulties the grander would be the con
quests. The spirit with which he began the work

    * In a letter written from Swansea to his brother James, in March,

1842, Logan says: " De la Beche has informed me that if I get the

Canada Survey he will assist me in all difficulties, with all the scientific
force of the Geological Survey of this country, either in the way of
chemical analysis or the determination of new fossils ; and that he will
arrange so that a certain quantity of specimens may come here free of
expense by every packet, and be returned, after examination, in the same
way."
136  LETTER TO LE LA 'BECRE.  [i843.

is shown in the following semi-official letter to Sir
Henry De la Beche :--

                                                                "London, 24M. April, 1843.

  "My Dear Sir, --You are aware that I have been

appointed by the Provincial Government of Canada to

make a geological survey of that colony. The extent

and nature of the territory will render the task a most
laborious one ; but I am fully prepared to spare no
exertion of which I am capable, to render the work,

when it is completed, satisfactory to those who have

instituted the examination, and creditable to myself. I

am especially anxious to bring the investigation to a

conclusion in as short a time as a due regard to geolo

gical truth and the applications of the science will
permit ; and in considering a systematic plan of opera

tions to be adopted for the attainment of so important

an object, I naturally feel desirous of bringing to my

aid the experience of one who, from the position he has

occupied for many years past as Director of the Ordnance
Geological Survey of Great Britain, is more fitted than
any other person to advise me on all practical points,
whether with regard to the work to be done in the

field or to the general machinery of the Survey. And
it appears to me that not only your advice as to a plan
of operations, but your positive assistance in the work

of the Canadian Survey, might be made available, and
this with advantage to the investigation which you

yourself conduct in Britain.
   " No one knows better than yourself how difficult it

would be for one person to work with effect in all the
branches of so extensive a subject. To carry out the
1843.]           LETTER TO DE LA BECHE.              137

field-wont with vigour, to reduce all the sections with

the requisite degree of accuracy and map the geogra

phical distribution of the rocks, to collect minerals and

fossils, and to analyze the one, and by laborious and

extensive comparisons to determine the geological age

of the other, is quite impossible without a proper

division of labour. But it is in the palseontological

department of the investigations that it seems to me

the British and Canadian Surveys might be made mutu

ally serviceable. In Canada, all the expensive means

of palseontological comparison have yet to be brought

together. There is no arranged collection of fossils,

and no such thing as a geological library to refer to.
   " The correct determination of fossils in the country

   therefore, at present, quite out of the question. Now,
in the British Survey, the examination of organic
remains made the work of a distinct department, and
is,
             is

has been confided to an able naturalist, whose great                      a a if
acquirements and extensive means of reference,

brought to bear on Canadian fossils, would not only

ensure accuracy and save time, but benefit his own

generalization on Britain, by widening the sphere of his

comparison.

     Many interesting facts connected with the geogra
phical distribution of particular fossil genera and species
*

                                             a

                                    it

                                                 is
might thus be ascertained, the confusion arising from

want of unity in nomenclature be avoided, and Canada

become the measure of correct geological comparison

between the continents of Europe and America.

" From the fact that the Survey has been urged by the

Legislature of the country,                          natural to infer that
138  ANNUAL REPORTS.                             [i843

great desire is felt by the enlightened part of the

Canadian community to be made acquainted with

the leading geological features of the Province ; but

the main object of the investigation
     it                               no doubt, to

                    a
                                                                    is,

                                                                     it
                                                                               is
determine the mineral riches of the colony, and                                    not

unlikely that wish may be felt by its inhabitants to

know the result or the probabilities of the survey long

before can possibly be completed. To meet such a

desire in those States of the American Union in which

geological surveys have been undertaken, resort has
been had to a system of annual reports. The example
thus given may by some be considered to afford the

best mode of making known the progress of the work
but the system appears to me objectionable for many
reasons, and as the consideration of has no doubt
     I

                    it
                                                                                  ;
come before you among the various subjects connected

with the Survey of Britain, should be obliged if you

would give me the expression of your opinion regard

ing it."

   In answer to this communication, De la Beche, tne

very next day, addressed the following letter to Logan,

which will be read with interest by many connected
with Geological Surveys at the present time :--

                                                                " London, 25/A. April, 1843.

  "My Dear Sir, -- In reply to your communication of

the 24th., have no hesitation in stating my firm belief
     I

                              a

                           if
that important benefits would arise, as regards the

effective progress of your labours in Canada, saving
both time and expenditure, some arrangements could
be made by which kind of union could be effected
between the Geological Surveys of Canada and of Great
1843.J LETTER FROM DE LA BECHE.  139

Britain; an object which, judging from the tenor of

your letter, you seem desirous to promote.

   " Placed, as you will be, in Canada, unassisted by easy
access to the opinions and co-operating labours of those

scientific men whose different researches are so essential
to the right understanding of the results obtained from

the geological surveys of large areas, it seems to me
quite necessary for the full development of your labours
that some plan should be adopted, by which, while you
investigate in the field the geological structure of the
country, the great groundwork of all, you should
receive the assistance of the ablest men our country can
produce in the important accessory branches of know
ledge -- in fact, that the results of your labours should

be such as to do credit to the Government under whose

auspices the survey is conducted.
   " Without a proper division of labour, and the power

to avail ourselves of the co-operating researches of the
most competent men in the accessory branches of
knowledge above noted, with the facility of consulting
valuable museums and libraries, the advance of the

Geological Survey of Great Britain would never have
been such as it now is. And it forcibly strikes me that

if the Government could so arrange that you might

avail yourself of the sources of information which wc

have organized, not only would time and money be
saved, but the importance also of your investigations
would be increased, inasmuch as the subjects of Cana

dian and British geology might be treated together,
under the same system, with mutual benefit to both
and to the progress of science.
140 ANNUAL REPORTS UNSATISFACTORY. [i843.

   " How useless, or rather worse than useless, would it
be for you to incur the heavy expense of figuring
organic remains common to Canada and the British
Islands, while in connection with the Geological
Survey of Great Britain we are, under the authority of
the Treasury, preparing a fit and proper national work

on fossils. Even if for any report you required such

figures, could it not be readily arranged that we
furnish impressions of the plates to you ? Besides, it is
most important for the right progress of this depart
ment of science that as much as possible the same kinds
of fossils from different parts of the British possessions

should be examined, described, and figured by the most

competent naturalists.

   " With respect to the publication of annual reports of
geological surveys, they can scarcely be but very unsa

tisfactory documents, and for the most part very

undigested records of real progress. How is it possible
to come to accurate conclusions before all the facts to
be considered are known ? Concise reports to Govern

ment, in general terms, of the progress made are
essential, showing that the time has been properly

occupied. Such statements are made annually by
the Ordnance Geological Survey, when the yearly
estimates are under consideration; but such docu

ments are very different from published statements
containing views that in the end may not be sus
tained. Neither in France nor in other European States
where geological surveys connected with their Gov
ernments have been or are in progress, have such
reports been given to the public, though separate
                ALEXANDER MURRAY.                                                              141

memoirs on well-aseertained points have sometimes

appeared.
   " Crude annual reports may even be detrimental to the

true progress of science, as it may readily happen that

an author, having once committed himself to a hasty
view or opinion, may feel great reluctance to withdraw

and thus somewhat distort additional facts that
it,

                      it

                                                  ;
militate against                                     so that the clear conclusions to be

drawn from the facts eventually obtained are not by any

means so apparent as they should be.
   " Let me, in conclusion, assure you that any aid that

we may fortunately be able to afford on our Survey to

yours in Canada entirely at your service, and that we
                it
shall consider          duty, as well as pleasure, to assist in
                    a is

any way that may be considered useful. --Very faithfully

y°urs'                                               " H. T. De la Beche."

   The question of a geological assistant had been dis
cussed by Logan when in Kingston in 1842, and on the

strength of De la Beche's recommendation, he was
subsequently authorized to secure the services of Mr.
Alexander Murray, a young man who had originally
been educated at the Royal Naval College, Portsmouth,
and had served for some years in the Navy but who,
at the time of which we write, was devoting himself to
geology, and working enthusiastically as volunteer on

the Ordnance Survey under De la Beche. From 1837
to 1841 he had lived in Canada, and had served as a
volunteer during the rebellion there. His first personal
intercourse with Mr. Logan was in London during the
winter of 1841-42 but in the succeeding spring he
                  ;

                                                                  a

                                                                                            ;
142 MEMIMSCENCES.

went to Swansea, and accompanied him m many of
his geological excursions in the surrounding country.

   Referring to this time, Mr. Murray afterwards
wrote :-- " Even at that early period, when every

comfort of life was easily accessible, I observed his

utter indifference to self-indulgence of any kind, or
even such ordinary comforts as most people would be
inclined to call indispensable necessities. After an
early and very simple breakfast, he would buckle on
his instruments, grasp his hammer, and with map in
hand, march off to the field, in which he would toil on
without cessation, without thinking for a moment of
food or rest, until the shades of evening gave warning
that it was time to retrace his steps towards home, or to

seek some temporary dwelling."

  Mr. Murray (now a CM. G.) was connected with the

Geological Survey of Canada for many years, but was
afterwards appointed Director of the Survey of New
foundland, a position which he still holds. Throughout
he has been a zealous and daring explorer, and to the
last Sir William regarded him with feelings of the
warmest friendship.
                   CHAPTER IX.

                       GASPE EXPLORATIONS, 1843.

IN the spring of 1843, Logan again crossed the
      Atlantic, to enter systematically upon his new

duties in Canada. In his journal, he pathetically
refers to the fact of his being sea-sick for the first time,
although it was his eighth voyage. Reaching Halifax
on the 30th. of May, he determined to journey overland

through Nova Scotia and New Brunswick, to his desti
nation in Gaspe, visiting on the way that wonderful
display of the coal-measures at the South Joggins, on
the Bay of Fundy, a knowledge of which he felt might be
of service to him in studying the geological formations
of Canada. At the South Joggins he spent several
weeks, and it was at this time that he executed his
great section of the coal-measures, which, as has been
truly said, is " a remarkable monument of his industry

and powers of observation." It gives details of nearly

the whole formation of the region, or 14,570 feet,
including seventy-six beds of coal and ninety distinct
Stigmaria underclays. Nowhere else in the world is
144  THE J0GG1NS SECTION.  [i843.

there so magnificent, cr so instructive an exposure of
the coal-measures as that of the Joggins. Imagine a
thickness of three miles of strata, tilted up so that

almost every successive bed is brought to view ! What
a history is there contained ! This great series consists
of marine and fresh-water deposits, in which no repe
tition of beds can be detected, and in which there are
no faults to mislead one in estimating the thickness.*

   Hastening on to New Brunswick, Logan devoted a
short time to the examination of about fifty miles of
coast on the south side of the Baie des Chaleurs, and then

went on to Canada, reaching Gaspe early in July.
Graspe was deemed a most important part of the country

for examination ; for coal had long been reported to
exist there, and it appeared by no means improbable
that at least patches of the Carboniferous might be
found. From Gaspe he sent an official announcement

of his arrival to the Governor-General's Secretary,
Mr. Eawson W. Rawson, and also the following private

letter :--

                                                                   ''GaspS, loth. July, 1843.

  " My Dear Sir, -- I have visited the Joggins, on the
Bay of Fundy, and I never before saw such a magni

ficent section as is there displayed. The rocks along

the coast are laid bare for thirty miles, and every
stratum can be touched and examined in nearly the
whole distance. A considerable portion has a high

angle of inclination, and the geological thickness thus

    * Logan's section of the coal-measures at the South Joggins was pub
lished in 1845 as an appendix to his first ·. Report of Progress" to the
Canadian Government, and occupies no less than sixty pages.
ms.]            COAL W CANADA!                                          145

brought to view is very great. I measured and regis

tered every bed occurring in a horizontal distance of
ten miles, taking the angle of dip all the way along. Of

course there has not yet been time to put together the

facts thus collected ; but when this is done, I shall be

able to tell you every foot of what is in the crust of the

earth in that part of for at least three miles deep.
      I

                               it,
                                                        is
                                                                    is
The whole deposit belongs to the Carboniferous era,
and in one part of the section a multitude of coal-seams

are exhibited. Mr. Lyell has stated them at nineteen,

but they much exceed that. There one thing, how

ever, that Lyell has not mentioned, which that the

commercial value of this display does not by any means
equal its geological beauty. Of all the coal-seams

exposed, am sorry to say not more than two, or at

most three, are sufficiently thick to be worked benefi

cially.
   " In my examination of the neighbourhood of Bathurst,

  saw only two coal-seams, but neither of them suffi
I

ciently thick to be profitably worked. One of them
                                           I

                                                       it
                                                                       is
six inches, and the other eight to ten inches.

   " From all hear, and something          see,                         appears
             it I

                 is
                              is

                                        a
probable that the Carboniferous rocks do extend into

Canada, but     very problematical whether the Cana

dian part of the deposit will be productive. In this

part of Canada there                       very favourable exposure of

the rocks along the shores of the Gulf of St. Lawrence,

and the various bays connected with        it      and for the

                                                ;

purpose of ascertaining the order of their superposition

with accuracy,  it      my intention to proceed around the

                    is

coast with a canoe and an Indian to carry my instru

                                                                  10
146  AN INTERESTING REGION.                                                                [i843.

ments. Boating is too expensive, and not so independent

a means of travel, and there are few roads of which to

avail myself. I have with me, at my own charges, a

young man of the name of Stevens, from Bathurst, a son
of Mr. Stevens who established the Gloucester Mining
Company, in New Brunswick. Knowing something of

mineral exploration, having a dash of the necessary

enthusiasm, and being accustomed to rough it in the

woods, able to handle an axe, manage a canoe, and

fit xip a camp, as they call  anticipate with his
     is

                            it

                                             a

                                             it,

                                      I

                                                                                        a
assistance, and that of the Indian, getting along with

economy and despatch. The nature and geological

thickness of the formations that constitute the country

once determined, the examination of their geographical

distribution will bo much facilitated. The chief diffi
culties connected with will then be those of physical

nature in penetrating the woods.

   " It probable that to geologist this part of Canada
will present a great many more interesting features
than the western division of the Province. It appears

to differ considerably from what has been observed by
the American geologists on the south side of the great
lakes, in the State of New York. Disturbing forces

have fractured the rocks, and thrown them into moun

tains and valleys. The country, therefore, abounds in
picturesque scenery, in this respect far surpassing
Western Canada but for that very reason, in addition
     ;

to its more northern latitude, cannot be so fine
                              it                                                           a

                                           ."
country for agricultural settlement. . .
   Of the topography of the Graspe district little was

known in 1843 beyond the coast line of the geology,
                              ;
1843.]  .4 TERRA INCOGNITA.                   147

practically nothing. Settlements were few, confined

almost exclusively to the coast, and made up chiefly of

fishermen. There were no roads through the interior,

most of which was (and indeed still  is)   wilderness,
                                         a
inhabited by bears and other wild beasts, or at best,
                                         It
only penetrated in certain seasons of the year by a few

Indians or lumbermen. The courses of most of the

streams were unknown, and the precipitous mountain

passes untraversed. Such was the country whose

geology Logan was now to investigate.         certainly

needed courage to enter single-handed upon such  a

work. But from first to last he never complained.

Beetling cliffs were scaled, rugged mountains climbed,

rapid rivers traced to their source and all with that
        ;

calm determination and fixity of purpose by which

he was ever characterized. No coal,  it       true, was

                                          is

found in Gaspe, but its absence was demonstrated

conclusively. Many important geological facts were
accumulated, and a large amount of topographical work
accomplished, the value of which has since been fully

recognized.

   In the summer of 1843, Mr. Murrey was at work in

the Upper Province, examining the country between
Lakes Huron and Erie, and Logan's only companions
were the Mr. Stevens whom ho had brought with him

from Bathurst, and his faithful Indian, John Bascpae.
Beginning with the towering cliffs of Cape Hosier, the

coast was examined all the way round to Paspebiac, on
the Baie des Chaleurs, a distance of about 100 miles.

Logan's measurements were made by pacing along the
shore, while his Indian followed with the birch canoe,
148  GASPE JOURNALS.  [i843

and occasionally ferried him over places too deep to Avade,
or round projecting cliffs, When evening came they
camped, or perhaps sought the shelter of a fisherman's
hut or an Indian wigwam. The measurements of the
day were plotted, the journal written up, often with no
better light than that of the glaring camp-fire; and
then, thoroughly tired with combined physical and

mental activity, Logan slipped into his blanket sack,

stretched himself upon a bed of spruce-boughs, and
slept the sleep which ho so much needed. Before
retiring to the recesses of his sack on the evening of

July 13th., 1843, he made the following entry in his
journal : " It is very dark, and our fire brightens up its

face. Our pork for to-morrow boils away right busily.
The woods are becoming as silent as the grave ; not a
breath of wind is stirring. The faint stroke of the axe

against a tree tells us that others are camping, probably
within half a mile, and the monotonous gurgling of the

river will perhaps hill them to slumber as well as us.

Basque is on his knees, and though his back is towards

Ime, can see from the crosses he makes that he is

saying his prayers. So it is time to prepare for bed."

  Logan's Gaspe journals, if published in full, would

make quite a stout volume, but they describe scenes
with which almost everyone is now familiar, and

would, if given in extenso, be tedious to tho reader.

Like the note-books containing his field-measurements

and geological observations, they are illustrated by
pen-and-ink sketches, which often exhibit more than
ordinary skill. The following extracts from the Journal
cf 1843 will, we think, be read with interest and
1843.]  A SUMMER RESIDENCE                          149

amusement. They are tinged with their writer's quieta
humour, and serve to show how little escaped his
notice, even in the way of the most trivial things andit,

circumstances. John Basque's summer residence, fora

example, is described with as minute detail as if it wero

a profoundly interesting geological phenomenon :--
   "Sunday, 16th. July. --Basque's wigwam is about

fourteen feet square. The sides and ends are constructed
of unplained boards, placed edgewise on one another

for about three feet up, and kept together by stakes on

each side at the corners. There is a space left for the
door in one of the ends. Upon these boards peeled
pino poles are placed in a sloping position for rafters.
They rise up to the height of about eight feet in the
centre, where they are supported by two poles that run
from end to end. On the rafters is laid a quantity of
spruco bark, making a roof. The bark lies across the

pole lengthwise, and one piece overlaps another, tile-
fashion, while sticks and boards, with one end on the
ground, are made to rest upon the bark to keep it in
its place. One gable end is constructed in the same
manner, but the other is made of boards, one end of

which rests on the horizontal boards of the walls. A

piece of coarse canvas, with several holes in hung
on pegs, constitutes a curtain for the door -- very con
venient one for dogs and cats to make their exits and
entrances by. But board placed edgewise for lintel

debars the pigs from the same privileges.

   " In the centre of the floor placed a cracked stove,

about three feet long, two wide, and two high, from
which rises pipe passing through the roof, left open
        a
                     a

                                     is
150  A SUMMER RESIDENCE.  [i843

for the purpose, and for the sake of light. The stove
rests on three iron legs, and one a compound of stone
and wood. Around the stove is left a space of about

two feet, and between this and the wooden walls, on

all sides but that of the door, is a space covered with a

carpet of fir boughs, confined at the outer edge by three
poles stapled with willow down to the earth. This

carpet is about four feet wide, and forms a sitting place

by day, and a sleeping place by night. In one corner

is an unplained board for a dresser, its ends supported
by means of the same material. Pails and tubs occupy

the space below, cups and dishes that above. Three or

four trunks occupy the corners.
   "Two dogs, two cats, two Indians (Basque and his

brother), two squaws, two children, two strangers

(Stevens and myself), occupied this apartment last
night, with a rousing fire in the stove in the middle of

July. I crept into my blanket sack, without disposses
sing myself of my nether integuments ; yet I did not

find it uncomfortably warm. This is Basque's summer
residence, and it has not been thought necessary to stop
the chinks. The night air, therefore, comes in on all
sides, and towards morning, even in July, the air is a
little cool about three or four o'clock. . . .

   " We had a severe thunderstorm in the morning, and
another, still more severe, in the afternoon. Two or
three claps put me in mind of the Montreal thunder,

when I was at school. The landscape from the door

while the storm was gathering was beautiful beyond
description. The dark clouds spread over the distant

mountains, giving them as deep a blue as ever Robson
1843.]       PORCUPINE VERSUS PIG.                  151

put on paper. In the middle distance was the expanse

of the river, with its pine-wood margin ; while a low,

sandy beach with a couple of canoes turned over,

Basque's wigwam and a few fir trees near            with
                                      a

                                               it,
stumps and logs and knotted roots, formed picturesque

foreground.

"Basque's wife cooked for us some of the trout we

obtained last night. She also gave us roasted porcupine,

choosing the young one and certainly      made an
             ;                        it

                                                                       ;
excellent dish. It tasted rather better than sucking

pig, but the flavour of the meat was something like it.

slept away nearly one half the day, being very tired
I
     I
and brought up my geological calculations and a little

of my journal the other.
   " Basque's wife seems to have an Indian missal, from

which she and all in the house sang some sacred music.
It had much the character of the Welsh psalm tunes,

and the one language being to me nearly as unintelli

gible as the other, could almost, when my eyes were
shut, fancy myself in Mr. Jones' church at Kilgarrin.
After the psalms, Basque and his brother played a game
it

       I
                I

                                                                                                           a
of draughts. . . .
   " Tuesday, l%lh. July. --Two men came after me

considerable distance to-day, evidently watching my

movements very narrowly. They spoke to me at last,

and seems they had considered me, from my various

gambols about the rocks, out of my mind. Three clam-

diggers did me the favour to inform me the same thing

yesterday.   shall get much reputation here evidently.

"The weather was so stormy to-day that the canoe

could not proceed along shore. Stevens and Basque
152  MY TENT.     [1843

               I
1843.]  LITTLE GASPE.  153

remained behind to camp at the neck of the peninsula,

while I proceeded down about three miles to Cape
James, and returned by the shore as I had gone. The

tide was flowing on my return, and I had to wade

round the projecting capes, wetting myself to a point
considerably above my knees. Twice 1 scaled the cliff.

I was in a nice state when I got to the tent, but made

myself very comfortable by changing even to my

flannels. . . .

   " Thursday, 20/A. July. --To-day we have come round
to Little Gaspe, which is a regular fishing-station.

Fishing-stages and drying-houses occupy a high,
pebbly beach, which, on the upper part, is dotted
with stacks of dried codfish, covered with birch-bark,

weighted to keep it down. In the bay is a whaling

schooner at anchor, and fishing-boats in numbers keep

it in countenance. On the left a long limestone point

projects away to the south-east, and completely shields

the bay by its height on that side. On the right is a
projecting horn of sandstone, and Douglas and the

Highlands are seen beyond.
   " Our tent is pitched on the beach, and there is

nothing between us and the pebbles beneath but a few

fir-tree boughs. AVe are where fishermen most do con

gregate. Already we have had several levees, and I

fear we shall find them rather troublesome. Our pisca

tory friends have, however, given us some mackerel for

supper, and I have bought three large lobsters for

threepence, one of which is changing his colour in the

Ipot. "We are beginning to have rain, and fear it is to

be a wet night. . . .
154  CURIOSITY UNREWARDED.  [i843.

   ;' Tuesday, 2bth. July. --William Prevost's tempering

of steel is not so good as I expected. The chisels are

too hard, and will not stand at all, and the point of my
hammer has already broken. I have had a hard day's
work. No quarryman ever worked harder. I began at

6 a.m., and did not leave off until seven in the evening.
I have, however, collected a good many fossils from

the limestone close by, but not enough to determine

its age.

  " As Stevens and I were hammering away, one of the

fishermen came along to the rock, evidently with the

intention of being a looker-on at our operations, and

making his remarks upon our work. I was not desirous
of being troubled, so I resolved to get rid of him without

delay When he came up to the place he stopped his

walk, and I stopped my hammering, and sat on the
specimens I was disengaging. ' You are working away,'
said he. ' You are not' said I. ' I think we shall have
more wind,' said he. ' I do not pay much attention to
the wind,' said I. So he stood and said nothing for a
little while, and I sat and looked at him. He then
continued on his walk, as if he had come that way on

other business. But before he had proceeded thirty

yards, he was brought up by the cliff and the tide, and

being obliged to return the way he had come, looked as

if conscious I must know he had come our way through
mere curiosity. All these fishermen fancy that I must

be getting something worth much money, considering

the pains I take. Nothing less than a silver mine

answers their notions. One of the fishermen has sent

me a piece of halibut for breakfast to-morrow. The
1843.]  MISTAKEN FOM INDIANS.  155

northern lights are very bright, indicating, as Basque

says, a change of weather. . . .
   " Friday, 2%th. July. --The day is clear and bright

and warm, and we are on our voyage to Indian Cove.

The water is so quiet and so clear that we plainly see

the bottom in four fathoms. The fish swim lazily

below, as if enjoying the weather as well as we. . . .

Grey limestone cliffs, crowned with pine trees, are on

my left, while on my right the craggy mountains of

Isle Percee are seen some twenty miles off. . . . Two

other canoes are upon the water, with Indians going to

Cape Rosier. They look very picturesque.

  "A Jew who came to the neighbourhood to trade

the other day, hailed my canoe just now, or rather

beckoned to us (for we were out of hearing), just as we
had passed Grande Greve. I fancying he might have

geological information to give me, hastened nearer the

shore. When we were closer, I asked him what he

wanted. He put his hand to his mouth, trumpet

fashion, and bawled out, 'Have you any beaver skins?'

He took us all for Indians. I put my hand to my

mouth, and roared out, ' I have no skin but my own,

and that I am unwilling to part with.'

   " A breeze is springing up right in our teeth, though

we have not yet got farther than St. George's Cove.
But here we shall deposit two boxes of specimens, and

lighten our canoe a little.
   " By the time we got to Indian Cove quite a strong

...breeze was blowing, and the water had become very
rough.  As usual when the fishermen returned

from their day's work, they all flocked around my tent,
156  GRAND SCENERY.  [i843.

to the number of about a dozen, to wonder at our

instruments and whole equipage. I usually beg my

fresh fish of them in return. . . .
    "Monday, Slst. July. --This morning early we struck

our tent, determined to come round Cape Graspe in our
canoe, the weather being remarkably calm, and it being
my intention to examine the coast in this direction as
far as Cape Hosier. The least breath of wind would

have rendered the attempt quite impossible, for the

broad water of the Gulf of St. Lawrence strikes full
against the rocks of the point, which rise up from the
sea to the height of 700 feet, perpendicular as a wall, or
in many places with the summit overhanging the base.

They presented the grandest scene I have ever beheld.

Gulls and gannets were flying midway from the water,

and yet they appeared as small as pigeons. We saw

some teal swimming on the water between us and the

shore, and resolved to get a shot at them. We consid

ered them to be very young, in fact unable to fly ; but
the four we obtained turned out to be full grown. The

height of the cliff had deceived us. It makes every

thing look small that is near it. . . .
   "We are camped in a most beautiful little cove at

Cape Bon Ami, surrounded by the most romantic and

magnificent scenery. There is just one house near, and

French-Canadians live in it. They have a capital little

garden, with the first flowers I have seen in this part

of the world, in addition to abundance of cabbages and
potatoes. Like everybody in this region, they are fishing
people ; and though there is a drying-house in the cove,
they do not work in it at present. They preserve their
1843.]  LITTLE BON AMI CO VE.                                      157

fish round the Cape Bon Ami, in another cove, about a

quarter of a mile off. We are thus relieved from the
abominable stench of decaying codfish-offal and putrid
whale-blubber, which have been offending my nostrils

LITTLE  BON AMI COVE, SUOWING CLIFFS OF THE GASPE      LIMESTONE,
                                       700 FEET HIGH.

        Logan's Journal, 1843.

Iever since came to Gaspe. When we last camped at

Indian Cove, two barrels of putrid blubber, from which
tho oil was straining, stood within two yards of us, and

when a gust of wind came from them, I thought I

should become ill. . . .
158    LITTLE GASPE.                  [i843.

   " Thursday, 10th. August. --At Little Gaspe again. "We
have had rather a busy (lay. We were up at four, and
had breakfast as soon as possible. Then my three
boxes were carried to one of the fish-sheds near, to be

forwarded to St. George's Cove for the steamer. . . .

The morning was calm, and as I was desirous of

returning to Gaspe for the purpose of continuing my

examination towards the Bay Chaleur, I determined to

take advantage of it to get round Ship Head again.

This I instructed John to do with all despatch, while I

...should walk to Cape Rosier, and then return again
across the mountain to Little Gaspe.  As I came by

the place which we had made our home for three

nights, and saw the poles sticking there without the

canvas, and on the pebbles still spread the fir-tree

branches on which I had slept, and my back-log still

there, but smoking no more, a little of that merriment

which is experienced on visiting scenes of former

enjoyment came over me. 'The companions of my

excursions,' said I, 'where are they?' I expected the

echo to answer, ' Where are they ?' But the pleasures of

memory did not come sufficiently strong, while the

smell of stinking fish came too strong, and the echo,

like a true Irish echo, only seemed to say, 'Gone to

Little Gaspe.' So I started to join them. A very

romantic walk I had over the pass called the Portage, of
which I had already finished a sketch from memory. . . ,

  " I reached Little Gaspe about two o'clock, where I

...found my canoe and companions, and a kettleful of pea
soup.  On our arrival here [Gaspe], we found that a

great frigate had come into the port lately, and as we
1843]     PETROLEUM SPRINGS.   159

sailed past, we looked very small I fear, proud as we felt
of our exploits of the day. It is not often that a canoe has

come from Cape Rosier to Gaspe in the few hours mine

has, doubling a great and usually stormy cape like that

...of Ship Head, and making good her way over rough
water for thirty miles.        I have taken lodgings

with Mr. Paddy, as he is called, though his name is

McCannah, and have given John permission to go to

see his family. . . .

   ".Friday, Wth. August. -- I feel myself much refreshed

by my sleep of last night. It is certainly a great

comfort to get rid of all ligatures when one goes

to bed, and to have soft feathers below one, instead
of hard pebbles -- even though one be a geologist. . . .

I am off on an excursion up the south-west arm of

the river to a spring said to be of coal tar, which

all the people here consider a sure indication of coal.

It may be petroleum, but I do not expect to find coal

with it.

"Here we are, camped in the woods on the south

west arm, and to-morrow we Arisit the Silver Brook, on

which the tar spring is. We have dined on three

trout, which John speared as we came along. To-night

we are to go out trout-spearing by torch-light, to

provide our breakfast for to-morrow morning. John

has prepared birch-bark flambeaux, which consist of

strips of the bark, to the number of a dozen, about two

feet long and four inches wide, and tied up by strings

of cedar root The flambeau is split up into small strips

at one extremity, for the purpose of easy ignition. We

are only waiting for the dark
160                     BIRCH-BARK.                          [i843.

  " I do not know what we should do in the woods
without birch-bark. It is certainly one of the most

useful things an Indian can boast of. He makes his

canoe of it. He uses it for roofing his house. He

makes of it vessels to carry his maple sugar and his

gum, and twisting it as a chemist does his filter, he

makes a cup of and serves him for crockery.it,
                           it it
Then               most inflammable thing, and burns likeIt
     I
pitch. He lights his fire by means of and catchesis
         a it
his fish by its assistance. He does not write onis   a
                                                             ;
because he cannot butIa                       itmakescapital substi
                   I;                                              it,
                                                     it,
tute for paper, under either the pencil or the pen,

and to save paper have been using for my rough

...calculations. . .                 12 o'clock at night,
   " Friday, 19>th. August. --

and am fagged. have just put into ink my observa
                   I

tions of the day, which has required four hours and

before that had been hard at work measuring, and

noting, and cracking stones for specimens, from six

o'clock in the morning.    have had blow on the head
                         I

                                                aa
from great stone weighing half hundredweight,

which fell upon me. fortunately from no great height.
It has bruised my temporal muscle on the left side, and

Ican masticate only with great difficulty. John brought

Ifus soup about four in the afternoon.              he had brought

anything that required the use of the jaws, must have
                                     ;
gone without dinner.
                                        a

                                          II
                        I  have had tumble, too, on          Ia

slippery stone, striking my elbow and put my foot

between two stones and pinched my instep so that          ,

am all bruises, and my limbs are as stiff as sticks. I'll

go to bed.
1843.]  WORM-TRACKS.                                161

   " Sunday, 20th. August. --We got our specimens of
annelids yesterday. It rained a little during the morn

ing, but became fine in the afternoon, and was very
calm all day -- a beautiful canoe day. The canoe, how
ever, was too narrow a vessel for one of the specimens,

which measured five feet one way and four feet eight

the other. We were obliged to borrow a flat from the

fishermen to get it home to our tent. It weighs about
three hundredweight. It would have been a pity to
break it up, as the full effect of the worm-tracks cannot

        SUPPOSED WORM-TRACKS FROM GA8PB SANDSTONE.

                   About ouo-twclfth natural size.

be appreciated from a small specimen. I also got some

fossil shells from the same bed as the annelids; only

two species, however, and by no means very distinct.

I begin to think these are not true coal-measures, not

Iwithstanding that have seen a small seam of coal, two

inches thick. The plants are not Carboniferous. . . .

The rain is coming down harder and harder. The

wind is beginning to blow, the sea to break heavily
Ion the shore, and our tent to leak,
                                                    have been

lying in the tent conductliing the drops which soak
162                RA1JV DROPS.                               [i8«.

through the canvas down to the edge or hottom of the
sheet. When the rain soaks through it runs down the
inside of the canvas a little way, until it meets a dry-
place. This produces an impediment to the current ; a
large drop immediately collects, and down it falls. To
a disinterested person it would be very amusing, no

doubt, to witness the inconvenience caused by these

drops. While you write one of them will probably fall
just at the point of your pen, take all the ink out of
and spread on the paper or one will fall on what
       ;

          a

               it
                             is

                                                                    ;

                                                           it

                                                                                       it,
you have just written, and send the letters of the

alphabet swimming in all directions, drowning a word

or two or one will fall on a clean part of the page,
forming lake, at the margin of which the pen must

stop until the lake drained or dessicated. If any of

them fall on your clothes, you do not find out until,

by dint of repetition, the drop has supplied water
enough to get through coat, &c., and meets with the
first impediment to its progress in your skin. You then

discover that capillary attraction has made a morass of
a considerable space around the centre of supply, and
                                                              if

the spot happens to be one not conveniently exposed to

the fire, your science considerably perplexed to find
                        is

a remedy for the evil.  .      .
                            .

"Saturday, 2nd. September. --     .                           We have got to
                                      .

                                       is .
Perce, and have taken up our quarters at Mr. Moriarty's.

Perce      quite town, and there                              very picturesque
it         a
                        must remain here two or three
       is     I
scenery about it.

days.                                                         The town of Perc6,

   "Sunday, 3rd. September. --
                   is
                                                 .
                                                      .
                                                           .
as may be called, situated on a point of land, which
1843.]                ISLE PEHCEE.             163

juts pretty far out into the Gulf of St. Lawrence. It is

surrounded by bold rocks and romantic mountains ; but

there are no roads to conduct you among them, so that

you may enjoy the scenery. The houses are separated

into two groups by a rocky point called Mont Joli, in

front of which, and sometimes approachable on foot,

when the ebb of spring tide gives the opportunity; is

what is called the ' split rock,' or l'lsle Percce. It is so

named from the fact of the sea having worn two holes

through the island, which look like two mighty doors

in a great cathedral. The highest point of the split rock

is 209 feet al>ove high-water mark, as ascertained with

line and plummet by Mr. Moriarty, with whom I lodge.

The breadth of the rock on top is about 200 feet, and its

length is eleven acres. Its form is something like the

letter S. It is very difficult of access, and no one has

ascended since a foolhardy fellow, named Tierre L'Egle,

took into his head to dance upon a projecting piece of
        it.I
rock, which gave way under his feet, and dashed him;

to atoms on the beach. This was about six years ago.
Up to that time Mr. Moriarty had always cut hay on

the top but the magistrates have now interdicted

anyone from going up

"On the north side of Perce Point are the rocks

which surveyed while occupying the corner of the
boach in Malbay, and one of which shows a perpendi

cular face of 666 feet. . . On the outside of the split
                      .
rock there an island about a mile in diameter, called
                  is                  a

Bonaventure. The side next the mainland  ; is  pretty

well occupied by fishermen's houses and fishing-stages.

It  has moderate slope, and pebbly beach but the
        a
164  MOUNT ANNE.  [i843.

outside of the island is very bold and rocky. The

precipices, I understand, are some of them 500 feet in

height, and the water is many fathoms deep at their

base, rendering it quite impossible to walk along. I

shall, therefore, have to go round the island in a canoe.
   " Tuesday, 5th. September. -- After breakfast this morn

ing, I had again to put my barometer in order. The
mercury had leaked a good deal. After doing so, I set

out with Stevens and a son of Mr. Moriarty's to ascend

Mount Anne. There is a grand view from the summit,
and the island of Miscou, on the other side of the Baie

des Chaleurs, is visible on the horizon. Perce and its

shores appear to be quite at our feet, and the split rock

looks of no height at all. The mountain has a per

pendicular face to the southward, and looks over the
shore which extends between White Head and Gape

d'Espoir.
    " The day was warm and the sun shone out brightly.

I collected materials to determine the height of a con

siderable number of points on the ascent. The whole
of the hill is composed of the unconformable conglo
merate. We returned from our excursion in time to

enable me to continue my measurements along shore,

and the tide being at the lowest point of ebb when I
came to the point of Mont Joli, I had an opportunity of

 walking over dryshod to the split rock, and getting a

 few fossils there. Its perpendicular face, 300 feet high,

 looks very grand when one stands at the base.

   I" Wednesday, 6th. September. -- The day being fine,

 took advantage of it to make the tour of Bonaventure
 Island, which lies opposite to Perc6, and is distant
1843.J  BONAVBNTURE ISLAND.  1G5

about a couple of miles. Mr. Moriarty lent me his
whale-boat for the purpose, and in addition to Stevens

and Basque, I had two other men in the boat, one an

old fellow of the name of Fournier, who was well
acquainted with every part of the island.

   " We had a sail for our boat ; but the wind was not
fair for making the island. So the oars were used. As
we approached the island, Fournier pointed out to me
a huge block which had fallen from the cliff, to which

the name of la cruche is given. Another is called la

pierre carree; another, le moulon. These are on the

north-west side of the island, and the cliffs are there

bold, being about 300 feet high. Having made the
island, the wind favoured us a little, and we ran down
the west side, which is rather low, though rocky.
The same may be said of the south side, the cliffs not
being more than fifty feet. But as we came to the

eastern side, the boldness rose to grandeur, and there

are several places where the perpendicular height can

not be much short of 600 feet. In these cliffs are two

ledges, which are distinguished by the names of the
South Gannet Ledge and the North Gannet Ledge,
from the circumstance of their being the resort of
myriads of these birds, which build their nests in the
crevices of the rocks. The ledges were actually

whitened by them, and having no less than three guns
and a rifle with us, we loaded to procure some of the
gannets as specimens. A thousand of them sat in a
row, double and treble deep, on a ledge which pro
jected slightly from the face of the cliff and there they
remained, in spite of our presence.
166  GANNETS.  [1843.

  "I took my aim at one, with shot No. 4, and fired;
but I seemed to produce no effect upon the bird, beyond

causing him to quit the ledge and fly away seaward.

I tried another, and another, and another, and half

a dozen besides, with the same effect, and then made

up my mind that they were too high up, though they
did not appear to me to be distant more than 100 feet.
Hundreds upon hundreds of the birds were flying

about by this time, some leaving, some lighting on the

ledge, and I determined to wait for a chance of one on

the wing, when it should approach within good range.
One soon did so, and down he came with a tremendous

crash on the rock. I then left the sitting birds, and

stuck to those on the wing, killing four or five. John

and Stevens, and one of the men in the boat, killed

some more, and we got altogether eleven of them. . . .

Though the young ones have not yet begun to fly, they
are full-fledged. But they are so fat that they cannot

rise on the wing.' They are as large as the old ones,

but their plumage is quite different. The old ones are

white all over the body and wings, with the exception
of the tips of the pinions, which are quite black. . . .
The length of the gannet, from the tail to the beak, is
is about two and a half feet, and from tip to tip, when

the wings are spread, about four feet. They are very
fierce when wounded. One of them, shot before we

got ashore on the ledge, turned upon the boat open-

mouthed, and bit at the pole with which Basque was

endeavouring to hit it on the head.
   " Going along after our work of slaughter was over,

We saw several places where the water had worn
1843.] LITTLE RIVER COVE.  167

away the base of the cliff, and eaten out great caverns
in it. Two of them are called la grande fourne and la
petite fourne. The summit overhangs the base in some
places as much as thirty yards. The rock consists of

the same conglomerate as that which forms Point St.

Peter, and also the summit of Mount Anne, and which

is unconformable with the older rocks beneath. We
returned from our excursion about four o'clock, and I

had time to go on with my examination round Mont

Joli and Battery Point. . . .
   " Tuesday, 11th. September. --We have got away from

Perce at last, and are now encamped at l'Anse a Beaufils,

or l'Anse a Buffy, as the people call it. There are a few
fishing-sheds on a brook which pours out its waters on

a shingly beach, and a few dwelling-houses. There is a

road, a good one, all the way from Perce. . . . The coast

is rocky and precipitous all the way, and I was stopped

by the tide about half a mile from our resting-place. . . .
   " Thursday, 14/A. September. -- . . . We have pitched

our tent at Little River Cove, on the beach, and I

believe all the inhabitants of the Cove have been to

visit us, one after another. There are twenty-three

families settled here. The number of fishing-boats is
twenty-five. While occupied in examining the rocks

on the other side of the brook, a multitude of the

fishermen flocked round me, curious to know what I
was about. One of them asked me if I was searching
for buried money, and if the instruments I used indi
cated the proximity of hidden treasure. I explained

the use of the instruments to him, and he seemed much

gratified by it. . . .
168       GRAND RITER                                                                      [1843.

   "Friday, 15th. September. -- We were up at daylight,
and got away from our last night's position just as the

the sun was rising. I have walked all the way along

the beach, a distance of six miles, to Grand River, the

canoe accompanying me, and taking on board the
specimens 1 collected. The most interesting feature of
the day has been a trap floor overlying the horizontal

conglomerate, and the appearance at the same time

of the highly-inclined rocks which the conglomerate

overlies unconformably.

          -- j'r'»*!*·**»**.'.*.T;-1·».1***.*··».*·. '*^··.:'*e.':.·     »>·:'...··;·''
                                                                        . · ... .·

                                                                      ):>'*·"'· *"*. . ·.

a. Trap.     SECTION NEAR MOHTn OP flRANIl RIVEIl, r.ASrft.

          b. Bonaventiire conglomerate, c. Tilteil Upper Silurian
                                       limestones.

   "Now we are camped in a wood on the bank of the

Grand River, which seems to pour out a large quantity
of water. A bar runs across the mouth of the river, and
makes behind it a harbour in which schooners of fifty

tons can float. There are two or three fathoms of

water in the channel through the bar.
   " Tuesday, 2C>lh. September. -- We were up by sunrise.

I started to my work on foot before the canoe was

ready, and I certainly haAre had the hardest work that

the Survey has yet brought me. The coast is so

abominably ragged, that it is with the greatest diffi
RAGGED ROCKS.      1G9

               g*

               s.
no PORT DANIEL.                                  [i843.

culty I can measure      and the number of sights has
                         it,
                                       is  all sandstone of the
been very great. The rock

hardest description. . . . We are camped on the very

point of Cape Maquereau. . . .                   is      very
   " Friday, 13//t. October. -- . . Port Daniel      a
                              a
                                                       it
                                       .
picturesque place. It has lagoon and a sand-beach

between and the sea, with a narrow outlet. The
          is it
lagoon         shallow, and frequented by wild fowl.
                         it,
                               is
Two rivers flow into the East and the Middle River.

. . . The people are all fishermen. They secure their
boats in the lagoon, and this circumstance gives an

air of a harbour; but no vessel can enter. The bay

outside, however, the best harbour on the coast, and
                 it

                     is
vessels ride in very secure from all gales except a

south one.
   " After dinner dialled and measured the high road
                 I

                      a
as far as Ruisseau la Barbe, for the purpose of tracing
the course of the limestone deposit of the district, and   II
made out the situation of the hill very well. The

distance  is     four miles, and was pretty late when
                                   it

returned --soaking wet, for the rain had not intermitted

all day.

   "Mr. McPherson [of Port Daniel] has some queer

notions. He maintains, and that calmly and seriously,

that the reason why the passages of vessels from

America to Britain are shorter than those the contrary

way, that        down hill from west to east, America
is

         it

          I is

                                                                                             a
being further from the centre of the earth than Europe.

He was surprised at the number of ridiculous conse

quences which showed him would result if such

doctrine were correct. . . .
1843.]  A DISAPPOINTMENT.             171

  " Saturday, \Uh. October. --It still rains. This is the

sixth day of easterly wind and rain. It is doing much

harm in this part of the country. I have been up the

Middle River about three miles, to one of the spots

where Mr. Williams saw indications of a coal-field. . . .

I saw an abundance of black shale; but why that
should be an indication of coal, I cannot tell. I believe

there is no coal, and that the rock does not belong to

the Carboniferous era, but underlies the limestone,

which, by its fossils, is declared to be older than the

coal. This is a disappointment. But I must look at

this place again in the spring. There is too great a

freshet in the river just now to permit a proper exami

nation. Port Daniel having been advertised as a

coal-field, I must be cautious before I contradict the

report. . . .                    . . . This part of the
                                  The houses look com
   " Tuesday, llth. October.--

country is pretty well settled.

fortable. The land is flat, being on the unconformable

conglomerate, which comes in about three miles to the

eastward. It is said to continue all the way along the
                                    If so, that part of the
...coast for twenty to thirty miles.
                                       I have had a long
coast will be easily examined.
walk along the shore to the point where I met the

conglomerate yesterday in my morning's overland

excursion. As I proceeded along the cliffs, I found

many of the inhabitants busy securing their potatoes.

Some stared at me with much curiosity, and some

expressed a desire to know what I was about. In one

field where there were about eight young people at

work, men and women from seventeen to twenty years
1?2  WHERE T)0 YOU COME FROM?  [i843.

of age, they all, as I took a sight with my compass,

drew near, and forming a semi-circle around me, all

stood and stared, just as I have seen so many cows and

oxen gather round anything very strange to their

vision. I took my sight, and then turning to them

said, ' Well ?' ' Where do you come from ?' said one of
the boys. ' Ah !' said I ; ' Where do you come from ?--
where are you going ?--what are you doing ?-- what's
your age ?--where were you born ? --and what's your

name ?' ' Yes,' said one of the boys. So I laughed,

and walked off without satisfying their curiosity.

  "I had not gone half a mile further when an old

man came puffing after me from another field. He

scrambled over several fences to catch me, but did not

gain ground. At last he called out to me across a field,

Ie say ! Hallo, I say ! Mr., I say !' I turned round,
and sang out, ' Well, what do you say ?' ' I want to
speak to you.' I thought he might have heard I was
surveying the country for the Government, so I turned

back, and coming up to the fence where he stood,

leaned over on one side, while he leaned over on the

other. So we stared at one another for a few seconds,

He was an elderly man, with grey hair, and dressed in

a blue jacket and trousers, with a glazed hat. ' Well,'

said I. ' Where do you come from ?' said he. I could

not help laughing. ' Where do you come from ? --
where are you going ?-- what are you doing ? --what's
your age ?--where were you born ? --what's your
name?' said I. 'Well, well!' said the man, 'we are

out of the way of hearing news, and when we see a

stranger among us we are always curious to know
1843.]  PACING UNDER DIFFICULTIES.  173

what circumstance has brought about his visit.' ' Why

then I will inform you.' So I told him what I was

about, and that I came from Montreal. ' I have been
there,' said the man ; ' I have been at Michillimackinac,

in the service of the North- West Company.' So he gave

me his story, and we had a talk about the rocks in the

neighbourhood. Subsequently, twenty other men fol

lowed me ; but they only watched, and said nothing. . . .

  " I have been as far as two miles eastward round the

cape called Loup Marin. The unconformable conglo

merate forms the upper part of the cliff the whole way ;

but as far as the point the lower part is occupied

occasionally by the tilted limestone, with fossils similar

to those of Port Daniel. I was under the necessity of

measuring part of my distance by the road, the sea

coming up deep against the base of the clifF. Proceed

ing along the road a considerable distance, it became

necessary to measure a line to the shore again, to

determine a point there. As I paced across a field for

the purpose, counting my steps as I went, I heard foot

steps coming behind me. At length, when I arrived at

rather a boggy spot, a voice at my heels exclaimed, ' I
say, sir, this is not the road !' I went on counting my
steps, and to keep the number in my mind, I counted
'Ialoud: '110, 111, 112, &c.'
                               say, sir, this is not the

road !' again exclaimed the voice. ' 117, 118 -- it's my

road --119, 120, &c.,' said I. 'It's a wet place, sir!'

' 123, 124 --it does not require a Solomon to tell me that

--125, 126, &c.' 'You'll get wet, sir!' '128, 129--
don't bother me--130, 131, &c.' Here a young man

went by me, and kept right in front of me to impede
174 PASPEBIAC. [i843.

my progress. This made me somewhat angry, and

coming up to the stump of a tree which would do for a
mark, I freely gave him a piece of my mind for inter

rupting me in my occupations. He seemed rather

startled, and stared at me as if he thought I certainly
must be mad. On I went again in my count, walking

in a straight line through and over all impediments. . . .
   " Wednesday, 18//i. October. -- . . . Here we are at

Paspebiac, and here I suspect is at an end my

examination of this part of Canada, for the present. . . .

When I came this way in July, I brought a letter of

introduction to Mr. Hartley, the Manager of the fishing

establishment, from Mr. Deblois of Bathurst, and to him

we presented ourselves again. He invited us to take

...up our quarters in the dwelling-house of the establish
ment, which we have done.  I have made arrange

ments to cross the bay over to the New Brunswick

side, for the purpose of getting to Pictou by Bathurst

and Miramichi, from which last place there is a steamer

that goes every Monday to Pictou, by way of Prince

Edward Island. At Pictou, I shall take the ' Unicorn'

steamer for Quebec. This is safer than returning to

Gaspe Bay. Sometimes the steamer does not, because

it cannot, put into St. George's Cove --that is, when

either fog or strong wind prevails --and I should feel

myself iu a very unpleasant predicament should I be

caught there by such an accident. . . .

  " Thursday, 25th. October.-- At Pictou, at last. I left

Miramichi by the steamer ' St. George ' yesterday

morning, about eleven o'clock. . . . "We reached Char-

lottetown, the capital of Prince Edward Island to-day,
1843.]  ILL AT PICTOU.                            175

                                               *

about twelve o'clock, and stayed there nearly an hour.

I went ashore, and was much pleased with the wide

streets and neat buildings of the town. There seemed

much business doing in potatoes and vegetables of all

kinds.
   " Wednesday, Slst. October. -- At length the 'Unicorn'

has made her appearance. If the English mail come

forward in its usual time, we shall be off to-morrow. I

am very tired of Pictou, for the weather has been bad,

and I have been ill. Sunday, Monday, and yesterday, I

was confined to the house, and the first two days to my
bed, with influenza. . . . The only means of amuse
ment I have had here has been in a few hours spent

with my friend, young Mr. Dawson, a very excellent

geologist, who has paid attention to the structure of
this part of Nova Scotia. He was out with Lyell when

he was here, and visited the Shubenacadie with him.

He is to make a collection of the fossils of the Silurian
rocks in this neighbourhood. I will send him some of

our Lower Silurian from Montreal."

When Logan reached Pictou at this time, he was

attired in such disreputable habiliments that he looked

more like a shipwrecked seaman than a gentleman, and

could scarcely be induced to make his appearance
outside of his hotel. He was full of the geological
information acquired in Gaspe, though disappointed at

his inability to gratify the hopes entertained in Canada

that coal might bo found in the district. He saw in

the facts so copiously represented in his note-books the

necessity of large researches in palaeontology and

lithology, and was beginning to consider where he
176  A LONG FRIENDSHIP.  [i843.

could obtain the necessary assistance to go on with the
work before him. Dawson was then only twenty-
three years of age, and had recently returned from the
University of Edinburgh, where he had specially
studied mineralogy and geology. His engagements in
Nova Scotia were of a nature to prevent his leaving the
Province, or it is not unlikely he would have thrown
in his lot with the Canadian Survey. But this could

not be ; and though a correspondence was carried on

between them, it was not till 1855, on Dr. Dawson's
appointment to the Principalship of McGill College,
that his personal acquaintance with Logan was

renewed. From that time there was the closest
intimacy and co-operation, which continued until the
death of Sir William, and was unbroken by any want
of cordiality. Dr. Dawson, by his investigations of
the Post-pliocene deposits, his determinations of the

Devonian and Carboniferous plants, and other important

investigations, as well as by his influence and advice

on many critical points, gratuitously forwarded the
scientific objects of the Survey ; and Logan, on his part,
testified to his appreciation of the scientific work being

done in McGill University by his endowment of the
Logan Gold Medal and the Logan Chair of Geology.
                    CHAPTER X.

                       GASPl£ EXPLORATIONS, 1844.

                    after reaching Montreal, in the autumn

SHOoRf T18L4Y3, Logan proceeded to Kingston, in order to

report himself at headquarters, and thence went in
search of his assistant, eager to learn the result of his
summer's campaign. They met at Toronto, and then
came on together to Montreal, where it was decided
that Mr. Murray should spend a month or two with
his chief before going to his home at "Woodstock.
During the summer they had collected large quantities
of organic remains and minerals, and one of the first
questions on their arrival at Montreal was what to do
with the specimens. There was no chemist to analyze

the minerals, no palaeontologist to determine or describe

the fossils, no museum in which to display the speci
mens, not even a room in which to unpack them. But
Mr. James Logan came to their aid, and placed at their
disposal an " upper chamber " in his warehouse on St.
Gabriel Street, where the boxes, papers and other pro
perty of the Survey were for the time deposited. The

                                                                  12
178            NUCLEUS OF A MUSEUM.              [i843.

fossils, of which there were many thousands, were now

unpacked, each specimen carefully ticketed with a label

indicating the locality, geological formation, &c. The

specimens were then repacked in numbered boxes, the

contents of which were duly catalogued. Logan, how

ever, was not satisfied with having the originals thus

carefully secured, but even constituted himself artist to

the Survey, and, in his usual painstaking way, set about

figuring some of the most characteristic forms.

   On the 11th. of December he wrote to Mr. Rawson:
" The collection of specimens the Survey has brought
together is quite overwhelming, and when I observe

the small impression Murray and I have yet made on

our seventy great boxes, most of them requiring at
least two men to lift them, I am almost in despair. The

fossils alone would be quite occupation enough for a
palaeontologist for six months. Then there will be our

mapping to execute, our sections to reduce, and a

...report to be prepared on the partial facts ascertained up
to this time.  It however, with regard to the
               is,

                     I
                                                      It a
analysis of the minerals that am most anxious."

Logan well knew that the .£1,500 which had been

granted for the Survey would scarcely suffice to make

beginning, and was sagacious enough to see that if the

Survey was to be continued, he must be able to show

that something really practical was being done.

was the loaves and the fishes the people wanted, and

few would or could take an interest in the dry

details of the sequence and distribution of geological

formations, unless they could be persuaded that such

mysteries would lead to something utilitarian. Sjo
1844.]  A CHEMICAL ASSISTANT.  179

from the first Logan determined to make a strong
point of economic geology. But this, of course, ren
dered the assistance of a chemist absolutely necessary.

He was no chemist himself, and even if he had been,

would have had no time to make the required analyses.
It happened, however, that a young Pole, De Rotter-
mond by name, had just come to Canada from Paris,

where he had been studying chemistry. He was a
man of pleasing address, and brought such excellent

testimonials, that Logan, after several interviews with
him, determined to employ him provisionally, and if

possible, to secure his appointment by Government as
a regular assistant. With this object in view, and also
with the hope of getting some provision made for the
continuance of the Survey at the expiration of the
original two years, he went to Kingston early in
March, and there lost no opportunity of making known

his views to the members of Government. From
Kingston, he wrote to Mr. Murray as follows: --

                                                              "Kingston, llh. March, 1844.

  " Dear Murray, -- I have come up to this expiring

capital for the purpose of endeavouring to induce the
Council to grant me permission to employ Mr. De

Rottermond as chemist. But, unfortunately, the day I

started from Montreal, Mr. Secretary Daly started

from Kingston. We must have crossed half-way, and

the result is that I am losing time until his return,

which is not expected until next week. . . .

  " I have stated to the Governor that I should like to

have some more defined arrangement as to the time
180  VALUE OF LARGE SPECIMENS.  [i843.

 the Survey is to be continued. He remarked that it
 had struck him that the voting of a certain sum with

 out any knowledge as to whether that sum would be

sufficient, was a very absurd sort of thing, and that it

was" but just that a more explicit understanding should

be arrived at. I have spoken to Draper on the subject,

and think he feels the propriety of putting the Survey
on a firmer footing. . . . He has said, however, that
unless it can in some way be indicated that value will
be returned to the country for the expenditure, it is in
vain to expect that the Legislature will support the

Survey for the sake of science --in which opinion I

thoroughly agree with him.
   " In my interview with the Governor, I happened to

say that before starting on my explorations in the

spring I should, of course, make a report on the partial

facts ascertained. He immediately replied that he

would place it before the Legislature. . . .
   "The object will be to produce an effect on the

members. With the same view, I must get a house or

a set of rooms for our collection. Managing this, we

must put our economic specimens conspicuously for

ward; and it appears to mc that in the exhibition of
these, large masses will make a greater impression on
the mind than small specimens. A sort of rule of three

process seems to go on in the minds of the unlearned
when they examine minerals in which they are inte

rested. They arc much addicted to judging of the
value of the deposit by the bulk of the specimen shown.

  "This induces me to say that I should like you to

send to Montreal, as soon as it can be done by water
1844.]                 A VISIT TO ALBANY.            181

communication in the spring, a thundering piece of
gypsum. Let it be as white as possible, and put it in

a strong box, similar to those I sent from below. If

you come across the lithographic stone, let us have a

huge slab of six or eight inches thick. . . .
   " hope as you went through Toronto you did not
I
                                                     You
                    '

                 it,
forget the Stanniferous-auro-plaliniferous Lead  /'

must get that half-barrel from your friend, in order

that we may assay a good average sample."

At Kingston                  proved impossible to accomplish
        ;

                         it
much for although on every hand he received assur

ances of good things to come, no one was willing to

take any responsibility in the matter, or sanction the

expenditure of the smallest sum of money. Evidently

nothing could be expected before the meeting of Par

liament, and so, in the meantime, he resolved to act on

his own responsibility, and at his own risk. Leaving

Kingston, he set out for Albany, where he wished to
compare some of his fossils with those of the New York
rocks exhibited in the State collection. At Albany he
was kindly received by Hall and Emmons of the New
York Geological Survey, and every facility was afforded

him for making the desired comparisons. Shortly after
his return to Montreal, he wrote to the Director of the
British Survey --
        :

                                            is

                                         it

                                        I
                                              I

                                                                                   a
                             "Montreal, 20th. April, 1844.

" My Dear De la Beche, --How               that you have

never written to me? Did you get my letter from

Miramichi, and did you get the box of specimens sent

you from Nova Scotia? In my letter spoke of

section of the Nova Scotia coal-field as displayed at the
182         THE JOGGINS SECTION.  [i844.

Joggins. Since my return from field-work I have

reduced all the measurements, and made out a vertical

column. It occupies fifty-four pages of foolscap, closely

written. The total thickness is 14,570 feet 11 inches.

I am getting a written copy of it made for you, but it
takes much time. It may be very useful to you in
speaking of coal in general in your report. I mean to
get the document published somehow or other, and I
should be glad if you would allude to it publicly if it

illustrates anything you may have to say on South

Wales. You will be astonished at the detail in it.
You can make a public document of it if you like, by
communicating it to the Geological Society. I am

aware they would not print it ; there is too much
detail in it. But were it among their documents, you

could then allude to it with more propriety, if you
think it worth while. I cannot help thinking it will

be considered very instructive in showing the compo

sition of a coal-field. There is not a single apology for

coal without an association with Sligmaria, even when

there are bands of bituminous limestone with the

remains of fishes.

  " I worked like a slave all summer on the Gulf of St.

Lawrence, living the life of a savage, inhabiting an

open tent, sleeping on the beach in a blanket sack

with my feet to the fire, seldom taking my clothes

off, eating salt pork and ship's biscuit, occasionally

tormented by mosquitos. I dialled the whole of

the coast surveyed, and counted my paces from

morning to night for three months. My field-book is a

curiosity.
1844.]  WORK IN GASPK  183

   " The coast has an immense quantity of rock

exposed, and I met with the same conglomerate
which I informed you existed at Bathurst. In Canada,

as in New Brunswick, it lies unconformably over the

Devonian and Silurian, which undulate beneath. The

conglomerate, occasionally becoming a fine red sand

stone, always dips towards the coal of New Brunswick,

and no doubt must run under it and form the base of

the Carboniferous deposits. It rests on the shore of

Canada on the margin of the Baie des Chaleurs, but

there are no profitable coal-seams or coal-seams of any

description visibly associated with it.

  " From the Devonian and Silurian rocks I collected

no less than seventy boxes of specimens, chiefly fossils,
which it took Murray no less than two months to

ticket and stuff away into boxes for future examina

tion, when the Government shall give me room to

place them in order. I have hired a house on specula

tion, and am ordering proper cases to hold some of

them, in the confident expectation that the expenditure

will be sanctioned by the Legislature. But perhaps I

may be reckoning without my host, and may be left in
the lurch after all.

  " I have just returned from a visit to Albany, where
I have been studying the New York Geological collec

tion, and I have got together in the way of drawings

all that they have done in fossils. Albany is within
two days' journey from this, and it will be to me a

most useful place to enable me to make comparisons.

Until I can contrive to get a comparison instituted
with British fossils, I fancy I shall be obliged to
184  A MUSEUM ESTABLISHED.  [i8*4.

content myself with the American nomenclature. The
condition of the rocks of New York, and the certainty
with which their order of superposition has been deter
mined, makes that region the key to the geology of a
large portion of the North-American continent. In
New York, also, there is no want of conformity from
the coal to the lowest fossiliferous rocks, and this is the
character of the country all the way to the Mississippi,
and probably much further west. But a different law
prevails to the eastward, in all the country south of the
St. Lawrence. The coal is unconformable with the
rocks below, and these have suffered violent disturb

ances prior to the Carboniferous era. . . ."
   The house which had been hired to serve temporarily

the purposes of museum, office and laboratory, was on

Great St. James Street (No. 40), the principal street in
the town. The laboratory was equipped, show-cases

set up for specimens, and soon the place began to have

an orderly and business-like appearance. But spring
had come round, and with the spring the time for the
renewal of operations in the field. Preparations were

made for another season among the rocks of the Gaspe
peninsula. This time, however, it was resolved not
only to continue the examination of the coast, but to

penetrate the wild regions of the interior, and if pos

sible to obtain a section from some point on the St.
Lawrence through to the Baie des Chaleurs. Mr.
Murray was now to accompany the Director, and also

the new chemist, who professed to be an old cam

paigner, and expressed a strong desire to join the
expedition. At G-aspe they were to be joined by
1844.]  RETURN TO GASPE.  185

Stevens, Logan's assistant of the previous year, and

also by the indispensable Indian, Basque. Leaving
Montreal by steamer on the 27th. of May, they reached

Gaspe on the 31st., and the arrival was at once
chronicled by Logan in his voluminous journal : --

   " Here I am again at my old quarters, in the elegant
hotel of Mr. and Mrs. Paddy. I hold in remembrance
the charge of 2s. 6d. per day for writing in the parlour ;

so now I indite my journal in the kitchen. . . . My

present intention is to return up the St. Lawrence in

canoes to Cape Chatte, and then cross over to Baie des

Chaleurs, which I expect to strike somewhere near

Tracadigash Mountain. We go over St. Anne's Moun

tain, reported to be the highest land in Canada, its

elevation being somewhere about 4,000 feet. As we
came down the St. Lawrence in the ' Unicorn,' we saw

these mountains, white with snow to the very summit.
They looked very formidable. Captain Douglas of the
' Unicorn ' has given us a Union Jack to plant on the

very highest peak, and as it yet has no name, Murray,
Douglas, and De Itottermond propose to call it Ben

Logan ; but I have expressed my disapprobation, and

here enter a memorandum of my protest."

   Several days were spent in rating a chronometer,
obtaining Indians, canoes, &c., and then the party bade
farewell to Gaspe and Mrs. Paddy's "house of enter
tainment." " Tired of Mrs. Paddy's starving system,"
says Logan's journal, " we left her on Saturday evening.
Poor De Rotterrnond could stand it no longer. He
was fretted out of all patience with the monotony of
her cuisine. Salmon, salmon, salmon, every day. At
186         CAPE ROSIER TO CAPE CHATTE.  [i844.

first she told us she could get no salmon ; so Murray

purchased one from the fishermen, the second day after

our arrival. He paid 3s. ljd. for and let Mrs. Paddy
                 it

                       it,
have        for the same money. We had part of at
      it                                 it

dinner, boiled, and very good was. The other parta

Mrs. Paddy put into a little salt, and the salted salmon

we had next day, boiled. The third day we had boiled

salmon, little salter the fourth day the same. As
              ;

Mrs. Paddy charged Is. each per meal, De Rottermond

was shocked that she should gain so much by the

purchase. Then he was shocked at our always having

salmon, and again shocked that  it  should always be

boiled. Notwithstanding this, however, we had salmon

salter than ever next day, and boiled as usual."
   Geological investigations were begun at Cape Rosier,

and between that point and Cape Chatte, distance of
                 is
                                                   a

                                                                                          ;
about one hundred miles, a careful examination of the

rocks was made. "The coast country between Cape

Rosier and Cape Chatte of a mountainous character

the ridges in regular succession run in towards the

interior at a very small angle with the trend of the
shore, and with the exception of nine miles between

the first-mentioned point and l'Anse a Griffon, the hills

in general come close upon a rocky and precipitous

margin, leaving very little space for settlement beyond

the narrow fiats at the mouth of the principal streams

that descend from the highlands to the St, Lawrence

These are in general occupied by fishing establishments
of more or less importance, and among the principal
are those of Great and Little Fox Rivers, and those of

the Magdalen, the Mont Louis, the Ste Anne, and the
c
188  PORPOISES AND PORCUPINES.  [i844.

Chatte. On the chief part of these flats there is not
much room for agricultural labour, and the inhabitants,
wholly engaged in fishing, depend for their supplies
on importations from Quebec, which appear to find
their way by Gaspe and Cape Rosier; and provisions
become dearer the closer we approach Quebec, up to
Cape Chatte."*

   While the geologists of the party hammered away at
the rocks of this rugged coast, the Indians were by no
means idle, and to a certain extent compensated for the
dearness of provisions by the game which they secured.
Now and then a porpoise which ventured to take an

airing was shot from the canoes, or perhaps a porcupine
killed on shore -- and each was regarded as an accept
able addition to the larder. The neck of the porpoises
was eaten, and pronounced by all hands to be excellent.
"Indeed," says Logan, "no one would have known
the dish from good beefsteak." As for the porcupines,

too, they were by no means despised by our hungry

geologists. In the forests of Gaspe they are an abundant
animal, and much prized by the Indians, not only as
an article of food, but on account of their quills. They

are easily captured ; but woe to the dog that does not
understand their mode of warfare. This was the case
with a handsome bull-terrier which had joined the
Gaspe expedition of 1844, under the auspices of Mr.
Stevens. "Porcupines," says Mr. Murray, "were her
peculiar aversion, and these animals, from their slug
gish movements, being unable to avoid a sudden attack,
made the poor brute often feel the effects of their

     * Report of Progress, 1844, p. 6.
1844.]  SUCCESSFUL SURGERY.  189

invincible armour, which on one occasion would cer

tainly have cost her her life, but for Sir William's
kind-hearted sympathy for every mortal thing that
could suffer, and his unrivalled patience and persever
ance. Unlike the wary Indian cur, which would yelp
for an hour to bring assistance, this dog, with the
eagerness and undaunted courage of her breed, would
attack a porcupine as she would a cat; and on this

particular occasion, the porcupine being a large and

powerful one, she made a fierce onslaught, grappled
with the enemy, in vain attempting to get a hold,
until, being discovered, she was carried away, bristling
with quills all over the body, the head, mouth and
throat. When the poor brute was brought to our

camp, her case looked a perfectly hopeless one, and

the general opinion appeared to be that if she did

not shortly die, it would be only an act of charity
to put her out of her sufferings. Not so, however,
thought Mr. Logan, who was very fond of the animal,
and he immediately volunteered to be her doctor. He
got a pair of tweezers, and began what to all appear
ances was a pretty hopeless operation, but which he
succeeded in accomplishing in about two hours' time.
Every part of the poor creature was more or less pene
trated by the dreadful quills, which every moment

were insinuating themselves deeper and deeper by the
muscular movement of the body upon the serrated
edges. The whole head, even inside the mouth, and
as far as could be seen down the throat, was one mass

of the formidable appendages. One by one he extracted
these, until the head was completely cleared, and then
190  DAILY ROUTINE.  [is44

continued to operate upon the less vital parts, until no
vestige of a quill was to be seen on her body. The
poor brute was helpless from the effects for many days,
but she recovered eventually, and before our campaign
terminated, she produced a fine litter of puppies."

   Many, indeed, were the incidents which broke in
upon the daily routine of the geological work. At one
time there was a bear-hunt ; at another flambeaux and

spears were got ready, and a raid made upon the
salmon ; but the geology went on apace, and by the

5th. of July they had reached Cape Chatte, where

preparations had to be made for the journey inland.
As the country on the line of the intended route had
never been mapped or examined in any way, it was
necessary that they should devote a large share of

their time to topographical work, if geological results

were to be rendered intelligible. With this in view
they began by measuring a base line on the shore, and
determined by triangulation the position of a number
of well-marked peaks in the ranges of hills to the
south. Then, taking to their canoes, they followed the
Chatte in its windings as far as navigable, determining
its course and length as they went along, by means of
prismatic compass and Iiochon's micrometer telescope.
Then plunging into the dense forests, they slowly
found their way to the Cascapedia. But the woods had
proved a fitter place for a botanist than a geologist,
scarcely any rock exposures having been seen; and
as the river seemed likely to afford good sections, it

was resolved, if possible, to navigate it to its mouth

Their canoes they had been forced to leave on the
1844]  DIFFICULTIES.  191

Chatte, and to construct new ones of birch-bark would
be too long a process. As for floating down the river
on rafts, that would be not only inconvenient, but
dangerous. In the emergency one of the Indians
suggested that they should build temporary canoes of
spruce-bark. Suitable material was obtained with

much difficulty, and soon three excellent canoes were

ready to launch. In these frail craft the " unknown
river" was safely navigated to its mouth, which was

reached on the 6th. of September.

    During the expedition they were exposed to many
privations and discomforts, which early proved more
than the chemist could bear, and accordingly he had to

be sent back to the coast, to lind his way to Montreal as

best he could One of the Indians, too, fell ill with

inflammation of the lungs, and would probably have
died had Logan not constituted himself surgeon, and

resorted to phlebotomy.
   One of the highest peaks of the Shickshocks was

climbed, and Captain Douglas' Union Jack unfurled
at the summit, 3,768 feet above the sea.* The prospect
from this mountain Logan afterwards described in the
following terms :--

   " From the highest summit we visited, the panorama
displayed was of the grandest description. In the
northern half of the circle, the waters of the St

Lawrence, dotted with its ships and fishing-boats,

spread out to the right and to the left as far as the eye
could reach. On its northern shore, immediately in

    .· Notwithstanding Logan's recorded protest, the mountain has been
numed after him
192 PROSPECT FROM MOUNT LOG AX. [i844.

front, unaided vision could plainly distinguish tho
lighthouse of the Fointe des Monts, some fifty miles
off, from which the granite hills, rising immediately
behind it in the interior, gradually sunk below the
horizon as they receded from us, following them down
the expanding gulf, to a point where we thought we
could discover the Island of Anticosti, one hundred
miles away, in the mist of the distance ; while at our
feet were arranged in parallel lines the ridges and
valleys of the lower land between us and the river. To
the eastward a confusion of mountains and ravines

belonging to tho Notre Dame Range, filled up several
degrees of the circle, and one summit, which exhibited
a patch of snow, we supposed might be higher than
the point we stood upon. Many of the peaks were
bare, and as they retired one behind another, and
occupied a smaller angle in the perspective, it became
difficult to distinguish those of the Notre Dame
from such as appertained to other ranges. Turning
southward, a sea of parallel undulating ridges occu
pied the picture, the more distant of which we
conceived might present a table-land, with a few
marked points rising in cones and domes ; and
through one gap, which probably was the valley ol
some south-flowing river, we distinguished a faint
blue horizontal line, which we fancied might be in
New Brunswick. Prominent points became fewer
veering westward, until the horizon was again inter
rupted in that direction by a well-defined outline of
a not very distant part of the range from which we

 looked.
j 844.] PROSPECT FROM MOUNT LOGAN.  193

   "The highest summits within our view were gene
rally bare rocks. Those next in the scale were crowned
with sturdy dwarf spruce trees, many of them not five
feet high, but springing up so close together that their
branches, interlocking, rendered it very difficult to
make way among them. On those still lower, spruce
became mingled with white birch, and the size of the

trees gradually augmented in proportion to the decrease
of elevation. One feature in the vegetation high up in
the hills that struck us forcibly and gave us much
satisfaction after confinement in the forest below, was
the great extent of open glade that appeared on all

sides but the north. Wide slopes on the east, the

south, and the west, were carpeted with the most

luxuriant growth and abundant specific diversity of
ferns, from which clumps of spruce or of white birch,

or of both mingled, started up here and there, giving
the hills occasionally almost the character of park

scenery, or as if art had arranged the distribution with

a view to ornament, and often producing, in combi
nation with peaks, ravines, and a distant horizon,

landscapes of a very pleasing description."*
   The various incidents of the Gaspe expedition of

1844 are recorded with the greatest detail in Logan's
journal, from which tho following extracts are taken : --

   " Thursday, 11th. July. -- I have no doubt the scenery

is very beautiful, but we cannot see it for the trees.

Our journey is like a sail up a canal cut through a
wood, with this exception, that every now and then we
have a rapid, and always a strong current. Once in a

     * Report of Progress, 1844, p. 12.
                                                                   13
194           ORDER OF PROCEDURE.  [1844.

while we have a glimpse of a distant hill, ahead or

astern, when the river takes a bend. Just as we stopped

this evening, about half-past six, we observed the foot

marks of a porcupine on the margin of the stream in

the sand, and we set one of the dogs upon the scent.

He soon gave tongue. Michel followed, and at no

great distance killed his game. So we shall have fresh

meat for supper. Our frying-pan is up in the moun-

tains,where our provisions are placed, and we shall have

to roast the porcupine on a stick. We have no biscuits

with us, and therefore we bake our flour every morn

ing and evening after the Indian fashion, and eat

unleavened bread in the manner of the Jews of old

when they were in a hurry.

"The order of our procedure is this. We are in

three canoes. I, Stevens and John in the first; De

Rottermond, Frank and Louis in the second ; Murray,

Baptiste and Michel in the third. I have with me a

...micrometer telescope, by means of which distances can
be measured.  I go first with my canoe, in which I

have a pole with two oblong pieces of wood nailed

across it. These are just five feet apart. Murray

stays behind with the telescope. When I get to the

furthest point at which we can be visible to one

another, there I stop and hold up my pole, and while

he takes his measurement with the micrometer teles

cope, I take the bearing between us by means of a

prismatic compass. So soon as this is finished, Murray

makes a signal, or I see his canoe begin to move. Then
I start with mine, leaving De Rottermond in his to

point out to Murray the spot when he gets up. By the
1844.]  ON THE CHATTE.       195

Itime he comes am in the next station with my pole

up, and so on we go. The greatest distance we haveit,

measured at a shot is about half a mile, but we could

probably double that if the river permitted. . . . It is a
capital river, and I will be bound for a river was

never before measured through the forest in so short a

time.

                                                VIEW ON THB CHATTE.
                                         Logan's Journal, 1844.

   " Sunday, 14/A. July. -- Last evening we stopped about
half-past five at the point nearest to the place of easiest
ascent to the peak of the mountain range. Just as we
196  A MOUNTAIN CLIMB.  [1844

were about to do so, my canoe, which was ahead, came
in contact with a porcupine which was crossing the
river, swimming with just a small part of his head up
Stevens gave him a knock with his pole, and we
secured him in no time This, with the game killed in

the morning, and a partridge shot just over my head as

I was employed in covering up my barometer, will

supply our larder for a day or so
   " John, it seems, has left behind at one of our resting-

places our bullet-mould and all our gun-tools, such as

turn-screws, &c., and also a bag containing our nails;
and we shall probably want the latter in erecting our

standard on the peak, while the former are indispen

sable in our progress through the woods. He and

another Indian will have to return for them. My plan,
in consequence, is to mount the hill, with Murray and
a couple of Indians, and make as many observations as
I can upon the hills and rivers at a distance, taking

their bearings, &c. ,, . .
   " Tuesday, 16//t. July. -- The weather is fine, and we

shall ascend the mountain to-day without fail. The

barometer is rising.
   " 9 a.m. -- We have started for the peak. Two of the

canoes have taken eight of us down about half a mile,

and we have landed on the opposite side of the river

for our ascent. Michel has been left behind to take

care of the tent, from which we expect to be absent for

two days. Our canoes are hauled up, and now for it
   " 10 a.m. -- We have risen 400 or 500 feet, after walking

about half a mile, and the Indians, who have bundles

on their backs, with blankets and provisions weighing
1844.]  IN THE SHICKSHOCKS.                                            197

from twenty to forty pounds, have sat down to rest,
and Murray is taking an observation with his baro

meter. We are all sweating, notwithstanding that the

temperature is not above 62° F. in the shade

"There being no water near, the Indians have

stripped the outer and second bark from a birch tree,

and with their knives they are scraping the innermost
bark from the stem. It is quite thin and pulpy, and

they are satisfying their thirst with it. For curiosity's

sake, I shall try the beverage. Capital it is ! It is cool

and has a faint sweetness which makes it very pleasant.
Here is another use to which the birch-tree is put. It

is a most invaluable tree to the American forest-

rangers. The poor birch, which is a handsome tree,

fifteen inches in diameter, has been peeled all around,

and is now sure to die. About eight feet of the tree

has been peeled, and it is as smooth and slippery as a

greased pole. The Indians have been amusing them

selves by trying to climb but they find worse than
a                                                 it
                                is
                                                                    ,
                                             it,
greased pole. None of them have succeeded. . . ,,

" Wednesday, lllh. July. -- We were all up pretty

early, not feeling quite so warm as usual. . .                         The

height we are at upwards of 3,000 feet above our

tent, and that may be some 300 feet above the sea

While John was preparing our breakfast, which he

said would require an hour and a half, Louis, Murray

Stevens and started to take some sights on the south
        .
side,       .

                I
                             I
        . We had walked an hour, and as seemed to
                                                  it
me that there was a sort of connecting ridge between it,

the ridge and the peak, resolved to try for and sent

Louis back to say so, and to desire John to establish
198 IN THE SHICKSHOCKS. [i844.

his camp at the base of the said peak, by the side of

one of the mountain streams. Louis has to go back to
the river tent in the course of the day, for more provi
sions, as it is evident we have not got enough to last

us the time we shall be on the summit of the moun

tain. Having found one of the antlers of a caribou as

we went along, I told Louis to carry it back to the

tent, in the hope of finding some means hereafter of
getting it up to Montreal.

   " So we separated. Away I posted down the hill to
cross the ravine, in which I soon succeeded ; but I

found great difficulty in proceeding along the ridge
connecting the knob mountain with the peak, and it

was two hours before I got to the summit, as tired as

 possible, and as hungry as a hawk. . . . Thunder
 clouds now began to show themselves to the westward,
 and the thunder gave a threatening growl, which was

sufficient intimation that I should be better off down

 below in the valley than on the bare, stony mountain-
top, without covering. So off I started to make for

the smoke as quickly as possible. The way I chose

 was along a gulley, in which flowed a small mountain

torrent, and there not being many trees, I stretched on

 at a famous rate, bounding over all impediments, and

 occasionally sliding on my back for some distance

 when my foot slipped on the wet herbage. When I
 had nearly reached the valley I heard a halloo above

me, which I answered ; but I kept on for the smoke,
 which I reached just in time to save a ducking. As I

 came down the hill there was a vivid flash of lightning,

 and a quick and awful crash of thunder right behind
1844]    SUPPERLESS.                                                        199

Ime. am persuaded the peak must have been struck.

After this, successive thunder-peals roared among the

mountain-tops, giving us a salvo of heavens artillery

to welcome our arrival amidst the majestic scenery of

Shickshock.

  "When I reached the tent it was one o'clock, and I

was desperately hungry. So the first thing that was

done was to heat some of the porcupine bouillon. . . ,
   " 7 p.m. -- We are all patching small leaks in our

covering, in order to sleep as dry as we can. Our

provisions being rather short, we go to bed supperless.

The poles of our cabin are spruce, and wherever the

branches have been cut gum oozes out. As we sit the

poles touch our heads, and a multitude of the drops

of gum have attached themselves to my hair. . . .

De Eottermond seems to be the most uncomfortable
one among us; but instead of attributing his great
discomfort to some quality within himself, he seems to
imagine that it always arises from something peculiar

to his place in the tent. Either there is more smoke

where he is than anywhere else, or the fire is further

from him than from anybody else, or the ground is

wetter where he or there some chink in the tent
         is,
                            is
                                        8
which lets in the wind where he is, or the flies bite

...most where he is.                       p.m. -- We have had
   " Thursday, 19>th. July. --

grand day on the peak. It has been windy, but
a
bright, with the exception of one squall, which broughta

clouds about our ears. But they cleared away again

in short time. We have planted the Union Jack

Captain Douglas gave us.        The Unicorn passed
                          .

                              .
                                    .

                                                  '
                                                                         '
200 GEOLOGY UNDER DIFFICULTIES. [i844.

just as we were about to raise but we could not get
I it

                    a
                                              a

                                                         it,
up in time to give fair cbance of its being observed.

drew panorama of about one-half of the circle of

hills, and hope to finish to-morrow. We have measured

sixty-three angles to various peaks, and                           if  we can

determine the distance to the next high western peak,

we shall fix great many points on our forward
a
                                a

                                            is

                                                                a
journey. . . . Drawing with temperature of 43°, and

strong wind blowing, anything but warming for

the fingers, We had scarcely a single black fly the
whole day --thanks to the wind."

Passing over an interval of several weeks, we find

Logan and his party in the country to the south of the

Shickshocks, making their way through to the Casca-

pedia. The journal was still faithfully kept up, and

from we again quote
   "Monday, 12th. August. -- . . . The order of our
   is it

                        :
                                                       :
march this John goes first in the direction indicated

by me for the day, after due consideration. Louis

follows, and these, with their axes, as they go, clear the

branches little. follow next then comes Murray,
   Ia                                                     it ;
             I

                I
...and then Stevens. The rest follow in what order
they choose.  As follow in my place after John

and Louis, count my paces, making such allowances

Ias judge fit for zig-zags and short steps necessary
to avoid stumps and to get over windfalls; and thus

our distance estimated approximately. If come to
              is                                                   I

                         I
any geological feature note down in its relative

place, and as every now and then we have bearings on

the hills, the whole will ultimately be given with con
siderable correctness. The general level of the land
J1844.  WATERSHED CROSSED.  201

since we quitted the mountains is rather above 1,000
feet over high-water mark. We take barometrical

observations at every resting-place, and we thus hope
to get a profile of the country across to the other side.

   " 7 p.m. --We have returned to our tent after locating

our provisions at a spot about three and a-half miles

distant. Our third resting-place was at the foot of a
small hill, to the summit of which we ascended,
leaving our packs below. From it we had a good
view of our flagstaff on the peak. . . .

   " Tuesday, 13/A. August. -- . . . John has our tent

pitched by the side of a small brook, the water of
which flows to the Baie des Chaleurs. We have thus

crossed the water-shed, and Stevens says he feels as if

he had already arrived at the bay. The water is very
cold, and the Indians say it has not the same taste as
that of the Chatte, notwithstanding it flows from the
same source (some of the small lakes discharge two

ways). In this cold water we have washed the blood

of the fly-bites from our hands and faces, and having
made ourselves comfortable, now for supper. The

flies have been very troublesome. Murray swears
that he has brought only the half of himself home.

Stevens has lost a handkerchief, and I have lost my
gloves. I am very tired. My shins are black and blue

all over with thumps against stumps and fallen trees,
and my foot has been squeezed by getting into the fork

of a root. I shall sleep without rocking.
  " Wednesday, \Wi. August. --I went to bed immedi

ately after supper, and was up this morning at five.

The cold would not let me sleep, and I had to get up
202  GEOLOGICAL STRUCTURE.               [im*.

twice during the night to warm myself. John kept on

a rousing fire, which it was a comfort even to look at.

    . It was nine o'clock before we could get our
supper, and I had tasted nothing from 7 a.m. We took

no dinner on our journey yesterday, for want of water-
All the men were thirsty, and none could eat without

drinking first.

   " On cracking a stone which had been baked under

our fire at breakfast this morning, I found a trilobite in

and this induced me to search the river for more,
it,

             I
                                                                     I
and though have got only another fossil, a shell,

have found many angular, flat fragments of sandstone

with carbonized comminuted plants, identical in char
acter with the Gaspe sandstone. This and the fossils
discovered in the limestone and shale on the middle

fork of the Chaite induce me to be nearly certain that
  have a clue to the elucidation of the geology of this

part of tbe country. From the middle fork to this
I
                        I
point all the indications of strata we have seen have
been calcareous, and am of opinion that all we have

passed over are equivalent \o the Gaspe limestone.

Such being the case, there should be great display of
sandstone with carbonized plants on the top of the
                           a

                                 I
limestone, and as the measures, wherever have seen

them in our progress, have but a moderate dip, the

sandstone, which not under 4,000 to 5,000 feet thick,
         is
               a
will be spread over great surface of country to the

south, particularly if at the same time  undulates
                                         it

                                                                      a

little, which does on the coast. Nous verrons.it
   "Friday, 16th. August, -- . . The men with the

provisions have returned, perspiring like teroes. The
1844.]              SCARCITY OF ROCKS.                   203

day is warmer than usual. They have brought a

partridge with them. Breakfast, however, is not quite

ready yet. It requires considerable time to arrange a

porcupine for cooking when the skin is to be left on it.

It is necessary to pluck off all the quills, as the

feathers are plucked off a bird, and then to singe the

small and long fine hairs, and scrape them off with a

knife. The skin is thick, and there is a great deal of

nourishment in it, It                           great loss of
                    it              therefore,  a

                         a                           is
                               is,
provisions to take off the animal, as sometimes

done when we are in hurry.

  " p.m. -- ¥e have been to the summit of the
6

       it

              a
                is
Conical Mountain, and taken our sights there, and

fixed the position of on our map. We see to the
                    it

south of          branch of the Cascapedia coming from the

west, which of considerable size, being larger than

the Chatte where we left our canoes. Another branch

joins this somewhere in the neighbourhood, coming

from the east, and the main stream must be a very

considerable one. The small quantity of rock visible

in walking through the woods induces me to think         is I I

should see more of the geology of the country were

to navigate the river. The difficulty in the matter

the want of canoes. The Indians say they can make

such as will serve, of spruce bark. They are not so

good as birch, but they can be made more expedi

tiously. One of them can be constructed in a day. We

shall require three, or at least two.           consider that we
          is

                                          I
                                                    I
are forty miles from the sea in a straight line, and

and probably sixty with the bends of the liver

Lumber cut on the river lower down, but do not
204 A TOILSOME MARCH.             [i844.

think that either Indians or lumbermen have been so

far up as this. After getting down ten or twenty
miles, we may fall in with Indians fishing, or with

lumbermen, and in such case we may improve out

style of conveyance. The country to the eastward oi

us is mountainous, but that to the westward is much

less so The ridges run parallel to one another.

   " Saturday, 12th. August. -- It has rained all day, and

no one has stirred from the tent. It has been resolved

to take the Cascapedia River by canoes. We shall

start to-morrow morning after breakfast for that branch

of the river which is near us.     The men propose to
carry their burdens at one trip.
eighty pounds apiece to groan     They will have about
                                  under. I shall have

about twenty-five pounds ; Murray and Stevens about
as much, with the addition of the barometers.

   " Sunday, 18ih. August. --We have at length arrived

at the western branch of the Cascapedia River, after a

very weary and toilsome march of about three miles
round tho eastern base of the Conical Hill, which is

trap, breaking through the sandstones of Gaspe and

Douglastown on the coast. We killed a porcupine as

we came along, and Rose got her head and face full of

quills. . . . We travelled for most of the distance in a

valley, which contains a stream that had to be crossed

half a dozen times ; and we had to make our way

through alders and other small shrubby trees which

twist and interwine in such a manner as to make our

efforts among them very much like those of animals

entangled in a net. I had several tumbles and slides,

and my feet and legs sank into deep holes when 1 did
   1844.]       THE CASCAPEDIA.             205

   not expect it. Branches also scraped my face, and

   dead sticks were punched into my stomach. When I

   tried to save myself by catching hold of the trees near,

   I occasionally got hold of a dead one, which came

   tumbling on the top of me. It was like walking in a

night-mare. . . .

   " It was a great satisfaction to get to the river, for

my 25-lb. pack seemed a load for a horse. We came
down the stream after reaching and found most

beautiful place for our tent. The river may be sixty
feet wide, and the effect even this pretty opening has
           is
                 a

                                          a

                                                         is it,
                                                                     is

                                                                                                    a

                                                                                 it
                                                                                            is
on one after having travelled for ten days among the
trees, like beetle in hay-field, most pleasing. . . .
There quite water enough for canoes, and when
considered that the branch we are on only one of
many much larger which we shall meet lower down,

there can be no doubt that our craft when built will

float. Louis commences the canoes to-morrow morning.
   " have ascertained the variation here to be 19° to
is
   21°. While at our last tent reduced the ascertained
  Iposition of the Conical Mountain to paper, and by
   we have proved that at the Old Man Mountain there
                is                      is,

                             I                       it
   a local attraction which deflects the needle five

degrees from its true variation. There      perhaps,

   some vein of magnetic iron ore in the neighbourhood.
      "Monday, 19/A. August. --John went out before break

fast, and got two partridges. Louis has set vigourously

to work at his canoes of spruce-bark. He preparingis

the wood which  to bind the edges. Baptiste has

been out for cedar to form the timbers and ceiling.

John has brought in spruce-roots with which to sew
206  GASPE SANDSTONES.                      [1844.

all parts together, and every one is busy. Murray and
Stevens are washing their clothes. John informed me

that while on his cruise in the morning he saw red

rocks a little way down the river. I shall march off
and have a look at them. From his description, I

suspect they bear a strong resemblance to the red

sandstones of Long Cove.

  " 4 p.m. -- I have returned from my examination of
the strata below, and find them exactly what I

expected, red sandstones and shales, with ripple marks,

crack casts, upright plants, carbonized comminuted

plants, and all the characteristics of the Long Cove

rocks. The dip is not exactly what can be called

regular, but it denotes that the trap-dyke of the

Conical Hill has an important effect upon the stratifi

cation. The rocks lean upon the trap range.

  " As I returned I found Louis, Baptiste, and Michel

busy taking the bark off the spruce tree with their

knives. The tree would not peel well, and I was

sorry to hear on my arrival that one bark had been

spoiled already. . . . John says that it is beginning to

be rather late for peeling spruce trees.            It
   " 5 p.m. -- The men have returned without bark.

would not quit the tree, and the knives not being of

Ithe proper form, it was cut through and spoiled.

begin to fear our canoes will not be made. This will

Ibe a sad disappointment, as am persuaded that more

of the measures will be seen on the stream than

anywhere else. We must not despair, however.

Another tree must be tried to-morrow or to-night, as

soon as the men have had something to eat.
1844.]  SPRUCE-BARK CAlffOES.           207

   " The men are off across the river to try the other

bank for a tree. They had to wade across. Stevens

has accompanied them. He has taken off his trousers

to cross, and will be nicely bitten by the flies, as I

know from my sad experience. I have had to strip

three times to-day, and to remain stripped on one
occasion for half an hour. The men have returned

with a roll of bark fit for a canoe. It is about

fourteen feet long, and rather more than six feet

wide. . . .

         PORTRAIT OF LOUIS.
        Oaspf Journal, 1844.

I" Tuesday, 20lh. August. --Murray, Stevens, and have

been up the river about a couple of miles. We came to

the spot where the trap crosses and found the sand
                                 I it,
stone on the east side of the dyke, and the limestone

on the other --fossils in both.         dialled and paced

the whole distance, and shall be able to exhibit
208  GEOLOGICAL STRUCTURE.                           [i844.

the relations of this section to the one down the

river. So that I consider we have done a good day's

work. . . .

   "Thursday, 22nd. August. --The third canoe is finished,
and is a most respectable craft. It is eighteen feet

long, two feet nine inches wide, and fourteen inches

deep. It will carry an extra cargo. . . .
   "Friday, 2Srd. August. -- We have started on our

voyage, and come down two miles, dialling the river
all the way, and taking the distances with the micro
meter telescope. , . . John and Michel have left us to
return to the Chatte. The river will now be our pilot,
. . . "We killed a partridge as we came along, and we
are all praying for the chance of porcupines. But our

...best dog, Toolose, has left us with Louis. . . .
" Sunday, 25th. August. --  It has rained all day,

and as the evening approaches, the rain increases.

The red sandstone continues up to this point, and I
think I see what the structure of the country will be.
I fancy that we are in a trough, of which the sand

stone forms the upper rock, and that towards the south

we shall have a repetition of the measures on the

north ; that we shall again cut the limestone, and then
meet with metamorphic rocks similar to these consti

tuting Shickshock. , . ,
   "Monday, 2nd September. -- . . . The morning is

cloudy; but it is early yet, being about 5 a.m.

   5 p.m. -- We have dialled down about twelve miles

The day has been cloudy, and at length it has begun to
rain, so we have pitched our tent an hour earlier than

we otherwise should Our instruments are wet, so are
1844.]  ON THE CASCAPEDIA.                         209

our books, and so are ourselves. A little after the
middle of the day we at length met with people from
the mouth of the river. First came a man and his wife
in one canoe, with three boys in another The man, an

old one, informed us that we were at the time seventeen

miles from the sea. We gave him two charges of shot.
Shortly afterwards another canoe, with two men in
met us, and one of the men informed us that we were
twenty miles from the sea. . . . Still further down, we
met two more canoes, and sedate old man in one of
                                         a
                                                                  a

                                                                                            .
                                                                                                 ,

                                                                              is
                                                                                       it,
them told us that we were twelve miles from the sea.

His account agrees pretty well with mine. .        cer
   " Tuesday, 3rd. September. -- . . . This river

tainly a very beautiful one. It has pretty regulai

breadth of from sixty to seventy yards, with occasional

gravelly banks. Now and then solid rocks peep out

from the border, giving sudden turns to its course, and

producing deep and smooth pools for the convenience

of salmon and trout. ,, . The wood hereabout       not
        is                                         is
so dense as higher up the river, and there are many.
marks of the lumberer at every turn. The large pine;  I

...seems, however, to have all been cut down

should not think the Cascapedia a very profitable

lumbering stream.
   " Our sugar finished so no more tea for me. We

have only enough fish to serve for the men's breakfast
to-morrow morning. Hour and a little ham all our
                                         is

stock. . . .

   "Wednesday, 4th. September. --The rain continued until

about midnight. At four this morning the stars and

moon were shining brightly, and now at six the sun

                                                                                14
210  CIVILIZATION.                                                                                                                [i844.

adorns the tops of the hills. The wind has died away,
and though a mist prevails on the river, it is gradually

dissipating, and by the time we have had our breakfast

the atmosphere will be clear enough for us to carry on

our work. . . .
   " 6 p.m. --We have again got into the region of civili

zation, or semi-civilization. We reached the first

clearing about 1 p.m., and were very glad to see it.

There was no inhabitant on but we expected that
     it

                    it,
                                                  it,

                                                 A

                                                                                                                               .
inhabitants might be on the next.                     crop of grain was

growing on still quite green, and whether wheat or

oats, says little for the climate of these parts. . .
   " Friday, 6lh. September. --The weather continues fine,

and we shall get to salt water to-day. We must

purchase two canoes forthwith. Our temporary spruce-

bark vessels have begun to leak, and mine has a crack

four inches long in which will increase in spite of
     6
                                    it,
all our gumming. . .
   " p.m. -- We have pitched our tent upon the west

side of the river, at its mouth, close by a settlement of
Indians, who live in sugar-loaf wigwams. They have

several canoes, and as  aI               have obtained money (hard

dollars) on my letter of credit,         have no doubt of
                                         I
obtaining a couple at                    fair price.I obtained the
                                                     I
money from Mr. Cuthbert, the great man and shop

keeper of the district. Murray, Stevens, and called at

his shop, which about couple of miles on the other
side of the river, round point which projects into the
     I

             is
                           aa
bay. When reached his house he was not in, being

...on a visit of inspection to his shipyard, where he has                                                                         a

large vessel on the stocks.              So we had to wait for
1844.]  ON THE BAIE DES CHALEURS.                        211

him nearly three hours. The reception the clerks gave
us, particularly the head one, was rather cavalier ; but

really no wonder, for we are pretty figures. I fancy I

look like a wandering old-clothes man, who wears tho
clothes he deals in, and my companions look no better.

But when Mr. Cuthbert came home, we found him

another sort of man. He is a Scotchman who has

planted himself here, and by attention to business he is

fast making his fortune. He knew who I was the

moment my name was mentioned. . . ."

Having reached the Baie des Chaleurs, Logan spent

several weeks examining the coast between tho Casca-

pedia and Metapedia Rivers. The nights were now

growing cold, and accordingly, as evening came on, he

often sought some farm-house, where he enjoyed not

only the shelter of a roof, but the simple ways and

kindly hospitality of even the poorest among the

...settlers. His journal tells us something of this :--
" Thursday, 4th. October. --  As it became dark I

came up with a Frenchman, as he was returning from

his fields, where he had been cutting corn. He and his

daughter were driving their cattle home. Being on the

look-out for quarters, I entered into conversation with

him, and after a little talk about his crop and a great

fire which had burnt up the wood on the mountain

flank in the rear of his lot, I asked him where I could
find a house to sleep in. He said that if I were willing

to take up my abode with a poor man, I was welcome
to his house. I required no further invitation, and into
his house I went. The first thing I did was to bring

up my notes, and the next to partake of supper. . . .
212  FRENCH HISTORY.  [i844.

While I was writing the old man was reading, and
after supper I had the benefit of his learning. In the

course of conversation he made mention of Spain, and

asked me whether Spain was under the dominion of
France or of England, and was made aware for the first

time in his life that it was an independent country. He

asked me if Louis XVIII. was still on the throne of

France, and was surprised to learn that he was dead,

and that his successor, Charles X., had been sent adrift,

and that Louis Philippe was the king. He asked what
had become of Philippe d'Orleans, and was surprised

to find that he was the king. He said that in the book

he had just been reading he appeared to be a repub

lican, and had raised 60,000 troops for the Republic.
   " His book was an old one, without covers, and with

an abundance of dog-ears, and it was amusing to find

how he considered the events he was reading of as

having just happened, never thinking that time had

been running on since the days of his youth. He

looked upon history as I have known people look upon

those who have been absent for a long time, expecting

to find them exactly the same when they next see them

as when they parted. I remember on my return to
Montreal, when I was about twenty-five years of age,

Miss Fanny Hayes, on seeing me, whom she had last

seen when I was at school, expressed her great surprise

that I had grown so. . . .
  " Tuesday, 5//i. October. -- I have returned to my

Indians on the beach. The historian's house was most
amazingly warm last night. His stove must have been
nearly red hot. . . . The Indians had appointed the
1844.]        RUSTIC HOSPITALITY.                                       213

ferry-house as a rendezvous, but when I got to                    it,   was

                                                                    it

quite dark, and they had gone across to the other side
to camp in the wood, there being no trees on this.

  was content to take up my quarters with the ferry
I
                      I

                                                             it,
man, telling him would pay him for my lodgings.

His house has but one room in                                     and he made fifty

excuses, but said he would do his best for me. He was

alone in the house, but said his wife would soon be

home and prepare me something to eat, though he
feared would be but poor man's meal. The wife
        it

                                              a

soon came in, puffing at a fine rate. She had been
milking the cows in the rain and cold, and had

run home, followed by five little children. . . . The
little ones were all much of a size, being between the
ages of two and ten, and what with the bustle of the
mother, and the squalling of the children, there was

noise enough. There appeared to be only one bed in

the room, and the whole house was not more than

fifteen feet square. It seemed to be stuffed with com
modities, however, and saw six or seven bowls of
        I
             a
                 I.
                       I
                              I
                                      I
milk on hanging shelf, which made me aware that                         I

should not starve. And the bonne femme soon proved                      it
for, continuing to puff and blow, she set about preparing
                                                                            ;

me mon repas, as the ferry-man called it. She baked

some barley scones, boiled four eggs, and the bon hotnme

asked me whether would have milk or sugarless tea.

'Milk,' said  So milk, barley scones, butter, and eggs

were placed before me, and did justice to them.
While was supping the bonne femme, still puffing and

blowing, put the great kettle on the fire, and burnt her
fingers in so doing, which made her puff and blow the
214  RUSTIC HOSPITALITY.  [i844.

more. She filled the kettle with potatoes, and prepared

a second supper for the men. Her husband and the
two men got their potatoes, herrings, and milk when

I had finished, and the bonne femme and children

followed them. There is but one table, as there is but

one bed, in the room. There are two chairs, however, a

Jarge chest which may be considered a sofa, and a
wooden block which serves for a stool. So soon as
all had supped, I set about writing up my notes, and

the bonne femme, always in a bustle, began to arrange

the room for repose. A low bed was pulled out from
below the high one, where it had been like the lowest
drawer in a chest of drawers, and it was placed in the
centre of the room before the fire. . . . Then the

children were all made to say their prayers, one after

the other, and each, as the prayer was finished, was
laid in the little bed, beginning with the youngest.
One, two, three, were placed with their heads one way
(each end of the bed being furnished with a long
pillow). The feet were all mingled together, and each

one was obliged to take care of his own. I suppose the
hardest kicker usually gets the most room. All being

placed, a great coverlet was thrown over them, and

then the day's work seemed to be nearly done. The
bonne femme, still puffing and blowing a little, got hold
of her knitting-needles and an unfinished stocking, and
made some further progress towards its completion.

But soon I had finished my notes, and then it was time
for me to get repose. I was told the big bed was for
me. It seemed almost extravagance to take up so much

room, while there were still so many without any.
1844.]  RETURN TO MONTREAL.  215

However, I went to bed. The two men laid down on

the floor, with their feet to the fire, and the bonne femme
began her prayers. She prayed most busily, as it
appeared to me, puffing and blowing even then, for her
words came now loud, now in a whisper, and she
prayed inhaling as well as exhaling. She must have

repeated a considerable number of Pater noslers. I fell

asleep before she and her husband had lain down, but

was curious to know how and where they would
bestow themselves. On awaking this morning, before

any were up, I perceived that the good man had laid a

mattress on the floor, between the fire and the small

bed, and that the bonne femme had found room for her
body on the small bed among the five children, and for
her legs on the husband's mattress. The room was a

singular picture."
   On the 11th. of October, Logan left Campbellton on

his homeward journey. Though so late in the season,
he ascended the Metapedia River as far as Lake

Metapedia, in a bark canoe, and there began the long,
tedious drive of more than 400 miles to Montreal.

   The work which he accomplished in the Gasp6

peninsula during the first two years of the Geological
Survey, formed the sure foundation upon which several
members of his staff afterwards built. Murray in 1845,
Richardson in 1857 and 1858, Bell in 1857, and again in

1862, continued the Gaspe explorations, and the results

of their various and valuable surveys are to be found
summed up in the Geology of Canada. After his
second season's work, Logan submitted to the Govern
ment a most interesting report on the region, in which
21C GEOLOGY OF GASPJL'.

he describes everything he saw with striking accuracy
and minuteness of detail. The four groups into which

he then divided the various strata met with, in the

main hold good to-day, and are as follows, in ascending
order :--

  I. Conglomerate Limestone, Pillar Sandstones,  and Graptolitic  Shales.

 II. Gaspe Limp«tones and Calcareous Shales.
III. Gaspe tSandBUJues.

IV. Limestone Conglomerates and Red Sandstones.

   With regard to each of these divisions, a few remarks
may be made :--

  I. Conglomerate Limestone, Pillar Sandstones,

and Graptolitic Shales. --This group includes various
members of the series which Sir William afterwards

called the Quebec Group, as well, perhaps, as strata of
the Hudson River formation. At the time, he probably
regarded the whole as belonging to the latter ; but in
after years, when the fossiliferous rocks of the Quebec
Group were proved to be older than even the Trenton
formation, the position of the supposed Hudson River

rocks on the south shore of the Lower St. Lawrence was

regarded as due to the eastward extension of a great line
of fault, of which we shall speak elsewhere. According
to his description, the lowest rocks of group I. observed

in that portion of the St. Lawrence coast section which

he examined in 1844, are conglomerate limestones, oolitic
limestones, compact limestones, black bituminous shales,

red and green argillaceous shales, calcareous sandstones,
&c., having altogether a thickness of about 1,140 feet.

Some of the beds are described as containing a black
substance resembling " good sea-coal," and the " distin
PILLAR SANDSTONES.      211

                    11

                    I«

                    °%
218 PILLAR SANDSTONES.

guishing characteristics " of the deposits, as a whole, are
said to be the presence of this bituminous substance and
of the bands of conglomerate limestone. Overlying these
beds --as then supposed by Logan --is a considerable
thickness of sandstones (the Pillar sandstones), associated
with bands of red and black shale. The sandstone, being
cf unequal hardness, has been worn into curious pillars
where exposed to the action of the sea between high
and low water mark, producing quite a picturesque effect
in the landscape. Two of them, Logan states, were, in
1844, standing near a small fishing-station below Ste.
Anne, called from their presence Tourelle, while the
remains of many more were visible in the vicinity. It
was, of course, the pillars that suggested the name given

by Logan to the sandstones.
   Above the Pillar sandstones, according to the report

under consideration, follows a great series of black (often
graptolitic) shales, with some red and grey shales, sand
stones differing in character from those of Tourelle, and
occasional thin beds of limestone.

   The order of succession in Logan's group I, comprising

rocks along the coast from Cape Chatte to the neighbour
hood of Cape Rosier, then is--

                             A. Conglomerate Limestones,
                          B. Pillar Sandstones,
                             C. Graptolitic Shales,

all apparently supposed to belong to the Hudson River

group.

   In 1857 Mr. Richardson surveyed a portion of Gaspe,
and in his report,* published, of course, with the

    * Report of Progress, 1857, p. 46.
GASPE LIMESTONES.                                 219

Director's approval, there is a change in the order of
superposition just given, the Pillar sandstones being

placed at the top and the graptolitic shales at the bottom
of the series, thus :

A. Graptolitic Shales,       l

B. Conglomerate Limestones,  J Lower Silnrian-
C. Pillar Sandstones            Middle Silurian.

   A. and B., Richardson says, are supposed to be repre
sentatives of the Hudson River group, while C. is looked

upon as equivalent to the Oneida conglomerate, and also
to the sandstones near Quebec, to which the name of
" Sillery Sandstones " had been given. Subsequently,
as is well known, the rocks of A. (in part), B. and C. were
shown by the discovery of fossils at Point Levis to be
more ancient than the Hudson River formation, and all

of them were, in the Geology of Canada, described as
Lower Silurian, the Pillar or Sillery Sandstones being
placed at the top of the series.

  Group II. Gaspk Limestones and Calcareous

Shales. --The rocks of this group are described by Logan
as occupying the promontory of Cape Gaspe, and were
also met with in the traverse which he made across the

peninsula. The whole group, including limestones and

shales, was found to have a thickness of about 2,000 feet,
and although its exact relations to the rocks of the under

lying series were not at the time certainly made out, it
was afterwards shown that it rested uncomformably
upon them. Some of the limestone beds are abundantly
supplied with organic remains, of which large collections
were made ; but, unfortunately, the vessel by which
most of them were being taken to Quebec was wrecked
220 GASPfi LIMESTONES.

on the coast of Labrador, and the precious specimens lost.
In their absence Logan wisely avoided giving any very
distinct utterances with regard to the equivalence of
different parts of the group. He, however, recognized
in some of the beds fossils which were interpreted as
belonging to the "New York Helderberg Series." In
the Geology of Canada, the group is divided into eight
subdivisions, and it is stated that " the limestones ot

Cape Gaspe appear for the most part to belong to the

CURIOUS  BEDS OF CORRUGATED LIMESTONE IN SHALE,   CAPE OASFE.

                      Geology of Canada, p. 392.

Lower Helderberg group. The fossils at the summit,

however, bear a striking resemblance to those of the
Oriskany formation, with which several of them are
identical. It appears probable, therefore, that we have

here a passage from the Lower Helderberg to the
Oriskany, and the latter formation may be more espe
cially represented by the lower part of the Graspe sand
stones." Subsequently, when Billings had studied the
fossils more thoroughly, he wrote : " The two lower
           GASPE LIMESTONES.                                                221

divisions (1 and 2) are most probably Silurian ; about
the age of the Helderberg of the New York Geologists.
The upper two members (7 and 8) are nearly of the age
of the Oriskany sandstone, and are therefore about the
base of the Devonian. Divisions 4, 5, 6 may be regarded

as constituting passage beds between the Upper Silurian

and Devonian. * The following table, from the same
work as the above extract, gives a concise view of the

subdivisions of the group :

           THE                        -  LIMESTONES.  FHPT
                            GASPE
j 8.
           Grey limestones, in beds from six to twelve inches thick,        500
£              some of them holding schist at the summit                    300

§ 7.       Grey nodular, shaly limestone, with greenish calcareo-
p              arenaceous shales at the top

  . 6.     Grey calcareous shales or shaly limestone, interstratified,
·3
           particularly at the top, with beds of purer limestone fit
W
p          for burning                                                      300

Jf 5.      Grey, greenish, and dark grey calcareous shales, with beds

»'         of arenaceous limestone                                          380

" 4.       Grey limestones, in thin beds, with some olive-green shales. 200

       3.  Olive-green calcareo-argillaceous shales, with nodules and

           layers of compact limestone                                      1 70

       2.  Greenish calcareo-argillaceous     shales, which are interstra-
               tified with less calcareous    layers, of various shades
f§             ofred
                                                                            90
00 1.      Grey limestones in layers of from six to eight inches thick,     70
               which are separated by bands of greenish calcareo-
|3
              argillaceous shale, gradually increasing in amount
pS
           towards the top

  Group III. The Gaspe Sandstones. --This series,I.,
Bucceeding the calcareous group No. II., is extensively

developed on Gaspe Bay, and, according to the measure
ments of Logan, has a thickness of about 7,000 feet.

   * Palaeozoic Fossils, Vol. II., Part August, 1874, page 2.
222 GASPE SANDSTONES.

Though in the main a sandstone formation, it includes

considerable thicknesses of shale and coarse conglomerate,
and not far from the base a thin seam of coal and carbon

aceous shale (together measuring 3 inches) was met with.
Trap dykes were observed cutting the strata in a number

of localities, and the occurrence of petroleum in druses

noticed in one of them. Two petroleum and two sul

phurous springs in the neighbourhood of Gaspe Bay

were also examined, and attention called to them by
Logan in his report.* Many of the sandstones were
found to contain remains of plants, which have since

been studied and described by Dr. Dawson.

With regard to the age of the group, Logan says in

....his report for 1844, p. 43 : " Reference has already been
made  to the existence of a small, but regular, seam

of coal found towards the base of the series. It is not,

however, to be inferred from this that the group belongs

to what is emphatically called the Carboniferous era, or

that there is much probability of discovering the mineral
associated in sufficient quantity with its strata to render
it profitable to mining enterprise. Though 7,000 feet of
vertical thickness, with very little defalcation, have been
carefully examined in continuous succession, nothing
like a workable seam, nor anything but this one like a
regular seam, or like a seam at all, has been met with ;
and while some of the fossil plants and the lithological

     * Since Logan visited the region in 1843, petroleum has been observed
in a number of localities in the vicinity of Qaspe Bay. The springs have,
however, nowhere been found to yield large quantities of oil, nor have the

borings which have been undertaken proved successful. The oil sometimes

issues from the Gaspo limestones, but more frequently from the overlying
sandstones. The rocks have been thrown into a series of gentle undula
tions, and it is chiefly along the anticlinal axes that the oil occurs.
GASPE SANDSTONES.  223

character of the whole series appear much to resemble
what in the New York succession is termed the Chemung
and Portage Groups, with perhaps the addition of what
the geologists of that State term their old red sandstone*

(though I have no distinguishing mark by means of

which to establish a division in Gaspe), there is still to
be described a set of rocks which, in Gaspe as in New

York, overlie these, and belong to the Carboniferous
series, though the part resting in Canada appears to be
too low down to be associated with the profitable seams

of coal."

   In the Geology of Canada, p. 404, the first 5,000 feet of
the series are said to " present analogies with the whole
series of formations in New York, from the Marcellus
shales to the summit of the Chemung sandstones ; in all

of which, according to Dr. Dawson, are found several of
the species of plants that occur in the Gaspe sandstones.
The whole of these 5,000 feet resemble, lithologically,
the Portage and Chemung sandstones of New York ; and
it may hereafter be found that in this eastern part of the
continent, the Oriskany fauna which occurs at the base
of this Devonian series merges gradually, towards the
summit, into that of the Portage and Chemung group.

In lithological characters the remaining upper 1,800 feet

of the Gaspe series resemble the Catskill group of New

York.'- No mention, it will be noticed, is here made of
the Corniferous formation, but in Logan's Geological
Atlas the Corniferous is included among the New York

formations equivalent to the Gaspe sandstones ; showing

that he looked upon the latter as representing the entire

   * The Catskill group.
224 BONAVENTURE FORMATION.

Devonian series of the New York geologists. As we
have already seen, Billings, in 1874, placed the base of
the Devonian 800 feet or more below the summit of the
Gaspe limestones. This, of course, was on the suppo
sition that the Oriskany formation belonged to the
Devonian, and not to the Upper Silurian, as some geolo
gists hold.

   More recently exposures of the Devonian sandstones
and shales have been found on the Baie des Chaleurs
containing numerous fossil fishes of characteristic
Devonian genera, and fossil plants, some of which are
of the same species as those occurring at Gaspe. The
fishes have been described by Mr. Whiteaves and the
plants by Dr. Dawson.

   Notwithstanding the great thickness of the Gaspe
sandstones, their geographical range is much more
limited than that of tho imderlying limestones, which
extend all the way from Gaspe into Massachusetts.

  IV. Limestone Conglomerate and Red Sandstones.
--This next great series of Logan's report is extensively

developed on the Baie des Chaleurs, and is described as

consisting of red sandstones, interstratified with coarse
calcareous conglomerates, the whole having a thickness
of not far from 3,000 feet. Its unconformable superposi
tion upon the Gaspe sandstones and limestones was
recognized by Logan, and its relation to the Carbonife
rous of New Brunswick correctly ascertained. On page
66 of his report Logan says : " In thus tracing the upper
conglomerates and sandstones round Bay Chaleur to
Bathurst, their relation to the nearest coal seams of the
New Brunswick Carboniferous area is made out with a
          HESTOKATIOJf BY DB. DAWSON OF PSILOmYTON PRINCIP8,

The most characteristic plant of the Lower Devonian of Gaspc.

              One-fifth natural she.  ,

(«). Fructification.
(&). Stem,
(c). Scalariform Vessels,

15
226 BONAVENTURE FORMATION.

considerable degree of certainty. The general dip of the
Canadian part of the deposit accords with this relation ;
its slope towards the bay would carry it beneath the
coal-bearing strata on the south side, while no rock of
a similar quality is there seen to overlie the coal mea
sures. . . . The conglomerate rocks with which they

[fossil plants] are associated appear to be the very base
of the coal series, in so far as Gaspe is concerned, and
their distribution in Canada is just sufficient to show
that a very narrow margin on the north shore of the
Bay Chaleur may be considered the limit in that direction
of the great eastern coal-field of North America."

   Some years after, Logan called this series the Bona-
venture formation, from the fact of its occurring on the
island of Bonaventure, opposite to Perce, and under this
name it is described in the Geology of Canada, p. 404.

It is, however, only a portion of what was already known
in New Brunswick and Nova Scotia as the Lower Car

boniferous formation.

   Logan's original report on the geology of Gaspe is
well worthy of careful study, and gives a good idea of
the careful manner in which his field observations were

made.
                   CHAPTER XI.

                     EVENTS IN 1845 AND 1846.

THE winter of 1844-45 was an anxious one for

       Logan. The sum of £1,500 originally granted for
the Geological Survey of the Province was all gone,
besides more than .£800 which had been paid from
his own pocket. No one could tell whether the
Survey would be continued or not. Some even said
that had the Government supposed the £1,500 would
not be sufficient to complete the work, they never
would have consented to its being begun at all.
Shortly after his return from Gaspe, he was requested
by the Government to prepare an estimate of the cost
of continuing the Survey in an efficient manner. This
was done, and a bill also drawn up and submitted for
the consideration of the members. The bill was a
model one, covering all necessary ground, and yet free
from the redundancy of expression so common in docu
ments of the kind. As Ave shall see, it met with the
entire approval of the Government, and, largely owing
to Logan's own untiring exertions, soon became an act.
228  A TEMPTING OFFER.  [1844-45.

And never was there a bill passed concerning which the
members had fuller information ; for in his own quiet
way he had talked and talked, written and written, to
them individually, until he had succeeded in kindling
in the breasts of many no little of geological enthusiasm.
They in turn recognized in him a man thoroughly in
earnest and in love with his work, and wisely saw that
his labours could not fail to be of advantage to the

country. Be that as it may, through the passage of
the bill provision was made for the continuance of the
Survey for five years, with an annual grant of £2,000.

   But scarcely was this settled, and plans made for the
summer's field-work, when overtures came from a new

and unexpected quarter. The Court of Directors of the
East India Company were anxious to have a survey
made of the coal-fields of India, and were in quest of a

thoroughly competent geologist to undertake the work.
Sir Henry de la Beche was consulted in the matter,

and the result was that shortly after the appointment
was offered to Mr. Logan. De la Beche himself,
although unwilling to influence his friend in the

matter, was evidently anxious that he should accept

the offer, and wrote to him as follows :--

                                                                       " London, 29/A. March, 1845.

   " My Dear Logan, --You will probably receive by
this mail a letter from Dr. Falconer, confidentially in
structed by proper parties, connected with the Directors
of the East India Company, to write to you about
examining India for coal. Whether or not it may suit

you, your name was mentioned by us here as the proper

person to apply for, if you would go. There had been
1845.] AN IMPORTANT DECISION  229

talk of a very inefficient person previously. By what
I conld learn, they might be prepared to give £1,200

per annum for three years certain, with all kinds of

those aids which the Indian Government can so readily

afford. There would at the same time be opportunities

afforded of obtaining much more insight than we now

possess of the geology of India. Copies of your sections

and Glamorgan and Carmarthenshire maps have been

sent by us, through Dr. Falconer, to the proper parties

at the India House, to show your powers, and these

have been highly approved. All this is the bright side

of the affair. On the other is the tropical climato, with

its chances of illness, and that nothing is certain beyond
the three or four years --though probably some charge

over the coal workings would follow. You see I

neither advise for or against. . . .
   " Tour letter desiring a junction of the Canada Survey

with ours I have sent in to our new chief, Lord Lincoln,

but have not yet had any remark about it. It certainly
might be made useful to all parties. --Ever sincerely

y°urs'  " H. T. De la Beche."

   The offer was a tempting one, and at first Logan
probably felt inclined to accept it ; but, after looking

at the matter from every possible point of view, he

made up his mind to remain where he was and con

tinue the work already begun. In reply to De la Beche
he wrote the following long and interesting letter :--

                                                              " Montreal, 12M. May, 1845.

  " My Dear De la Beche, -- I have your despatch on
Indian affairs, which renders it necessary that I should
230 A RETROSPECT. [i845.

inform you of the position of my campaign in

Canada.

   " At the time I was appealed to to undertake the

examination of the Province, a sum of £1,500 had been

granted by the Legislature to defray the total probable

expense. Of course I was aware that such an amount

would be but a drop of what would be required to float
mo over twenty-five degrees of longitude and ten of

latitude. But I undertook the survey, determined to

work it out somehow or other, feeling the truth of the
saying, ' Where there's a will there's a way.' Fearing

that, if a term of years had been insisted on in the first

instance, the Government might have been deterred

from the undertaking, through an apprehension that

they might not be able to get the consent of the Legis

lature, I said nothing about the matter. But upon
being asked what my terms were, I named ,£500 sterling

per annum for myself and £150 per annum for an

assistant.
   " These terms were considered very reasonable, and

were granted. So at once I set to work. The ,£1,500

I thought might carry me on for two years, by which

time I hoped to have had an opportunity to make

friends, show the utility of the undertaking, and excite

some interest in the subject among the legislators. I

soon found that to make any impression it would be

necessary to spend more money ; that a business office,

a museum, a chemist, and a laboratory would be re
quired. At the end of the first year, accident threw
in my way a young Pole, who had studied chemistry
under Dumas at the £cole Polytechnique, and brought
1845.]  A RETROSPECT.  231

good certificates of capacity from him. So I took the

opportunity to urge the subject upon the Government.

But a grand political rumpus had occurred. The French

party had got out, and the English party had got in.
Uncertain what they would be able to effect in the

Legislature, they would give me no official reply,
though they did not discourage me privately. On my

Iown responsibility, therefore, hired a house to serve

for an office, museum and laboratory, at £120 per
annum ; provided chemicals and apparatus at my own
expense, and arranged with the chemist for £200 per

annum ; and at the end of the second year I found that

the Survey was about .£800 in my debt.

  " Avoiding politics as I would poison, I made friends

on both sides of the question, and having induced our

ministers to take up the matter, I got them to support

it so far as £1,500 per annum, including all expenses,
for five years. Much to the surprise of my friend the
Attorney-General, who took charge of the measure in
the House of Assembly, there was not a dissentient
voice upon the subject, the only subject of the session
in which all agreed. Some of the members considered
the sum too little, and £2,000 per annum was men

tioned. So I was asked for an estimate of what would

be required to place the Survey on an efficient footing.

I made out that to pay my assistants at a rate adequate

to a vigorous performance of their duties, and to do

credit to the Government, on the basis on which I had

put the Survey, it would require £1,950 per annum.
   " An act was then passed voting £2,000 per annum

for five years certain, for the employment of a suitable
232 A RETROSPECT. [i845.

number of competent persons, whose duty it shall be,
under the direction of the Governor-in-Council, to
make an accurate and complete geological survey of the

Province, and furnish a full and scientific description

of the rocks, soils and minerals, which shall be accom

panied with proper maps, diagrams, and drawings,

together with a collection of specimens to illustrate the

same ; which maps, diagrams, drawings and specimens
shall be deposited in some suitable place which the

Governor-in-Council shall appoint, and shall serve as a

Provincial collection. And duplicates of the same, after

they have served tho purposes of the survey, shall be

deposited in such literary and educational institutions

of the eastern and western divisions of the Province as

by the same authority shall be deemed most advan
tageous. To defray the expenses of the survey and the

arrears of expenditure already incurred, £2,000 per

annum are applied for a term not exceeding five years,

and I have to report annually in general terms.
  " Such is my geological bill --now an act. I drew it

up myself, and no changes were made in it. I should

have liked very much to leave out the annual report,

but I found it would not do, so I must be as cautious

Ion that score as  can.  I have recommended and

obtained liberal salaries for my assistants. Murray

gets ,£300 sterling per annum ; so does my Pole. But,

depend upon they shall do something for it. Murray
a
    it,

                                             a
                                                                    is
works like galley slave from the time he gets out of

bed to the time he returns to it. De Rottermond has

not done so much, but he has been in love, and to

get married on the 15th. inst. into highly respectable
1845.]  TOPOGRAPHY AND GEOLOGY.  233

family which has some French political influence. He

is a young man, of gentlemanly manners, and, I think,

of some energy, though he was completely knocked up

in the forest last year, to which I carried him at his

...own earnest desire, just to show him there was no
romance in the matter.  I fancy he will do, though,

perhaps, he will require some management.
   " Many parts of the country are so little known that

Murray and I are in some places obliged to add topo
graphy to our geology. I wish I could let you see the

map of our journey across from the St. Lawrence to Bay

Chaleur. The length of our winding line is 111 miles,
in which we dialled all the twists and turns of two

rivers, one thirty-five miles and the other sixty-five

miles, obtaining the bearings of the reaches by prismatic

compass and the distances by Rochon's micrometer, and

registering at the same time the quality, contents and
attitude of every bed of rock we saw, with barometric

heights, &c. The distance between the rivers we

triangulated by means of well marked peaks, making

it seventeen miles. I think you would say we deserve
some credit for it. I have protracted the Work on the

scale of an inch to a mile. The distance in a straight

line is seventy-five miles, and on comparing it with the

same as determined by the latitudes and longitudes of

its extremes on Bayfield's admirable hydrographical

charts, we find that everything, without coaxing, falls

into place. The bearings are identical, and there are

only nineteen chains of difference between us in the

distance. I have ordered three more Bochon's out, and
I feel much indebted to Mr. Jordan for having men
234  CONTINUANCE OF THE SURVEY.                                        [i844.

tioned the instrument to me. I think Jones                              could

                                                                       If the
                      I it
                                                                              [?]
                                                                                   a
get other orders for  from this country.

economic facts of Canadian geology should turn out

negative quantity, the topographical facts may return

some of the expense.  have made them available in

getting the Survey continued.
   " Now comes the application of all this egotism. Per

haps the Canadians are leaning on me for the Survey,

and might think not very handsome                                were to leave
     I it                                                     I iIf
                                                                          It it, I
                   it,
the country before the expiration of the five years. am

persuaded, though say who should not say                                          they
                                                                                   has
will not find any one to take the trouble do.

been hinted to me that in continuing the Survey the

Government have been in some degree influenced by

the circumstance of finding a person who                         is    Canadian
                                                                    a

by birth considered competent to do the work. In the

next place (but do not feel that this weighs with me
     I

             it
so much as perhaps ought to do), can get back my
                                                              I

£800 only by saving on the £2,000 per annum for five

years.

   " But now comes another consideration, which per
haps weighs most. Just look at Arrowsmith's little

map of British North America, dedicated to the Hudson's

Bay Company, published in 1842. If you have not got

  copy, send for one the expense won't kill you, and
there ought to be one in your Record Office. You will

see that Canada comprises but small part of it. Then

examine the great rivers and lakes which water the

interior between that American Baltic, Hudson's Bay,

and the Pacific Ocean --some of the rivers as great as

the St. Lawrence, and some of the lakes nearly as large
a

                                                           ;

                                                           a
1845]  WESTERN COAL-FIELDS.  235

as our Canadian internal seas, with a climate as I am

informed, gradually improving as you go westward, and

becoming delightful on the Pacific. It will become a

great country hereafter. But who knows anything of

its geology? Well, I have a sort of presentiment that I
shall yet, if I live long enough, be employed by the

British Government, under the Survey you direct, to

examine as much of it as I can, and that I am here in

Canada only learning my lesson, as it were, in prepara

tion. How insignificant would be the expense to the

British Government in comparison with the advantage
that might result, and even the satisfaction of the

enlightened curiosity would be cheaply purchased by

what it might cost. I have been informed of coal in

two parts of it--in the Saskatchewan territory, and in
Oregon -- in the Saskatchewan on the north branch of
the river of that name, at Edmonton House, where it is

burnt, and in Oregon near Fort Vancouver. But what
the extent of the deposits may be, my informant (Sir
George Simpson, the travelling Governor and General

Inspector of the Hudson's Bay Company's establish

ment) was not able to say. They may be important.

In Oregon, the value of coal for the supply of steamers
protecting and connected with our new Chinese trade
will perhaps soon be felt, and it might be an item

worthy of the attention of the British Government in
any settlement of the Oregon question with the

Americans.
  " When the British Government gave up the Michigan

territory at the end of the last American war, with as

Ilittle concern as if it had been so much bare granite,
236  TIED TO CAlvADA.              [i844.

dare say they were not aware that 12,000 square miles
of a coal-field existed in the heart of it--larger than the

largest in Britain, though the smallest of those belong

ing to the United States, which possess another of

55,000 square miles, and a third of 60,000 square miles.

Saginaw Bay, on Lake Huron, cuts into the first,

and Cleveland, on Lake Erie, is within thirty-six miles

of the third, both ready to supply American steamers

with fuel on the lakes, while ours on the same waters,

in case of war, must depend on wood, or coal expen

sively transported from Nova Scotia or Cape Breton

Island, or across the Atlantic from the United Kingdom.

   "Taking all this into consideration, notwithstanding

I have requested my brother Edmond, of Edinburgh,

who has a friend in the East India direction, to make

some inquiry into the matter, I fancy you will see that
the chances are that I am tied to Canada. I feel grateful

to you, however, for thinking of me, and the offer will

do good. I shall not let the light of it lie hid under a

bushel, but make it show my Canadian friends that

geological investigations are something thought of in

other parts of the world, and that if I do not accept

pecuniary terms more advantageous than they give, it
Iis because am not influenced by mercenary motives
                                   "W_,.._E.._.Logan.",,
in serving8 them.-- Yours truly',

   Exploration with all its hardships Was preferable to
the worries and cares to which Logan was subjected
when in winter quarters. Once afloat in his birch

canoe, or scrambling among his favourite rocks unravel
ling the mysteries of the past, and cares seemed to vanish.
1845.]       TEE UPPER OTTAWA.                 237

Having driven from his mind all thought of going
to India, he set oat from Montreal in the latter part of

June to explore the Ottawa. Mr. Murray had again

gone to continue the work in Gaspe, but the services of
a good topograpical surveyor well acquainted with the

country were secured, as at that time the Ottawa

had not been surveyed for more than 100 miles above

Bytown. The journey was performed in canoes manned
by Indians, and extended as far as the head of Lake
Temiscamang. It was winter before he got back to

Montreal, and shortly after his return he wrote to Mr.

Murray as follows :

                                                  " Montreal, ilh. December, 1845.

   " My Dear Murray, -- A great packet of your letters

has been put into my hands by my brother, concluding
with one of the 12th. of November. When you wrote

the same I was at the head of Lake Temiscamang, and
I only got home towards the end of last week. After

examining such parts of the Ottawa and various

tributaries as had already been surveyed to a distance

of about 100 miles above Bytown, I examined and

mapped the river about 150 miles further, including
Lake Temiscamang, which, varying from half a mile to
six miles in breadth, comprehends nearly seventy miles

of the distance. The Ottawa, you must recollect, has

two sides to being sometimes quarter and sometimesit,
not far from half a mile wide. have put all the twists
                     I
                            Ia
and turns down, which conceive to be equal to nearly

300 miles in a straight line. In addition, have mapped
                                        I

a  tributary called the Mattawa, which  is     succession of
                                            a

lakes with two sides also and have connected my
                     ;

                           I
238  FIELD WORK.  [lM5.

map of it with the waters of Lake Nipissing. The

distance may be about fifty miles, but will equal one

hundred in a straight line. The relative heights of all
the various sheets and reaches of quiet water in the
whole of the survey have been determined by regular
levelling to the one-hundredth part of a foot. The bear

ings have been taken by a theodolite, and the whole of
the map has been carefully protracted in the field on
drawing paper as the work went on, on the scale of one

mile to an inch. Every sight in levelling, every bearing

--sometimes twenty at a station, --every micrometer
angle, every reduction of the distance to chains and
links, and every line of the protraction has been worked

by my own hands. You may think, therefore, that I
have been a little busy. I was up every morning at

four and five o'clock to rouse my Indians (not one of
whom would ever stir unless he had my special com

mand), to be ready for an early breakfast and start. We
seldom left our work until we could no longer see dis
tinctly, and it was often one, two and three hours after

midnight before my protraction was finished and I could
creep into my blanket. I have sent down forty-five

boxes of specimens, many of them beautiful fossils, and

I think 1 have fallen upon the Gaspe limestone at the
head of Lake Temiscamang. At any rate, I have the

same Pentamerus we found near Cape Rosier and else

where. . . ."

   While engaged upon this survey the stratified charac
ter of many of the crystalline rocks underlying the

fossiliferous formations particularly attracted Logan's
attention, and he was also much impressed with the
OFFICE WORK.  239

great beds of crystalline limestone which he found inter-
stratified with some of the gneisses. As we shall see
further on, the rocks on Lake Temiscamang (afterwards
known as Huronian) were recognized as a distinct group
resting upon the gneissic series. The sequence and dis
tribution of the Lower Silurian formations in the Ottawa

valley were also ascertained, and large collections of

organic remains made both from these rocks and from

the Upper Silurian limestones on Lake Temiscamang.
   The winter in Montreal was a busy one, for already

visitors had begun to haunt the Survey Office, sometimes

to see the infant museum, but more frequently to ascer
tain what the " indications " were in portions of the
country in which they were perhaps interested. The
material which had been gathered during the previous

summer and autumn, both on the Ottawa and in Gasp6,

had swelled the collection to quite imposing dimensions,

and not only had the specimens to be arranged, but the

annual report of progress, maps, and accounts of the

year's expenditure, had to be prepared for Government.
During the earlier years of the Survey, Logan had no

secretary or accountant, and a large and annually
increasing amount of drudgery therefore devolved upon

him. " I used," he says, " at first to make, with my own

hands, four manuscript copies of the Annual Report of

Progress, often reaching more than one hundred printed

pages --one copy for the Government, one for the House

of Assembly, one for the Legislative Council, and one

for the printer." All the accounts of the Survey were for
years kept by himself, and in the most detailed manner,
so that any one might see how every penny of the
240  MUSEUM MOVED.  [i846.

public money entrusted to him had been spent. Often
it was midnight or even one and two o'clock in the

morning before he could leave his office, and eventually
it became necessary for him to employ assistance.

   Some time in 1846 the museum and offices were
moved from No. 40 St. James Street to the building on
Little St. James Street, then occupied by the Natural
History Society. At the instigation of its President,
the late Dr. A. F. Holmes, the Society leased its premises
to the Survey for ,£120 per annum, retaining, however,
the use of the rooms on the third floor for its collection
of specimens and books. This arrangement was no

doubt advantageous for both parties, and without
increase of expense certainly afforded greatly improved
accommodation for the Government museum and offices.

   Not until the middle of May were final instructions
received with regard to the field-work of the season of
1846. Now it was to be extended westward to the
British shores and islands of Lake Superior, in order to
ascertain the general geological structure of the country,
and "more particularly the nature and quality of
certain mineral veins containing metallic ores, alleged
to have been discovered by various parties, to whom
licenses of mineralogical exploration had been granted
by the Government." Such had been the success of
mining operations on the south shore of the lake that
much attention was beginning to be drawn to the
British side, where similar geological conditions were

supposed to prevail ; and anxious to encourage mining
enterprise in this region, the Canadian Government
had determined to grant one " mining location " to each
1846.]  LAKE SUPERIOR.  241

person holding a license of exploration. In accordance
with Logan's advice, each mining location was to be

five miles in length, by two in breadth, the length to
coincide as nearly as possible with the general direction
of the mineral veins. Each party entitled to claim a
location was to indicate its position to the Provincial
Geologist on his arrival, and to be prepared to point
out the general course of the mineral vein which he
had discovered. The best direction for the location,

however, was to be decided by Logan, and the boundary
lines run by a provincial land-surveyor, who was to
accompany the expedition. In the event of different
parties claiming the same location, it was also left to
Logan to decide with regard to priority of discovery,
and to put the person really entitled to the location in

possession of it. In so far as the geology of the region
was concerned, there was much of interest, but the
judicial work was most distasteful. It was, however,
conscientiously carried out in strict accordance with the
wishes and instructions of the Government.

   On this occasion Logan's party was larger than
usual, and included Mr. Murray, a land-surveyor named
McNaughton, and Mr. James Richardson, a new aspirant
after geological knowledge, who soon became a most
enthusiastic worker for science, and, as is well known,

served long and faithfully on the staff of the Survey.
   At the time of which we write travelling on Lake

Superior was attended with many difficulties. There
were no regular steamers to the. north coast, and the

occasional steamers were not only slow, but liable to
long detentions from head-winds and storms. At Sault

                                                                  16
242  SAULT STE. MARIE.  [1846.

Ste. Marie, Logan had to wait for a propeller for
Keweenaw from the 11th. until the 19th. of June, trat

while there occupied himself studying the geology of
the neighbourhood. His object in going by way of

Keweenaw was to examine the remarkable copper
deposits of that region before beginning his investiga
tions on the north shore. Before leaving Sault Ste.
Marie, he wrote to his brother :--

                                                  "Sault Ste. Marie, \8(h. June, 1846.

   "My Dear James, -- My whole party, with myself,

arrived here last night by the steamer ' Detroit,' from

Detroit, and here we have been waiting, that is to say,
some of us (Murray, McNaughton, Master Adamson
Frank, and myself), for an opportunity for Keweenaw
Point. One occurs this afternoon at five o'clock, and

by it we shall go. The vessel is a propeller, and I am

told she has good accommodations, but rather think she
is slow. I found all the party at Detroit last Monday

week, and everything purchased and prepared for a

start for the Sault. . . .

   " During my stay in this vicinity, I have made an

excursion down the channel to St. Joseph's Island, and

have visited several points on the American as well as
the British side, with Mr. Hubbard, one of the geologi

cal assistants to the late Dr. Houghton. I was glad to

get a fair collection of fossils and other specimens, and
three boxes have been put into the charge of Mr.

Bellenden, addressed to your care. . . .
   " In my examination of the stratified rocks met with,

I was gratified to recognize the same formations as exist
in the vicinity of Montreal, and we had an opportunity
1846.]          SAULT STE. MARIE.                243

of pointing out to Mr. Hubbard the same black, bitumi

nous shales, which have been so universally mistaken
for coal. . . . With the exception of those whose names

I have enumerated, our party have proceeded in a

schooner belonging to the Hudson's Bay Company to
Fort William, there to wait for us. They left the

day before yesterday. We cross from Keweenaw to

Fort William, whence I shall proceed up to Pigeon

River, and there begin my examination. I suspect

I shall be there before many are ready to claim their

locations.

  " Mr. Bellenden has given us quarters, and I feel

greatly indebted to him for his kindness and attention.

The number of strangers who pass this place give him

occupation enough, and he has his house constantly

full. There are good enough inns on the American
side that save him some trouble, as most of those who

come up to Lake Superior looking after mines, even

though it may be on the Canadian side, frequent them.

I understand about 1,000 visitors of all kinds have
...come up by the steamers this season already.
                                                 A

steamer is just about to be drawn across the portage on

the American side up to Lake Superior. She seems a

neat little boat, but I do not know what her accommo

dations are. She appears to me, however, too small for

so big a lake.

   "There is nothing very picturesque in the scenery
about here, it being rather flat. The sail up the channel

among the islands from the Point Detour, which is at

the south-west corner of Drummond Island, constitutes

the prettiest part of it."
244 COPPER OF LAKE SUPERIOR. [1846.

   The copper mines of Keweenaw peninsula astonished
Logan not a little. " I have come to the conclusion,"

he writes from Copper Harbour, "that there is much

more copper in the country than I had any notion of.

There is scarcely a vein which does not contain indica

tions of the metal, however small the vein may be, and
I have been surprised to observe what small indications

have led to great results. The quantity of silver asso

ciated with the copper is more than I anticipated. . . .
The largest mass of copper I have seen would weigh

...about eleven tons, and contains about forty-five cubic
feet.       I am waiting for a vessel to carry me across

the lake."

   The vessel was little more than a barge, and so laden
with cargo that some of the passengers had to sleep on

deck. Logan's camp equipage was spread over some
of the barrels in the hold, and upon this he endeavoured

to sleep ; but, owing to a substratum of pots and pans,

found it rather uncomfortable. On reaching terra firma
he again wrote to his brother :--

                        " Prince's Harrour, Larr Superior, 22nd. July, 1846.

   " My Dear James, -- I have got to this side, and have

commenced my examination. That copper exists there
is no doubt --how much of it remains to be proved. . . .

While McNaughton measures, I examine the geology of

the vicinity, and have been most kindly assisted by the
gentlemen in charge of the Colonel's interests. . . .

There is good copper ore (grey sulphuret) on Prince's
location. The vein in which it occurs is composed of

calc-spar, barytes, and amethystine quartz, and is alto

gether about fifteen feet wide, while the metalliferous
1846.]  SCENERY AND HARBOURS.                          245

Ifportion appears to be about four feet eight inches.  all

the spar-veins are like his, there will be little doubt of

this becoming a copper region ; but I have not yet

heard of any strong cupriferous indications having been

discovered in the other spar-veins of the vicinity. . . .
   " The scenery here is very beautiful. Lofty cliffs

guard the whole coast. They are vertical for some

distance at the summit, and then slope down at an

angle of 45°, making a talus to the water's edge. . . .

Multitudes of beautiful harbours exist on the coast,

scarcely a couple of miles occurring without one, and
there is deep water in most of them. I understand an

American steamboat is to make two tours of the British

side during the year. She will have no difficulty in

finding shelter wherever she goes, should she be over

taken by a storm."
   From Fort William a " geological communication " of

sixteen closely-written pages, was addressed to Lord
Cathcart, the Governor-General of Canada.* "My

Lord," it begins, "I take the opportunity afforded me

by Sir George Simpson's passage through this on his

journey from Red River to Montreal, to do myself the

honour of addressing a few lines to your Lordship,

not for the purpose of communicating any official

   * When the illness of Lord Metcalfe compelled him to resign the
Governorship of Canada and return to England, in 1845, he was succeeded

by Lord Cathcart, who was at that time acting as Commander-in-Chief of

the troops in British North America. Lord Cathcart had long been an

ardent student of geology and mineralogy, and in 1841 (then Lord
Greenock), first recognized as a distinct species the mineral which was
named Greenockite in his honour. During his residence in Canada he
took a lively interest in the geology of the country, and gave Logan much

encouragement in his work.
246  GEOLOGY OF LAKE SUPERIOR.  [i84<3.

 intelligence with regard to the investigation with which

 I am charged (which it would scarcely be expedient to

 do until my examination has been extended over a

 greater surface) ; but simply to state some of the geolo

gical facts up to this time observed, as I would to any

 other eminent member of the Geological Society."
    Then follows a description of the regions visited on

 the south and north shores of the lake. "The a<Ore of
 the rocks on the south side is," he says, " yet a disputed
point. Some geologists are disposed to consider them
contemporaneous with the New Red Sandstone --for
what reason I am unable to ascertain ; for the mere

mineral fact of the presence of trap associated with red
sandstones would, in my opinion, be no reason at all.
The late Mr. Douglas Houghton, the Michigan State

Geologist, who was undoubtedly a careful and accurate

observer, and had devoted many years to the examina

tion of the country, places the rocks at the very base

of the stratified series. Perhaps the horizon may be

intermediate between the positions assigned."
   The rocks on the north shore of Lake Superior, whose

investigation Logan began in 1846, have, like those on

the south, been the subject of much discussion among

geologists, and even at the present day conflicting
opinions are entertained with regard to them. A brief

statement, more especially of Logan's views of the

subject, is therefore called for here. According to his
first report on the region, published in 1847, the most
ancient rocks met with on the north shore of the lake
consist of granite and syenitic granite, " which appear

to pass gradually into gneiss." Overlying this came
GEOLOGY OF LAKE SUPERIOR.  247

a series stated to consist of chloritic, micaceous, and
talcose slates, with interstratified greenstone and quartz-
rock. This second series was estimated to have a
thickness of several thousand feet, and it was pointed

out that the chloritic slates at the summit would
probably be found to be identical with those seen the
year before on Lake Temiscamang. These two series
were in later years classed as Laurentian and Huronian.
To the second succeeded the so-called " Volcanic forma
tions " of Logan, described in his report as consisting of
uncrystalliue sedimentary strata, both interstratified
with and capped by eruptive rocks, and regarded as
divisible into a lower and an upper group. The
members of the lower group were met with on
Thunder Bay, resting unconformably upon the highly
inclined chloritic slates, and were traced westward
along the coast as far as Pigeon River. They were
estimated to have a total thickness of from 1,500 to
2,000 feet, and were stated to consist of a conglomerate
holding pebbles of the underlying chloritic slate,
followed by beds of chert, impure limestones, dark-

coloured argillaceous slates and argillaceous sandstones,
crystalline trap being interstratified in several parts of
the formation, and capping the whole to a thickness

of 200 or 300 feet. Eastward of Thunder Bay, the
rocks of the upper division are met with, consisting
first of red and white sandstones and conglomerates,
with an estimated thickness of about 700 feet, succeeded

by about eighty feet of limestones, calcareous shales
and sandstones, and fifty feet of reddish indurated
marls. "After an interval of which the amount is
248
                                                                                        P. o
          GEOLOGY OF LAKE SUPERIOR.                  249

uncertain," came other sandstones and conglomerates

(supposed to be younger than the reddish marls), inter-

stratified with amygdaloidal and compact "trap," and
crowned by " an enormous amount of volcanic over

flow." The total thickness of this upper group Logan

estimated roughly at from 6,000 to 10,000 feet, but a

much greater thickness has since been assigned to
          it
In many places      it
                          is

                                                                                             a
                                                                                              it.
                        rich in native copper, and Logan

regarded  as identical with the similar cupriferous

series of the south shore and of Isle Royale-- view

which Whitney and other geologists afterwards con

curred in. Logan also looked upon his "Volcanic
series " as more ancient than the horizontal palaeozoic

sandstones of Sault Ste. Marie, concerning which we

shall speak presently.

The explorations carried on by the Survey during the

next few years, on the north shore of Lake Huron,

showed the existence there of a great series (often con
taining sulphuretted copper ores) of chloritic slates,
conglomerates, " greenstones," quartzites, and lime

stones. Notwithstanding the similarity of many of

these rocks to those seen on Lake Temiscamang in

1845, and again beneath the "Volcanic series" of Lake

Superior in 1846, they were for time regarded by
                        :

                                                  a
Logan as identical with the latter, and in his report for
1848, page 20, he says " The chief differences in the

copper-bearing rocks of Lakes Huron and Superior

seem to lie in the great amount of amygdaloidal trap

present among the latter, and of white quartz-rock or

sandstone among the former. But on the Canadian

side of Lake Superior there are some considerable areas,
250 GEOLOGY OF LAKE SUPERIOR.

in which important masses of interstratified greenstone
exist without amygdaloid, while white sandstones are
present in others. . . . But notwithstanding these
differences, there are such strong points of resemblance
in the interstratiiication of igneous rocks, and the
general mineralized condition of the whole, as to render
their positive or proximate equivalence highly probable,

if not almost certain."

   When the Geology of Canada was published in
1863, the " Volcanic formations " of Lake Superior

appeared under the name of the Upper Copper-bearing
series, to distinguish them from the Lower Copper-
bearing rocks (the Huronian), which were now recog
nized as more ancient strata. As before, the series was
divided into a lower and an upper group, the whole
being still regarded as older than the horizontal sand
stone of Sault Ste. Marie, which was referred to the

Chazy formation (Geo!, of Can., 1863, p. 86). Further

more, it was stated that if this were the true horizon of

the horizontal sandstone, then "the copper-bearing
portions of the Lake Superior rocks might reasonably

be considered to belong to the Calciferous and Potsdam

formations." (Geol. of Can., 1863, p. 86.) In the same

volume (p. 236) it was suggested that the Upper Copper-
bearing series of Lake Superior and the Quebec group
belong to the same geological horizon; and in accord
ance with this view we find that in the geological
atlas published in 1864, as well as on the large geologi
cal map which appeared some time later, the former

series is represented as belonging to the Quebec group.
On the same maps the Sault Ste. Marie sandstones were
GEOLOG Y OF LAKE SUPERIOR.  251

coloured as Chazy. Later observations seem to show
that they are Potsdam rather than Chazy in age. This
was the opinion long ago held by Whitney, who,
however, maintained that the sandstone and the Upper

Copper-bearing series of Logan belonged to one and the

same formation.

   The view that the rocks of Logan's Upper Copper-
bearing series are wholly or in part of Mesozoic
age can only be briefly alluded to here. It was years
ago held by Charles T. Jackson and Marcou, and

has since been advocated by several other geologists,

including Mr. Thomas Macfarlane and Dr. Robert Bell.

Macfarlane discussed the question in an interesting

paper, or rather series of papers, on the Geological
Formations of Lake Superior, published in the Canadian

Naturalist, in 1868. Bell again called attention to the
matter in the report of the Geological Survey for

1866-69 (p. 321), pointing out the lithological resem
blances of the series to rocks of Mesozoic age in Nova
Scotia ; but in a postscript to the same volume Logan
expressed his dissent from Bell's views, giving at

the same time reasons for adhering to the opinions
which he had previously expressed on the subject.

   In the report of the Survey for 1872-3 (p. 106), Bell

suggested that "if it were found desirable to give a

shorter name to the rocks of the Upper Copper-bearing
series of Lake Superior," it might be termed the Nipigon
series. A short time before, however, Dr. Hunt had
proposed that the lower division of the series should be
distinguished as the Animikie group (from the Indian
name for Thunder Bay), and had also suggested that
252 GEOLOGY OF LAKE SUPERIOR.

the " great series of highly-inclined sandstones and

conglomerates, which, with interstratified trappean

masses, constitute the cupriferous formation of this
region," should be known as the Keweenaw group --or,
as he subsequently put Keweenian.* In May, 1873,
t
                  ahe further proposed that the name Nipigon Series

                     It it isshould be adopted for the red sandstones and marls

                                 isoverlying his Animikie group, and which .Logan had
                                       it,
placed at the base of the upper division of his Upper
                                   it
Copper-bearing series. Hunt also concludes that his
                                                                      I., ;
Animikie and Nipigon groups constitute two distinct
                                                                   it
series of rocks, both younger than the Keweenian.
" The lithological characters of the Nipigon group," he
writes, " are, moreover, very distinct from the Cambrian

sandstones found at Sault Ste. Marie, and along the

southern shore of Lake Superior, with which was

formerly confounded, and will probably be found to

belong to more recent period so that while the

Keweenian series pre-Cambrian, the Nipigon, and

also the Animikie group, may be post-Cambrian and

perhaps Mesozoic."f
   From the foregoing statements with regard to Lake

Superior geology, may be thought by some that the
natural confusion of the rocks has been " worse con
founded " by the " many men of many minds " who

have held such diverse opinions and given us so many

names to learn.  to be hoped, however, that the

* Trans. Am. Inst, of Mining Engineers,  339. Also, Azoic Rocks,

pp. 231, 240.

      Azoic Rocks, p. 241. Many of the facts given above concerning the
geology of. Lake Superior are from this valuable work, to which the reader
is referred for fuller information.
GEOLOGY OF LAKE SUPERIOR.                                253

matter will be simplified by    the following  table         of
                                on the north   shore         of
the series of rocks recognized
the lake :--

   I. Laurentian.

 II. Huronian or Lower Copper-bearing series.
III. Volcanic or Upper Copper-bearing scries of Logan, termed Nipigon

            furies by Bell ; older than the sandstones of Sault St. Marie,
            according to Logan ; Mesozoic of some geologists ; partly prc-
             Cambrian and partly post-Cambrian, according to Hunt; divided
            by Logan into a lower and an upper group, the relations of which

              to Hunt's groups arc as follows :

        Logan.                  Hunt.
a. Lower group
                Animikie group. "\ Post-Cambrian

                                         > and possibly

                                group..       Mesozoic.
                                {Nipigon

                                     [ "J Jj
                Keweenian (or                 Pre-Cambrian.
                  true copper.

                bearing) group,

IV. Palaeozoic sandstones of Sault Ste. Marie, referred to the Chazy by
              Logan, but probably of Potsdam age.
                 CHAPTER XII.

                              EVENTS OF 1846-53.

               in 1846, Mr. De Rottermond, the chemist

EARaLnYd mineralogist to the Canadian Survey, resigned

his position, stating that this step was rendered neces
sary by urgent family affairs. Notwithstanding his
certificates of capacity, he had proved to be unfitted
for the post, and his voluntary resignation was doubt

less a great relief to Logan. It was not long, however,

before he applied to the Government to be reinstated,
but with the condition that he should not be subject to
the control of Mr. Logan. The Survey, he maintained,
should consist of two separate and distinct departments
--a geological and a chemical --with a director for each.
Logan might be the head of the geological branch, but
he should be king of the chemical. Such was the
scheme proposed ; but it is needless to say that it did
not meet with the approval of the Government.

   In order that all the facts connected with Mr. De

Rottermond's resignation might be known to the
Government, a lengthy statement was prepared by
1846.]  PROPOSED CHANGES.  255

Logan ; and in this he refers in an amusing and
characteristic way to the division of the Survey
proposed by the late chemical assistant. "Without
any further reference," says the document, " to Mr De

Rottermond, if I might be permitted to express an

opinion on the subject of a separation of the chemical
from the other departments of the Geological Survey, it

appears to me it would be found to work very ill. I

understand the plea upon which it has been proposed

is that if the geologist were to ascertain localities and

collect materials, and the chemist to determine what

the materials contained, each rendering a separate
report to the Government, the Government would then

have the localities, the materials and their constituents,
while the geologist, not knowing the exact constituents,
and therefore the exact value of the materials, would

not be tempted to turn his knowledge of localities to
his own private advantage ; while the chemist, not
aware of the localities, could not make available his

knowledge of values for the peculiar benefit either of
himself or his friends. This suggestion seems to pro

ceed upon the principle that the geologist and the
chemist may be a couple of rogues, such as would
deserve to be expelled from all decent society, and that
the rule of government should be division and mistrust.

   " A dishonest geologist, however, could do more mis

chief than a chemist of the same stamp. The geologist
could with facility conceal his knowledge of localities,
retain materials in his own possession, and get them
analyzed privately for his own purposes. Neither the
Government nor the chemist could easily detect his
256  HONESTY THE BEST POLICY.  [i846.

manoeuvre, and to come at his concealed facts, if he

were suspected, it would be necessary to institute an
expensive examination, in fact to do his field-work

over again ; and if any material were discovered which

he had not reported, who could say whether it had
been missed by inadvertance or not ? What could the

dishonest chemist achieve ? He dare not either conceal

or falsify his analyses. The Government or the geolo
gist might, at a small expense, have an analysis of the

material performed by another party ; and not knowing
localities, he could not avail himself of them for his
own advantage. But, after all, it would be necessary
to bring the materials in regard to locations, quantities
and uses before the public, for whose benefit the search
for them had been instituted, and then a third party
would be required to combine the work of the geologist
and the chemist, which third person would in reality

be the head, and if he were destitute of proper prin

ciple, as the other two are supposed to be, he could
with equal facility abuse his trust, by giving early
intimation to his friends, or getting them to act in his

own behalf. Who would be a check upon him ?
   "No honest man would, in my opinion, humiliate

himself so far as to accept of employment under such a
pitiful system, and no efficiency could be the result.
Good government requires that confidence should be
reposed somewhere in every department, and the great
art is to select such persons as, from their skill and
character, shall be entitled to such confidence. A geolo
gical survey is no more than any other work to be
performed. To be conducted efficiently it must have a
1846.]  THOMAS STERRY HUNT.                   257

head to arrange, direct, concentrate, and generalize in
all the accessories. Chemical analysis is one of them.

                  it,

                      It

                             is
                                  it

                                                   it
                                                       is it

                                                                   is
                                                                                      a
Geology includes and not geology, and         only

person profoundly ignorant of the science that could

suppose otherwise.  the geologist who knows

how many chemical facts he wants, not the chemist

how many he should give. The chemist should, there

fore, be the assistant of the geologist, and  desirable

that he be an assistant in whom he can place reliance."

    Not long after this, Mr. Denison Olmsted, Jr., son

of Professor Olmsted of Yale College, received the

appointment of chemist to the Canadian Survey.
Owing to ill health, however, he was unable to

Itassume the duties of the office, and his early death,
in the autumn of 1846, once more left the post vacant.

    was then offered to Mr. Thomas Sterry Hunt, who

at the time held a similar position under Professor

C. B. Adams of the Geological Survey of Vermont, and
who, although only twenty years of age, had already
given ample evidence of more than ordinary ability,
while acting in the capacity of chemical assistant to the
late Professor Silliman, in the laboratory of Yale College.

In December, 1846, his appointment as chemist and

mineralogist to the Canadian Survey was confirmed,a
and in the following February he came to Montreal
and began the series of investigations which were
destined ere long to give him world-wide reputation,
and to add so greatly to the Mat of the Geological

Survey.

   Almost every succeeding summer found Logan at

work in some new region. In 1847, during the season

                                                                      17
258 THE EASTERN TOWNSHIPS.

suitable for the field, his attention was engaged with
an examination of the country on the south side of the

St. Lawrence, extending from the vicinity of Montreal
and Lake Champlain to the River Chaudiere, and here
he was accompanied for part of the time by Mr. Hunt,
Mr. Murray having gone to explore the northern
shores of Lake Huron. It will be observed that the
region in question comprises part of the so-called
Eastern Townships, whose complex geology Logan
afterwards so faithfully strove to elucidate. In 1840,

as we have already seen, he had passed through
"the Townships," on his way to the State of Maine,

and his attention had then been attracted to the
serpentines and other rocks in the " metamorphic "
region. Nor did he early fail to appreciate the fact
that there were difficult problems for the geologist
to solve. Writing from Boston to his brother James,

on the 16th. of December, 1842, he says : " I arrived

here with my two companions last evening, about
7 o'clock, after a very comfortable journey, in sleighs
as far as Concord, and the remainder of the way

by rail. I could not geologize much on the road, in
consequence of the snow, but still I obtained a hint or

two. They were hints, however, which perplexed me,

rather than cleared up difficulties. I had expected that

in crossing the Green Mountains some light for the
benefit of the Eastern Townships would have emanated

from the rocks, but I only got evidence of the necessity

of great caution in the examination of that part of
Canada." This caution he never ceased to observe, and
in his intense desire to first amass every possible fact
1848.]  LAKE HURON.  259

concerning the much-perplexing strata, he refrained
from publishing many valuable results of long and
arduous labour and thought.

   When the spring of 1848 came round, he again pro
ceeded to the Eastern Townships in order to further

prosecute the investigations of the previous year. But

scarce had two months elapsed when he was once more

obliged to turn his steps westward ; this time to the
northern shores of Lake Huron, whither Mr. Murray
had already preceded him. Several mining locations in
this region had been claimed from the Government,

and considerable sums of money expended by the
persons interested in them ; so that it seemed advisable
that something should be done on the part of the

Government towards examining the country geologi
cally, and ascertaining the probable productiveness of
some of the principal metalliferous veins. There was
no man in Canada better qualified than Logan to judge
of the value of metalliferous deposits, and particularly

those of copper. While residing in Wales he had
had every opportunity of familiarizing himself with

the various ores of copper, and the methods of

sampling them, and the information then acquired now
proved of great value to him in the examination of the
Bruce Mines. His report upon these mines, which was
published by the Government, is an excellent example

of the thoroughness, carefulness, and practical character
of his work. But in addition to his detailed examina
tion of the location containing the Bruce Mines, he,
with the assistance of Mr. Murray, made an accurate
topographical and geological survey of the Thessalon
IN260    THE WOODS.
A NIGHT              [1848.

River for twenty-five miles from its mouth, of the

Missisagui for nearly forty miles from its mouth, and
also of a number of lakes and minor streams. Besides

this, the coast of Lake Huron itself was examined for a

distance of seventy miles, and numerous excursions made

for short distances inland. All this occupied less than

three months, and then he left the rocky shores and
islands of Lake Huron, never to return to them again.

   While engaged in his survey of the Bruce Mining
locations, an incident occurred which well illustrates

how completely he sometimes became absorbed with
any interesting geological question which he happened
to be investigating. We give it in the words of his
friend, Mr. Alexander Murray :--

   " One day, after some very fatiguing work, as I was

about to retire for the night, Mr. Logan was not to be

found. Darkness was fast approaching, and although I

made most diligent inquiry at the mine, no one could
give any information further than that when last seen,

several hours previously, he was superintending the
drilling operations. Naturally a good deal of alarm was
felt for his safety, but how or where any accident could
have befallen him, no one could conjecture, and to
search the woods on a pitch dark night was simply
impossible. However, it was considered that should
he by any chance have lost his way, the blasts which
were being discharged at short intervals at the mine
would surely be a guide to him as to the direction in
which to proceed homewards. About midnight a fearful
thunderstorm came on, with torrents of rain. The hours
passed, and morning dawned ; but still no signs of Mr.
1846.]  A NIGHT IN THE WOODS.  261

Logan, and now we were all thoroughly alarmed. A

search through the woods was resolved upon forthwith,
when suddenly, a little after day had fairly broken, he
was perceived emerging from the bush, hammer in hand,

occasionally pounding a rock as he advanced, and seem
ingly quite unconcerned, though his trousers were torn
to rags, and his boots completely minus the soles ! On
asking him how he got through the night, he answered
with the greatest sangfroid, 'Very well.' He had left the
mine to learn the sectional structure of the rocks, by
keeping a course across the line of strike through the
woods, and wandered on, intent upon his subject, till
night overtaking him, he felt it would be impossible to

scramble back, and at once set to work to bivouac
where he was. He selected a huge boulder, which
slightly overhung in the opposite direction to the wind,
and having by accident a couple of matches in his
pocket, he managed to start a fire ; but having no axe,
was unable to lay in a stock of wood. He passed the
night reclining against his boulder, which in some
degree sheltered him from the falling rain, but before
morning his fire was drowned out, and he found himself
almost surrounded by a pool of water. He had not a
morsel of anything to eat, and as he never smoked,
there was no creature comfort to sustain him ; but he

was perfectly consoled by philosophically reflecting
that he had ascertained a few geological facts which
might be turned to good account as further investiga

tions proceeded."

   Returning from Lake Huron to the Eastern Town
ships, he remained in the field until the severity of the
262  CANADIAN COAL MINES.  [i846.

weather drove him into winter quarters ; but with the
return of spring he was again to be found at work in the
region between the Chaudiere River and the Temis-
couata Portage Road. Not long before this some of the
inhabitants of the vicinity of Baie St. Paul, below
Quebec, had announced the discovery of what they
stated to be indications of the existence of coal in that

region, and had even induced the member for Saguenay

County to apply to the Legislature for means to carry
on boring operations in search of the supposed coal-
seams. But the Government naturally objected to
granting the money unless it could be shown that
there was some ground for expecting useful results, and
Logan was instructed to visit and examine the locality.
The newest rocks in the region belong to the Trenton
formation, and neither in these, nor in those beneath
them, was there the slightest probability of the existence
of coal. But the professed discoverers of the substance
had somehow got it into their heads that the presence
of coal-seams in any region was usually indicated by
fragments being carried to the surface by springs of
water, and having carefully packed numbers of springs
with pieces of imported coal, they easily convinced the
more credulous inhabitants that untold wealth lay

beneath them.
   The fraud and absurdity of the whole thing must

have been evident to Logan from the first, and he
might have dismissed the matter as a farce. But to
those ignorant of the principles of geology this would
have seemed arbitrary dealing, and, besides, he had
been instructed by Government to report upon the
1846.1  CANADIAN COAL MINES.                      263

locality. Accordingly he drew up a report, in which

he discussed the matter fully, giving all the scientific

reasons against the occurence of coal, and finally stating

pretty plainly his belief that the fragments had been
placed in the springs for a purpose.

This, however, was not the only case in which he had

to oppose, or rather expose, the would-be discoverers of

coal. In the very first year of the Geological Survey

an act was passed establishing the " Gaspe Coal and

Fishing Company." Its members, who were chiefly
persons in England, had been induced to believe in the

probable existence of coal in Gaspe, and were on the

eve of paying down several thousand pounds for a

property stated to contain coal ; but owing to the

adverse opinions of Logan having come to their ears,
the conditions of purchase were altered, and it was

stipulated that the money should be paid down when

the coal was actually found, and not before. Subse

quently miners were sent out from England, but
history does not tell us that they succeeded in finding
the coveted fuel ; and it may be concluded that the

purchase money was never paid.

   At another time it was announced that a real practical

miner had discovered coal on the farm of a Mr. B           ,

near Bowmanville, in Upper Canada. The said Mr.

B was easily persuaded that boring operations

should be undertaken, and forthwith supplied bore-

rods and tools to test the ground. Sections of the

strata stated to have been passed through were duly

heralded in many of the newspapers ; representing alter
nations of sandstone shale and coal-seams as well
264 BOWMANVILLE COAL.

ascertained facts. Great was the excitement occasioned

by the wonderful discovery, and intense the indignation

expressed against the unfortunate geologists whose fine

theories had been so ably contradicted by the experi

ence of a practical working-man. This time, however,

Logan declared from the first that there was no coal

there, and refused to so much as visit the place,

knowing well from the previous explorations of Mr.

Murray what the geology of the region was. About

the time that the excitement was at its height, it

Jhappened that a great friend of Logan's, the late Sheriff
"W. B.  , being on his way to Montreal, stopped at

Bowmanville for the express purpose of satisfying

himself with regard to the various statements which
he had seen in the newspapers as to the discovery of

coal there. The spot was visited, and with his own

eyes he saw the bore-rod lowered, and fragments of coal

extracted from the hole. This was enough for the

Sheriff, and as soon as he reached Montreal he hastened

to the Survey Museum with his much-prized speci

mens, and, placing a black fragment in Logan's hand,
enquired, " What do you call that ?" " A good bit of

Newcastle coal," was the reply. " I saw it taken out

of the bore-hole at Bowmanville with my own eyes,"
said the Sheriff. " Ah," replied Logan, with his most

waggish look, "You should have been there sooner,

and looked more sharply, and then you might have

seen it put in." The possibility of such a proceeding

had never occurred to the worthy Sheriff ; but not long

afterwards, while some other visitors were witnessing

the extraction of coal from the same bore-hole, they
1850.]  AT TjffE SEAT OF GOVERNMENT.  265

observed that the coal was mixed with bread and
cheese, which had accidentally got into the hole during
the preliminary packing operation. This put an end
to the Bowmanville excitement. Eventually it turned

out that the bore-rod had never reached the solid rock

at all, but had simply passed through a portion of the
superficial deposits.

   The Provincial act which had been passed in 1845

made provision for the continuance of the Geological
Survey for five years only, and of course Logan could
not tell what would be done by the Government at the

expiration of this period. It seemed unlikely that his

Survey would be suddenly terminated when so much
still remained to be done ; but at the same time he felt

that no harm could result from his going to Toronto,
then the seat of Government, and in person urging the
claims of his work. While in Toronto he wrote to his
brother :--

                                                            « Toronto, 13M. February, 1850.

" My Dear James, -- Supposing that my affairs were

arranged here, it was my design to have started on my

return this morning; but having been informed that

there is an intention on the part of the Government to

continue the Survey, though the details of the continu

ation have not been arranged, I have deemed it prudent
to remain a day or two longer, lest being out of sight, I

should get out of mind. . . .

  " I think most of the gentlemen of the Council are in

favour of continuing the Survey on the present footing,

with the exception of Mr. M  , who, I dare say,

would like to stop it altogether ; or, if not able to do
266  CONTINUANCE OF THE SURVEY.  [i860.

this, to reduce the allowance. I have informed him
that I, individually, will not work for less than I get ;

that the only reduction that could possibly be effected

would be in the number of hands employed ; that I

cannot do without Mr. Hunt, particularly as an exami

nation of the soils of the country constitutes a branch

of the subject contemplated by the act of the Legisla

ture, and one in which the services of a chemist are

indispensable ; and that if I were deprived of Mr.

Murray (whose duties are of a nature similar to my
own, and who is competent to explore separately), the

Survey would take nearly twice the time that it would

with him.   intends to oppose the Government, I
   " Mr. C

believe, on the score of retrenchment ; but he has

informed me that he does not mean to attack the
Survey, as he considers the investigation with which it

is connected a proper and necessary one. I by chance

met Sir Allan McNabb on the street, and informing him

that I was here on the subject of the continuance of the

Survey, he remarked that it ought not to have been
begun if it were not to be finished. So that I think
the Government would not meet with any opposition

in respect to the matter, except from such men as are of

M 's frame of mind. There may be some of these
among the Clear Grits, as they are called ; but I think
that, upon the whole, of the opponents to the Govern
ment, more would find fault with the abandoning of
the Survey than with the carrying it on."

   The act was finally renewed, with the same provision

as for the preceding period of five years, but not until
1850-51.]  EXHIBITION OF 1851.  267

the long delay had interfered considerably with the
regular work of the Survey. It was also decided by
the Government that a collection of Canadian economic

minerals should be prepared and forwarded to the
" Exhibition of the Industry of all Nations," to be held

in London in the following year. This, it will be

remembered, was the first of the great International
Exhibitions, and originated with His Royal Highness
Prince Albert, who himself acted as President of the

Commission appointed to conduct the exhibition, and
to whom a medal was awarded " for the conception

and successful prosecution of the idea."* During the
summer of 1850, a large collection of the economic
minerals of Canada was obtained by Logan and his
staff, and after being displayed at a Provincial Exhibi
tion in Montreal, was forwarded to London. Leave of
absence was also given to Logan, in order that he might
superintend the arrangement of the collection; but,
although his salary was continued during his absence,
he was allowed the privilege of paying all his own

expenses, amounting to £450. Sailing from Boston on
the 15th. of January, after a stormy voyage, he arrived at
Liverpool on the 27th. The exhibition building at Lon

don was not quite ready, so that he had an opportunity
of visiting his brother Edmond, at Edinburgh, and his
sister, Mrs. Cower, at Castle Malgwyn, in South Wales.

   It was eight years since he had been in England,

and we can readily imagine what pleasure he must

    * Prince Albert exhibited a number of articles, including wool from
the Cashmere goats kept at Windsor, wheat, beans, and oats, a model

of a dwelling-house, &c.
268 AMONG FRIENDS.  [issi.

have felt at again seeing his brothers and sisters, and
recounting to them his adventures by land and stream
in Canada. During these eight years, too, his work had

been carried on almost alone, and now how intense
must have been the satisfaction of meeting with so

many brother scientists, and describing to them the

geological wonders which this period of unceasing toil
had revealed to him. De la Beche, Murchison, Lyell,

Ansted, Bigsby, and many others, he no doubt met at

the reunions of the Geological Society, or at Jermyn
Street ; and Hugh Miller he visited in his own home, in
Scotland. He was also present at the meeting of the
British Association at Ipswich, in July, and there read
a paper entitled : " On the Age of the Copper-bearing
Rocks of Lakes Superior and Huron, and various facts

relating to the Physical Structure of Canada."
   The exhibition was formally opened on the 1st. of

May, and it was only by the most strenuous exertions
that Logan succeeded in getting his department in
readiness. On the 2nd. of May he wrote to his brother
James: "The Exhibition opened yesterday in grand

Istyle, and I am almost knocked up with the exertions

have been obliged to make to be ready in time. I have

worked from 6 a.m. to 8 p.m. for some time back, and
the last three days never breakfasted until nine o'clock

at night. Our Canadian department looks remarkably

well, and is generally spoken of as very creditable. I
have been appointed a juror to determine prizes in the

Mineralogical and Metallurgical department. There
are eight jurors in that division, Sir H. T. De la Beche

being the Chairman."
1851.]  CANADA AT THE EXHIBITION.                 269

Among the other members of the Jury in Class I.

were Professor Faraday of the Royal Institution, Pro

fessor Tunner, President of the Imperial Mining School

at Leoben, in Styria, and A. Dufrenoy, then Inspector

General of Mines in France. Dufrenoy acted in the

capacity of Deputy-Chairman and Reporter, and from his

valuable report (p. 2) we take the following :--  of

   " Before commencing the detailed description

objects which have obtained medals or honourable

mention, we feel bound to mention also the interesting

collection from Canada, procured by Mr. Logan, Direc

tor of the Geological Survey of that colony, and a series

of copper ores, with model of a mechanical preparation

of working these ores, exhibited by Mb. Richard
Taylor, Mineral Surveyor of the Duchy of Cornwall.

These two gentlemen, being both of them members of

the Jury, they, as well as the Chairman, Sir H. De la

Beche, are of necessity excluded from receiving honor

ary awards in this class.

   "The collection from Canada is accompanied by a
geological map, which will, we hope, be very soon

published. . . .

"Of all the British Colonies, Canada is that whose

exhibition is the most interesting and the most com

plete ; and one may even say that it is superior, so far

as the mineral kingdom is concerned, to all countries

that have forwarded their products to the exhibition.

This arises from the fact that the collection has been
made in a systematic manner, and it results that the
study of it furnishes the means of appreciating at once

the geological structure and the mineral resources of
270 FELLOW OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY. [issi.

Canada. It is to Me. W. E. Logan, one of the members
of the Jury, who fills the office of Geological Surveyor

of Canada, that we are indebted for this collection ; and
its value arises from the fact that he has selected on the
spot most of the specimens that have been sent to the
Exhibition, and has arranged them since their arrival in
London. . . ."

   While in London at this time, Logan was elected a
Fellow of the Royal Society, his name having been
proposed by Sir Roderick Murchison. The honour

seems to have been most gratifying to him, particularly
as he was " the first native Canadian elected for work
done in Canada."

   At the close of the Exhibition he received the follow
ing graceful recognition of his services from Prince
Albert:--

                                            "Windsor Castle, October 3UL, 1851.

" Sir, -- I have the honour, as President of the Eoyal

Commission for the Exhibition of 1851, to transmit to

you a Medal that has been struck by order of the

Commissioners, in commemoration of the valuable ser

vices which you have rendered to the Exhibition, in

common with so many eminent men of all countries, in

your capacity of Juror.
  " In requesting your acceptance of this slight token

on our part of the sense entertained by us of the benefit

which has resulted to the interests of the Exhibition

from your having undertaken that laborious office, and

from the zeal and ability displayed by you in connec

tion with  it,     affords me much pleasure to avail
               it

myself of this opportunity of conveying to you the
1851.]  ROYAL VISITORS.                       271

expression of my cordial thanks for the assistance
which you have given us in carrying this great under

taking to its successful issue. -- I have the honour to be,

sir, very faithfully yours,

        " (Signed)              Albert,

        " President of the Royal Commission.

" W. E. Logan, Esq., F. R. S."

   Several times Her Majesty and the Prince Consort
visited the Canadian division of the Exhibition, and

once or twice Mr. Logan had the honour of receiving

them ; but, much to his annoyance, he was absent on
the other occasions. In a letter to his brother James,
written on the 8th. of May, he says :--

   "Her Majesty has been through our division more
than once. She and Prince Albert passed through

yesterday morning. They were rather early, and I was

not there -- not expecting them before Saturday. But a

particular friend of mine, Dr. Lyon Playfair, accom

panied the Royal party, and explained many things;
and Perry, the fire-engine builder, did his best to

explain others. The fire-engine attracted particular
attention. Prince Albert assisted Perry with his own
hands to take it to pieces, in order that it might be

thoroughly comprehended, and was greatly interested
in it. The chairs sent home for Her Majesty are

rather conspicuously displayed, and are labelled 'For
England's Queen, from the Ladies of Canada.'

The label attracted Her Majesty's attention. No doubt

she had never heard of the chairs before, and she

turned to Col. Grey, who was with her, and asked if

the label were correct. He informed Her Majesty that
272  A BEAUTIFUL WOOD.  [i8si.

it was, and that the chairs had been officially acknow

ledged. I understand Her Majesty rather smiled, and

no wonder ; for, in my opinion, they are not very
grand. Only think of their being adorned with yellow
worsted fringe. In the notice of them in one of the

newspapers, some one has said that they are supposed

to have been made in imitation of chairs carried to

Canada by Sebastian Cabot; and my good friend Mr.

Houghton, who as agent of the Commission is very
zealous, and has taken a great deal of trouble, has had

the simplicity to send a letter to the paper, contra
dicting the supposition. When Her Majesty smiled,
Perry had the presence of mind to say that the

furniture sent from Canada was not intended to
compete in art with the manufacture of England,
but to show our black walnut, so well adapted for

ornamental purposes, and that if Her Majesty, and the

English nobility and gentry, would patronize the wood,
it might become an article of extensive commerce. Her
Majesty said that the wood was a very beautiful one."

   Logan had hoped to return to Canada in May, in
order to resume his geological work there ; but in this
he was disappointed, his duties as Juror making it

impossible for him to leave before the month of August.
But his stay in London was probably productive of
even greater good for Canada than his return would

have been ; for he lost no opportunity of drawing
attention to the resources of the country, and succeeded
in diffusing much valuable information, and in uproot
ing some of the erroneous ideas concerning Canada
which prevailed in the minds of many. He was not a
1851 .]  PROTICHNITES.                                 273

little annoyed by some of the statements which found
their way into the British newspapers. One brilliant
correspondent, for example, published an article on the
sperm-whale fisheries of Canada, evidently based upon
the fact that the jaw of one of these whales--from
Hobart Town, Van Dieman's Land --happened to lean

against some Canadian timber at the Exhibition. The

same writer also described the yellow gum-tree as one
of the indigenous trees of Canada.

   When Logan went to London in the winter of 1851,
he carried with him the plaster cast of a curious fossil

track from the Potsdam sandstone of Beauharnois.

                                                - ·*)

         TRACKS FROM BEAUnARNOJS.  SCALE, ^,,

         (a.) Protiehnites lineatus (Owen).
         (A.) Prolichnites octonotatiu (Owen).

            " Oeoloyy of Canada,11 p. 104.

His attention had been drawn to the track by Mr.
Abraham, then editor of the Montreal Gazette, who had
noticed it in his journal, and compared it to the track of

a tortoise. From the inspection of the cast, Owen was

                                                                              18
274  PROTICHMTES.                           [1851-52.

also disposed at first to believe in the chelonian origin
of the footprints, and the discovery created no small
stir among the British geologists, who were not pre
pared to hear of vertebrate life so far back in geological

time. Murchison, however, was skeptical from the

first. " If," he wrote to Lyell, " if Logan had found the

print of an aldermanic Robinson Crusoe's foot, as he

was intent on realizing the first turtle-soup, then I

would knock under."* But turtle or no turtle, the

tracks were of great interest, and on his return to
Canada, in August, Logan devoted several months to

the study of the Potsdam sandstones from which the
impressions had been derived. He was accompanied
by Mr. Richardson, who was successful in finding a

number of other valuable specimens.
   On the 6th. of January, 1852, he again sailed for

England, where he had to attend to the distribution of

a portion of the Exhibition collection which was left

there. This was the chief object of his visit ; but he
took with him a large collection of the newly-discovered
tracks --both originals and casts -- in order to submit
them to Professor Owen, and also $2,000 worth of gold

from the Chaudiere gold-field.  From London he wrote

to his brother :--

" My Dear James, --..."42 Sacrville Street, 2\st. February, 1852.
                                I am engaged night after

night with Owen in an examination of the tracks,

which make a wonderful display on the floor of the
museum of the Geological Society. They cover the
whole centre of the room. . . . The anniversary of the

* Geikic's Life of Murchison, II., p. 119.
1832.]  CANADIAN GOLD.  275

Society took place yesterday, and the tracks excited

great interest.

   " It is evident that Owen will modify his views with
respect to the animal which made the impressions, and it
will be found that my caution in not pretending to decide

a matter of which I did not know anything, was quite

judicious. The creature will be no tortoise, that is plain.

    " The fragments which held phosphate of lime show

no bony structure when sliced and placed under the
microscope, not even the one most like a bone*

Owen had a drawing made of this one, and expected it

would be found to be bone ; but the want of structure

will decide him not to pronounce it to be bone."

   As is now well known, the conclusion arrived at by Pro
fessor Owen, after a careful study of Logan's collection
of footprints, was that they had really been produced
by " some species of Crustacean, but of a family wholly

distinct from anything presented by the Crustacean
forms of later geological periods, or of the present day."

    The $2,000 worth of gold represented the work of

fifteen men during several months at the junction of

the Chaudiere and du Loup Rivers, and attracted con

siderable attention in England. It was exhibited at a
meeting of the Geological Society in February, on the

occasion of Sir Roderick Murchison's reading a paper on

the gold deposits of the world ; and at the close of the

paper Logan was called upon to give an account of

the mode of occurrence of gold in Canada.

    * This was one of the phosphatic nodules from Riviere Ouelle, Kamou-

raska County, found in a limestone conglomerate of the Levis formation.

In outward appearance it closely resembled a cylindrical bone.
276  FIELD-WORK AGAIN.  [i852.

   In the month of March he read a paper before the

Geological Society, and the same evening Professor
Owen read one on the Potsdam footprints. After the
papers, " there was," says Logan, "a glorious discussion."
The following month he went to visit his sister, Mrs.
Gower, at Castle Malgwyn, in Wales, spent a couple of
days among his old haunts at Swansea, where the
foundations of his geological knowledge had been laid,

and then proceeded northward to Scotland. There he
visited his brother Edmond, in Edinburgh, and his
sister Mrs. Ker, of Polmont Manse, Polmont. He also
crossed over to Belfast, in Ireland, for the express
purpose of seeing the museum there, which he had

been told would afford him many useful hints. In

May he returned to Canada, and shortly afterwards
began an examination of the region on the north side of
the St. Lawrence, between the upper end of the island
of Montreal and Cape Tourmente, and extending north
ward to the " metamorphic hills." The examination of
this region implied much more labour than might at
first be supposed; for although much of it had long
been settled, comparatively little of the topography had

ever been accurately delineated on any map, and conse
quently it became necessary to go over the whole
ground on foot, and to measure every road and line of

exploration travelled."*

     * The bearings of the roads and lines were determined by prismatic
compass, and the distances by pacing, a method of measurement which
Logan ordinarily adopted as sufficiently accurate for his purpose, but
which he found most monotonous and fatiguing. " The weariness," he

says, "resulting from the attention required to count one's paces accu
rately every day, and all day long, lor five or six months of assiduous
exploration, is best understood by those who havo made the attempt."
\} \

WF

                     5

 r .-fctofc*. ' oft
**\Y
278  A NEW MUSEUM.  [i852.

   The region explored has an area of about 3,000 square
miles, and is occupied by rocks of the fossiliferous

formations from the Potsdam to the Hudson River

inclusive. The distribution of these was accurately
determined, and several excursions were made into the

Laurentide Mountains to the north. In his report on
this season's operations, published in 1854, Logan, for the

first time, designated the rocks of these mountains as the
" Laurentian Series," substituting this for " Metamorphic
Series," the name which he had previously employed.

In his earlier reports on the palaeozoic rocks of Canada,
he adopted the nomenclature of the New York system,
without any reference to European divisions. Sub
sequently, however, following the usage of Lyell and

De Verneuil, he classed them as Lower Silurian, Upper

Silurian and Devonian. (See Dr. Hunt's Chemical and
Geological Essays, 1875, p. 420.) His friendly relations
and frequent intercourse with the great author of
" Siluria " no doubt offer sufficient explanation for
Logan's adoption of the Silurian nomenclature.

   The year was almost at its close before he left the
field and betook himself to Montreal, where plenty of
work had accumulated during his long absence. While
he was in London in the spring of 1852, his collections

had been transferred from Little St. James Street to a

building on St. Gabriel Street, which already belonged

to the Government, and which had immediately before

been occupied by the Department of Crown Lands.
Originally it had been built as a private residence by
the Hon. Peter McGill, and although not specially

designed for a museum it was a great improvement
1853-54.]  AMONG THE LAURENTIBES.  279

upon the previous one. It is evident, however, that

Logan felt that even this should be but a temporary
abiding place, and alluding to the subject in his report

for 1852-3, he says : " It may be a consideration whether

a growing country like Canada could not afford to
anticipate what its future importance may require in
the nature of a national museum, and at some time

not far distant, erect an appropriate edifice especially
planned for the purpose." The removal of the Survey

to Ottawa was, of course, not contemplated then.
   Some months were spent in the city, but when the

summer of 1853 came round, he might have been seen,
hammer in hand, among the Laurentian rocks of Gren-
ville, or the adjoining townships, beginning that series
of investigations to which, again and again, he was to
return in after years, and which was destined to inse
parably connect his name with the early geological

history of our earth. It was a rough region to which
he went-- dotted with lakes and traversed by many a
turbulent stream --with forests primeval and bogs
innumerable-- teeming with mosquitos and black flies,
but sparingly settled by man --altogether not a very

enviable place to study stratigraphy in. But Logan
was not afraid to try it ; and with indescribable toil
and untiring zeal the limestone bands were followed in
all their tortuous courses, until, little by little, what at
first must have seemed almost chaotic, grew and grew
into the order which was eventually delineated on his
beautiful map.

   The following year he does not seem to have returned
to Grenville, but to have devoted such time as the
         pitcher plant (Sarracenia purpurea, L.),
A common plant in the swamps of the Laurentidea.

                            Logan's Journal.
1866."]  AT THE PARIS EXHIBITION.  281

various distractions of his position permitted to a study
of the interesting rocks of Point Levis, opposite Quebec.
Preparations had also to be made for the approaching
Exhibition at Paris (1855), at which the Canadian
Government were anxious to have a good representa
tion of the mineral and other resources of the country.
The bringing together of a suitable collection of
minerals of course involved much thought and labour,
and in this, as in other cases, must have greatly inter
fered with the regular work of the Survey.
               CHAPTER XIII.

THE SELECT COMMITTEE ON THE GEOLOGICAL SURVEY.

                the beginning of the Geological Survey,

FROaMnnual Reports of Progress had been submitted

to the Government, and then printed for circulation.
But the circulation was very limited, and many of the
reports fell into the hands of people who made little or
no use of them. There were accordingly not a few who
felt that some steps should be taken towards ensuring a
more general diffusion of the valuable information
already accummulated by Logan and his staff. With
this object in view, a Select Committee, with power to
send for persons, papers, and records, was appointed
by the Government on the 26th. of September, 1854.
Among those who gave evidence before the Committee
at a meeting called for the purpose, in October, besides
Logan himself and T. Sterry Hunt, there were the
distinguished geologist and palaeontologist, Professor

James Hall, of the New York Survey ; Professor E. J.

Chapman, of University College, Toronto ; Alexander
Russell, Esq., of the Department of Crown Lands,

Quebec, and the Rev. Andrew Bell, of L'Orignal. In
1854 1  THE SELECT COMMITTEE.  283

the course of the examination questions concerning the
whole working of the Survey came before the Com
mittee, and the result was that they were enabled to
present to the Government a report which was highly
complimentary both to the Director of the Survey and

those associated with him. "Your Committee," so runs
the report, "think they may pronounce with confidence
that in no part of the world has there been a more

valuable contribution to geological science for such a

small outlay (hardly more than jC20,000 in all). In

confirmation of this opinion your Committee would
refer to the letter of Professor Agassiz, and the evidence
of Professor Hall, and to the opinions of scientific men
quoted by Mr. Logan and Mr. Hunt. They beg also to
add two other quotations as showing the estimation in
which our Survey is held by men of science in England

and France : ' In Canada especially there has been pro

ceeding for some years one of the most extensive and

important Geological Surveys now going on in the
world. The enthusiasm and disinterestedness of a

thoroughly qualified and judicious observer, Mr. Logan,

whose name will ever stand high in the roll of votaries

of his favourite science, have conferred upon this great
work a widespread fame. --London Quarterly Review
October, 1854.' "

   The second quotation alluded to is from Dufrenoy's
report on certain departments of the London Exhibition

of 1851, and has already been given on pages 269, 270.
   From the evidence of Professor Hall it appeared that

although the area of the State of New York was only
about one-sixth that of Canada, the annual appropria*
284         ACCURACY OF SURVEYS.              [1354.

 tion for the purposes of the Geological Survey was
 about $20,000, exclusive of the expenses of publication
of reports, which came from a different fund

    Mr. Eussell, in his evidence, testified to the import
ance and accuracy of the topographical surveys accom
plished by Logan, showing that they had been the
means of correcting many serious errors in older
surveys. "Mr. Logan," he says, "made a survey of
the River Mattawan, a tributary of the Ottawa, and

afterwards a regular survey of the same district was

made by order of the Department. The two surveys

differed by about two chains only in a distance of

thirty-eight miles ; and in his survey from the St.

Lawrence to the Baie des Chaleurs, by the Chat and

Cascapedia Rivers, a total distance of one hundred and

eleven miles, the difference between his measurements
and that ascertained by the latitudes and longitudes of

the extreme points, determined by Captain J3ayfield,
was less than a quarter of a mile. From these instances

I entertain a high opinion of Mr. Logan's accuracy as a

topographical surveyor."

Logan's own evidence before the Committee is very

interesting, and as there are probably many who have

never seen  it,   few extracts are introduced here. In
               a

reply to the question, " What are the principal diffi

culties you have met with ?" he said
   " The principal difficulties have encountered, inde
                  I
                                        :

pendently of those unavoidably incident to travelling

in canoes up shallow rivers, and on foot through the

forest, are those arising from the want of good topoa
graphical map of the country. Accurate topography
                                                    is
1854.]  TOPOGRAPHY AND GEOLOGY.  285

the foundation of accurate geology. Unless you know
the geographical position of every rock exposure that
comes before you, you cannot tell the general relations
of the whole, and you cannot make the physical
structure of a district intelligible to yourself or to
others. Without geographical position, the dip and
strike of a rock are worth nothing, and the occurrence
of a valuable mineral in two localities distant from one
another are just two isolated, unrelated facts ; while
their topographical place being known, their dip and
strike may immediately point to the probability, and
guide to the search and discovery of the same substance

in a hundred places between. It thus becomes neces

sary in unsurveyed parts of the country to measure

correctly, as I have already stated, long lines of explo

ration. But even in those parts which are settled,

neighbouring townships having been surveyed sepa

rately and independently, and often not very correctly,
it is next to impossible, in putting them together, to get
them to fit. Lots, or portions of lots, that are in juxta
position on the old maps given in to the Crown Land
Office, are not so in the field ; and in many of the old
surveys, lines in one and the same township, such as
the township of Grenville, for example, and others in

the same neighbourhood, lines that on the paper are
represented as straight, go staggering through the bush
in zig-zags that would surprise an Indian hunter. In

laying down work on such maps as these, it will be
seen that, if you have a useful mineral in two distant

localities, such a mineral, for example, as serpentine,

soapstone, slate, or such like, between which localities
286  TOPOGRAPHY AND GEOLOGY.  [1854.

the observed structure of the country tells you the
mineral mass should run in a straight line, and you
should draw such a line from one to the other on your
paper, you might represent the mineral as occurring in
lots where it was absent, and leave it out of those
where it was present. Or supposing you followed the
bed along its strike or direction from point to point,
and then placed it on the lots in which it occurred, the

result would be that the course of your mineral would
appear to have a multitude of what in this country are
termed jogs. The geological inference to be drawn

from the appearance of such on your paper would be,

that the mineral band you were representing had been

broken or dislocated by what are termed faults. The
general bearing of your band would be incorrect, and

might mislead you, if you were depending on your
result for further search ; and if a map were published

with these jogs, it would deceive geologists and mineral

surveyors at a distance in respect to the general condi
tion of the country's structure, making them think it

was a disturbed one, and proper for the search of
metalliferous veins, when it might have no such veins

in it. Such a map would be more deceiving than one

on which the railroads were laid down on the right lots

in the old Crown Land plans of which I speak. No one

would be deceived by the jogs in such a case, for the

very nature and object of a railroad would proclaim to
every one that it could not have been so located unless
the engineer had been insane. The incorrectness of

some of the topographical plans, and the fact that we do

not know which are right and which are wrong, makes
1854.]  TOPOGRAPHY AND GEOLOGY  287

it necessary for us, even in surveyed parts, to count and

register our paces over every road and line we go,
taking the bearings by prismatic compass, and register
ing in its proper place every rock seen, with its dip and
strike, and a short description of its character, and its

economic and fossil contents, if it have any. If the

measurement is on a road, a note is made of the position
where it crosses lot or concession lines, where it is

coincident with or divergent from them. A surveyor's
post is hailed by us as land is by a mariner ; it

represents a fixed point on the map, and enables us to
limit our errors, or to detect those of the surveyor, and
gives us a fresh starting point. When discrepancies are
small, we giA*e the credit of accuracy to the surveyor ;
but it often happens that no difference of short or long
in the paces is sufficient to account for them, and the

township plan is found wrong. Working in this way,
Mr. Richardson, an excellent and most diligent explorer,
last year paced 1,000 miles in the Ottawa country,
between Pembroke and Vaudreuil, keeping a register of
every step ; and by means of this pedestrian measure
ment, and township plans, he has been able to complete
a map of the whole area on the scale of an inch to a
mile, in which many discrepancies in neighbouring
townships have been reconciled, and on which is placed,
with sufficient accuracy, every rock exposure he saw.
There is a part of the area, however, in and about
Hawkesbury, which defies this mode of proceeding,
and would require a more accurate species of measure
ment to set it right. It will be easily understood that
this geographical work must unavoidably impede the
288  VOLUNTARY ASSISTANTS.  [1854.

rapidity of geological examination ; and the necessity of

so much measuremement to fix the position of rock

exposures, forces us, in order to make even a moderate

progress, to examine fewer of them, or to give to each a
shorter time than we would like, and thus, perhaps, to

overlook some of its characteristics. . . ."
   To question 76, " Do you think any material advant

age might be derived from voluntary assistants ?" --the

answer is :

   "There can be no doubt of it. In localities in their

own neighbourhood, I have received valuable informa
tion from various persons, to whom I have been careful

on all occasions to render public thanks. Among others

who have thus favoured me are Mr. Abraham, Dr.

Wilson, the Rev. Mr. Bell, Mr. Billings, and Mr. Sheriff
Dickson. An excellent vein of geological knowledge

seems to run up the Ottawa."
   The next question (77) asks, " Do you think that you

might derive much aid even from persons who are not
strictly scientific men ?"-- and the answer to this runs

as follows :

  " I am scarcely ever a day in the field in the settled

parts of the country without getting a considerable

amount of information from farmers and common

labourers, particularly among such as are not haunted

by the notion that all our researches have the precious
metals for their object. By a reference to the Report of

Geological Progress presented to the Legislature this

session, it will be perceived, at page 142, how this

immediately freezes up the fountains of communication.
The settlers on the Ottawa, it appears to me. have
: 854 .)     VOL UNTAR Y A SSISTA NTS.  289

got beyond the chance of such an epidemic, perhaps

through the influence of some of the gentlemen I have

named, and the Ottawa Citizen, which occasionally

gives them a good, sound geological leader. I have

been informed, however, that when my friend Dr.

Wilson first began his mineralogical researches, and

used to carry home large blocks of stone to his premises,

some of his neighbours imagined that, if he were not

searching for gold, no other motive could reasonably

justify his proceedings, and he might have suffered
severely in parochial estimation, had not one, more
sagacious than the rest, explained the matter to his own
satisfaction and that of the community, by announcing

that of these stones the doctor made medicine. On the

Ottawa, more than anywhere else, the settlers have

appeared to appreciate what we were about, and have

shown a readiness to give information and assistance.

Last summer I was engaged in tracing out the crystal

line limestone interstratified with the gneiss of the

Laurentian series, in various townships on the north of

the Ottawa, from Abercrombie to Grenville. After fol

lowing a wide band of the rock from the mouth of the

Calumet for five or six miles, and explaining as I went

the character of the stone to the inhabitants, who in

general did not seem to knowa iIt, came to the shanty
of Mr. McHardy. He had been       tradesman in Mont

real, and having ascertained by experiment that the

valley was underlaid by limestone, he was prepared to

give me good deal of information about its distribu
          a

tion. He informed me that this band joined one which

ran irregularly with  it,  and formed the bottom of

                             19
290  VOLUNTARY ASSISTANTS.                   [ism.

another valley to the eastward. This I had traced for

several miles, but had not come to the junction, nor had

I expected it. Making search through the bush some
days afterwards, in consequence of his information, I

found his opinion to be just, and it led me to a better

knowledge of the structure of the district, and prepared

me for what was to be expected further on. Mr.

McHardy had tried what he considered the best part of

the stone, because the hardest and least affected by the

weather, and although he had made lime from I         was

                                               it,
                                                  it
not of a satisfactory quality, being too sandy. showed
him that instead of taking the best he had taken the

worst stone, the quartz and feldspar in which proit,

duced what he called the sand, being just the portion
which prevented disintegration by the weather. The

best stone, showed him, was that which fell into
     II
grains, somewhat like salt, and, by means of my acid,

that the salt-like granular soil was almost purely calca

reous, and informed him that he had only to dig

through this, which would not be very thick, and he

would find excellent limestone below. Mr. McHardy

informed me of several exposures of the rock between

the valleys, and while clambering about a wooded
knoll above road, in search of one of them, was
     a                                 iIf
          a                                       II
joined by respectable-looking, smart old settler, who
very civilly, in an accent that let me know at once he

was from the north of Scotland, asked me what was

about. On my informing him, and explaining to him
the external appearance of the rock, and showing him

             it,                       would come
the effect of acid on he told me that

up to his place in Harrington, he would show mc miles
1854.]  VOLUNTARY ASSISTANTS.  291

of it ; that it surrounded several lakes in his neighbour

hood, and that having a small birch-bark canoe, which

was easily transported from one lake to another, we

could visit them all. I told him I would take him at

his word, and pay him for his trouble. Carrying with

me a small stock of provisions, I went up a few days

afterwards, to the residence of my Highland friend. He

is probably some distant relation of the Duke of Argyll,

for his name is William Campbell. He emigrated to

the country many years ago from the Isle of Skye,

where he pursued the calling of a fisherman, and he

has been gradually followed by a whole clan of his

relations, for each of whom in succession, as for several

of his sons, who are all grown up to manhood, he has

selected a lot of land in his own neighbourhood. Mr.

Campbell first indicated to me one or two exposures of

limestone on his own farm ; but I soon made him

understand from these and others on his neighbours'

lots, as well as the run of the stratification, that his

farm, which is an excellent one, was underlaid by the

rock from one end to the other, and it was found that

on every lot he had chosen for his relations there was

more or less of indeed, on almost every cultivated
        it,

                 ;

                      it
lot of the settlement and was not difficult to con

vince Mr. Campbell that the soil was dependent on the

limestone for its good quality. Mr. Campbell accom

panied me for upwards of  a  week before he had

exhausted all the localities in which he had at one time

or another seen the rock, within a range of eight miles

around his house, the greatest extent being on the lakes

he had mentioned, where he had ascertained every
292  PRACTICAL RESULTS.  [1854.

exposure on various fishing excursions, to which, at the

proper season, he has recourse for the purpose of
supplying his family with provision for the winter.
Mr. Campbell seemed so taken with our investigation

that he proposed to me to send him a compass, a

hammer, and a small bottle of acid, in order that he

might extend his researches. These I sent him, and he

subsequently brought me information to Montreal of
the existence of the rock in several lots in Wentworth
and elsewhere, with specimens. . . ."

   Notwithstanding the generally favourable impression
which Logan and his work had made upon the people
of Canada, there must have been many who were still
sceptical as to the advantages which the country would
derive from a Geological Survey ; who felt, no doubt,
that many facts of interest to scientific men might be
evolved, but thought at the same time that there was
little of a practical character in the work. The Com
mittee were well aware of this, and did not fail to inter
rogate Logan closely on the subject. " Can you," they
asked, " give any illustration of the manner in which a
sound scientific basis leads to practical economical
results ?" And again : " Have you in your survey had
as your principal object the establishment of new

scientific facts, or has your attention been more directed

to discovery and pointing out economic advantages ?"
From the answers to these questions we give only the

following : -
   " A considerable portion of the science of geology is

devoted to tracing out the distribution of the various

formations that come from beneath one another and
1854.]  PRACTICAL RESULTS.                                                                                                          293

spread over the surface of a country, the mode of repre

senting these being by colours on a map. What is this,
in an economic point of view, but a classification of its

surface into parts, each of which will give useful mate

rials peculiar to itself? So much is this the case that
Dr. Buckland, in his Bridgewater Treatise, has shown
that a geological map of England is a map also of the

distribution of its manufactures. Such a map will

point out the limits to be observed in searching in new
localities for materials that are known, and make every
man's discovery of any useful material, not previously
known, available to his neighbours in a hundred new

places. For example, I was informed not an hour ago

by Dr. Tache, that Mr. Gauvreau, of Quebec, has made
from some of the strata on which the city stands a very

good cement. It will immediately be seen by those
acquainted with the geology of the country that this is

a discovery not for Quebec alone, but for hundreds of
places between this and Missisquoi Bay, and for hun
dreds of places along the south side of the St. Lawrence

below this. . . ."
   " The object of the Survey is to ascertain the mineral

resources of the country, and this is kept steadily in

view. Whatever new scientific facts have resulted

from have come out in the course of what conceive

to be economic researches carried on in scientific way.
   . . Mr. Hunt's valuable contributions to the London

Philosophic Magazine and other scientific journals of
repute, on the metamorphism of rocks, are the result of

chemical analyses made to compare the constituents of
European roofing slates with those of Canada in refer
.

          it,

                                                                                    a

                                                                                                                                 1
294 PRACTICAL RESULTS. [i854.

ence to probable durability, and of other analyses with
a more scientific end, that of determing whether shale,
caught as it were in the act of metamorphosis through
contact with trap, and becoming what he has called

parophite, from its resemblance to serpentine, really con
tained the same chemical constituents in both cases.
He found that it did so. But while the economic

analyses became related to a scientific result, the

scientific analyses pointed to one that might become of
economic value. The shale was found to contain so

much potash that it would not be surprising if in some

cases such schists might turn out profitably available
for this substance.

   "The analyses of new mineral species, while they
directly regard a scientific result, must always have
an economic bearing. You cannot tell whether a new
substance is to be profitably available or not until you
have ascertained its properties. The analyses of mineral
species led to our knowledge of the lime-feld spars,

of so much agricultural importance to the Laurentian

country.
    " Thus economics lead to science, and science to

economics. The physical structure of the area exam
ined is, of course, especially attended to, as it is by means
of it that the range or distribution of useful materials,

both discovered and to be discovered, can be made

intelligible. A strict attention to fossils is essential in

ascertaining the physical structure. I have been told
that some persons, observing how carefully attentive I

endeavour to be to this evidence of sequence, have
ignorantly supposed the means to be the end, and while
1854]  FOSSIL FRIENDS.  295

erroneously giving me credit as an authority upon fossils,

have fancied economics to be sacrificed to them. In

their foolish darkness they have mistaken my rush-light

Ifor a sun. am not a naturalist. I do not describe fossils,

but use them. They are geological friends who direct

me in the way to what is valuable. If you wish infor

mation from a friend it is not necessary that you go to
him impressed with the idea that he is a collection of

bones peculiarly arranged, of muscles, nerves, arteries,
and skin, but you merely recognize his face, remember
his name, and interrogate him to the necessary end. So
it is with fossils. To get the necessary information from
them you must be able to recognize their aspect, and in
order to state your authority you must give their names.
Some tell of coal ; they are cosmopolites ; while some
give local intelligence of gypsum, or salt, or building
stone, and so on. One of them whose family name is
Cy there, but who is not yet specifically baptized, helped
us last year to trace out upwards of fifty miles of

hydraulic limestone.
   " My whole connection with geology is of a practical

character. I am by profession a miner and a metallurgist,

and for many years was one of the active managing
partners in an establishment in Wales, where we annu

ally smelted 60,000 tons of copper ore, and excavated

60,000 tons of coal. It was my constant occupation to

superintend and direct the minutest details of every

branch of the business. A due regard to my own
interests forced me into the practice of geology, and it

was more particularly to the economic bearings of the

science that my attention was devoted."
296 RECOMMENDATIONS.

   So thoroughly were the members of the Select
Committee convinced of the importance and practical
nature of the work being carried on by the Geolo
gical Survey, that they recommended the provision of
greatly increased facilities for the continuance of the
work, and a "republication of not less than 20,000
copies of the revised reports, with a coloured map."
The results of the revision of the earlier reports and the
addition of new facts acquired during the further
progress of the Survey, are to be found in the Geology
of Canada and on the beautiful geological maps to which
we shall refer later on.
               CHAPTER XIV.

       THE PARIS EXPOSITION OF 1855, AND ITS FRUITS.

WHEN the spring of 1855 arrived, Logan again found
          himself amid the final bustle of preparation for
another great exhibition. Most of his collection of
minerals had already been forwarded to Paris, and early
in the month of April he left Montreal for the same des
tination. On his way to Boston he stopped at Albany
to see Professor Hall, to whom he had confided the des
cription of those "remarkable graptolites " which had
been discovered at Point Levis during the previous
year in rocks then supposed to belong to the Hudson
River formation.* From Boston he wrote to his brother

on the 10th. of the month : " I went out to see Agassiz
to-day. Hunt and I spent two hours with him, and

dined with him and his family." The following day,
accompanied by Hunt, he sailed for England on board
the " Asia," which was crowded with passengers almost

   * Writing about these graptolites, in 1858, Professor Hall says :--
" This discovery gave, for the first time, a knowledge of the forms and
mode of growth of these fossils, of which fragmcntsand detatched branches
have for so many years been described as complete forms. Neither up to

that time, Inor so far as am aware to the present, has any evidence of the

existence of perfect forms such as these been given to the public."
298        ARRIVAL AT PARIS.                     [lass.

to overflowing. Notwithstanding that the " English

beer, the salad oil, the eggs, the fresh-fish," and sundry
other good things ran short, the voyage was a pleasant
one, and Liverpool was reached on the 23rd. of the

month. A single day was spent in London, and there
Logan's friends " were delighted to see him in such

good health and spirits."

   Convenient rooms had already been secured for the
two Canadian Commissioners* in Paris, at 35 Avenue

d'Antin, in front of the Palais de l'lndustrie, and here

Logan took up his quarters. But scarce had he arrived

in the French capital when an event occurred which

produced a most profound sensation. It was the attempt

of the Italian Pianori to assassinate the Emperor Napo

leon as he walked in the Gardens of the Tuileries, on

the 28th. of April. A meeting of the British residents,
it will be remembered, was shortly afterwards called at

the British Embassy, to vote an address of congratula
tion to the Emperor on his escape from the bullet ol

the assassin, and Logan was chosen as one of the mem

bers of the deputation appointed to present the address.

The reception of the deputation he describes in the
following letter :--

                           " 35 Avenue d'Antin,  )

"My                        " Paris, 10M. May, 1855. j

     Dear  James, --Our space in the Annexe has at

last been definitely arranged, and we have about 7,000

   * The two " Special Commissioners " from Canada were Mr. W. E. Logan
and Mr. C. C. Tache, M.P.P. A number ot other gentlemen were, however,
appointed by the Government as " Honorary Commissioners.'' For details

concerning this Exhibition, See Canada at lhe Universal Exhibition of 1855,
containing reports by Tache, &c, 4c.
1855.] THE FRENCH EMPEROR AND EMPRESS. 299

feet -- about enough to show our materials completely,
They will be all kept together in one spot, with the
exception of the machines which require motive power.
These will be in another part of the Annexe.

   " The opening is announced for the 15th. ; but the

inside arrangements will not be complete in the Palais by

that time, and in the Annexe not for a long time after.
   " The French are abominably careless in bringing the

materials to be exhibited from the coast. I have been

informed that three out of every five of the mirrors sent
by British exhibitors have been broken --many of them

utterly smashed. Among the Canadian packages, some,
by the sounds emitted from their interior, give evidence

of breakage. I hear a great rattling in one from Quebec

containing wax flowers, and broken bottles sound from

one of those from Montreal. It is fortunate that I made

such free use of barrels for my materials.
   "The deputation with the address waited on the

Emperor on Saturday last, at half-past twelve o'clock,

and of course I had a good opportunity of seeing both
the Emperor and Empress. We awaited them in a
magnificent chamber with a double row of chandeliers,

the third in the suite we passed through, and after a

delay of about a quarter of an hour, the Emperor and
Empress, with the whole Court, came through the
room on their way to the chapel. Lord Denbigh pre

sented the address without reading and the Emperoi

thanked him for in English, and in very low tone
of voice --so low that, though was not more than four

feet from him, could not clearly make out what he

said. We were then all presented in succession to
I

    it

                 I

                                     it,

                                                     a
300  OPENING OF THE EXPOSITION.                                 [i85S.

both Emperor and Empress, I being announced as

Commissioner to the Exhibition from Canada. We each
had a gracious bow and smile from the Emperor, and
then from the Empress.

   "To me it appears that the Emperor is a better
looking man than his portraits represent, and the

Empress, though like her portraits, is not quite so
striking as represented. Her features are small, and it

seemed to me that there was a slight expression of
anxiety and distress in them which detracted from her

beauty. .

  " I attended the Geological Society on Monday even

ing last, and presented a proof of the engraving of my

graptolites, giving also a vivd voce account in French of

the position in which they are found."

Notwithstanding that the arrangements were still far

from complete, the opening of the Exposition took place

on the 15th. of May. "There was, of course," writes
Logan, " a great crowd, and the whole thing was grand

and beautiful ; but a large portion of the preparation

...was intended to cover up the want of forwardness in
the arrangement of the materials.       Of course I

attended the opening as Commissioner, with Mr. Tache,

and although we were among the magnates, we had

not a very good position. A corner of one of the cases

     I

                                            it,
                                                             a
which had been covered up to conceal interrupted

our view. The Emperor and Empress, however, and

all the Court, passed close by us, and we had good

view of them.
   " At the opening met Mr. Dufrenoy, who appeared

Very glad to see me, and shook hands with me most
1855.]  HARD WORK.  301

coTdially, alluding to our conjoint work at the Exhibi

tion of 1851."
   On the 31st. of May he again wrote : " Our weather

is cold and disagreeable. It rains to-day, and a fire

would be very pleasant. I cannot say that I have been

charmed with the sky of la belle France as yet.
   "Mr. Hunt is to have a paper read before the

Institute of France on Monday next. It is to be brought

forward by Dumas, who takes a great interest in Hunt's

investigations in chemical philosophy and has given

him great praise, telling him that some of his points are

quite new and very important.

   " For the last week I have laboured hard at our cata

logue, which must be given in by the 5th. of June. It

...has kept me up until after midnight for several days.

      I have seen no sights, my whole occupation being

in connection with the work of the Exhibition."
   Owing to the general confusion of the " Annexe," it

proved impossible to complete the arrangement of the
Canadian division until late in June, although Logan

had toiled almost unceasingly. He could not be induced

to leave his work long enough to see the review of
30,000 troops in honour of the King of Portugal, but

attended the grand ball at the Hotel de Ville, at which

there were between 5,000 and 6,000 people present

On the 4th. of July he wrote to his brother James :

"The Annexe has now been open for some time, and

our division looks well. I have been intensely occu

pied colouring a geological map, and am nearly worn

out. Last Monday night I did not go to bed until two

o'clock, and then got up again at four. . . . Mr. Hunt
302  ROYAL VISITORS AT PARIS.           [ius.

has been made an Associate Juror, by which means I

hope to have the Canadian minerals properly repre
sented. He has made two communications to the

Academy. One of his papers was read by himself, and
the other was presented by Mr. Dumas. He has also
made two communications to the Geological Society.

He was elected a member of the Society the first time
of his appearance at their meetings."

   In the month of August the Queen, Prince Albert,

and the young Prince of Wales, visited Paris, and of
course went to the Exposition. Accompanied by the
Emperor, Her Majesty passed through the Canadian
Court, and Logan, who was there at the time, refers to
the occasion in the following letter :--

           " Canadian Section, Industrial Exhirition, )

"My        "Paris, 30(A. August, 1855.  )

     Dear  James, -- I have regularly received your

weekly communications up to this time, but have not

written to you now for several posts. The fact is I am

so constantly occupied with worrying matters of small

detail that I never can find a moment of repose, and yet
when all is finished, I cannot see what I have been

doing.

   " Hart, Edmond, and Eliza, are here just now, and

have been since last Tuesday week. Of course I have

endeavoured to spend as much time with them as possi

ble, and this has been a slight relaxation for the period.

They, like the rest of the world, have seen some of the

proceedings of the Queen's visit, and were in the Cana

dian division when Her Majesty passed through. But

for all that relates to the Queen's visit, I must refer you
1855.]  BOLDNESS REWARDED.  303

to the newspapers. No doubt you will take notice of
Mr. Logan's dialogue with the Queen. It did not
happen quite as Galignani's Messenger gives it ; for it

began by my addressing Her Majesty, instead of Her

Majesty me. This perhaps was somewhat contrary to

etiquette, and one of our honorary Commissioners told

Ime that had been un pen audacieu. There was no
one, however, to present me, and if I had not spoken

without presentation, nothing would have been said at

all, and Her Majesty would have had no opportunity of

saying what she did touching the Canadian section, and

of thus pleasing the Canadians.

   " You will see that in the Times report, the Commis

sioners waiting on Prince Albert at his levee are said to

have been very frank. This, I have no doubt, arises
from the anecdote I gave to Prince Albert showing how

little Canada was known in France. A respectable

Frenchman said to me, ' Le Canada est en Peru, n'esl-ce

   In the month of October Logan went over to London
to confer with the authorities at Sydenham Palace, and
ascertain what they were willing to do in the way of a
permanent exhibition of Canadian products. He had

already been given to understand that they were desir
ous of obtaining a portion of the collection exhibited at
Paris, and, in common with many others, felt that no
disposal of these articles could be made which would
be productive of greater good to Canada, Many of
them were eventually sent there ; others found their
way into the Conservatoire des Arts et Metiers, the
Jardin des Plantes, the ficole des Mines, &c., and a good
304   CHEVALIER AND KNIGHT.                     fi855.

many were sold or returned to the exhibitors. Attend

ing to the packing up and distribution of these things

necessarily occupied a good deal of time, and it was

about the 20th. of December before Logan was able

finally to leave Paris. Some time before this, however,
the rewards for all his hard work in connection with
the Exhibition had begun to pour in upon him. " You

will see by the newspapers," he writes to his brother on
the 22nd. of November, " that I have got a Grand Gold
Medal of Honour for my map and minerals, and that I
have been presented by the Emperor with the Cross of
the Legion of Honour. This is as much as I could

possibly get at the Exhibition, so that personally you

must know that I am content." But if the Emperor of

the French had made him a Chevalier of the Legion of

Honour, a greater distinction awaited him at the hands

of his own Sovereign. This he announces to his brother
in the following letter :--

                          " 35 Avenue d'Antin.  1

                          j"Paris, 20th. November, 1855.

" My  Dear  James, -- We  have nearly wound up our

affairs here. We are packing up those things which

are to be returned to Canada, and those which are to

be exhibited at Sydenham Palace. There are a few

things also which we are sending over to London for

sale there. . . .

   " It has been intimated to me from the Home Office

in London that my name has been submitted to Her

Majesty for knighthood, and Her Majesty has been

pleased to signify her pleasure to confer on me that

dignity, for services rendered at the Exhibitions of 1851
1855-se.]  THE WOLLASTON MEDAL.  305

and 1855. You need not tell any one this, lest some

slip should take place between the cup and the lip.

But I have been requested to call at the Home Office in
order that I may be informed when I can be presented

...--which it is probable may be before I return to Canada.

      I see by the newspapers that my friend Mr.

Dawson has been regularly installed as Principal of

McGill College. He will be a support to the Survey,
for he is really a man of science. --Yours truly,

                                                     " W. E. Logan.

    On the 29th. of* January, Logan was knighted by the
Queen at Windsor, and afterwards enjoyed the privilege
of paying to the Fee Fund Commissioners "the Fees

of Honour due to the Officers and Servants of Her

Majesty's Household." About this time also, he was

informed at a meeting of the Geological Club that the
Palladium or Wollaston Medal--"the greatest honour
the Geological Society has to bestow" --had been
awarded to him. The public announcement of this-

was to take place at the annual meeting of the Society

several weeks later, but Logan felt that he could not

remain for this occasion, as he had already been absent

from Canada for nearly a year. In his absence, how

ever, Sir Roderick Murchison received the medal for

him. Mr. W. Hamilton was then the President of the

Geological Society, and after he had pointed out in an

eloquent eulogium the grounds on which the Council
had awarded the Wollaston Medal to Sir William
Logan, Sir Roderick Murchison replied :--

   " Sir, --As Sir William Logan was in the earlier part

of his scientific career a distinguished contributor to the

                                                                 20
306  THE WOLLASTON MEDAL.  Li8se.

British Geological Survey, and as my lamented prede
cessor, Sir Henry De la Beche, had formed the highest
opinion of his capacity, it naturally gives me sincere
pleasure to be the medium of transmitting to him this

Wollaston Medal.
   "Although the Atlantic has subsequently separated

us for most of the period during which our medallist
was occupied in successfully advancing geological
science in his native country, Canada, it has been a
source of true gratification to me to observe the very
able manner in which he has elaborated the full and

accurate succession of the most ancient rocks of the

vast regions he has surveyed, and how clearly he has
separated the great series of fundamental, sedimentary,
unfossiliferous rocks termed Laurentian, or Cambrian,
from those Silurian rocks which, in common with all
geologists of the United States until the present
moment, he has placed in parallel with the Lower as
well as the Upper Silurian of Britain and Europe.

   " The skilful manner in which he has followed out
the course of these ancient Silurian deposits from their

undisturbed and unbroken sequence over vast tracts in
the West, to the sea-board or Eastern region of North
America, where they have been contorted, broken up,

metamorphosed and mineralized, will doubtless be

considered among the most remarkable labours of our

honoured associate !

   " Whilst in his younger days he established, by close
and repeated observations, that natural history constant
to which you have so justly alluded, and which has
enabled us to read off the true history of the greater
1856.]  THE WOLLASTON MEDAL.  307

number of coal-fields, his maps and sections illustrating
the structure of the Canadas, prepared in the vast

wilds of that country, amidst hardships and privations

unknown to European explorers, will be the imperish

able records of his fame as a practical geologist.
   "The devotion and untiring energy with which he

arranged, developed and explained the natural produc
tions of Canada, first at the great British Exhibition of

1851, and recently at the grand Exposition of France,

have obtained for him honours both from his own

gracious Sovereign and from the Emperor of the French,

and I have now only to assure you, sir, that no one of
these well-merited honours will be more highly esti

mated by him than the marked approbation of his

brother geologists in bestowing upon him their highest
distinction, the Wollaston Medal."

   On the 21st. of February, Murchison wrote to Logan
telling him about the meeting. "Our anniversary,"
he says, "went off well, and in no respect better
than in the acknowledgment of your services, by all

concerned.

  " I was asked to take the Wollaston Medal for you,

and previous to delivering it to me Hamilton enume

rated with due praise all your doings. In my reply I

took care to allude specially to what he did not touch
upon, your success at the Exhibitions. As you may like

to hear what I did say, I send you a copy of my little
speech (as it will be printed).

  " I took care, as you see, to vindicate my Lower as

well as Upper Silurian, and called you to my defence
over large regions of North America, as well as all your
308  HONOURS AT HOME.  [me.

 American (United States) precursors ; Rogers sitting
 opposite !

   "His general map, as just issued or issuing by

...A. Keith Johnston, has hurt my feelings exceedingly.
       It is very offensive to ignore Lower Silurian

altogether, and to call the Llandeilo rocks Cambrian !
Besides this fundamental begging of the whole question
and the slicing off from me of half of my original rocks,
he has coloured all the Arctic and northern region as
Cambrian, where every one knows it is Upper Silurian.

   " I should like to see your Wollaston announced in

the manner of my enclosed document in your Canadian

journals. I enclose the medal to your Governor, who

is an old acquaintance of mine.

  " If you hit upon any good things in re Siluriana. let

me know of them. --Yours very sincerely,
                                "Roderick I. Murchison."

   It was late in February when Logan reached Canada,

where he would gladly have been allowed to retire to
his museum for a time to commune with his rocks and

fossils. But his fame had preceded him, and now he

was not to be left without honour in his own country,
the interests of which he had done so much to advance
while abroad. Dinners, addresses, testimonials, congra
tulations, were in store for him, and again and again he
was to go through that ordeal of speech-making which
his nervousness always made him look forward to with

dread.

   The Geological act passed in 1850 had expired, and
shortly after his return from Paris we find him at
Toronto, doing all in his power to urge on the passage
1856.]  AT TORONTO.  309

of the new bill making provision for more extended

operations of the Survey. On the 22nd. of March he

writes from Toronto: "I am busy making out my

accounts connected with the Paris Industrial Exhibi

tion. At the same time I am constantly interrupted by
visitors, and my progress is but slow. I am sitting for

my picture to be painted for the Toronto Institute. To
aid the artist and enable him to work with as few

sittings as possible, a photograph has been taken of me

to-day. I understand the Toronto Institute intend to

present me with an address some time when they have

a meeting, and when they do so I am sure I shall not

be able to find much to reply. . . .
    " Mr. Langton tells me he thinks that all things con

sidered, there is no doubt the geological act will be

passed, and he says that Mr. McDonald, the Attorney-

General West, has promised to take it in hand ; but I
suspect it will require great looking after.

   " The day after my arrival, which was Monday, I had

an interview with the Governor, and an invitation to

dine with him and Lady Head in a quiet way. He put

into my hands the Wollaston Medal which had been

forwarded to him by Sir Roderick Murchison."

   The hanging of Sir William's portrait and the presen
tation of the address took place on the fifth of April.

The address was read by the President, Mr. G. W. Allan,
who introduced it with the following remarks :--

   " Gentlemen, -- Before proceeding to the other busi

ness of the evening, we have a gratifying duty to

discharge to the distinguished and honoured guest who
is with us to-night. You are all aware that our resolu
310  A TRIBUTE FROM TORONTO.  [i85<$.

 tion to adopt some special mode of marking our sense of

 the valuable services rendered to Canada by the eminent
 geologist who first filled the office of President of this
 Institute, had been fully considered and recorded before

 the pleasing intelligence reached us that the valuable
labours of Sir William Logan, in the cause of science,

had been honoured by a distinguished mark of the
favour of his Sovereign; and that so soon as we had
ascertained that his return to Canada, for which he had
done so much, might soon be expected, it was unani
mously resolved that we, the members of the Canadian
Institute, should take the first opportunity, as a body,
to tender him our congratulations on his well-merited
honours ; and further, that we should request him to
sit for his portrait, to be hung up here as a lasting
memorial of one to whose name we could always point
with pride and satisfaction, as the first Canadian who
has achieved for himself an European reputation in the
world of science. And now, Sir William, with your

permission, I shall proceed to read the address, on
behalf of myself and my brother members, which I am

sure is not the language of mere formal compliment,
but is sincerely expressive of the feelings of affectionate
esteem and respect entertained towards you by every

member of this Institute."

                                   ADDRESS
" To Sir William Edmond Logan, F. R. 8., F. G. S., &c, &c,

        " Canadian Provincial Geologist :
   " "We, the President, Council, and Members of the
Canadian Institute beg to offer you our cordial welcome
on your return to Canada, after the successful comple
1856.]  ADDRESS AT TORONTO.  311

tion of your labours on behalf of the Province at the
Parisian Crystal Palace, and to tender to you our most
hearty congratulations on the high, but justly merited,
honours with which it has pleased Her Majesty to mark
her sense of your distinguished merits as the foremost
in the ranks of scientific men in this Province of the

Empire.
   " We rejoice in the fresh evidence which your reception

of the distinguished honour of knighthood affords, of
our full share, as Canadians, in all the honours and

privileges which pertain to the members of the United
Empire ; while we feel a peculiar gratification, as
members of this Institute, in hailing as the recipient of
one of the highest distinctions conferred on men of
science by the British Sovereign, one on whom the first
choice of this Institute fell to fill its presidential chair.

   "In now adorning our hall of meeting with your

portrait, permit us to assure you that while our estimate
of your distinguished rank as a scientific geologist, and
your disinterested and indefatigable zeal in all that can

develope the resources and promote the true interests of

Canada, cannot be affected by any distinctions conferred
on you, we fully sympathize in the just pride which
you must feel in being made a recipient of the
same honours which British sovereigns have already
employed to mark with peculiar distinction the intel
lectual achievements of a Newton, a Davy, a Brewster,
a Lyell, and a Murchison. Nor can we withhold the
expression of our congratulations on other no less

merited honours, and especially on your receipt, by the
award of your scientific brethren, of the "Wbllaston
312  REPLY TO ADDEESS.  [im

 Medal one of the highest marks of distinction with
 which they could testify their sense of the rank you
 have achieved in your labours as a Canadian geologist.

    " In the same spirit we now seek to confer on you

 such evidences of out appreciation of your successful
 labours in the cause of science as it is in our power to

 bestow ; and, humble as is out position in relation to

 science, we venture to hope that our cordial congratu

lations will not be the less acceptable that they are

 addressed to the most distinguished among the scientific

 men of Canada, by a Canadian Institution."-
    Sir William Logan then replied :--

   " Mr. President, -- I am very grateful to yourself, to

the Council, and to the members of the Canadian Insti

 tute, for the very flattering manner in which you have
been pleased to speak of me in your address --for your
kind welcome, and for the congratulations which you
offer me, on my success in France and in England.

Whatever distinctions, however, may be bestowed on

us at a distance, it is upon the respect, esteem, and con

fidence shown us at home that our happiness and

satisfaction must chiefly depend. I can assure you,

with sincerity, that the honour conferred upon me
when you elected me the first President of the Institute
was one highly prized, although the circumstances of a
distant domicile, and the intent pursuit of the investi

gations with which I am charged, rendered it extremely

difficult for me to be of much use in your proceedings.

And I feel it as no slight compliment that you should

place a memento of me by the side of my friend, and

much more worthy successor, Colonel Lefroy, whose
1856.]  MEPLY TO ADDRESS.  313

constant exertions in the exact observation of meteoro

logical phenomena have tended so greatly to spread the

name of Toronto in the scientific world. It is a fortu

nate circumstance for me that my name should be
connected with an act of grace on the part of Her
Majesty, which serves to confirm your feeling in regard
to the fact that as Canadians we enjoy a full share in

the honours and privileges of British subjects ; and

I am proud to think that it was, perhaps, more because
I was a Canadian in whom the inhabitants of the

Province had reposed some trust, that the honour

which has been conferred upon me by Her Majesty

was so easily obtained. That I am proud of the

honours which have been bestowed upon me by the
Emperor of France, in respect to my geological labours,

and also by my brother geologists in England, there can

be no doubt. But I have striven for these honours
because I considered that they would tend to promote

the confidence which the inhabitants of the Province

have reposed in me, in my endeavours to develope the

truth in regard to the mineral resources of the Pro
vince; and in this work none could have been more

interested in my success than the members of this

Institute. We have on the other side of the hall an

evidence of the interest taken by the Institute in the

Geological Survey, and you have, in publishing what
appears within that frame, published the one-half of

what is included in the enlarged map which I presented

to the Exhibition at Paris. You have in it the whole of the

geology of Canada, as far as it is at present understood,

and I think it will, perhaps, not be disagreeable to you
314  A GEOLOGICAL DIGRESSION.                                             [im.

that I should submit a short account of its leading

features."

   The map alluded to by Logan as hanging up on
the "other side of the hall," was a small geological
map, which had been published some time before
in the Journal of the Institute, to illustrate a paper
by him "On the Physical Structure of the Western
District of Upper Canada." On the opposite side of

the hall hung the large geological map of the whole
Province, which had been exhibited at Paris.* In
commenting upon this, Sir William called attention to
the conformity of the physical structure of the country
to its geography ; to the difference in conditions between
the eastern and western troughs of North America
which run through Canada ; and to the absence of the
Lower Silurian between the Laurentian and Upper
Silurian on the north side of the "granite ridge" --
showing the existence of land to the north, while the
Lower Silurian deposits were accumulating to the

south.

   On the day following, he wrote to his brother :--

                                                               "Toronto, 6th. April, 1856.

   " My Dear James, --The hanging of my picture and

the presentation of an address to me by the Canadian

Institute came off last evening. I am sorry to say that
I made but a poor exhibition in my reply. I was so

   * A sum of money had been voted by the Canadian Legislature among
the contingencies of 1854 for the publication of a geological map of
Canada, and Logan had gone so far as placing the one exhibited at Paris

in the hands of an engraver there. It had, however, been rather hurriedly

prepared, and after his return to Canada, he made up his mind to abandon

    and to undertake the construction of new one.
it,
                                                                       a
1856.]  DISLIKE OF SPEECH-MAKING.                          315

agitated that I could scarcely speak, and it was with
great difficulty that I could bring to my mind what I

had prepared to say ; and really I do not know exactly
whether I did utter what I intended. After my reply I

endeavoured to explain some of the features of my map

which was hung up in the room, but I could not get

over my nervousness, and almost stuck in my descrip

tion for the want of a simple word, which would not

come to my mind. Heaven help me if I am agitated in

this way on Saturday next, as I shall in that case make
Ifa great mess of the matter.
                                        speech-making is to

become a consequence of distinction, I shall soon wish

distinction far off. I very much fear that repeated

attempts would soon be the death of me.

  "I must, however, get through and
                                        it,

                                               I

                                                        I
                                         hope by and

by to be left in peace to go on with my survey.            am

informed that the Council have determined to take up

the Geological bill, but do not know when they will
                                  it I
introduce into the House, and fear that were to go
        it                               I

away they would forget altogether."

The occasion to which he here looked forward with

dread on account of his being expected to make another

speech, was the complimentary dinner which was ten

dered to him by the citizens of Toronto on the 12th.

of April. In letter written to his brother James,

    few days after the dinner, he says " am so
a                                        :
                               a
                                            I

                                                  I
much occupied with one thing and another that can

scarcely find time to sit down and quietly write to any

body. You may suppose that the dinner which was

given me last Saturday kept me somewhat uneasy for

several days beforehand.          I     made but little preparation
316         NEW GEOLOGICAL BILL.  [i856.

as to the manner in which I should say what I had to

say, but the ideas or subjects of my discourse came

several times before me. The Governor spoke remark

ably well, and what he said was to the point. I did

not feel in the slightest degree embarrassed when my

turn came, though I was a little nervous. I had deter

mined not to attempt anything fine, but to say in a
quiet, natural manner what I considered judicious.
...Most people appear to think that I succeeded pretty
well.       I am looking after my geological bill, but it

is difficult to get the Government to act. Mr. Attorney-
General McDonald has it in hand. The bill has been

adopted by the Government, I believe, in all its details.

The sum is to be £5,000, and the time five years.

There appeared, however, to be a little hesitation the

other day about the five years, as I judge from a word

dropped by Mr. McDonald, and I must get my friends

to keep the Government to the time. . . .

  " I have dined out nearly every day since I have been

here--twice with Professor Chapman, with the Bishop

of Toronto, with Mr. Mowat, twice at Government

House, with Mr. Adamson, Mr. Killaly, Mr. Gzowski,

several times with Mr. Robinson, with Mr. Stayner, and

...others. To-day I am engaged with Mr. Moffat, and
to-morrow at Government House.  I wish my bill

were passed, and I could get away and be quiet down

with you."

But although he did soon get to Montreal, the hoped

for quiet was not obtained ; for another round of enter

tainments and addresses awaited him. On the 20th. of

May a soiree was given in his honour by the Natural
1856.]  ADDRESS AT MONTREAL.  317

History Society of Montreal, at the rooms on Little St.
James Street, and in the course of the evening the
following address was presented to him :--

                                   ADDRESS

" To Sir William Edmond Logan, Knight, F. R. S., LL. D., <tc,

            "dec, Chevalier of the Legion of Honour, Director of the
           " Geological Survey of Canada:

   " SiK, -- It is with feelings of sincere pleasure, mingled
with no small degree of pride, that we, the President
and Members of the Natural History Society of Mont
real, welcome you as our guest on the present occasion.
We have invited you here this evening, not merely
from a sense of duty, nor in consideration of the honour
your presence would confer upon us, but likewise for
the purpose of testifying publicly the interest which
we, as a scientific institution, have always taken in your

increasing, indefatigable labours to advance the cause

of geological science in Canada. It is for this latter

reason that the opportunity now presented of acknow
ledging your valuable services both to science and our
country affords us unfeigned gratification. As Director
of the Geological Survey of this Province, you have
laboured for a long series of years with unremitting zeal

and assiduity ; and if your untiring efforts have sur

mounted the many difficulties of a scheme in its nature
so extensive and gigantic, and have at length met with
that success to which they are so justly entitled, we
rejoice to think that the rewards, so honourably gained,

have been acquired by one whom Canada claims not
only as her brightest ornament in science, but as her

honoured and cherished son.
318  ADDRESS AT MONTREAL.  [i856.

    " Limited as have been the means hitherto placed at
your disposal in order to carry out your investigations,
you have nevertheless, by skilful economy, and at
much personal sacrifice, succeeded in bringing to light
the valuable internal resources of our country, and of
raising our Province to that high and important posi
tion which it now holds in foreign estimation. That
the Provincial Legislature has appreciated your past
labours, and is convinced of the necessity of con
tinuing the noble work under your guidance, is
abundantly proved by the munificent grant of the
present session towards the Geological Survey ; and
we believe this is but an echo of the mind of an

intelligent public.

   " Your unwearied efforts when in London and Pari-
on two memorable occasions, have been acknowledged
in a manner which must be very gratifying to you, and
while we congratulate you upon the high honours
received at the hands of our most gracious Queen and
of His August Majesty the Emperor of the French, we
are no less rejoiced to know that Science, from its

loftiest throne, has not omitted to present to you the
highest tributes of praise, and its rarest token of reward

in acknowledgment of your valuable researches and
discoveries in one of its most interesting and important
departments. The value of such honours can only be
measured by the severe toils and hardships of those

mental and bodily labours which have so happily
gained them ; and our humble prayer is that you may
long live to enjoy these rewards, and to continue to

prosecute those researches which will prove lasting
1856]  TESTIMONIAL.                  319

memorials of your talents and perseverance, and be of

permanent benefit to the country.

  "In thus tendering you our hearty congratulations,

we beg respectfully to present you with the highest

mark of esteem and recognition our Society can bestow
-- namely, the Diploma of Honorary Member of the

Natural History Society of Montreal.

                                   " F. Montreal, President.*
                                   "A. N. Rennie, Rec. Sec.
   " Montreal, 20th. May, 1856."

    Many of the citizens of Montreal were also desirous
of testifying in some marked way to their appreciation
of the services which Logan had rendered to the Pro

vince, and of giving expression to their high estimation

of his labours in the field of science. In the thirteen

years during which he had directed the Canadian Sur
vey, he had in every way identified himself with the
interests of his native city, and had endeared himself
to all who had come into personal contact with him.

No doubt there were those who felt that any attempt
to add to the lustre of his European reputation would
be like gilding refined gold ; but those who knew him
best knew well that any mark of the appreciation
and sympathy of his fellow-townsmen was sure to be

gratifying to him. It was accordingly resolved to
present him with a testimonial, and, after much dis
cussion, a massive silver fountain, engraved with

designs illustrating the palajontology of the Carbon
iferous era, was decided upon. The fountain rested

* The late lamented Bishop Fulford.
320 PRESENTATION OF TESTIMONIAL [i859.

upon a pedestal of ebony, intended to represent a bed

of coal, and on one of the faces of the pedestal was a
plate with the following inscription :--

             In commemoration of

   His long and useful services as
Provincial Geologist in Canada,

and especially his valuable services in connection with the

                Exhirition of All Nations

in London in 1851, and in Paris in 1855,

             by which he not only obtained

higher honour and more extended reputation,

             but largely contributed in

making known the natural resources of his native country,

Sir WILLIAM       This Testimonial was

                        Presented to
             E. LOGAN, Knight, F. B. 8., F.G.S., LL. D.,

by many of the inhabitants of Montreal,

desirous of marking their respect and esteem for

one of the most distinguished of

              their fellow-citizens.

             Montreal, Jclv, 1856.

   On the other sides of the pedestal were designs repre
senting the varied vegetation of the Carboniferous period.

   Owing to numerous delays, the testimonial did not
arrive from London, where it was designed and made,
until August, 1858. Sir William being then absent in

the field, the presentation was necessarily postponed,

and did not take place till some time in March, 1859

The Hon. George Mofiatt presided on the occasion, and
the Right Rev. the Lord Bishop of Montreal acted as
the representative of the Committee of the subscribers,
and in the name of the citizens presented their gift to
Sir William, whom he addressed in graceful terms of

congratulation.

   In acknowledging the gift, Sir William said :--

  "It is a great satisfaction to me that I should receive
 1859.] ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF TESTIMONIAL. 321

 from so many of the inhabitants of my native city so
 distinguished a mark of their regard and approbation,
 and that it should come through the hands of so eminent
 and respected a citizen as your Lordship, and in the
 Hall of the Natural History Society, whose members
 have already bestowed on me the highest honour within

their power. If in the Exhibitions of London and

 Paris I was any way instrumental in extending a know

 ledge of the material resources of Canada, it was chiefly
 of those more immediately connected with the geologi

cal investigation with which I am charged. In respect
to other materials, my exertions, I fear, would have

 been of little avail, without the practical experience of
those associated with me in the management of the
 Canadian contributions. Those exhibitions involved a
very practical purpose, and seeing that what may be
called mineral manufactures had extended but little in

this country, I rejoiced in the opportunity offered of

placing before the eyes of European judges some of
the results of the Geological Survey, persuaded that
although we could not show that we possessed the
skill requisite to give all our metallic ores and useful
rocks the various ultimate forms of which they were
capable, we should at least convince the world that
Canada contained in her subsoil vast stores of mineral

materials that would hereafter become available for the
support of native industry. The mere specimens exhi

bited, however, would have been an ineffectual means

of attaining the object had they not been accompanied
by a geological map showing that geographical distri
bution of the formations from which the minerals were

                                                                           21
322 ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF TESTIMONIAL. [1859.

derived --thus making at once intelligible the position
and abundance of those things of which the specimens

merely displayed the nature. Successful, however, as
our geological contribution proved to be, there was one
branch of the subject in which we were deficient : our
fossils had not been arranged or described, and it was,
in consequence, impossible for us to prove the sequence
of our rocks from their position, except by an assertion

that was not disputed. I am not myself a naturalist, to

describe fossils. For many years of my life engaged in
the active pursuits of a practical miner for coal, and a

practical smelter of copper from its ores, my connection
with geology relates more to the application of mate

rials. But I well know the value of fossils as an indis

pensable means of research, and unless Canadian fossils

are properly described, Canadians will never thoroughly

understand their own economic minerals, or even suffi

ciently know them to protect themselves from imposi

tion ; nor will the study of Canadian minerals enter
into the educational systems of the country. In the

form given to the testimonial which you do me the
honour to present to me, it is gratifying to me to
observe typified a discovery which, in my pursuit as

practical collier, I was so fortunate as to make, by

which coal and its associated fossils were drawn into
closer relation than had ever been known before. By it
the practical researches for coal were greatly facilitated ;

and, as a practical collier, I can assure you that it is
only in a knowledge of the differences that exist
between such kinds of fossils as this testimonial indi

cates, and others of a distinct description of organisms,
1859] ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF TESTIMONIAL. 323

that you have the most certain means of discriminating
between the coal of Newcastle and that of Bowmanville.
One pleasing circumstance that attaches to this testi
monial is, that amongst those presenting it there are so
many engaged in the practical business pursuits of life.

It gives me an assurance that they are convinced of the
usefulness of geological investigations ; and I beg to
assure you that, as marking the good-will of so many of

my fellow-citizens, I shall always regard it with feel

ings of satisfaction and pride."
                         CHAPTER XV

    AMERICAN ASSOCIATION. --LAURENTIAN. --QUEBEC

                                              GROUP

EARLY in 1856 the idea suggested itself to some of the

       members of the Montreal Natural History Society
of inviting the American Association for the Advance
ment of Science to cross the boundary and hold its
eleventh meeting in the following year on British soil.
The idea was, to say the least, a bold one, considering
the small number of scientific devotees to be found in
the commercial city of Montreal. There were those,
moreover, who said " that the American members
would never consent to the association assembling on
this side the line of 45°, and it was strongly urged, cer
tainly with more of truth than poetry in the argument,
that for the Natural History Society, a paralysed, help
less, and almost hopeless institution, struggling hard
for its very existence, to invite an association so active
and energetic, so distinguished and so full of vitality,
would not only be a shock to modesty, but a proceeding

which, if favourably received, would place the society
1856.]  AMERICAN ASSOCIATION.  325

 in the most awkward difficulty of providing ways and
 means in accordance with its obligations to accommo

 date and entertain the association so invited."

    This was the opinion of a few, but they were soon
 silenced, and it was resolved to send a deputation to

 the Albany meeting in 1856, fully empowered to invite
 the Association to hold its next meeting at Montreal, in
 August, 1857. But the Montreal delegates found that
they were not the only ones in the field, for Baltimore
 had sent a worthy representative, who strongly urged
the claims of his city. The permanent committee de
clined to decide between the opposing claimants, but

the question being put to the Association at large, the
meeting gave its voice in favour of Montreal.

    The labour entailed in making preparations for such

a gathering can only be understood by those who have

had the work to do. A local committee, composed of

many of Montreal's most influential citizens, was ap
pointed, with Sir William Logan as chairman, and

everything was done to ensure a successful meeting.
The Canadian Government contributed £500 to assist
in the celebration, and Sir Edmund Head, the Governor,
took a most lively interest in the undertaking. Owing
to absence in England he was prevented from taking
part in the proceedings, and the duty of welcoming
the Association to the Province devolved upon Sir
William Eyre, the temporary administrator of the
Government.

   Logan's duties in connection with the exhibitions
of London and Paris had sadly interfered with the
progress of the museum on St. Gabriel Street,
326  ELKANAH BILLINGS.  [1856.

 and now the approaching advent of so many men

of science to Montreal, made him feel that if the

 results of his geological work were to be understood

 or appreciated, it would be absolutely necessary to

have his large geological collections displayed to

the best advantage. From the very commencement

 of the Survey he had been obliged to depend almost

wholly upon outside aid for the determination and

 description of fossils. He had, however, long felt that

if the Survey was to make proper progress, it would

be absolutely necessary that a skilful palaeontologist

should be added to the staff. For several years prior
to 1856 he had kept up a correspondence with the

late Mr. Elkanah Billings, then a resident of Bytown
By profession a barrister, Billings had gradually be

come so enamoured of the study of natural history as

to finally abandon the legal calling and devote himself

exclusively to the pursuit of science. On the 29th. of

February, 1856, he wrote to Sir William : " I have

abandoned my profession and intend to devote the rest .

of my life to the study of natural history. I have com

menced the publication of this magazine partly as a

means of subsistence, and partly for the purpose of

arousing, if possible, the youth of this country to pur

suits for which they have everywhere most unrivalled

facilities. I am well aware that I shall have great
difficulties to encounter, but I can overcome them as I

have done others." The magazine to which Mr. Bil

lings alludes was of course the " Canadian Naturalist,"

of which he was not only the originator, but also,

during the first year of its existence, the proprietor and
1856-57.]  elkanas Killings.  327

editor. Most of his time for several years had been de
voted to the collection of the organic remains of the
Lower Silurian rocks near Bytown, and he had in 1854
published a paper in the Journal of the Canadian Insti
tute of Toronto, " On some genera and species of

Cystidea from the Toronto limestone." Altogether Sir
William felt that the Survey would be greatly strength

ened if he could secure the services of Mr. Billings ;

and accordingly on the 7th of June, 1856, he addressed
a letter to the Provincial Secretary, strongly urging his

appointment. Fortunately the recommendation was
approved of, and in the following August Mr. Billings

took up his residence in Montreal, and began his duties
as palaeontologist to the Survey, a post which he most

ably filled for twenty years.*

   In the present emergency his services were invalu

able to Logan, and the immediate naming and classifi
cation of a large proportion of the Government collec
tion of fossils was rendered possible. Sir William him

self worked early and late at the museum, and by the
time of the meeting of the Association everything was
in excellent order, and the collection attracted much
attention. One of the principal objects of attraction in
the city," says a writer in Silliman's Journal, " was the
Geological Museum, containing the collections made

in the course of this survey. It was remarkable for

the extent and variety of rock specimens, and the great

number and beauty of the fossils ; no geological survey

   * For the above facts concerning Mr. Billings the writer is indebted to

an excellent obituary notice from the pen of Mr. J. F. Whiteavej, F.Q.8.,

published in the Can. Nat., Ser. 2, Vol. viii., p. 251.
328 AMERICAN ASSOCIATION.  [1857.

on this or any other continent has been carried forward
with greater energy or skill."

   At the meeting the Geological Society of London
was represented by Professor (now Sir A. C.) Ramsay,
the Linnean Society by Dr. Berthol Seaman, and the
physical science of Great Britain by Professor Kelland,
of Edinburgh. Sir William Hooker and Sir Roderick
Murchison were both expected, but to the regret of
all concerned it proved impossible for them to come.
Murchison was intensely desirous of visiting America,

but seems to have dreaded the heat of Montreal in August.

                                                       "London, April 12JA., 1857.

" My Dear Logan, -- This letter will be delivered to

you by Mr. Gould, the celebrated ornithologist, who,

accompanied by his son, is just setting off for a rapid

...journey through Canada and part of the States. Pray
receive them well.  I heard of your grand festival

which is to come off at Montreal through Ramsay, and

almost expected that you would have written to the

Old Siluria himself to tempt him with baits of Lower
and Upper Silurian -- to him irresistible.

  " I really have had the strongest yearning to go to
North America, and see before I died such a splendid

field of my old rocks as the Canadas and the United

States afford. But they frighten me about the heat,

which they say will be intolerable at Montreal in

August. Write to me about it. Ramsay ought cer

tainly to go, whether I can or not. The cry of justice
to Ireland will, I fear, compel the Director General to

be in the way. --Ever yours sincerely,

                    "Roderick I. Murchison."
1857-58.]  GEOLOGICAL PAPERS.  329

   In July, Murchison again wrote to Logan, expressing
his regret at being unable to go to Montreal. This

letter, however, was essentially a paper on the " Crys
talline Rocks of the North Highlands of Scotland," and

was read at the meeting of the Association, and subse
quently printed in full in the Canadian Naturalist (Vol.
ii., p. 262). Sir William himself read two interesting
papers, one on the " Huronian and Laurentian Series
of Canada," and another on the " Sub-division of the

Laurentian Rocks of Canada." At the conclusion of the

meeting, which proved a most successful one, he
induced Professor Ramsay to accompany him on a tour
through part of Canada, and also to visit the classic
geological ground of New York, where Professor Hall
kindly volunteered to be their guide

   Professor Ramsay sailed for England early in Octo
ber, and shortly after Sir William betook himself to his
favourite haunts in the Grenville region, and spent the
remaining weeks before winter set in in following the
sinuosities of his pet limestones. Here he also returned

in the spring of 1858, this time to remain for nearly six
months. They were of course months of incessant toil ;

but the confinement, worry, and excitement of city life,
to which he had for some time been subjected, had be
gun to tell upon his health, and life in the woods, not

withstanding its hardships and difficulties, was really

the very thing that he needed. During the summer he

ascended the river Rouge as far as the Iroquois Chute,
a distance of about fifty miles from its mouth, and also

determined the position and form of thirty-two lakes,
the largest of which is more than six miles in length.
1858-59.]  ON SHORT ALLOWANCE.  331

He was accompanied by a naturalist, Mr. W. M. S.
D'Urban, who made large collections illustrative of the

fauna and flora of the district examined. The late Mr.
James Lowe, a farmer from the township of Granville,

also proved of great assistance to him, and acquired such
skill in geological field work that Sir William em
ployed him for years in tracing out bands of crystalline

limestone.

   It was the end of November before Logan got back

to Montreal, and for the next three months he was con
stantly occupied with the accounts of the Survey ex

penditure, which he had annually to submit to the

Government. In March, as we have seen, the testi

monial from the citizens was presented to him. On

Ithe 18th of April he wrote to his brother Edmond : "

am sorry to say that the Government have found them
selves under the necessity of reducing the grant to the

Geological Survey to one-half the usual amount, making

it £2,500 instead of £5,000. The sum will be no more

than sufficient to pay the salaries of the staff and keep

up the museum. It will allow nothing for exploration;

so that we have been instructed to stay at home and
work out a condensation of all our reports, and thus

show the present condition of Canadian geology. I fear
that the confinement this will entail upon me will be

prejudicial to my health, which is not so strong as it

used to be. I found that my summer's work last season

did me a world of good, and another summer's work

would, I think, have brought me round altogether. I

...have never been perfectly well since I was at Paris.

     By way of exercise I fancy I shall have to take
332  THE LAURENTIAN.  1859.

an occasional week of exploration at my own expense."

   In August he attended the meeting of the American

Association at Springfield, and had the pleasure of re
newing many of the acquaintances which he had
 formed at the Montreal meeting. He exhibited a
map showing the distribution of some of the crystalline
limestones of the Grenville region, and also specimens
of a supposed Laurentian fossil from Calumet Falls on

the Upper Ottawa.

    Although we have already repeatedly referred to the
work in connection with the Laurentian rocks which
for years occupied so large a share of Sir William's at

tention, a somewhat more connected statement may not

be out of place here. In the preliminary report which
he addressed to the Governor-General in December
1842, he notices in general terms the different forma
tions known to exist in Canada, and among . others a
great formation of syenitic gneiss occupying the hilly

country on the north side of the St. Lawrence, under
lying the fossiliferous Silurian rocks.* He traces these
rocks from Cape Tourmente below Quebec to the banks
of the Ottawa, thence to the Thousand Islands, notices
their extension northward into the mountains west of
Lake Champlain, and follows them westward to the
north shore of Lake Superior. He distinctly recognizes
the fact that the fiat Silurian beds rest on the irregular
surfaces of these older crystalline rocks, which he desig
nates by the general term Primary. Thus at the com
mencement of his work in Canada, he was aware of the

   * In the report he refers to the Laurentidu hills as " Syenitic hills of ft

gneissoid order."
EARL Y INVESTIGA TORS.  333

existence of that great formation which was subse

quently named the Laurentian, and would appear to
have examined its contact with the Silurian formations
in many places.

   Ten years before the time of which we write, Eaton,
of the New York Survey, had described the Primary
gneisses of the Adirondack hills, and as early as 1827

Dr. Bigsby had noticed the ancient gneiss underlying
the Silurian limestones at Beauport, near Quebec. To
the labours of Bigsby, and to other Canadian researches
before the institution of the Survey, Logan refers in his
preliminary report as follows : " The labours of Captain
Bayfield, of Dr. Bigsby, Captain Baddeley, Dr. "Wilson,
Mr. Green, and others, show that the Primary rocks
form a continuous line from one end to the other of

northern Canada. They constitute the northern shore
of Lake Superior, and that of Huron, and coasting along
the north margin of the great transition trough described,
they reach Cape Tourmente, whence they form the north
shore of the St. Lawrence and run along the coast of

Labrador."

   In the Report of Progress for 1843, little is added to

our knowledge of these rocks ; but Murray, who had
met them in his explorations north of Lake Simcoe and

on the north-eastern shores of Lake Huron, recognized
in some of them a bedded character, from which he in
fers that they are " metamorphic " rocks.

   In 1845, as already stated, Logan explored the Ottawa
River and some of its tributaries to a distance of 250
miles above Bytown, while in the following year both

he and Murray examined the north shore of Lake Supe
 334 METAMORPHIC ROCKS.

 rior. The reports on the work of these years for the
 first time accurately define and describe the great Lau-
 rentian (lower) series, to which so much time and study
 were afterwards devoted.

   In the Report for 1845, which was presented to the

 Government in May 1846 and published in 1847, Logan
adopts for these strata the term metamorphic as em

ployed by Lyell. They were described as of great
thickness, usually highly inclined and much contorted,
and as consisting of a lower group, entirely gneissose,

and an upper group containing crystalline limestones.
On page 40 of his report, speaking of an anticlinal arch
crossed by the Ottawa near the Mattawa River he says :
" The lowest rocks which this undulation brings to the
surface are of a highly crystalline quality, belonging to
the order which in the nomenclature of Lyell is called
metamorphic instead of primary, as possessing an
aspect inducing a theoretic belief that they may be
ancient sedimentary formations in an altered condition.
Their general character is that of a syenitic gneiss.
Their general colour is reddish, and it arises from the
presence of reddish feldspar, which is the prevailing
constituent mineral. The feldspar, however, is often
white, and frequently of a bluish-grey. The rock is in

no case that I have seen without quartz. Hornblende is

seldom absent, and mica very often present. The pre
vailing colour of the quartz is white, but it is often
transparent or translucent. The hornblende is usually
black, and sometimes green. The mica is often black,
frequently brown, and generally of a dark tinge. The
rock (carefully distinguished from dykes) is almost
                  LAURENTIAN GNEISS.          335

universally small grained, and though the constituent

minerals are arranged in parallel layers, no one con

stituent so monopolises any layer as to exclude the
presence of others ; but even in their subordinate ar

rangement there is an observable tendency to parallel

ism. A thick bed of reddish feldspathic rock, for
example, will in section present a number of short

dashes of black hornblende or black mica, all drawn in

one direction, destitute of arrangement apparently, ex

cept in regard to their parallelism ; or it will be marked

by parallel dotted lines composed of these minerals.

The continuation of these lines will be interrupted irre

gularly, and before one ends another will commence

it                                  the lines interlocking among one
                               it,
above or below

another. Sometimes thin continuous parallel black

belts will run in the rock for considerable distances or
  will be barred by parallel streaks of white quartz or

white feldspar, in which, as well as the red part, these
                                       it
dotted lines will occur. The same description of ar
rangement will be found where the whole ground of        is
                                                            a is

                                                                                          ;
the rock white instead of red, and then the red feld
is

spar will occasionally constitute streaks. There no end

to the diversity of the arrangement in which the mine

rals and colours will be observed, but there  never-

failing constancy in respect to their parallelism." From

this extract  it  will be seen that    was not only the

broad details of stratigraphy that attracted Logan's

attention, but that he also carefully studied many of
the minuter structures with which all students of the

Laurentian rocks are now familiar. On page 41 of the
same report, he continues " To the south of the Mat-
                                    :
336 LAURENTIAN AND HURONIAN.

tawa and of the Ottawa in its continuation after the
junction of the two streams, important beds of crystal
line limestone become interstratified with the syenitic
gneiss, and their presence constitutes so marked a
character that it appears to me expedient to consider
the mass to which they belong as a separate group of
metamorphic strata, supposed from their geographical
position and general attitude to overlie the previous
rocks conformably. The limestone beds appear to be
fewer at the bottom than at the top of the group, but
whether few or many, they are always separated by
beds of gneiss which in no way differs either in con
stituent quality or diversity of arrangement from the
gneiss lower down, except in regard to the presence of
accidental minerals, the most common of which are

garnets." Then follow other interesting details con
cerning the limestones and the minerals observed in
them, and a detailed section of 1351 feet of strata, mea
sured near the High Falls on the Madawaska River, as
affording agood example of the alternation of limestone
and gneiss. Among the rocks met with on Lake
Temiscamang in 1845 was a series of hard slates and
slaty conglomerates, the latter containing pebbles, and
even boulders as much as a foot in diameter, of the

subjacent gneisses. It was quite evident that these

beds were more recent than the gneissic series, but
Logan could detect no evidence of unconformability.

Speaking of the slates in his report, he says : " It ap
pears probable they will come upon some part of the

north shore of Lake Huron." This view was subse
quently verified, and through the labours of Murray the
UPPER LAURENTIAN.  337

Huronian system established. According to the ob
servations of the latter, north of Lake Huron, the series
there attains a thickness of 18,000 feet, and gives good
evidence of being uncomformable to the underlying
Laurentian.*

   Subsequently, as has been stated, a series of surveys
of portions of the Laurentian districts, especially in the
neighbourhood of the River Ottawa, was continued, and
in these researches several members of the staff took an
important part. For a long time great quantities of
erratic masses of a rock composed largely of labrador

                                       AN ERRATIC, SKETCHED BY LOGAN

feldspar were known to exist in the valley of the St.
Lawrence; and in 1852 it was discovered in situ by
Logan in the townships of Morin and Abercrombie, and
described by Hunt in his official report for that year.
Subsequently the rock was shown to belong to a great
stratified series resting unconformably upon the Lau
rentian gneiss. It was hence called by Sir William

   * As early as 1824, the Huronian rocks of Lake Superior had been des
cribed by Bigsby and classed by him with " Transition rocks." The name
Huronian was first used in the " Esquisse Geologique du Canda," a little
volume prepared by Logan and Hunt for the Paris Exposition of 1855.

                                                                                                                      22
338 SUBDIVISIONS OF THE LAURENTIAX.

the Upper Laurentian series, and was believed by him

to intervene between the Lower Laurentian and the

Huronian, although nowhere found in juxtaposition

with the latter. We have already seen that the Lauren

tian as originally described includes a lower group of

gneisses without limestones, to which succeeds a group

of gneisses and interstratified limestones. These two

groups together constitute the Lower Laurentian of

Logan ; but inasmuch as the upper division might be

confounded with the Upper Laurentian proper, it has

sometimes been termed Middle Laurentian. Owing to

the occurrence of the series in Labrador, and the predo

minance in it of Labrador feldspar, the Upper Lauren

tian has sometimes been called the Labradorian series ;
and in 1870 Hunt suggested that it should be termed

the Norian series, inasmuch as it is largely composed

of rocks similar in character to the norites of Esmark

found in Norway.

    The facts obtained with regard to the above men

tioned groups previously to 1863, by Logan, Hunt, and

other members of the staff, were summed up in the

Geology of Canada, and the rocks there described may
be tabulated at follows :--

1.  Lower  Laurentian  f                                                                feet.
           or          J Gneiss                                                         5,000 ?
                                 of Trembling  Mountain,             &c

    Ottawa Series.     (
                       / Trembling Lake limestone
                                                                                        1,500

                       I 2nd. Orthoclase gneiss                                         4,000
2. Middle Laurentian \ Green Lake limestone, bands of gneiss, &c. 2.500
           or / 3rd. Orthoclase gneiss
                       jGrenville limestone, bands of gneiss, &c..                      3,500

    Grenville Series.                                                                   750

                       [\ 4thb.edOortfhliomcleassteongeneainssd,  a  including a thin   5,000
                                                                     bed of quartzite.

3.  Upper Laurentian   (                      limestone, and gneiss.
      (Labradorian,
                       J Anorthosite  rocks,                                            10,000?

          Norian.)     (
4.. HTTuronia. n.      f Conglomerates, chloritic and other schists,

                       { iimc6tone,&-                                                   18,000
THE HASTINGS SERIES.  339

   The above expresses in general terms the arrange
ment of these rocks as described in the Geology of
Canada, and the maps and sections accompanying the
volume. More recently certain rocks in Eastern On
tario which have been surveyed by Mr. Vennor, and
which have been regarded as less altered portions of
the Laurentian, have been described as a newer series,

and provisionally termed the Hastings series.*
   The labour involved in working out these results can

be appreciated only by those who have had opportuni
ties to study in the field the contorted strata of the
Laurentian country, and though Logan had in the pro-

     * The rocks of the Hastings series were first examined by Mr. Murray,

 who in his reportfor 1852 (p. 103) remarks that, " In Huntingdon, Madoc,
 Marmora, and Belmont, many interesting diversities occur in the Lauren
 tian series, but the rocks belonging to it become so frequently and unex

 pectedly covered up by projecting and outlying masses of fhe unconform
able fossilifcrous formations, in the part investigated, that it is impossible

to give any connected view of their arrangement." In 1864 Mr. Thomas

 Macfarlane studied the rocks of this interesting region, which he described
in a report addressed to Sir William Logan (1863-66). He there called
attention to the similarity of the schistose conglomerates of Madoc to con

glomerates of Huronian age. In a foot-note to page 93 of Mr. Macfarlane's
report, Sir William states his opinion with regard to the Hastings series as
follows :--" The rocks of Marmora, Madoc, and other townships in Hast

ings, have provisionally been classed with the Laurentian scries, with
which they appear to be conformable, and in common with which they

hold Eozoon Canadetue. . . . These Hastings rocks may be a higher portion

of the Lower Laurentian series than we have met with elsewhere. It is

not to be inferred from the presence in them of a schistose conglomerate
that therefore they are Huronian. As shown in the Geology of Canada, p.
31, conglomerates occur in the Laurentian, as well as the Huronian series.

Some may be disposed to compare the Hastings rocks with the metamor-

phic Lower Silurian of Eastern Canada, but the micaceous limestones of

Hastings more closely resemble the micaceous limestones which run from

Eastern Canada into Vermont, on the east side of the Green Mountains,
and which, from their fossils, are known to be Devonian. . . ." Accord

ing to Dr. Hunt, the rocks referred to here aro not Devonian, but Lower

Taconic, and it is to this horizon that he refers the Hastings series.
:jifi  TRE EASTERN TOWNSHIPS.  [1860-61.

secution of his researches the advantage of public funds,
and of a corps of able and willing assistants, his own
personal share in these arduous surveys, and in the
hardships which they entailed was always large.
Farther, there can be no doubt that the unravelling of
the intricate distribution of the rocks so as to enable

them to be intelligently mapped and described was in
the main due to his remarkable and clear insight into
difficult questions of this kind. To geologists it is
unnecessary to add that Sir William's reports and
memoirs have made Canada the classical ground of the
Eozoic rocks.

             Contorted Gneiss Basds in Limestone. Scale about 4J0.   and
!, I. Limestone including thin layers of Gneiss, g, g. Gneiss above

                      below Limestone. Geology of Canada, p. 27.

   The years 1860 and 1861 seem to have been most
uneventful for Sir William, and he remained most of

the time in Montreal, attending among other matters
to the preparation of his great work on the geology of
Canada. From time to time, however, he found it
necessary to visit some particular point in the country
in order to obtain additional facts for the forthcoming
ROCKS OF POINT LEVIS.  34l

volume. The rocks of the Eastern Townships es

pecially continued to engage his attention, and a few

remarks concerning them may be appropriately made
here. For fuller discussions of the subject the reader is
referred to the appendix (A) to this volume, kindly con
tributed by Principal Dawson, and to Dr. Hunt's inter
esting volume on "Azoic Rocks," published in 1878. We

have seen that in the course of his examination of the

Graspe region. Sir William recognized a great series of
shales, sandstones, and conglomerate limestones, under

lying the later Palaeozoic formations of the Peninsula

These rocks were subsequently traced along the St.
Lawrence and indentified with the contorted strata of
the vicinity of Quebec, from which place they were fol
lowed south-westward to the Valley of Lake Cham-

plain. As occuring near Quebec they had long before
been studied by Dr. Bigsby, who regarded them as
superior to the flat-lying limestones of the St. Law
rence. Logan first examined them at Point Levis in
1840, and in his "Preliminary Report" addressed to
the Government in 1842, and printed in 1845, he says :
" Of the relative age of the contorted rocks of Point

Levis opposite Quebec, I have not any good evidence,
though I am inclined to the opinion that they come out

from below the flat limestones of the St. Lawrence.

Further study of the matter, however, soon caused him
to change his view to that of Dr. Bigsby, and in a foot
note added to the above before it was printed he says :
" The accumulation of evidence points to the conclusion
that the Point Levis rocks are superior to the St. Law

rence Limestones." Such indeed was the conclusion
342 THE QUEBEC GROUP.

which any one might haAre arrived at from a mere
study of the stratigraphy, and such was the opinion
which Logan held until 1860, the rocks up to that time
being referred by him to the Hudson River group.
The discovery of graptolites at Point Levis in 1854
only served to confirm him in the view already taken,
for both in New York and Sweden, where graptolites

                         Graptolites from the Quenec Group.
          a. Graplolilhus Logani (Hall.) b. Phyllograplus typus (Hall.)

of other forms were known, their horizon was the same
as that which Logan had assigned to the Point Levis

rocks. In 1856, " orthoceratites, trilobites, and other
fossils" were discovered in a bed of limestone at Point

Levis by Dr. Hunt. This led to a more thorough ex
amination of the locality, and during the next four
years large collections of organic remains were made
THE QUEBEC GROUP.  343

by Bell, Richardson, and other members of the Survey.
They were carefully studied by Billings, who finally
arrived at the conclusion that they belonged to rocks
much more ancient than the Hudson River formation.
This most important and sagacious discovery of Billings
obliged Logan to seek for an explanation of the anoma
lous stratigraphical relations. How could it be that
rocks which according to the best of palseontological
evidence belonged to the " horizon of the Chazy and
Calciferous" were stratigraphically above the Hud
son River formation? This was the problem to be

solved, and the solution offered by Logan was that the
more ancient series had been " brought to the surface
by an overturned anticlinal fold, with a crack and a
great dislocation running along the summit," by which
the older rocks were "brought to overlap the Hudson
River formation." The older series Logan now (1860)
termed the Quebec group, dividing it at first into two
members, the Levis and Sillery formations, to which he
assigned a total thickness of from 5,000 to 7,000 feet.
Subsequently it was " found convenient " to separate the
upper portion of the lower or Levis division, and to

this intermediate division the name of Lauzon was ap

plied.

   On tracing the rocks of the group under considera

tion, south-westward from Quebec through the Eastern
Townships, they were found in close connection with
crystalline strata, the prolongation into Canada of the
crystalline schists of Vermont, which, even before

the time of Logan, had been the cause of considerable

difference of opinion among American geologists.
344 THE QUEBEC GROUP.

Eaton and Emmons on the one hand had maintained
that they were " Primary," while Mather and others
regarded them as altered Palaeozoic strata. After
studying the stratigraphy of the region occupied by
these rocks in eastern Canada, Logan adopted the
latter view, and firmly adhered to it during the
remainder of his life. The crystalline strata were re
garded by him as an " altered " portion of the great
series which, as we have seen, previously to the
palaeontological investigations of Billings had been re
ferred to the Hudson River group, and were accordingly
termed in Logan's early reports " altered Hudson River
group." But after the uncrystalline strata had been
shown to be more ancient than the Trenton, and had

been named the Quebec group, the accompanying crys
talline rocks in question were denominated " altered
Quebec group." This view of the case was generally
current among geologists for some years, and has
still its supporters, including Mr. Alexander Murray,
who has had the best of opportunities for studying
the corresponding series of rocks in Newfoundland.

In 1862, however, Mr. Thomas Macfarlane drew

attention to the similarity of the crystalline strata
of the Eastern Townships to the Huronian series of
the great lakes, and paralleled both series with the
primitive schist formation which he had studied in

Norway {Can. Nat., VII., 125). The Huronian age

of the series in the Townships has also been main
tained by Dr. Hunt, who, to use his own words,
" has, for many years, believed that the position of
the Sillery sandstone is at the base instead of at the
THE QUEBEC GROUP.  345

summit of the Quebec group, and that the whole series
is more recent than the crystalline rocks of the Atlantic
belt, to which the Notre Dame and Shickshock Moun
tains, and the similar crystalline rocks in Newfound
land belong " (Azoic Rocks, p. 114). Mr. Selwyn, Sir
William's successor, when he first came to Canada
adopted the views of his predecessor, but on further
study of the matter has changed his opinions, and now
believes in the pre-Cambrian age of the rocks under

consideration.
                  CHAPTER XVI.

EXHIBITION OF 1862.-- PRECARIOUS EXISTENCE OF THE
                     SURVEY -- EOZOON CANADENSE.

SIR William had had quite enough of exhibitions, and

       would gladly have been left to carry on the work of
the Survey and bring to completion the long promised
volume on the Geology of Canada. But his success and
experience on former occasions now made the Govern

ment feel that he, if anyone, should represent Canada at

the great International Exhibition to be held in London
in 1862. Accordingly he was made Chief Commissioner,

while Mr. Brown Chamberlin and Mr. J. B. Hurlburt

were associated with him as Assistant Commissioners, to
represent Lower and Upper Canada respectively. Before
leaving for England a large geological collection had to
be brought together, and that hurriedly and under great
difficulties, as no instructions were received until the

eleventh hour.

   Sir William arrived in London on the fifth of April,
and not a day too soon, as the space originally allotted
to Canada in the Exhibition was on the point of being
1862]                  EXHIBITION OF 1862.                  341

given up to others. On the 8th of May he writes to
his brother :-- " As you may suppose, we have been in a

whirl of occupation ever since we came, scarcely know

ing whether we were on our heads or our heels. I have

been mode a Juror in Class but fear the work will
                       I.,
be too much for me.
   " Although get up early in the morning and haveI
                              I
occasionally been at work at six, have with great diffi
                 I
     culty been able to put my map into shape. did notI
     get the sheets from Paris until the 15th of April then
                                            II
     had to get them mounted, and to compile a part of the;
I
    Igeological details, reducing them from a larger scale.
     Altogether am sick of the work, and wish were at

     home again attending to my geological explorations."I:
        On the 29th of May he again writes --

        " have been so pushed with Jury work and a discus

     sion with Her Majesty's Exhibition Commissioners about

     our Timber Trophy, that have not had time to send
                       I
                            I

                                I
     ..."another set of maps. wish were back again in Canada
     and settled at my regular work .       wrote to Mr.

     Gait by the last packet, requesting him to get some of

     the Commissioners here to assume my place and let

     me return.  hope he will attend to the matter as the
is '

   I

            is

                I
                          I

                                 I

                                      I
                                                      I
                                                             I
     worry too much for me.
        " have multitudes of invitations to dinners, soirees

     and conversaziones, but avoid all can. There was an

     athome' at the Speaker's last night, for which a card

     was sent to me, but did not go. This evening there
        a dinner at the Duke of Newcastle's, to which must

     go. On Tuesday there was an anniversary geographical

     dinner. Sir Roderick Murchison was Chairman, and
348  DISCONTENT.                         [ises.

....was called upon to reply to a toast  The Hudson's

Bay Company have invited me to a dinner at Gravesend,

but I have not accepted. Lady Goldsmith gives an ' at

home,' Lord Granville a dejeuner, and the Lord and Lady

Mayor and Mayoress have sent me an invitation ; but

all these I shall decline. Then there is to be a soiree at
the Royal Society, but I am not sure whether I shall go

or not. Of other entertainments there are multitudes,

but I am sick and tired of all such hubbub."

Altogether he was in a most discontented frame of

mind, and the one thing in London which seems to have

afforded him any real satisfaction was the daily reunion

at the house of his sister, Mrs. Stewart, on Cambridge

Square, where a "jolly party of twelve " sat down to

dinner every day. One source of great anxiety was the

news which reached him of a political crisis in Canada,

which he thought might have a detrimental effect upon
the interests of the Survey. On the 2nd of May the

Cartier-McDonald Ministry had been defeated on the

Militia bill, and now Logan feared that the new Finance

Minister might not be as favourably disposed towards

the Survey as Mr. Gait had been. His work as a Juror
was finished in June, and shortly after the much longed

for permission to return to Canada arrived, and was

gladly taken advantage of.

   As one of the evidences of the high opinion entertained
in England at this time with regard to Sir William and

his work, we give an extract from an article by Dr.

Percy, of London, in The Times of July 24th, 1862. The

article was one of a long series by Dr. Percy on the

metallurgical collections of the Exhibition of that year.
                            1862.]             DR. PERCY ON LOGAN'S WORK.               349

it                          For the extract we are indebted to its writer, who in       a
                            sending it says :-- " It may interest you, as it is a sketch
          i                                                                                   I.,
                            of the work of Sir William Logan, whom I knew well
                          it
                            and respected greatly."
                               " Canada is most worthily represented in Classis

                            thanks to the director of the Canadian Geological;
                            Survey, Sir William Logan. Justice compels us to devi

                            ate from the course we have hitherto pursued, and bestow

                            more than a passing notice on this indefatigable geolo
                            gist. Unaided, he commenced, in 1831, a geological
                            survey of part of the great South Welsh Coalfield extend

                            ing from Crown Avon to Carmarthen Bay, and completed
                               in seven years, at no small pecuniary sacrifice. Such

                            was the estimate of the accuracy and value of this sur
                            vey by the late director of the Geological Survey of
                            Great Britain, Sir Henry De La Beche, that With Sir
                            William's consent, was adopted as part of the national
                            work. In 1842 Sir William went to Canada, where he
                            has ever since resided, devoting his life with singleness
                            and earnestness of purpose truly remarkable, to the ex
                            ploration of the structure and the mineral resources of

                            that vast territory. Not having the advantage of an
                            accurate map of the country, such as has been supplied
                            to our home geologists by the Ordnance Survey, he has
                            been obliged to make a topographical survey pari passu
                            with a geological one. Few persons can imagine the
                            arduous nature of this work. Our indomitable geologist

                                often compelled to penetrate the trackless primeval

                            forest, to force his way across the tangled cedar swamp,
                            and brave the dangers of Canadian Rapids in frail
                            canoe and to these difficulties we may add that his
350  RETURN TO CANADA.  [1862-63.

path is disputed at every step by the most relentless and
invincible foes with which man in these regions has to

contend --countless hosts of mosquitoes and black flies.
Very different is the comparatively light and gentleman
like occupation of our home geologists, who have no

such hardships to encounter, and, after the pleasantram-

ble of the day, never fail to enjoy the luxury of an English
cottage. Sir William Logan has neither sought wealth
nor honours, but has quietly and modestly pursued the
one great object of his life, with a devotion as rare as it
is praiseworthy. Let it not be supposed that this eulo-
gium is prompted by any feeling of personal regard. It
is a just tribute, and no more, to a man who has striven
during many years to develope the vast mineral resources
of Canada, not with a view to his own advantage, but
from pure love of his work. We are glad to know that

the Canadian Government fully appreciate the value of
the labours of this self-denying and faithful public ser

vant. The Canadian territory comprises about 300,000
square miles, and about 100,000 have already been sur
veyed by Sir William and his small staff of assistants."

   After Logan's return to Montreal in August, he took
up the broken thread of work in connection with the

preparation of the Geology of Canada, and now and then
visited some locality in the country in order to obtain

additional information. In the autumn of the following
year (1863) the long expected volume appeared. It was

more than eight years since its preparation had been
ordered by Government, and many thought that its
publication ought not to have been so long deferred.

But neither the country nor science lost anything by
1863.]  THE " GEOLOG Y OF CANADA."                  351

the delay ; for the volume was not a mere summary of

the earlier reports of the Survey, but a new book con

taining all the earliest facts concerning the geology of

the country. The work is too well known to require

any lengthy comment here, but it may be stated that

although published nearly twenty years ago, it remains

to-day the most valuable book of reference on the geology

and mineralogy of the provinces of Ontario and Quebec.
Clear, sufficiently full and not overburdened with details,

accurate in its descriptions and wonderfully free from

typographical errors, the purely scientific portion evenly

balanced by a proper allowance of economic geology, it

was altogether a model report.* Nor did it fail to

attract its meed of commendation on both sides of the
Atlantic. " The style in which this work has been got
up," says the Saturday Review, " the precision of the

drawing, and the accuracy of the woodcuts, may almost

challenge comparison with the execution of similar pro

ductions on this side of the Atlantic. There has been a

steady persistence in the conduct of this remarkable

Survey, honourable alike to the successive Governments

                      and to the officers who have
that have encouragedis

                                      it,

                                                                          '
                                                                               it

                                                                                                            is
                                                                                                                                                    ';
carried out the work. No other Colonial Survey has

ever yet assumed the same truly national character

and the day may come--if ever the Imperial Colony

shall claim and obtain independence -- when the scien

* It but fair to state that although the Geology of Canada commonly
known as " Logan's great work," a large portion of
                                                    came directly

from the pen of Dr. Hunt. This was true, for example, of the lithological

part of the volume and of that on economic geology, comprising together

no less than 380 pages. The proofs of the entire volume also passed

through his hands.
352  THE " GEOLOGY OF CANADA."  [i864.

tific public of a great nation, looking back upon the
earlier dawnings of science in their land, shall regard
the name of Logan, native born, with the same affec
tionate interest with which English geologists now

regard the names of our great geological map-makers,
William Smith and De La Beche."

   At home the work did not meet with universal appro
bation, on account of the large share of attention given
to fossils. The Prime Minister even went so far as to
express his opinion in Parliament that instead of the
Report being what it was, " it ought to have been a
school-book to instruct the youth of the Province in the
elements of geology." For this he was ridiculed not a
little by some of Logan's friends, and one witty Irish

orator explained that the Prime Minister objected to the

investigation of fossils, because it was " carrying person

alities too far ".

   After the distribution of the Report, Sir William re

ceived numerous letters of acknowledgment from scien
tific men, all in terms of the warmest friendship and
admiration. One of these we give here, as it is an inter
esting and touching souvenir of the declining years of
a man who long played an important part in the world
of science, and whose kindly nature endeared him to all
who knew him :--

     " London, Royal Institution, i
     "4lh. April, 1864.         /

"My dear Sir William, --I received a few days

since, by the kindness of Lord Monck, the copy of your

great work the Geological Survey of Canada. It called

up in my mind the many and strong impressions which
1864.]  LETTER FROM FARADAY.  353

yet remain there associated with your figure, character,
and personality ;-- received at the time of the great
Exhibition in 1851. How the lapse of time since then

has changed things, i.e., how it has changed me ; and

in my change it is quite a happiness to be thrown back
a while upon the recollections of the past. For they

are very pleasant to me, and I thank you most earnestly

for such a reminder.

  " I am getting somewhat old and my hand refuses to

carry the pen over the paper as steadily and freely as

it used to do : but here I am still surrounded by the

kindness and love of all my friends. Tyndall, Frank-

land, Dr. Bence Jones and many others comfort me con
tinually. Discovery has come to an end with me, save

that I rejoice in the discovery of others ; and indeed

knowledge is progressing wonderfully.

  " I wish I knew more of geology than I do, but my

memory is gone, and I never had the opportunity of

observing in the fields the valleys and the mountains.

I hear of you continually from the men I most value. --

Ever my dear Sir William, yours most truly,
                                                 "M. Faraday."

   For several years the Survey had depended upon an

insufficient annual grant for its precarious existence, and
its operations had been greatly hampered. No Survey
could, in fact, be properly conducted on such hand to
mouth principles. Accordingly Sir William addressed
a most pathethic appeal to the Hon. Luther H. Holton,

then Minister of Finance under the McDonald-Dorion
administration, urging upon him in the strongest terms

                                                                   23
354  AN APPEAL.                  [i864.

the necessity of more liberal action on the part of the
Government. A portion of the letter is reproduced here,
as it gives an idea, in his own words, of some of the

uncertainties and harassing difficulties with which Sir
William had to contend. His appeal, as we have said,

was sent to the Finance Minister ; but at the same time

he had little faith that it would accomplish much ; for a
few days after he wrote to a friend : " The present admin

istration is before the country as a saving one, and I think

our Survey will get a black eye."

     "Geolooical Survey Office,  .»
     " Montreal, 9<A. January, J1864.

   " Dear Sir, --As all Government matters relating to

finance must of course come under your revision, I am

induced to address you on the subject of the Geological

Survey. The fund provided for its maintenance for the

year 1863 is exhausted, and it is desirable that I should

be informed, as soon as convenient, as to the future

action of the administration in regard to it; as those

dependent on the Survey for subsistence are naturally

anxious that I should give them timely notice whether

or not their services may be required.

   " In 1855 an act was passed establishing the Survey

for five years, and granting for its support $20,000 per

annum. $8,000 were also voted for the publication of
a Geological Map and condensed Report. A map on

the scale of twenty-five miles to an inch was constructed

from the various published maps of Canada, and the

neighbouring parts of the United States ; but from in
accuracies in some of these, the result was found to be

so unsatisfactory, that it was determined to compile the
J1864.  AN APPEAL.  355

 topography from original Surveys, establishing by tele
 graph the longitudes of several principal points. To
 carry this into effect required some time, and in the
 meanwhile the Survey was conducted on a scale com

 mensurate with the grant. In 1861 the new map was

 ready for engraving, and at the meeting of the legislature
 for that year, the fund for the publication of it and the
 Reports still remained intact ; but the act supporting
 the Survey having expired, the Government instead of
 placing $20,000 in the estimates for the Survey as pre
 viously, deemed it expedient to make $11,000, composed
 of the fund reserved for the purposes of publication and
 $3,000 which had been saved, apart of the annual grant,

adding $9,000 to complete the usual sum. I was given

 to understand that it was the intention of the then

existing administration to renew the geological act the
subsequent session, and it was hoped that during the
five years of life thus to be given to the investigation,
sufficient might be saved from the expenses of explora
tion to defray those of publication. By the Honourable
Mr. Howland's supply bill, $5,000 of the publication
fund was restored to the Survey in 1862 ; but the

general grant was reduced by a like sum, so that the
real financial condition of the Survey was left as before.

    " The Report has now been printed, and the Govern

ment having taken 750 copies at cost price, the outlay
on it has been paid with the exception of about $1,200 ;
but the maps by which it is to be illustrated have yet

to be coloured, and I shall have to cross the Atlantic

to get them printed by chromo-lithography. The topo-
jrraphical lines of the large map on the scale of twenty
356              AN APPEAL.  [i864.

five miles to an inch, which is to be a separate work,

hare been engraved and paid for, and the lettering

which is the most expensive part is in progress. All

the palaeontological publications up to the present time
have been paid for, with the exception of the 2nd Decade.

This was undertaken in 1854 by Professor Hall of the

New York Geological Survey, before the appointment

of a palaeontologist to the Canadian Survey. But various
circumstances have prevented the completion of it until

the present time. The engravings are now finished, and

the descriptions are in press, so that it will soon be

...necessary to provide for the cost, which will probably
be over $1,500.  It will thus be perceived that inde

pendent of arrears, the grant of last session would not
be sufficient to pay expenses, while nothing is allowed
for publication, without which a geological survey would

be a dead letter.

  " I am very much perplexed to know how any saving
can be made. If the artist were dispensed with, it would

save $750 ; but the means of securing and publishing
our palaeontological discoveries would be sacrificed. The
chief reward of a palaeontologist worthy of the name,

is the publication of his discoveries. An efficient one

could not be obtained if these were suppressed, and

without a skilful palaeontologist great errors might be
made in describing the sequence and distribution of

formations. For my part I should be unwilling to con

duct an important Geological Survey, like that of Canada,

without one.

  " If the topographical draughtsmen were dispensed

with, it would be a saving of $1,000 ; but the labour of
1864.]  AN APPEAL.  357

 topographical delineation wonld in that case fall heavily
 on myself. The calls upon our time to give information,

 both verbally and by letter, in respect to economic

 minerals, are augmenting so fast, that Dr. Hunt and

 myself often find days in succession pass without being

 able to do anything else ; and I am thus driven to the

 necessity of working every night until about twelve

 o'clock to get through the office details required for the
 proper conduct of the Survey. The consequence is that

I have no time to read up in geology, and this I begin

to find a serious professional detriment. It will there

 fore be necessary for me, should the Survey be continued)

to employ a competent secretary, if I can find one, at a

 sacrifice of one-third of my salary, to relieve myself as

 much as possible from office details ; particularly as my

 health is beginning to fail from over-work.
    " Before the geological grant was sufficient to permit

the supply of scientific publications, I had furnished the

library with about $2,000 worth out of my own funds.

I have disbursed also about $2,000 for surveying instru

ments required for topographical and geological pur
poses ; and the Survey has brought upon me in addition,

in various ways, an expenditure of about $4,000, for

which I make no claim on the Government. In order

to get the Report creditably printed, I found it expe
dient to advance a further sum of about $3,000 for the
purchase of type, and though I expect this sum to be

returned, it is nevertheless a present expenditure, and

must run the risks of fate. All this outlay would make

it inconvenient for me to contribute to the salary of a

secretary out of my own funds.
358  AN APPEAL.  [i864.

    " The only other sums which present themselves for
 consideration are those connected with exploration. To

 diminish these to any extent would reduce the Survey
 to the condition of doing little work with a heavy staff,
 a predicament which would be satisfactory neither to
 the public nor myself. How distasteful such a predica

ment would be to myself will be shown from the fact

 that the Parliament having been dissolved last spring

without granting the supplies, it appeared to me expe
dient, rather than allow the officers of the staff to receive

their salaries in comparative idleness, to carry on the

work of the Survey out of my own funds, and at the

expiration of the season I found myself upwards of

$10,000 in advance. But the discussion which occurred
in the house last session on the subject of the Survey

made me most painfully aware of the risks I might by

possibility run by such a procedure.
    "The professional responsibilities and difficulties of

conducting a geological Survey over so large an area as
Canada presents are quite sufficient, without being com
plicated with those of finance. But the minds of those
charged with the investigation can never be free from
pecuniary anxieties while the support given to the
Survey lasts only from year to year, and has to be
struggled for every session of Parliament. No good plan
of investigation can be formed under such an arrange

ment, and the officers and explorers on whom I depend,

uncertain of continued employment, may be tempted

away from me. The peculiar training which they re
quire would make it very difficult to replace them, and

though, as you will understand from a reference to the
j1864. CONTINUANCE OF TBE MVSEUM                                      359

preface of the late Report, some of them are not highly

paid men, they are all from their practice very valuable.
   " Whatever the grant may be, it should be secured for

a term of years by an act. But if this is not considered

expedient, and the public finances cannot afford a sum

sufficient to ensure a Survey creditable to the country

and to those charged with instead of such reduction
                it

                                it,
                                              it

                                                                   a
as will just cause to be inefficient,  would be much

better to dispense with the paid services of all the officers

of the staff with the exception of the palaeontologist.

Should the work of exploration be wholly suspended,
a

           it
                is

                             a

                             it

                                        is

                                                          it
                                                                 it
will be necessary to support the museum. For the pur

poses to which  devoted,  unrivalled by any on

this Continent, and to permit its extinction would in my

mind be national calamity. Properly supported, will

be the means of giving right direction to all the more

detailed geological investigations of the country, both

public and private, that may hereafter be undertaken,

and with moderate annual outlay could be gradually
a
                                           large part of the
                                       it

                                    A
very much extended and improved.

palseontological materials that have already been col

lected, have still to be studied and described. If our

present palaeontologist were appointed curator to the
museum, he could by degrees work out these materials

as well as anything additional resulting from further

explorations.                              it                         not my
   " Whatever may happen to the Survey
                                              a is
intention to abandon the geological investigation of

Canada. The provincial museum would be very con

venient workshop in which to elaborate my results, and

any materials that might be derived from my explora
360            UNPAID COMMISSIONER.       [i8C4.

tions I should be happy to contribute to the provincial
Ifcollection.
               the Government were disposed to permit

the employment of two of the less expensive explorers,

I should be willing to direct their investigations as

heretofore, but as unpaid commissioner, receiving no

allowance except for travelling expenses actually in

curred on Canadian work, and to give the results of their

investigations as well as my own in an occasional report,

in furnishing which to the Government I should be

permitted to choose my own time. . . .

"Should this arrangement be entertained by the

Government, it must be kept in mind that to secure the

work of last season's explorations by reducing them to

form and reporting, it will be necessary to continue the

Survey on its present scale until the spring, and that

arrears for work done and responsibilities for publica

tions undertaken will have to be provided for.

  " If anything I have stated is not clearly understood,

Mr. Langton the Auditor-General, to whose enlightened

exertions while he was in the Legislature, the country

is greatly indebted for whatever has been done in Cana

dian geology, will be able to give you full explanations,

or I shall be ready to go to Quebec if required. -- I am,

dear Sir, very respectfully and truly yours,

" The Honble. L. H. Holton, M.P.P.,  "W.  E. Logan.
          " Minister of Finance,
                   " Quebec."

   Not long after this letter was written a change of
Ministry occurred, the Conservatives again coming into
power, and Mr. Gait, who had always been a warm
DEMANDS UPON TIME.    361

supporter of the Survey, being reinstated as Finance
Minister. It was proposed by the new Government to

renew the act making provision for the Survey, for a
period of five years ; but the " anti-Silurian nonsense "

members were strongly opposed to pledging the country

to the five years An animated discussion of two hours'

duration took place, which was on the whole highly

complimentary to the Survey, and when the question

of the five years grant was put to the house a large ma
jority voted in its favour. This was on the 8th ofJune.

   In his letter to Mr. Holton, Sir William alludes to the

amount of his own and Dr. Hunt's time consumed in

giving information about the economic minerals of the

country ; and many indeed were the applications or

demands which were sent, often couched in anything but

graceful terms. The letter of one applicant may be given

as a sample. A Mr. F  , residing in the country,

imagined that he had made a discovery of native lead

embedded in cerussite, and sent a box of specimens to

Sir William to have his discovery confirmed ; but on

being informed that the specimens were simply dolo

mite and contained no lead whatever, he again wrote
as follows :--

                                                                «C ,June 15M, 1863.

  Sir, -- On the first day of June last, I addressed to you

by express a box containing about six pounds weight of

ceruse, carbonate of lead--not calcareous spar. If it was

calcareous spar when it reached you it must have been

changed on the way. I repeat, I sent you no chalk or

lime, or magnesia. When packed into the box and
addressed, it consisted of rich samples of carbonate of lead,
362  APPLICANTS FOR AID.  [i863.

containing about 60 ounces of silver to the ton of lead.

1 did not send it to you to have you guess at what it

contained. I sent it to you in order to have it assayed

to know the percentage of lead and silver which it con

tained, in order to know how you agree with an assay

which I have had made by other persons quite as expert
as yourself. That it is what I call it I know, and more I

know that you, unless more than human, cannot tell the
difference between calcareous spar and carbonate of lead

by merely looking at it without a test.

  " Will you inform me if you saved the samples or not.

If not I will procure more, for I intend going to Montreal

soon in order to have the ore properly examined. You

speak of metallic lead. I said the veins contained small

crystals of metallic lead. Perhaps the samples sent con

tained none ; but the different veins contain more or less.

In fact small crystals sometimes appear completely sur

rounded by carbonates. Please send me a line when you

get this.
   " Hoping that there may be a better understanding,*

                      " Sir, I remain yours truly,

   Logan was also constantly beset with applicants for
employment, and having acquired a reputation for
generosity there were never wanting those who looked
to him for pecuniary aid. " May it please your Lord
ship," writes one of the latter, "you will readily see

   * On one occasion a man sent a sample ol ore to Sir William for analysis
and enclosed twenty-five cents in his letter to pay for the work. He was
also good enough to state that he had other specimens for examination,
and that if the first analysis were satisfactory he would employ Sir William

again.
1864.]  GOES TO ENGLAND.           363

from my petition the unfortunate position I am placed

in, and I am led to understand that your Loraship is a

benevolent and generous noble man. 1 shall be happy

to have your Lordship head my list oi contributors."

The letter is addressed to "The Right Honourable Sir

W. E. Logan." Another individual to whom Sir William

in his unsuspecting way had already given considerable

pecuniary assistance, but who had subsequently proved

himself utterly unworthy of confidence, finding it use

less to apply for more money, makes known his wants

thus : " I write to ask you to be kind enough to intro

duce me to some tailor who will make me a suit of

clothes on credit. I find all that I have much too worn

and thin for the present season."

Although the text of the Geology of Canada had been

completed in 1863, neither the atlas by which it was

illustrated nor the large geological map of Canada and

the neighbouring States were completed, and it became

necessary for Sir William to go to London in 1864, in

order that the work might be carried on under his own

supervision. After spending a few days with Professor

Hall examining the structure of a part of the country
between Albany and New York, he sailed for England

on the 10th of August. From London he wrote on the
26th of the same month : " I remained in Liverpool all

Saturday, my object being to ascertain whether my two

casks and box had arrived. But I found all the world

gone to a review of volunteers, Messrs. Allan Brothers,

among others, having locked up their counting-house

...and left nobody to answer for them. I therefore had to
remain until Monday.  I have seen Sir Charles
364  LEISURE MOMENTS.                          [i8e<.

Lyell, who has asked me to lunch with him to-morrow,

to talk of the Laurentian rocks and the discovery of

Eozoon, which he calls a great event.

   " On reaching the Great Western Hotel on Monday,

I considered myself fortunate to .find that Hart was here

in the hotel, and that Margaret and Mr. Ker were in

the Square. So we made up a good large party at seven

o'clock, and I had my adventures to relate." Sir William

had intended to get the printing of his maps done in Paris,

but finding that the work could be equally well executed

in London by Stanford of Charing Cross, he changed his

plans and remained in England. Here he was for a

short time but little occupied, and took advantage of the

temporary leisure to visit some of his friends in Wales

and Kent, and also to attend the meeting of the British

Association at Bath. Speaking of his visit to Kent, he

says : " On Monday I went down to Waterbury in Kent

and stayed with Mr. and Mrs. B  until Wednesday

morning, so that you will see that I have lost no time

in continuing my round of visits. Our niece M

has a pretty and comfortable house, garden and grounds,

and appears to be very happy. . . . On the morning of

Tuesday I took a long walk, following the escarpment
of the Chalk formation for several miles until I got to
Maidstone, where I turned. My walk lasted from 10J

a.m. to 4J p.m., and I must have done sixteen or seven
teen miles. The valley of the Medway is very pictur

esque, and the country is covered with hops."

Accompanied by his brother Edmond, he reached Bath

in time to be present at the meeting of the British Asso

ciation, which opened there on the 14th of September.
EOZOON CANADENSE.  365

His principal object in attending the meeting was to
read papers on, and to show specimens of the recently
christened Laurentian fossil Eozoon Canadense, concern
ing which a few facts may be given here. As early as
May, 1858,* Dr. Hunt had argued from the chemical
characters of the Laurentian rocks the probability of
the existence of organic life at that early period, and
in the autumn of the same year specimens from the
Calumet Rapids were brought to Montreal by Mr. John
McMullen, an explorer then attached to the Geological
Survey, which recalled the appearance of the Silurian
fossils known as Slromatopora. These forms were at once
compared by Sir William with some similar laminated
structures from the Laurentian of Burgess, Ontario, pre
sented to the Survey by Dr. Wilson of Perth. The

specimens were examined microscopically by Dr. Daw
son, but no minute structures could be detected in them.
As we have seen, however, Sir William ventured to
bring them before the American Association at the meet
ing in Springfield in 1859, and argued their probable
organic character from their definite and limited forms,
and from the circumstance that the minerals filling the
supposed cavities were different in different specimens,
while the forms were the same. Sir William also carried
specimens with him to London, and showed them to
some of the geologists there, few of whom, however,
seemed inclined to believe in their organic character.
Notwithstanding this, one of the Calumet specimens
was figured and introduced into the Geology of Canada
in 1863, as a probable Laurentian fossil, though without

  * American Journal of Scienco II., xxv., 426.
366 EOZOON CANADENSE.
any name or technical description. Not long after this
new specimens were obtained from a locality near Gren-
ville on the Ottawa, by Mr. James Lowe, one of the
Survey explorers, showing the characteristic structures
which have since become familiar to microscopists.
These new specimens were submitted to Dr. Dawson for
microscopic study, and he at once recognized in them
structures which he believed to be organic and to belong
to an animal of the group of Foraminifera. The results
of his examination he embodied in a detailed paper in
which he proposed Eozoon Canadense as the name of the

                                            Eozoon Canadense.
   From a specimen collected by the late Dr. Wilson, of Perth, Ontario.

                                Dawson -- " The Dawn of Life.'

new fossil. The Chemistry of Eozoon was discussed by
Dr. Hunt in another paper, and the manuscript of these
was taken to London by Sir William at the time of which
we are now writing, in order that the whole matter
might be submitted to Dr. "W. B. Carpenter or some other
recognized authority on the subject of Foraminifera. The
specimens were submitted to Prof. T. Rupert Jones, but
EOZOON CANADENSE.  367

                                            Eozoon Canadensis.

   (1) Small specimen disengaged by weathering. (2) Acervuline cells of
upper part-- magnified. (3) Tuberculated surface of lamina -- magnified.
(4) Lamina) of Serpentine in section, representing casts of the sarcode --
magnified. (5) Section magnified showing canal system at (4) and tubuli
at (a). (6) Canals highly magnified.

            Dawson -- " Acadian Geology" and " The Vatcn of Life"
368         LYELL ON EOZOON.                            [i864.

owing to absence in Wales and Ireland, and also to ill

health, Dr. Carpenter was prevented from examining

them until some time in October. In the meantime,

however, Sir William had introduced Eozoon to the

British Association at Bath, where he read a joint com

munication on the subject by himself, Dr. Dawson and

Dr. Hunt.*

Sir Charles Lyell was the first president for the year.

Already he had satisfied himself as to the organic char

acter of Eozoon, and in the closing part of his presiden

....tial address he alluded to the discovery as follows :--
" In reference to the  earliest date of vital phe

nomena on this planet, the late discoveries in Canada

have at last demonstrated that certain theories founded

in Europe on mere negative evidence were altogether
delusive. In the course of a geological survey, carried

on under the able direction oi Sir William E. Logan, it

has been shown that northward of the River St. Law

rence there is a vast series of stratified and crystalline

rocks of gneiss, mica-schist, quartzite, and limestone,

about 40,000 feet in thickness, which have been called

Laurentian. They are more ancient than the oldest

fossiliferous strata of Europe, or those to which the term

primordial had been rashly assigned. In the first place,

the newest part of this great crystalline series is uncon

formable to the ancient fossiliferous or so-called prim

ordial rocks which overlie it ; so that it must have

undergone disturbing movements before the latter or

primordial set were formed. Then, again, the older

half of the Laurentian series is unconformable to the

* " On Organic Remains in Laurentian Rocks in Canada."
1864.]   A GREAT DISCOVERY.  369

newer portion of the same. It is in this lowest

and most ancient system of crystalline strata that

a limestone, about a thousand feet thick, has been

observed, containing organic remains. These fossils
have been examined by Dr. Dawson, of Montreal, and

he has detected in them, by aid of the microscope, the
distinct structure of a large species of Rhizopod. Fine

specimens of this fossil, called Eozoon Cana/Iense, have
been brought to Bath by Sir William Logan, to be exhi

bited to the members of the Association. We have every

reason to suppose that the rocks in which these animal
remains are included are of as old a date as any of the

formations named azoic in Europe, if not older, so that

they preceded in date rocks once supposed to have been
formed before any organic beings had been created."

   Altogether Eozoon met with a most favourable recep-

tion from the Association, and during the discussion

which took place after the reading of Logan's paper,
Lyell went so far as to state that he looked upon this as
the greatest, geological discovery that had been made in
his time. The importance of the discovery was fully

recognized by Sir William. He saw that the structures
could not well be accounted for by any theory of ordin
ary mineral deposit, and, as we shall see, he entered with
a warm enthusiasm into the defence and illustration of

the Laurentian fossil whose discovery changed the name

of Azoic to Eozoic.

After the meeting of the Association, Logan went for

a few days to Cromer in Norfolk, in order to join one of

his sisters and her family who were staying there at the
"Itime.
         came down the day before yesterday," he

                     24
370  GEOLOGICAL COLOURS.              [i864.

writes, " and we are just now collected to the number

of twelve. To-morrow we shall be thirteen." From

London he wrote to his brother James, on the 6th of

October :-- " On returning from Cromer last Monday, I

found here your letters of the 12th and 16th Septr. . . .

Mr. Bone, who colours the geological maps of the United

Kingdom, is still endeavouring to make my colours

match. . . . No doubt it would be a benefit if one sys

tem of geological colours could be adopted for all coun

tries ; but the distribution of the formations is so capri

cious that I fear that while the colours representing

...them might harmonize for one country, they might have
a bad effect on the eye for another.  I have to-day

ordered my grand specimen of Eozoon to be placed for

show in the Museum of Economic Geology, on Jermyn

Street, where I have no doubt it will be much examined

and criticised." Two days later he again writes : -- " I

am to see Dr. Carpenter with the Laurentian specimens

this evening. I am told, however, by one of his friends

that he is by no means well, and that I must not

fatigue him too much."
   Dr. Carpenter having seen the specimens of Eozoon,

at once expressed his belief in the correctness of Dr.

Dawson's views, and a few days after wrote to Sir

William as follows :--

                                                    " 8 Queen's Road West, i

                                                                                    « October 14lh., 1864. }

  " Dear Sir William, -- I have been giving as much

attention as my present condition permits to the speci

mens you have placed in my hands ; and I have found

nothing to shake, but on the contrary everything to
confirm, my first impression of the nature of your most
1864.]  CARPENTER ON EOZOON.  3?1

interesting fossil. I will write you more in full my

ideas of its structures and affinities, which harmonise
essentially with those of Dr. Dawson. But before doing

so I am very desirous of seeing some characteristic

specimens of Receplaculites. Some years ago when

specimens of that fossil were first sent over to the

Jermyn Street Museum, Salter showed me some; and

my impression was that if really fossils, they were the

internal casts of an organism nearly allied to Orbitolites,

but on a gigantic scale. I have been looking again at

a fragment which Salter gave me ; and it seems to me

that the two sets of specimens, so to speak, confirm one

another ; each independently affording a strong proba
bility that at an early geological period the Rhizopod
type attained a development which, in comparison with
what we have since known, was colossal ; and these

two independent probabilities when combined amount

ing to an almost absolute certainty.

  "If you have not any specimens of Receplaculites by

you, I have no doubt that the authorities at Jermyn

Street would lend you theirs for my inspection. ---

Believe me, yours faithfully,

                                 " William B. Carpenter."

   For some time Eozoon and geological maps continued

to be the two subjects uppermost in Logan's mind, as

will be seen by the following extracts from letters

written, while in London, to his brother in Montreal :--

   " October 21s/. : -- I have now got my map from Mr.
Bone with the English colours on it. It looks very well.
I have shown it in Jermyn Street, and they approve of
372  WORK AND PLAY.           [i864

...it. I dined with Sir Edmund Head on Tuesday

Professor Tyndall was there, and I think there was a

plot between them to get me to give a lecture at the
Royal Institution on Eozoon and matters connected
with it. The very thought of it would make me un
comfortable all the time I am here, and interrupt my

work. I therefore civilly, but point-blank, declined.
  " October 29/A. : -- I went afterwards [i.e., after visiting

a marble yard to see some Italian and other marbles] to
the Survey Office in Jermyn Street, where they have
given me the corner of one of their large tables to work

at on my maps. Afterwards I went to the lapidary's to

look after more slices of Eozoon for Dr. Carpenter, and

the day went by before I knew it. When I got to the

hotel the post hour had passed. Eozoon goes on swim

mingly.

  " November 5th. :--I am working without intermission

at the maps. I have to use a magnifying glass to follow
the limits engraved for the colours, and I assure you it

is very fatiguing to the eyes.

   " November Sth : -- I am progressing here steadily but
slowly. The days are so short that I cannot see to
colour my map later than 4 o'clock ; and as I work at

a table which has been devoted to my use in Jermyn
Street and cannot get into the museum before ten, I can

...with difficulty place more than two colours, sometimes
three, on the maps in a day.  I have been invited

by General Lefroy to dine with him at Blackheath. I

go down by a train which leaves the Charing Cross

Station at 6 p.m., and return the same evening. I am

to meet Captain Noble who used to be in Montreal.
1864] PAPER BEFORE GEOLOGICAL SOCIETY. 373

'· November 12lh :-- I have still six colours to place,

having now done twenty-three. With the present dark

weather it is really distressing work. Sometimes in the

middle of the day there comes from the city to the west

end a yellow fog, rendering it impossible to see the

lines. Were it not that I am near-sighted and can see
the smallest objects without spectacles, I would not have

been able to get on at all.

  '· November l*ith. : -- I have just finished the thirty

sheets for the lithographer. It has been an awful job,

on account of the dark weather.

   " November 19//». :-- I am to read the papers on Eozoon

before the Geological Society on Wednesday next, the

23rd inst , and I am preparing a map of the Laurentian

districts about Grenville for the occasion. It is a copy of

the one I had on a scale of three miles to an inch, aug

mented to one mile to an inch. All the lines, topographi

cal and geological, have been put upon it, and I have
...worked until one o'clock for several nights.
                                                 In addi

tion to the thirty partially coloured copies of the general

map, I have now ready for Mr. Stanford the Phillips-

burgh map. Stanford has engraved it beautifully.
   " November 24lh. : -- Last evening our papers (my own,

Dawson's, Hunt's, and Carpenter's) were read before the

Geological Society, and I think we had a success.
  " I have worked so hard to finish a map for the occa

sion that I am quite tired out. Ever since Friday last
I have commenced by candle-light at six in the morn

ing and continued until midnight. The night before

last I kept at it until three in the morning. As the
map was intended for candle-light Ieffect, put on a
374  EOZOON ESTABLISHED,  [mi

large part of the colour at night. Some that I had !aid
on by daylight I altered at night, in consequence of find

ing that tints which had been very distinct from one an

other by day could not be distinguished by candle-light.

  " December 8th. : -- I think I told you that the Duke of

Argyll was to notice our Laurentian fossil in his address

to the Royal Society (Edinburgh) on Monday evening

last. . . .
   " One objector to the organic character of Eozoon

was Mr. Woodward, a naturalist of the British Museum.

But having shown him a specimen which I etched on

Monday last, he relinquished his opposition, and said
he was now convinced that Eozoon was an organic
entity. Mr. Maskelyne, the Mineralogist of the British

Museum, whose grand microscope was used for the

purpose of examining the specimen, said that he did

not know anything of organic forms, but that he would

assert that Eozoon was not an inorganic one.

   " There is now no one that I know who has seen the

specimens and does not believe them to be fossils, so

that I think Eozoon is pretty well established.

   " December 14*/t. : -- My sections have all been en

graved on four sheets. I am correcting the proofs, and

much correction they require --not in the lettering,

which is well done, but in the lines showing the divi
sions of formations and the surface. . . . Dr, Carpenter

is to explain the structure of Eozoon this evening before

the Royal Society, showing under the microscope the
specimens he has examined. Of course I mean to be

there if I can , but I have engaged to be with Mr. Salter

at 5 o'clock, this being his birthday.
1864-65.]  BEREAVEMENT.  375

   " December 17 th. : -- Dr. Carpenter read his paper on

Eozoon at the Royal Society on Thursday, and all went
off beautifully.

  " December 22nd. :-- On the subject of Eozoon I have

the honour to be in correspondence with the Duke of
Argyll, who has written to me to enquire whether the
specimen of Tyree marble in which Dr. Dawson got
traces of the fossil was the salmon coloured with green
spots (composed of sahlite), or the white with green
spots of serpentine ; for there are two kinds of Tyree

marble. I have informed him that I thought it was

the white with spots of green serpentine "

   The first of January, 1865, came round, bringing to
Sir William many a kindly wish for a Happy New
Year. But kindly wishes could not avert impending
sorrow, and before the year had elapsed two of the
brothers whom he loved with all the intensity of his
ardent nature had gone to their last resting-place. For
some time Mr. Edmond Logan's health had been failing ,

but though his friends had experienced considerable
anxiety on his account, they had not anticipated that

his disease was so soon to terminate fatally. In January,
however, the news which Sir William received seemed

to be less and less favourable, and he determined to go
to Edinburgh " to see for himself." There he soon learned
from the lips of both Dr. Simpson and Dr. Duncan that

recovery was impossible. Nor was the end long de
layed, for on the 24th of the month the brother breathed

his last.
   Sir William was not a man who talked much of his

sorrows, but rather one of those who in silence endure
376 RAMSAY ON EOZOON.             [i865.

the bitterness of pent-up grief. Deeply as he felt his

loss, however, his active mind could not long brood over

trouble, and though obliged to remain in Edinburgh for

several weeks to attend to his brother's affairs, the proofs

of his maps were regularly sent to him from London,

and as regularly corrected and returned. The 22nd. of
February found him again in London, where he remain
ed most of the time until the end of May, when he left

for Canada. Up to the time of his departure he con

tinued to write regularly to his brother in Montreal, and

from the letters of this period we give a few extracts.

   " March lltk. : -- Last night Ramsay gave a lecture at

the Royal Institution on Eozoon and the Laurentian

rocks of Canada, and various considerations connected

with them in respect to geological time. It was very
well done, and surpassed the lecture given to working-

men. The audience was numerous, but not quite so

overflowing as it sometimes  is,  the evening being a

rainy one. The illustrations were excellent. Many of

them there were those used at the former lecture, but

some of them new. One of the new ones was a magni

ficent mass of Eozoon, in the form of a retangular block,

supposed to be cut out of the rock, and to be uninjured
by pressure or destructive agencies of any kind. The

silicious skeleton was then supposed to have been dis

solved away, so that what remained represented the
sarcode or animal jelly in all its details, the scale being

sufficiently large to indicate the larger and smaller

branching tubuli, as well as the small nummulitic
vertical tubuli lining all the chambers and cells. This

was very effective.
1865.]  PROGRESS OF MAP.     Z11

   " There were on one of the tables in the library of the
Institution some pieces of the Connemara marble, in

which it is said structure has been found ; but I must

confess they did not strike me as resembling Eozoon.

There were no slices for the microscope, however, and

of these I have not yet seen any. I am to dine with Dr.

Carpenter to-day, for the purpose of inspecting a micro

scope which he has selected as one fit for good work
and intended for the Survey. It is one of Smith and

Beck's, and I suppose the cost will be about £20. I

believe the Dr. has some thin slices of the Connemara

marble, of structure in which he does not speak with

much confidence, and I dare say I shall see some of
them. I fear that examiners in examining serpentinous

marbles with the microscope, will at first be very apt

to refer all evidence of organic structure they may de

tect in them to Eozoon, whether the organisms be Eozoon

...or something else. . . .
" March 23rd. : --           In the American news among

other things it is said that Mr. Seward has rescinded

his passport system, and that the Americans do not in

tend to increase their naval power on the lakes. If this

be true it will have an effect on Canadian securities and

stocks.

   " On Saturday Mr. Stanford supplied me with the first

copy of the general map. I showed it to Sir Roderick

Murchison, Mr. Ramsay, Mr. Reeks, Mr. Ethridge, Mr.
Smyth, and others at the Museum in Jermyn Street.

The general effect of the colours was very much
admired by every one of them ; Mr. Ethridge said it

was the prettiest geological map he had ever seen. The
378                 CONFEDERATION.     [was.

registering, however, is imperfect, and will require

many trials to get it right. There are still the map of
superficial geology and two sheets of sections to put on

the stones. Mr. Stanford now promises them in ten

days. . . ."

   Sir "William was greatly interested in the scheme for

the confederation of the Provinces, believing that if

carried into effect it would be for their mutual advan

tage. At the same time he felt that in all probability

the Geological Survey would be placed under the con
trol of the general government, and that the field of his
operations would be greatly extended. His letters from

London in 1865 contain frequent allusions to the

subject.

   "March 25th. :-- . . . The confederation scheme ap

pears to be going astray in Nova Scotia and New Bruns

wick, much to the regret of everybody on this side of

the Atlantic. It is said that there will probably be
another meeting of all the delegates at Montreal to see

...how matters can be adjusted. . . .
" April 26th. : --  Mr. Gait and Mr. Cartier have

arrived and are staying at the Westminster Palace Hotel.

I saw them this morning for an instant ; but they were

going to wait on Mr. Card well, by appointment, and
had not time to say anything. I am to breakfast with

them to-morrow morning at 9 o'clock.
   " There is a report in the city to-day that Mr. Presi

dent Lincoln has been assassinated ; whether true or

Iffalse, or how the report has come, I cannot say.

Johnson becomes President 1 think Canadian securities

will experience a fall, as he seems red-hot for hanging
1865.]  ASSASSINATION OF LINCOLN.    379

everyone and making war upon England. The loss of
Lincoln would be a most serious affair for the world at

the present moment.

" April 271h. : --It turns out that the death of Lincoln

...is too true. The Nova Scotian brought the intelli
gence.  I breakfasted with Gait and Carrier this

morning and showed to Gait the progress made on the

maps. The general map has still to be made to register

perfectly. Stanford now says I shall have it by Satur

day. . . .

  " May 4lh : -- I have received your letter of the 17th
April, by which I regret to observe the decease of our

friend Judge Gale. Will you have the kindness to

express to the family the condolence of myself and our

sister Agnes for their loss. Warning after warning comes

that our own time will arrive at no very distant day.
  " I called on Brown and McDonald on Monday, and

saw all the four delegates, but was not told anything

of how they were getting on. Mr. McDonald said that

the sympathy expressed by the Colonies for the death
of Lincoln had much changed the feelinsr in New York

in regard to them ; and I am sure the sympathy here,

which appears to be universal, ought to go far towards
smoothing asperities of sentiment with regard to

England.
   " Dr Carpenter has communicated a capital paper on

the structure of Eozoon to the Intellectual Observer, of

which he means to send copies to Hunt, Billings, and
Dawson It is illustrated by a first-rate coloured en
graving showing a restoration of the animal, and by

other figures of particular parts."
380  . PARIS EXPOSITION  fi8e6-67.

   Sir William left for Canada on the 27th. of May, and
on reaching Montreal found a source of deep anxiety in
the illness of his eldest brother, Mr. James Logan In
stead of spending the remainder of the summer in the
field as he had contemplated, he was obliged to be fre
quently in Montreal, and while there went out every
evening to spend the night with his brother at " Rock-
field " on " Logan's Farm." After the death of Mr.
James Logan, which occurred on the 16th. of September,
Itockfield became Sir William's solitary home whenever
he was in Montreal.

   In 1806 Sir William devoted a good deal of attention
to the geology of a portion of New England, which he
thought would throw some light upon his investiga
tions in Canada. Some time during the year, also, he
received instructions to prepare a collection of the

mineral products of Canada to be shown at the ap
proaching Paris Exposition. Early in 1867 he went to
London, and there worked so closely at the preparation
of a geological map for exhibition at Paris, that he is
said to have seriously injured his eyesight. Meantime,
Mr. Richardson had accompanied the mineral collection
to Tario, in order lo attend to its arrangement there,
and during the Exposition the Survey was represented
by Dr. Hunt, whose thorough knowledge of the mineral
resources of Canada, as well as of the French language,
enabled him to do good service for the country. As at
previous exhibitions, the Canadian geological collection
was much admired and was awarded a number of

medals.

   Sir William himself did not wait to receive his
<
Id
U
a
O

a
1867. WELL-MERITED HONOURS.  381

 honours, but returned to Canada early in June. In the

 following month his rank was raised by the Emperor
 of the French from Chevalier to Officer of the Legion
 of Honour, a just recognition of his long and valued

 services in the cause of science. In the autumn of the
 same year the Council of the Royal Society awarded

 him one of the two Royal Gold Medals of the year for
 his " geological researches in Canada, and the construc
 tion of a geological map of that colony." The friend

 who proposed his name says in a letter dated Nor. 8th.,
 1867 : -- " Some time ago I proposed you for one of the

 Royal Gold Medals given by the Royal Society. We

 voted yesterday in Council and you were carried trium

 phantly."

  "I have just learnt," wrote Murchison on the same

day, "that the Council of the Royal Society have
awarded to you one of the two Royal Medals of the
year, and I hasten to tell you how much pleasure it

gives me, the more as it follows close on my dedication
to you of the new edition of Siluria."

   On the 8th of May, while in London, he read papers
by himself and Dr. Dawson "On new specimens of
Eozoon ". The most important of these specimens had
been discovered by Mr. H. G. Vennor, then one of the
assistants on the Geological Survey, in the township of

Tudor, about forty-five miles north of Lake Ontario. It

was looked upon as particularly important from the fact
of its occurrence in a limestone which had undergone

comparatively little alteration, and which was therefore
less likely to contain dendritic concretionary mineral
forms simulating organic structures.
              CHAPTER XVII.

                                  CLOSING YEARS.

                        Sir William's great geological map

ALTHbOeaUrsGd-aHte 1866, it was really not published until

1869, and in March, 1868, he was obliged to go to
London to attend to the work as it was in progress.
Early in June, however, he was back in Canada, and
shortly afterwards we find him busily engaged with
preparations for- geological field-work. Accompanied
by the late Mr. W. B. Hartley, whom he had engaged
as his assistant, he left for Nova Scotia about the end of
of July, and began an investigation of the structure of
the Pictou coal-field, which long before he had visited
when making his researches concerning Stigmaria. For
many years his geological work had been almost en
tirely confined to regions occupied by contorted and
folded metamorphic strata, and it must have been plea
sant for him once more to return to the Carboniferous
formation, from which he had derived his first geologi
cal inspirations. And yet the Pictou coal-field offered
no easy problem in geology, but rather a sort of gigantic
PICTOU COAL-FIELD.                                383

Chinese puzzle composed of numerous pieces due to a
complicated series of faults. This is made evident from
an inspection of the map of the Pictou coal-field accom
panying the reports of Sir William and Mr. Hartley.
The map shows that the productive Coal measures are
on every hand bounded by rocks of the Millstone Grit
and Devonian formations, brought to the surface by
faults and limiting the area of the productive measures

to about twenty-two square miles.

   In his report on the district examined, Sir William

groups the rocks as follows, in ascending section :

1. Conglomerates, quartzites and compact slates.

2. Greenish-grey and red sandstones, \

with conglomerates and impure i

       limestones.             > Carboniferous.
3. Red coarse conglomerates.

.1. Productive coal measures.

   The rocks of No. 1 are, on the authority of Dr. Daw

son, stated to be Devonian. No. 2, again, are supposed
to represent the portion of the Joggins Section in the
Bay of Fundy referred by Dawson to the Millstone Grit
formation. Though somewhat different in aspect, Sir
William regarded the rocks of this division as the equi
valents of the series in Gaspe, which he had many years
before called the Bonaventure formation. The red
coarse conglomerates of No. 3 are those which Dr. Daw
son had previously described as the New Glasgow con
glomerates. They have evidently been derived from
the Millstone Grit formation, to which, according to the
evidence of Mr. Hartley, they are unconformable.
Group No. 4 includes the celebrated "main seam,"
thirty- five feet thick, and beneath it one of twenty
384 RETIREMENT FROM PUBLIC LIFE. [1868-69.

four feet, one of five and one of eleven, all in a thick
ness of 500 feet.*

   Altogether, Logan spent only three months in Pictou,
and entrusted the further carrying out of t he work to
his assistant, Mr. Hartley, in whose abilities he seems to
have had the greatest confidence. Mr. Hartley accord
ingly returned to Pictou in 1869 and again in 1870, but
in the autumn of the latter year, through over-exertion
and exposure, brought on the illness which so soon
terminated his life.

   In a previous chapter we have already seen how in

earlier years Logan looked forward to the time when
he should not only investigate the geology of Upper
and Lower Canada, but should extend his researches
from ocean to ocean, from Atlantic to Pacific. But the
years had swiftly passed, and now that Confederation
had widely extended the field of his operations, he
began to realize that he was fast becoming an old man
and had not the strength to cope with the enhanced
responsibilities. His estates, too, had greatly increased
in value, and daily required more and more- of his per
sonal attention. Under these circumstances he resolved
to resign the position which he had held for more than a

quarter of a century, feeling that if relieved of the

duties devolving upon him as Director of the Survey,
he might with greater advantage devote himself to his
favourite science, and would also be free to spend such
time as he saw fit with his friends in Britain. His
resiffnation was tendered to the Government in the

    * This is on the wcBt side of the East River.
1869-70.] RETIREMENT FROM PUBLIC LIFE. 385

month of January (1869), and on his recommendation

Mr. A. R. C. Selwyn, who for many years had directed
the Geological Survey of Australia, was in December

appointed as his successor. It was with feelings of

deep regret that the public received the announce
ment of Sir William's retirement, and never was the

press of any country more unanimous in its expres
sions of approval at the career of a public servant.

Not long after his retirement, he wrote to an old and
distinguished conchological friend in England :--

J" Rocrfield, Montreal, 1
    "18M. Feb., 1870.
...." My dear Jeffreys, --
                            It is quite true that

I have resigned the directorship of the Geological Sur

vey of our Canadian Dominion. It had become too great

an exertion for a man of my age to attend to so wide

spread an investigation. I am not, however, quite free

Iyet, as have to transmit to the Government printed

reports of explorations which were made under my

authority in various parts of the country, and for the

results of which I am responsible. It has been my hope

to visit the other side of the Atlantic before the spring ;

but it is not quite a certainty that I shall get through

my task of attending to the press in time.

   " It will be my wish to show myself on your side of

the Atlantic more frequently than I used to do ; but my
permanent residence is here, where I shall be happy to

dig up some of the soil to show you Arctic shells when

you come out. For even if I should be at some distance
when you present yourself in these parts, I shall make

a point of coming to meet you. One of my fields is

                                                                 25
386 PROPOSED SCHOOL OF MINES. [mo-7i.

pretty well stored with these said shells, but the species

are only the common ones. I saw a good many of them,

just before our winter's snow fell, in two or three pits

which had been sunk for agricultural purposes. If you

should feel inclined to delve in this field of mine, bed,
board, men and tools will be placed at your disposal,

and I shall deem it strange that we who used to dig

together in the bone caverns of Growerland should be
shell-grubbing together on my paternal acres in

Canada."

    Before his retirement from the Survey, Sir William
endeavoured to establish a School of Mines in connec

tion with the Museum at Montreal, modelled after the

Jermyn Street School in London ; but unfortunately the
scheme fell to the ground. About the end of March
(1870) he sailed for Britain, in order to visit his friends
there and also to attend to various matters of business.
Harassed as he had for some time been by the multi
tude of affairs to be settled in connection with his retire

ment from public life, he greatly needed rest and change,
and the quiet of such a place as his sister's home in
Wales must have been particularly grateful to him. In
June he was back in America, and not long after we

find him in Massachusetts; striving to throw light upon
the geology of eastern Canada by a study of the Green
Mountain series as developed in that state.

   Dreading the long Canadian winter, and no longer

tied down by official responsibilities, he again crossed
the Atlantic in January, 1871, and remained with his
friends on the other side until May, when he returned
to Canada. Before going to Montreal, however, he went
1871.]  WORK RESUMED.  387.

 to St. John's, Newfoundland, to visit his friend Mr.
 Alex. Murray, the sharer of his toils in the early days
 of the Canadian Survey. Sir William spent several
 weeks in Newfoundland, studying a little of the geology
 of the island and examining the interesting collections
 accumulated by Mr. Murray. On his return to Montreal
ho resumed the temporary directorship of the Survey
during the absence of Mr. Selwyn in British Columbia.
This, however, did not preclude him from returning to
the Eastern Townships, and devoting several months
there more particularly to a study of the rocks in the
neighbourhood of Melbourne. A new interest now

attached to the rocks of this region ; for the correctness

of the views which he had for years promulgated
with regard to them had recently been called in ques
tion by Dr. Hunt, whose earlier opinions concerning
metamorphism had gone far in continuing Sir William
in his interpretations based upon stratigraphical evi
dence. " My present investigations," wrote Sir William
to a friend, " have been undertaken with much incon
venience to myself, in consequence of some of my work

having been (needlessly, as I am persuaded) called in
question." It was indeed a sore trial for him thus late

in life to retrace the footsteps of past years ; but feeling
that his reputation as a geologist was at stake, he took

to the field at a time when his health demanded that

he should take rest, determined to settle the question
by observations on the ground. As is well known, he
continued his work in the Townships for several years,

but had not completed his investigations or published

any of his conclusions when called away by death.
388  A LONG-PROMISED VISIT.  [i87i-72.

   After his return from the field in September, he was

delighted by a long-promised visit from his friend Mr.

J. G-wyn Jeffreys ;* while in the following month he

was greatly grieved by news of the death of Sir Roderick
Murchison, who, like Sir Henry de la Beche, had always
been his warm friend and supporter. The winter of
1871-72 was spent in Canada, and with the return of

spring he again went to the Townships for another
season's work. Most of the following winter was spent

with his friends in England, but by April he was back in

Canada,! and was soon hammering away as hard as ever

at the rocks of the Townships, Danville being his head

quarters for most of the summer. In the autumn he

   * Mr. Jeffreys refers to this visit in the following reminiscences, kindly
contributed for this volume : " My earliest recollection of the late Sir

W. E. Logan dates from 1836, about which time he came to Swansea and
joined Mr. Starling Benson in taking some heaps of ' slag ' or raetallurgic
refuse for the purpose of extracting copper. They also leased and worked

a colliery at Penclawdd, six miles from Swansea. The latter undertaking
led to Mr. Logan's investigation of the South Wales mineral basin, which

attracted the attention of Sir Henry De la Beche. Mr. Logan and I were

for some years the co-secretaries of the Boyal Institution of South Wales;

and he was the geological, I the zoological curator of the Museum. After

Ihe left Swansea I saw very little of my friend until also left and went to
Ilive in London. In 1871 visited North America, and was his guest at

Logan's Farm, Montreal. We examined together the fossiliferous and so-
called glacial beds in that district. My long acquaintance with him,
although intermittent, left the impression on my mind that he was not

only very talented, but remarkably amiable. He was full of humour, and
the way in which he sang ' The Laird of Cockpen ' will not easily bo
forgotten by those who heard him. His manner was delightful, and he

was a thorough gentleman."

  t It was shortly after his return from England on this occasion that the
following incident occurred. We give it as related to us by a gentleman

in Montreal : " On his return from England in 1871, Sir William called at
the office of a friend to obtain an address. The friend not being within,
the clerk to whom he addressed himself, and to whom Sir William was
1873-74.]  DEATH OF MR. HART LOGAN.                                    389

received news of the death of his only surviving brother,
Mr. Hart Logan, and was much affected by the unex
pected loss. Though his health was far from good, he
determined to spend the winter of 1873-74 in Canada,
and although he stirred little from his solitary home at
Rockfield, he occasionally visited the offices of the Sur
vey, where every one was pleased to see him ; for his
face still wore its merry smile, and he still exhibited a
keen interest in every question connected with the
geology of the country. When at Rockfield his even
ings were often spent in reading novels, of which he
was always very fond and over which he many and
many a time shed tears like a school-girl. During the

personally unknown, rendered the desired service. The slouched hat,

much the worse in colour for exposure to sun and shower ; the ill-fitting

suit, innocent of acquaintance with a clothes-brush j the muddy knee-

boots, the long hair, shaggy beard and spectacles, altogether, gave him

the appearance of a gardener out of employment ; and his apparent
ignorance of some of the chief streets of the city, led the clerk to the
conclusion that he was a stranger from the country -- so he good-naturedly

offered to pilot him to his destination. On the way the little old gentle

man exhibited considerable power of walking, which, however, did not

interfere with a lively conversation. On being asked where he had been

Iliving lately, he replied that he had just returned from Wales. ' have

friends in Wales,' said his guide ; ' they live at C  .' ' Ah I that is on

the lime,' replied the active little stranger. ' My sister lives at L      ,

which is on the slate.' Other places he had visited were described as

being on the coal, on the lime, and so forth. Such a strange description

of locality the guide had never heard before, and he wondered who his

odd-looking but interesting companion could be. Nor was his astonish

ment less when he noticed that many of the gentlemen they met on the

way saluted him with evident respect. It was clear, too, the little gentle

man observed his guide's mystification, and thoroughly enjoyed it. Having

seen him safely to his destination, and having derived much pleasure from

the conversation, the clerk on his return, seeing one of the gentlemen who

had recognized his companion in the street, enquired who he was, and

was informed that it was Sir William Logan."
390  THE LAST VOYAGE.  [1874-75.

summer of 1874 he spent several weeks in the Townships

where he did his last geological work ; and in August,

accompanied by his secretary, Mr. G. R. Grant, he once
more sailed for the mother country. This was his last

voyage, although at the time he looked forward to

returning to Canada in the spring. During the winter,
while he was staying with his sister in Wales, the

disease which for some time had been insidiously creep

ing upon him became rapidly aggravated. " I grieve

to say," wrote his sister on the 22ud. of January, " that
we are in a state of great anxiety about Sir William.
His disease has made great strides, but the doctors do

not despair of doing him good if we can but keep up

his strength ; but he is very weak. . . . We sit up with
Sir William every night now." On the third of Feb

ruary his condition was somewhat improved, but he
evidently felt that he should never be well enough to
return to Canada. Writing at the time to a friend in
Montreal, his sister says : " He wishes me to tell you
that he is now disposed to take up his abode altogether

in this country, and I need hardly say what a satisfac
tion the determination will be to all his friends on this
side the Atlantic." In another letter written on the
10th. of the month she again says : " I am very much
grieved to say that I see no improvement in my dear
brother since I wrote last. In spite of all the nourish

ment he takes he seems weaker. . . . He wrote a short

note to Mr. Whitaker yesterday, and was dreadfully tired

after it."

   On the 16th. of February, as no change for the better
had taken place, Dr. Hulke of London was telegraphed
1875]  UNFINISHED WORK.         391

for ; but on his arrival the following morning he found

little to change in the treatment of the local physician.

Most of the time confined to bed and unable to read or

write, Logan's mind perpetually reverted to the work

which he had left behind in Canada. For some time

negociations had been pending between him and certain

persons in London with regard to boring operations

with a diamond drill which he wished to have

carried out in the Eastern Townships, and which he

thought would enable him to demonstrate the correct

ness of his views. He was particularly anxious that

the boring should be begun in the spring, and was

much annoyed by the tardiness with which the negoci

ations proceeded. A Mr.         had promised to go to

Wales to discuss the matter with him ; but as day

after day passed and he did not make his appearance,

Sir William grew very impatient and began to think

that he was "fighting shy of him." The site for the

bore-hole in Canada he had already indicated, and

although he had evidently given up all hope of being

able to return to Canada himself, he felt that his pre

sence there was really not essential, inasmuch as the

cores from the hole could be forwarded to him in Eng

land for his inspection there.

On the 15th of March he was able to write a long

letter to a friend in Canada, from which a few extracts
may be given :--

  " I dare say you will be glad to see my hand again.
I have hitherto been interdicted from writing, and the

present act will show you that there has really been

some improvement in my health. I need never hope,
392          LAST ILLNESS.         [i875.

however, to be in perfect health again. . . . My friends,
both here and in London, were anxious that some man

of confirmed reputation should be called in to give his

opinion upon Dr. N  's treatment. The gentleman

decided upon was Mr Hulke He is third in rank, but

first in authority, in the Middlesex Hospital, and enjoys
a reputation He is one of the surgeons who were

called in at the last illness of the Duke of Wellington.

He is a man to whom you take at once --gentle and
considerate in his manner, and extremely attentive to

every word that is said. . . . After mature consideration

[he] said that it was very gratifying to find that Mr.

N had done everything so nicely, and that I was

fortunate in having met with such a man, whom he

knew to be a warm-hearted fellow, one desirous of

sparing every possible pain, yet always acting up to

what he considered necessary. He (Dr. N.) has along

treated me with the utmost tenderness, more as if I had

been his father than his patient.  Last week I asked
   " Mr. Hulke's visit cost £190.

Mr. N        for his account for medical attendance up to

the first of March, as I was desirous of paying it period

ically instead of waiting to the end of the complaint, as
one did not know how long it might last. He has

attended me from the middle of December, visiting me

twice nearly every day, and often remaining all night.

. . . Dr. N  is in partnership with his father, though

from ago the father can now do nothing. In paying

the account the £57 13s. 6d. was in a cheque to the firm ;

but I made the son a present of £100 for himself. He

said it was the first large fee he had ever received, and
1875.]     LAST ILLNESS.                   393

was very thankful for it. The family is not very well

08. . . ."                                 two days later,
                                             recommended
   In a postscript to the letter, written

he adds : --

  " The moment I fell ill, Dr. N

me to get a professed surgical nurse, and we were
fortunate in procuring one from the establishment

of Mrs. W  , an institution from which nurses of

experience are supplied at one guinea per week. . . .

The money is paid to Mrs. W                at the expiration

of every month, and not to the nurse, who of course is

remunerated by Mrs. W  according to agreement

between them. We are particularly requested to give

no money to the nurse, but we may give her a writ

ing expressing our opinion of her and stating what

good qualities we consider her to possess. I am
ready to give mine -- Mrs. Fletcher she is called--a

high character for care, cleanliness, experience, and

fifty other good qualities. . . . She is gentle, strong,
and never seems to be at a loss what to do in an

..."emergency.

By the middle of May, Sir William's health was so

far improved that he was able to go to Tenby and spend

a fortnight there. Not long before he had purchased a

carriage and pair of horses of which he was very proud,

and while at Tenby he went nearly every day for a

drive with some of his friends. The weather was fine

and at first his appetite improved daily ; but the im
provement was only temporary. While at Tenby, still

intent upon the prospective boring operations, he
wrote :--
394         LAST ILLNESS.                  [i875.

                                "Tenry, 26th. May, 1875.

" My dear Mr. Gt., --I have to acknowledge your

letters of the 30th. April and 7th. May. The former

ought to have been acknowledged by the last post ; but

I took a drive to Carew Castle without recollecting that

it was mail day. Mr. L          at length contrived to see

me here yesterday, and made his proposition for the

bore-hole in the Eastern Townships. It is to be 950 feet

and is to cost somewhere near the 88,000. He is to

write me a letter from London to-morrow after seeing

his brother, with a statement of the conditions, and I am

to accept them by a return letter. One thing to be con

sidered in the selection of a position is water, a good

deal of which is required. Not far from the spot which

I had indicated there is a marsh which is discharged

by a brook, and perhaps it will not make much differ
ence if the vicinity of the brook is selected. The hole

...would go through the same strata with a small addition
of chloritic slate at the top.  It will be the middle

...of June before Mr. L  will be able to commence the

bore-hole.  I do not think I have made any great

progress in health at Tenby. We mean to return to

Castle Malgwyn on Tuesday the 1st. June."

   On the 4th. of June he wrote, though with an un

steady hand : " The weather is nice and warm, and I

am a little stronger. Capt. Stewart has lent me a Bath

chair, and I was out up the dingle in it before seven

o'clock. The dingle and the garden and all the country

are looking beautiful and there is great promise of all

kinds of fruit." On the 12th. of June he was again in

the garden peacefully drinking in the beauties of that
1875.]  THE CLOSE.  395

wondrous Nature which had so long been his delight
and inspiration. The balmy air, the flowers, the birds,
the very pebbles at his feet, all seemed to gladden his
heart and even to give him fresh bodily vigour. But,
alas ! it was only the glow preceding nightfall. The
garden was visited no more, and indeed from that time

he scarcely left his bed. Day by day he grew weaker,
and the weary watchers at his bedside saw that life
was fast ebbing away. As the end approached he
suffered much from pain and exhaustion, and when

death came on the 22nd. of June, "it was almost a relief

to his friends to see him at rest."
   And now he sleeps in the quiet churchyard of Llech-

ryd between his brother Hart, and his " great friend "
and brother-in-law, Mr. A. L. Gower. Peace to his
memory ! Honour to his name !

   Those who had the good fortune to know Sir
William Logan will remember him not merely as an

entlnisiastic geologist, but as a frank, true and genial
friend. Many a fellow-creature was cheered by his
cheerfulness, helped by his kindly advice and sym

pathy, or in the more substantial way which ample
private means rendered possible. In many respects
his was a solitary life. Unlike his great contempo

raries, Murchison and Lyell, he never enjoyed the
sympathy and assistance of a wife. His over-active
mind, no doubt, needed to be drawn from the geological

grooves in which it ran, and if on returning to Rockfield,

after the worries of the office or the hardships of the
396 CONCLVDWG REMARKS.

forest, there had been more of the attractions of home,
 his life would have been happier and possibly even
longer than it was. As he grew old, he must have

often experienced a sense of his loneliness, and we
have already seen that during his declining years he
more and more turned for sympathy to the sisters who
had been the fond companions of his boyhood.

   Though Sir William was possessed of a vigorous
constitution and great powers of endurance, enthusiasm
and interest in his work often carried him beyond his
strength, and caused him to undergo excessive hard
ship and fatigue. As is so frequently the case with
men of note, his tastes were very simple. His dress
was the plainest, and he cared little for the luxuries of
the table. Though brought up in accordance with
the principles of Presbyterianism, he was rarely to be
found in the kirk, and seven days a week seemed all
too short for the absorbing pursuit of science. At heart
he was a true tory, but owing to his position as a
Government servant, he carefully avoided meddling in
any way with political matters. The skill with which
he steered his bark among the shoals caused by party
legislation, in the end winning for himself and his
work the praise and confidence of all, shows that he
was possessed of remarkable sagacity. There was never
any surrender of his personal independence, but by
tact and a quiet, good-natured, irresistible persistence
his objects were attained ; so that years before his death
he had the satisfaction of seeing the Survey established
upon a comparatively liberal basis, and of feeling that,
largely through his own exertions, the usefulness of
CONCLUDING REMARKS.  397

 geology and a geological survey were far better
 appreciated in Canada than when he began his work
 there. When we bear in mind how late in life he

 entered upon his career as a man of science, how many
difficulties he had to contend with in a new country
like Canada, and how much of his time was taken up
 with European exhibitions and official drudgery, we
are surprised at the quantity of geological work which

he accomplished. It is true, however, that if he

laboured under some disadvantages, there were also

circumstances greatly in his favour. When he began
the Canadian Survey he was already personally known
to the principal geologists of Britain, who naturally

took a deeper interest in the work than if it had been

undertaken by one who was a stranger to them. He
came also to an almost entirely unexplored field, which
had all the charms of novelty and was ready to yield

up discovery on every hand.
   Like many of the geologists of his day, Logan had

only a limited knowledge of chemistry, mineralogy
and palaeontology ; but he had the good sense to
recognize his deficiencies and to supplement them by
securing the services of men who were towers of
strength in the departments which they represented.
His own special field was that of stratigraphical
geology, and among the ups and downs of anticlinal

and synclinal he was most thoroughly at home.

Indeed, for such combined topographical and geologi
cal work as he had to carry on he was eminently
qualified. As a close observer and careful delineator
of facts he excelled, but his mind was not of the
398 CONCLUDING REMARKS.

speculative type, and he rarely indulged in the flights
of fancy so common among geologists.

   Earnestness and singleness of purpose were among
the most marked features of Sir William's character.

From the time that he began the Geological Survey
until the day of his death, the great aim which was
perpetually before him was to thoroughly elucidate the
geology of Canada, and to render the knowledge
acquired subservient to the practical purposes of life
and to the advancement of his native country. He
was continually beset with requests to examine and
report upon mines in various parts of the country, but
invariably refused, unless he felt that the information
derived would be of advantage to the public. Nor
would he on any such occasion accept of remuneration
for his services. Any bona fide attempt on the part of
individuals or companies to develop the mineral
resources of the country was sure of his encourage

ment and advice if asked for ; but the impostors
who tried to palm off "salted" mines or impossible

geological discoveries upon the unsuspecting public,

he despised, and always took an intense pleasure
in exposing their schemes. " During the time of a
gold excitement in the Province of Quebec," writes

Professor H. Y. Hind, " he was not unfrequently urged

to give his opinion on gold-bearing quartz. On one
occasion a number of specimens were shown to him

by some speculators, in the presence of intending pur
chasers of the property. Sir William's opinion was
asked whether the glittering metal visible at the
bottom of the little cavities in the quartz was really
CONCLUDING REMARKS.  399

gold. ' No doubt of it,' said the unmoved critic, after
eyeing it closely with a pocket magnifier. ' No doubt
of it ; and with this glass you can see the marks of the

punch perfectly.' On another occasion, when pestered

to give an opinion on a copper-bearing area, after
reiterating without avail that he was a geologist but
not a mining engineer, he was pressed for an answer

to the question whether there was not an enormous
quantity of copper within the area described ; he

satisfied both the intending seller and contemplating

purchaser by the reply, ' There is an enormous quantity
of copper -- an enormous quantity ; and it is my opinion

that it will cost just a little more than it's worth to get

it out.' "

   Sir William had little capacity for literary work, and
although ho usually expressed himself with precision
and force, his style was lacking in ease and graceful
ness. Fine writing, however, was not his object, but
rather to describe in simple language the results of
observations in the field. In addition to his valuable
reports to Government, which together would make

several bulky volumes, he published a number of inter
esting papers, some of which have been noticed in the
foregoing pages.* As he advanced in life, he found
the work of composition more and more arduous. For
some years before his death he contributed nothing
to the literature of science, and even ordinary corres

pondence became increasingly distasteful to him.
   Sir William's more important work in the cause of

   * For a list of Sir William's more important reports and papers, see
Appendix B.
400 SUMMARY OF SCIENTIFIC WORK.

science may be briefly summed up as follows : --
(1.) Investigations with regard to the origin of coal,
which resulted in a much clearer understanding of

the subject than had been current before his time.

(2.) The establishment of the Laurentian system as a
great series of stratified crystalline rocks, divided into

several groups, and containing at certain horizons
evidences of organic life. (3.) The proof of the exist
ence of a second series of crystalline stratified rocks

(the Huronian) resting unconformably upon the Lau
rentian. (4.) The identification of the various formations
of Canada younger than the Huronian, and the estab
lishment of the fact that the inferior rocks of the

Palaeozoic series rest unconformably upon the Lauren
tian and Huronian. (5.) The production of a number
of admirable geological maps, giving not only the
results of his own explorations and those of his staff

in Canada, but including the work accomplished by
various geologists in the other British Provinces and

in parts of the United States. In the execution of these

maps he was very greatly indebted to the skill of Mr.
Robert Barlow, late Topographer of the Survey.

   Sufficient has already been said to show that the
interests of Canadian science must have been greatly
promoted by Sir William's exertions at the great
exhibitions of London and Paris --exertions whose
value has never been fully realized.

   Logan was not only a Fellow of the Royal Society
of London (1851), the Royal Society of Edinburgh
(1861), and the Geological Societies of London (1837)
and Edinburgh (1867), but also a Member of the
MEMBERSHIP OF SOCIETIES.  401

Geological Societies of France (1842) and Belgium
(1874), of the Imperial Leopoldo-Carolinian Academy of
Germany (1857), the Philadelphia Academy of Natural

Sciences (1846), the Maine Historical Society (1847),
the Academy of Sciences of St. Louis (1857), the Ameri

can Academy of Arts and Sciences, Boston (1859), the
State Historical Societies of Wisconsin and Iowa (1859),

the American Philosophical Society (1860), the Buffalo
Society of Natural Sciences (1863), &c., &c. He received
the honorary degree of Doctor of Civil Law from the
University of Lennoxville in 1855, and that of Doctor
of Laws from McGill University in 1856. He was also
the recipient of more than twenty medals, awarded
to him on various occasions as a recognition of his
scientific work.

28
                   APPENDIX A.

                        The Quebec Group.

                         By Principal Dawron, C.M.G., F.R.S.

   When Sir William Logan commenced the Geological Survey of Canada
in 1842, these rocks, in so far as his field was concerned, were almost a
terra incognita, and very scanty means existed for unravelling their com
plexities. The "Silurian System" of Murchison had been completed in
1838, and in the same year Sedgwick had published bis classification of
the Cambrian rocks. The earlier final reports of the New York Survey
were being issued about the time when Logan commenced his work. The
great works of Hall on the Palaeontology of New York had not appeared,
and scarcely anything was known as to the comparative palaeontology and
geology of Europe and America. Those who can look back on the crude
and chaotic condition of our knowledge at that time, can alone appreciate
the magnitude and difficulty of the task that lay before Sir William Logan.
To make the matter worse, the most discordant views as to the relative
ages of some of the formations in New York and New England which are
continuous with those of Eastern Canada, had been maintained by the
officers of the New York Survey.

   Sir William made early acquaintance with some of these difficult for.
mations. His first summer was spent on the coast of Gaspe and the Baio
des Chaleurs, where he saw four great formations, the Quebec group, the
Upper Silurian, the Devonian, and the Lower Carboniferous, succeeding
each other, obviously in ascending order, and each characterized by some
fossils, most of which, however, were at that time of very uncertain age.
More especially was this the case with the Lower and Upper Silurian
series, which differed considerably in mineral character from their chrono
logical representatives in New York and Western Canada ; while the fossils
contained .in them were often peculiar, and could only be roughly cone-
404 APPENDIX A.

lated with the few forms at that time published by the New York Survey.
Still this work of 1842 aud '43 was plain and easy compared with that
which arose in the tracing of these formations to the south-west. Sir
William '8 work on these rocks was characterized by extraordinary care and
exactitude, the stratigraphy and every feature of the rocks having been
elaborately observed and noted down. Much of the detail in these early
note-books of Sir William still remains unpublished. Those who would

detract from the work of Sir William Logan, if there are any such, should

remember these early beginnings, and compare them with the massive

foundations which have been laid for us to build upon.

   This early work in Gaspe and its vicinity was only the commencement
of the labours of thirty years extended over all parts of Canada, and re
inforced by several able assistants, and more especially by Messrs. Murray
and Richardson. These labours are elsewhere referred to, and we may here
sum up the general results with reference to the older formations, more or
less connected with the Quebec group. (1) All the comparatively flat and
undisturbed formations of the great plains of Upper and Lower Canada,
the Canadian portion of the interior continental plateau of America, have
been worked out and mapped, and their fossils characterized so that a child
may read them. (2) The complex hilly districts with their contorted,
disturbed and altered beds, which extend from New England to Gaspe,
have been traversed in every direction, the limits of their different for
mations marked, and a theory as to their age and structure put forth, which,
whether we accept it or not, has in it important features of the truth, and
rests on facts on which every disputant must take his stand. (3) The
still older formations of the Laurentide hills have been traced in their
sinuous windings, and arranged in an order of succession which must
stand whether the names given by Sir William, and now accepted through
out the world, be objected to or not. After the work of Sir William Logan,
no cavilling as to names can ever deprive Canada of the glory of being the
home of the scientific exploration of the Laurentian ; and much examina
tion of the ground which he explored enables me to affirm that no one will
ever be able permanently to overset the general leading sub-divisions
which he established in the Laurentian and Huronian systems.

   Befoie defining more particularly the work of Sir William in the Quebec
group, it may be well to notice some general geological facts which must

be present to our minds if we would enter intelligently into these discus

sions. The formations with which we have to deal in the more ancient
geological periods all belong to the bed of the sea. Now in the sea bottom
there have been in process of deposition, side by side and contemporane
ously, four different kinds of material, differing extremely in their mineral
character and in the changes of which they are susceptible. The first of
these consists of earthy and fragmental matter washed by water from the
surface or sea margins of the land and deposited in belts along coast-lines,
or on broader areas where ocean currents have been drifting the detritus
APPENDIX A.  405

ground from the land by ice or washed down by great rivers. The second
consists of organic remains of shells, corals and foraminifera, accumulated
in coral reefs and the debris washed from them, in shell beds and
in the chalky ooie of the deep ocean. Some beds of this kind are very
widely distributed. The third is composed of material ejected by igneous
action from the interior of the earth, and either spread in the manner of
lava-flows or of beds of fragments and fine volcanic ash. Such rocks
naturally occur in the vicinity of volcanic orifices, which are often disposed
in long lines along coasts or crossing ocean basins, but fragmental vol
canic matter is often very widely distributed by ocean currents and is
interstratified with other kinds of aqueous deposit. The fourth and last
description of bedded matter is that which is deposited in a crystalline

form from solution in water. In later geological times at least, such
deposits take place in exceptional circumstances, not of frequent occur

rence. Such beds are dolomite, greensand, gypsum, and rock salt.

   Now it may be affirmed that at each and every period of the earth's
geological history, all or most kinds of these deposit were in progress
locally. But it may also be affirmed that in certain geological periods
there was a predominance of one or more over very great areas ; and that
in any particular area, even of considerable size, there may be definite
alternations of these different kinds of material characteristic of particular

periods.

   Again, along certain lines of the earth's crust, the beds deposited by
water havo been folded and crushed together, probably by the contraction
of the earth's shell in cooling, and along these lines they have been
changed, in the way of hardening and becoming crystalline or in being
chemically recompounded --alterations which are usually known as meta-
morphic. But still further, some kinds of deposit are much more liable

to such metamorphic changes than others. More especially the beds of
igneous origin, from their containing abundance of basic matter, as well

as of silica, very readily change under the influence either of heat or
water, becoming it may be highly crystalline, or having new mineral
substances formed in them by new combinations, or, on the other hand,
when acted on by water combining with it and forming hydrous

silicates.

   One other curious coincidence it is necessary to mention. -- It is where

the greatest deposits of sediments are going on along coasts or in the
course of currents, that crumpling and bending of the crust are most
likely to occur, and igneous ejections to be thrown out ; and conversely,
where igneous ejections are piled up, coasts may be forming or currents
deflected, so as to cause at these points the greatest deposit of sediment.

   These considerations are sufficient to show the true value of mineral
character, first as a means of distinguishing rocks of different nature and
origin, and secondly of separating rocks of different ages within limited

localities ; with the entire worthlessuess of the criterion when applied to
406 APPENDIX A.

 distinguish the ages of beds in widely separated localities. There are in
 America rocks as widely apart in time as the Huronian of the East and
 the Carboniferous of the West, which are scarcely distinguishable in
 mineral character : there are rocks of identical age, as for instance the
 Lower Silurian of New York and Western Canada and that of Nova Scotia
 and the North of England, which are as unlike in mineral character as it
 is possible for rocks of the most diverse ages to be.

    But can we trust implicitly to stratigraphy ? Certainly, when we find
 one rock directly superimposed on another we know that it is the newer
 of the two. But when we find old rocks slid over new ones by reversed
 faults, when we find sharp folds overturning great masses of beds, and
 when we find portions of beds hardened, altered, and become more resist
 ing, standing up as hills in the midst of the softer materials, perhaps of the
 same age, which have been swept away from around them, then we have
 the real difficulties of stratigraphy.

    We may have difficulties in fossils as well. Nothing is more common
 than to find in the modern ocean areas traversed by cold currents which
have very different animals living in them from those in the same latitude
where the water is warmer. The same thing occurs in older formations.
The abundant corals and large shell-fishas in the North American lime
stones of the Trenton age, show a condition of things in which the great
area of Central North America was covered with warm waters from the
south, teeming with life, and was sheltered from the northern currents of

cold and muddy water. But in the Utica shale which succeeds, we have
the effect of these cold currents Mowing over the same area, loading it with

mud, over which lived Graptolites and old-fashioned northern Trilobites
like Triarthrus Beckii, instead of the rich life of the Trenton. This is a
mere change to a cold or glacial age, and there must have been through
out geological time not only such changes in any given locality, but areas
which at the same time presented the diverse conditions of warm tropical
currents and those derived from the Arctic regions, and in which conse
quently very different forms of animal life must have flourished.

   It is only when we consider that all these causes of error embarrass the
study of the Quebec group of Sir William Logan, that we can appreciate
the difficulties of the case. Crossing a narrow line, a mere crack of the
earth's crust, the great reversed fault of Eastern Canada and Lake Cham-
plain, we pass at once from the flat uniform deposits of the great conti
nental plateau of America to entirely different beds, formed at the same

time along its Atlantic margin. These beds were affected by volcanic
ejections, mixing them with ash rocks and causing huge earthquake waves,
which tore up the rocks of the sea bottoms and coasts, and formed great

irregular beds of conglomerate, sometimes with boulders many feet in

length. In the intervals of these eruptions the area was overflowed by

cold Arctic currents carrying Band and mud, sometimes altogether barren
of fossils, or again loaded with cold water creatures like the Graptolites
APPENDIX A.  407

which occur in vast quantities in some of the beds. Alternating with all
this were a few rare lucid intervals, when fossiliferous limestones, just
sufficiently like those of the great interior plateau to enable us to guess
their similar age, were being produced here and there. Farther, this heap
of most irregular and peculiar deposits was that along which subsequent
flexures and igneous eruptions and alterations of beds both by heat and

heated waters were most rife, all the way down to the Devonian period.

It is difficult without personal examination in the field to realize the
actual character of the Quebec group rocks as exposed on the south side
of the St. Lawrence between Point Levis and Cape Rosier. Fine black, grey

and red shales are seen to alternate in the most abrupt manner with sand

stones and coarse grits, and with conglomerates filled with boulders and
angular stones sometimes several feet in diameter, and some of them
showing evidence of neighbouring igneous ejections. These coarser beds
thicken and wedge out with singular rapidity, so as often to appear as
irregular masses rather than beds, while the whole formation is crumpled
into sharp folds, whose complexities are aggravated by the original ine
quality of the beds in thickness and in resisting power. Only the con
joined action of Arctic currents bearing mud and ice and of the earthquake
waves connected with the igneous action proceeding at the time to the
southward, can account for such a formation.

   At first the real conditions of this problem were hidden from Sir William
Logan, by the error of supposing with most of the geologists of the United
States, that the great reversed fault was a true stratigraphical superposi

tion, and consequently that these strange deposits were newer than those
to the west of them. But so soon as the actual nature of the case was made

manifest, and this was first due to a right apprehension of the fossils, for
which Mr. Billings deserves much of the credit, Sir William at once and
for ever apprehended the real conditions of the problem, and set himself
to work it out on the true line of investigation.

   In evidence of this, and as presenting as clear a view of the whole
matter as we can give, up to the present time, I quote from a note by Sir
William appended to Mr. Murray's report on Newfoundland for 1865, and

which is less known than his utterances on this subject published in the

Canadian reports :

   " The sediments which in the first part of the Silurian period were de
posited in the ocean surrounding the Laurentian and Huronian nucleus of
the present American continent, appear to have differed considerably in
different areas. Oscillations in this ancient land permitted to be spread
over its surface, when at times submerged, that series of apparently con
formable deposits which constitute the New York system, ranging from
the Potsdam to the Hudson River formation. But between the Potsdam

and Chnzy periods, a sudden continental elevation, and subsequent gradual
subsidence, allowed the accumulation of a great series of intermediate
deposits, which are displayed in the Green Mountains, on one side of the
408 APPENDIX A.

ancient nucleus, and in the metalliferous rocks of Lake Superior, on the
other, hut which are necessarily absent in the intermediate region of New
York and central Canada.

   "At an early date in the Silurian period, a great dislocation commenced
along the south-eastern line of the ancient gneissic continent, which gave

rise to the division that now forms the western and eastern basins. The
western basin includes those strata which extended over the surface of the
submerged continent, together with the Pre-Chazy rocks of Lake Superior,
while the Lower Silurian rocks of the eastern basin present only the Pre-
Chazy formations, unconformably overlaid, in parts, by Upper Silurian and
Devonian rocks. The group between the Potsdam and Chazy, in the east
ern basin, has been separated into three divisions, but these subdivisions

have not yet been denned in the western basin. In the western basin
the measures are comparatively flat and undisturbed ; while in the eastern
they are thrown into innumerable undulations, a vast majority of which

present anticlinal forms overturned on the north-western side. The general
sinuous north-east and south-west axis of these undulations is parallel

with the great dislocation of the St. Lawrence, and the undulations them
selves are a part of those belonging to the Appalachian chain of moun

tains. It is in the western basin that we must look for the more

regular succession of the Silurian rocks, from the time of the Chazy,
and in the eastern, including Newfoundland, for that of those anterior
to it."

   In studying these rooks, as Sir William well knew that the great
line of disturbance and igneous action lay to the east, as he fur
ther knew that in this belt of country, rocks all the way up even

to the Carboniferous had been profoundly altered, he was not sur
prised to find that in tracing the Quebec rocks to the south and east,
the clay slates, still holding the same fossils, became micaceous or

nacreous slates, the bituminous shales graphitic slates, the limestones
crystalline marble ; and that even serpentine, chloritic slate and hard
felspathic rocks appeared to take the place of ordinary aqueous sedi
ments. Consequently he arrived at the large generalizations on the

Isubject embodied in his map of Canada, and to which believe he ad

hered to the last.

   Was he right in these generalizations ? In part, at least, it is certain
that he was. Distinct Lower Silurian fossils occur in the nacreous slates
and graphitic slates of the Eastern Townships of the Province of Quebec,

and these slates alternate with hard quartzites, and felspathic and brecci-

ated rocks, and so far as can be made out by stratigraphy, also with
chloritic rocks, crystalline dolomite, soapstones and serpentine, these

rocks seemingly representing the shales of Point Levis if not still newer

members of the series. Professor Dana has shown that rocks in Connecti
cut, usually referred to the Quebec group, or even in the Lower Taconic
series of Emmons, and often in a highly crystalline state, actually con-
APPENDIX A.  409

tain fossils newer than those of the Quebec group, or of Hudson River

age.*

   Murray in Newfoundland has found the most unequivocal superposition
of serpentine and chloride slate on fossiliferous rocks of the Quebec
group, and intervening in age between them and the Hudson Eiver group.
Ward has described the superposition of the Volcanic Borrowdale series on
the Skiddaw slates of Cumberland, which are the undoubted equivalents of
the Quebec group, and similar relations have been observed in Norway.
Thus, on the one hand, there is no doubt that the Quebec group rocks.
become altered in proceeding to the south and south-west, and there is
nothing unprecedented in the actual replacement of some of their upper

beds by volcanic or aqueo- volcanic rocks, in tracing them toward the line

of the great igneous outbursts to the southward. On the other hand, taking
into account the complexities of all the parts of this troubled sea of eastern
Palaeozoic rocks, it cannot be denied that there may exist crests of beds

Iolder than the Quebec group projecting locally and perhaps largely through

these rocks. am the more inclined to believe this, since there is the
best reason to hold that the unaltered members of the Quebec group, as
mapped by the Survey on the south shore of the St. Lawrence, include, as
we shall see presently, beds ranging all the way from the Lower Cam

brian up to the Chazy. Similar, perhaps older, beds, no doubt exist
largely, mixed with igneous outflows and breccias, in the hills of the

interior

   But if any one thinas proper to put down a hard and fast line on the
map of Eastern Canada, and to maintain that all the crystalline rocks which

Iapparently project through and rise above the Quebec group, are of greater

age, must decline to go with him in this assertion, since it seems certain
that such an extreme view cannot be in accordance with facts. No one,

I Ihowever, feel persuaded, will now go so far as this; but believe the

pendulum has already swung farther than it should in this direction, and
must go back again nearer to Sir William Logan's position.

   At the present day these points are still subjects of discussion, and
several eminent geologists are more or less inclined to dispute Sir
William's conclusions. Dr. Sterry Hunt has endeavoured to show that
large portions of the rocks considered by Sir William as altered represen
tatives of the Quebec group, are of much greater age and named by him

Taconian, Montalban and Huronian. Hitchcock and Macfarlane have
advocated similar views, though with differences in details; while Dr.
 Selwyn, Sir William's successor, has been disposed to regard the altered
 rocks lying to the south-eastward of the typical Quebec series as belong

 ing to two older groups.

    Before discussing these new views, we may sum up Sir William's results

  * American Journal of Science. 1S79. One of the fossils recognized by Dana seems
to bo the Stromatopora compacta of Billings, really a SUnop&ra, known in Canada both
below and above the Levis.
410 APPENDIX A.

as they appear in his latest publications. They ma; be stated thus :--
(1) The general diversity of mineral character in the Palaeozoic sediments
on the Atlantic slope as compared with the internal plateau of Canada. In
these results Bailey, Matthew, and Hartt in New Brunswick, and the
writer in Nova Scotia have also borne some part. (2) The establishment
of the Quebec group of rocks as a series equivalent in age to the Calcifer-
ous of America, and to the Arenig and Skiddaw of England, and the

elucidation of its peculiar fauna. (3) The tracing out and definition of
the peculiar faulted junction of the coastal series with that of the interior
plateau, extending from Quebec to Lake Champlain. (4) The definition
in connection with the rocks of the Quebec group, by fossils and strati
graphy, of formations extending in age from the Potsdam sandstone to the
Upper Silurian, as in contact with this group, in various relations, along
its range from the American frontier to Gasp6 ; but the complexities in
connection with these various points of contact and the doubts attending
the ages of the several formations have never yet been fully solved in their
details. (5) The identification of the members of the Quebec group and
associated formations with their geological equivalents in districts where
these had assumed different mineral conditions, either from the associa
tion of contemporaneous igneous beds and masses, or from subsequent

alteration or both. It is with reference to the results under this head, the

most difficult of all, that the greater part of the objections to Sir William's
views have arisen.

   Let us now shortly examine Dr. Selwyn's results, with reference to

these conclusions, especially to the last.
   The first point deserving of notice here is the inability of Dr. Selwyn to

recognize in the extension of the Quebec group eastward and westward of
Quebec, those subdivisions which have been named the Levis, Lauzon, and
Sillery. Originally Sir William recognized two divisions only, the Levis
and Sillery. Subsequently he introduced, on the ground merely of
convenience, the intermediate Lanzon ; though apparently not regarding
the three-fold division as at all important, but merely as provisional.*

   Of these subdivisions the most important is the Levis, which forms the
most highly fossiliferous and most readily recognized horizon of the Quebec
group, being that which has afforded the greater part of the numerous
species of Graptolites described by Hall and the Trilobites described by
Billings. About the precise base of this division, held to be the lowest of
the group, there is some uncertainty. Sir William has referred to it as
resting on Potsdam rocks in the vicinity of Lake Champlain, and farther
east on older shales and limestones ; and Mr. Richardson has endeavoured
to separate from it certain sandstones and associated beds on the Lower

St. Lawrence. More especially I may refer to the sandstones and shales

near Metis, holding Astropolithon, Scolilhua, and Arenicolites spirolis, and tv
beds near Matane holding species of Conoccphalites of very primitive type

  * Reportofl866,p.4.
APPENDIX A.                                                                                                    411

In Newfoundland also, where the sequence of these beds is better seen
than elsewhere, there are, according to Richardson and Billings, 2,000 feet
of beds under the typical Levis and over the Lower Calciferous, holding
fossils unquestionably of the second fauna of Barrande, or Lower Silurian,
and below there is a great thickness of Calciferous and Potsdam. All
these beds must exist in the Quebec group districts of Canada, folded up

along with the Levis, and as yet very imperfectly separated from nor is
   at all unlikely that in some localities they may have been confounded

with the Lauzon and Sillery.
it
                                                              it
                                                                          is

                                                                                                          it,
   With regard to the distinction of these last-named formations as upper
members of the Quebec group, we must agree with Dr. Selwyn that in the

present state of our knowledge they cannot be clearly separated from the

Levis or from one another. Nevertheless  true that on the typical

Levis there rest sandstones and shales of considerable thickness, not hold-

its characteristic fossils, and forming an upper member of the Quebec

group, as yet not well denned, but representing in nature the Lauzon and

Sillery of Logan. It would thus appear that in addition to the rocks

recognized by Sir William as Levis, Lauzon and Sillery, there must occur

in the somewhat wide area of the Quebec group, rocks older than the Levis

and really Cambriau in age, but not yet definitely separated from the true

Quebec group. The evidence of this is farther strengthened by the
occurrence of large slabs of limestone holding Cambrian fossils in the

conglomerates of the Quebec group, and evidently not far removed from
their original seats. Still another question has been raised as to the order

of succession in the Quebec group itself. At Point Levis the limestones

holding Trilobites appear to overlie the shales holding Graptolites. But
while the latter are of Lower Silurian age and equivalent to those of the

Arenig or Skiddaw series of England, the former present an older facies

equivalent to the Lingula Flags of England. This has induced Dr. Hunt

to suggest the hypothesis that these beds have actually been overturned.

It is to be observed, however, that some of the Trilobites have been taken

from pebbles in the lime conglomerates; and though, even making all

possible allowance for this, there remain forms which may be termed

Cambrian, we must farther admit that Graptolites are animals of so long

life as not to fix geological horizons very minutely. Hence we may in

any case regard the Levis rocks as constituting a Lower Silurian group or

possibly partly transition group between the Cambrian and Silurian, and

that, on the one hand, they underlie, perhaps unconformably, the Trenton

series, while, on the other, they rest upon argillaceous and arenaceous

beds of great thickness, as yet not perfectly separated from them and

which may in part be even of Lower Cambrian age. This great series

thus constitutes a thick and peculiar mass of beds, reaching from the

Lowest Cambrian upward, until in its higher members passes into beds
                                         it

holding Lower Silurian forms. While in the typical sections on the St.

Lawrence this great series has not been fully separated into its constituent
412 APPENDIX A.

parts, still greater difficulties attend the disentanglement of its subdivisions
in its extension inland.

    But again, Dr. Selwyn is disposed to separate from the Quebec group

the greater part of those altered and crystalline rocks associated with it
and which appeared to Sir William Logan to be metamorphosed equiva
lents of this group, and largely of its upper or Sillery division. Of these

rocks he forms two series, which, however, he regards as closely associated,
and probably not unconformable with each other.

   The first and nearest in age to the Quebec group is defined as including
" felspathic, chloritic, epidotic and quartzose sandstones, red, grey and
greenish siliceous slates and argillites," with " breccias and agglomerates,
diorites, dolerites, and amygdaloids," as well as serpentine, dolomite, and
calcite. In short this formation is one of mixed igneous and aqueous
origin, non-fossiliferous, except in the case of a few microscopic fragments,
and mostly crystalline. As regarded by Sir W. E. Logan, these rocks, in
consequence of their apparent conformity with the Levis series, and their
apparent superposition in some sections, were held to be an upper member
of the Quebec group, and were mapped as Sillery. They were thus placed
in the same position with the serpentine and chloritic formation of New.

foundland, as described by Murray, with the Cobequid series as I have

described it in Nova Scotia,* and with the Borrowdale igneous rocks
resting on the English equivalents of the Levis beds as defined by Ward
in Cumberland.

   Dr. Selwyn, on the other hand, thinks that the main mass of these

peculiar rocks either comes out unconformably from beneath the Levis
series or is separated from it by a fault, and is in all probability older,
though the obscure traces of fossils found in some of the beds would indi
cate that they are not older in any case than Lower Silurian or Upper

Cambrian.

  It is obvious that with reference to a formation so greatly disturbed,

either of these theoretical views may be correct, or that there may be two

crystalline series, one below and another above the Levis beds.
   Had Sir W. E. Logan lived, it was his intention to have, at his own cost,

bored through the crystalline rocks at some selected site, in order to obtain
positive proof of the subterposition of the Levis beds. The expense is not
now likely to be incurred, but the whole question will in course of time
be settled by the careful re-examination and mapping, which now that
new views have been suggested by the head of the Geological Survey, the

district ought to receive.
   Dr. Selwyn's third division, supposed to be still older, possibly Lower

Cambrian, in some respects resembles the second, but is predominantly
slaty and quartzose, though still with dolomites and other magnesian

rocks. These would naturally fall into the place assigned to them, if the

age attributed to the second series be admitted, otherwise they come into

   * Acadian Geology, third edition-
APPENDIX A.  413

the period of the Sillery, or some newer formation, in an altered condition.

I do not know that fossils hare been found in these rocks, within the
limits of Canada at least, but if they are really of Cambrian age, the rich

ness of this fauna elsewhere in N.E. America would warrant the hope

that the age assigned to them may be indicated by fossils, while, if like

 some similar beds to the southward, they hold Silurian species, these also

must in some cases be recognizable ; so that if they finally fail to afford

 fossil remains or yield Lower Cambrian species, this, with their mineral
character and apparent distribution, would sustain Dr. Selwyn's view;
while, on the other hand, the discovery of a few distinctive Silurian forms

 might suffice to overturn it.

   It would appear that the third and second series of Dr. Selwyn, above

 mentioned, are the same with the rocks which in Hitchcock's map of New
 Hampshire are named Montalban and Huronian. The former term has,
however, been applied by Dr. Hunt to a series newer than the Huronian,

called by Hitchcock the Coos group, and maintained to be distinct from
the Montalban, which, however, it resembles in mineral character, and
there seems to be no section showing the succession of the two supposed
formations. Thus Dr. Hunt maintains that the Coos group is identical

 with the Montalban, while Hitchcock considers them distinct. Farther,
Hitchcock regards the Coos group as Silurian, in which case the so-called

 Huronian and Montalban may be Silurian or Cambrian. There is thus in
all this discussion no really certain advance on the position of Logan, while
Dana and others, repudiating the views of Hunt and Hitchcock, still regard
the greater part of these disputed crystalline rocks as representing the

Quebec group, or as even in some cases newer. It is due here to Dr. Hunt

to explain that he has for many years on independent grounds regarded
the beds of Dr. Selwyn's second and third groups as, for the most part at

least, Huronian in age, and a similar conclusion was also arrived at from
comparison with the older formations of Scandinavia, by Mr. Macfarlane.
Thus in one way or another all these gentlemen dissent from Sir William's

concluf ions, while also differing from each other, a sufficient evidence of
the complicated character of the problem with which he had to deal, and
whose ultimate solution may embrace elements of all the generalizations

which have been put forth.

   Some suggestions may at least be offered toward the solution of these
questions, which deserve the attention of those who have been occupied

with them. The first is that we should accustom ourselves to the antici

pation that contemporaneous Palseozoic rocks in the regions of the western
lakes, of the plains of Ontario and Quebec, and of the eastern slope, are
not likely to be identical in mineral character. Farther, that even in the
central of these three regions we may expect differences in approaching
certain parts of the older rocks. At Murray Bay, for example, on the
border of the Laurcntian, we find the Black River limestones in great part
represented by coarse sandstone, and we find similar changes in the
414 APPENDIX A.

Chazy near Grenville. A third suggestion is, that in order to under
 stand the eastern members of the Lower Silurian, it is necessary to be
acquainted with the contemporaneous igneous ejections mixed with these

rocks, and if possible to distinguish them from those of similar character

so largely present in the Huronian. This is well exemplified in the rock
belt of Lower and Upper Silurian age in the Acadian Provinces.* Another,
to which Dr. Hunt has directed attention in his report in connection
with the Survey of Pennsylvania, is the importance of inquiry as to
which of the many successive movements and plications of the earth's
crust occurring in Palaeozoic time, have most seriously affected the now
so greatly plicated and disturbed rocks of the Quebec group. Still
another, and one of the most important, is the study of the various kinds
of alteration which these rocks have undergone. We have in eastern

Canada rocks as young as the Devonian which have been sensibly affected
in this way, and there can be no doubt that large areas of the Quebec

group have suffered similar changes, and that on the one hand it is
possible that these metamorphosed portions have been confounded with

older series, or that on the other these older series have been inadvert

ently mixed with them.
   The value to be attached to fossils is another point of much importance.

Long experience has convinced me that in the Cambrian and Silurian
ages this kind of evidence is the most conclusive of all ; but then it must
bo rightly understood. As already observed, we must discriminate the
animals characteristic of the cold Atlantic waters loaded with Arctic sedi
ment, from those of the sheltered continental plateau. We must also
bear in mind that oceanic and probably floating forms of low grade, like

the Graptolites, have an enormous range in time, as compared, for example,
with the Trilobites, and the same remark applies to some mollusks proper
to sandy or muddy bottoms, like the Lingulse and their allies, as compared
with other mollusca.

   All these precautions must be taken in the study of these rocks, and it
involves no depreciation of the geologists above mentioned, to say that

the different conclusions at which they have arrived, depend very much
on the different degrees of importance which they have attached to the
various kinds of evidence accessible. To sum up, we may conclude (1)
That the Quebec group of Sir William Logan constitutes a great Lower
Silurian formation, extending along the east coast of North America, and
corresponding in fossils, age and conditions of deposition to the Arenig
and Skiddaw of England. (2) That there are associated with it beds of
greater age, Mcnevian or perhaps even Longmynd, not yet perfectly
separated from it. (3) That in their extension to the south the Quebec
group rocks and those associated with them became altered and mixed
with igneous ejections as well. (4) That locally ridges of still older
metamorphic rocks, not yet perfectly separated from the Quebec group or

   * Supplement to Acadian Goology, 1878.
                APPENDIX A.                     415

from one another, project through the anticlinal folds or rise unconform-

ably, or are brought up by faults.

   One word, before closing, respecting names.  These are of little import
ance in themselves, but it is of consequence    that they should not be

needlessly changed, and that they should not be misapplied.
   The name " Quebec Group," introduced by Sir William Logan, should

be retained for that peculiar development of the rocks of the second fauna,

eminently exposed and accessible in the vicinity of Quebec, to whatever

extent its extensions east and west may be circumscribed ; and whatever

value may be attached to the local subdivisions into Levis, Lauzon and

Sillery. On the one band, the use of one of these terms, Levis, for the
whole, leads to misconception ; and the absurdity of the term " Canadian "

becomes apparent when we see it made correlative with a purely local

name like "Trenton," and when we consider that Canada is a region

greater than the United States of America, and with equally varied geologi

cal structure.

The more recent developments in the geology of North America require,

as Dr. Hunt and Dr. Selwyn have urged, that the Cambrian system should

be recognized as a group altogether distinct from the Silurian ; and what
ever views as to the use of these names may ultimately prevail in England,

for us the dividing line between the Cambrian and the Siluro-Cambrian or

Lower Silurian, unquestionably comes about the horizon of the Potsdam.

As to the formations older than the Cambrian, I am disposed to regard the

Montalban and Taconian of Dr. Hunt as representing definite groups of

rocks, which may, however, eventually prove to belong to the base of the

Cambrian, with which equivalent strata in the Maritime Provinces of Canada

seem to be associated. The Huronian series of Logan represents another

great fact in the geology of North America, namely, a period of great

igneous ejection and disturbance intervening between the Laurentian and

the Cambrian. In the typical Huronian area of Lake Huron it unques

tionably rests unconformably on the Laurentian, and is itself overlaid by
rocks of Cambrian or still greater age. It has precisely the same mineral

characters and position as far east as New Brunswick and Newfoundland,

and as far west as the Pacific slope,* and is thus one of the most widely

diffused of American formations, though I believe it has locally been

confounded with rocks of similar mineral character but of newer date.

The Upper Laurentian of Logan, the Norian of Hunt, is entirely different

in mineral character from the Huronian, and stratigraphically is related

to the Middle Laurentian rather than to the Huronian, notwithstanding

local unconformity. The Lower Laurentian of Logan may now, since the

explorations of Vennor,t be safely divided into a lower and middle group,

otLoofu*gtshaCenslai'dsQreeusvneiceobewfectKohGifenrtoghLua'espusrtRereoenecpptkioasrsn.tlopoaenf dothfeHtuh4re0otnLhiaauPnraerenaxtllipeaoln.surlaeTnshdeinartuttghhgiseedrteimgfeieoantoucfreotsrhreeasnpddoenppdoresicwtiipiotinh
   t Reports Goological Survey of Canada.
416 APPENDIX A.

the former being, however, nothing more than the great gneissic forma
tion recognized by Logan as the Trembling Mountain gneiss, which forms
the base of his well-known Laurentian section, and the Bojian gneiss of

European observers. The idea that the Middle Laurentian, the horizon
of Eozoon Canadense and of the great Phosphate and Graphite deposits,

Iis identical with the Hastings group, or with the Huronian, has, am

fully convinced, after some study of the Lake Huron, Madoc and St. John
exposures of these formations, no foundation in fact. There seems, how

ever, good reason to believe that the gap between the Lower Laurentian

of Lake Huron and the Huronian, is to be filled not merely by the Middle

Laurentian and the Norian, but by such rocks as those described by Dr.
Bigsby, Dr. Bell and Dr. G. M. Dawson on the Lake of the Woods and

other regions west and north of Lake Superior, and at present included in

the Huronian, to the base of which many of them no doubt belong.*

  It may perhaps be well to exhibit diagrammatically, in a sectional man.

ner, the view promulgated by Sir W. E. Logan in 1863 and 1865 with
reference to the general structure of the Atlantic slope of Canada.

   According to this generalization, at the close of the Cambrian age and
beginning of the Silurian there occurred an elevation of the Laurentian
nucleus of the American continent, which caused either an absence of

deposit or the accumulation of only shallow-water beds over the great areas
now occupied by Ontario, New York and part of Quebec, while thick
deposits were formed in deeper water on the Atlantic border of the con

tinent and in the Lake Superior region. Hence the great lithological
difference between the Cambrian and lowest Siluriau beds in the east and
west as compared with their representatives in the central region. This

difference and its causes are represented in ideal Section No. I. In con
nection with this it is proper to observe : (1) That disturbances antici
patory of this state of things had begun in the Huronian age, and are

indicated by its unconformability to the Laurentian, and by the igneous
products included in it. (2) That extensive igneous outbursts occurred
at the margins of the sea areas, both in the east and west, in the Cambrian

age, as indicated by the Keweenian volcanic rocks in the west, and by
the conglomerates with volcanic fragments and evidences of violent wave-
action in the Quebec group of the east.

   Early in the Silurian period there followed on the previous unequal
elevation one of the great crumplings of the crust of the earth, which
crushed the thick and soft deposits of the Atlantic area against the edge
of the inland Laurentian area, producing foldings, flexures and faults of
the Atlantic rocks, but leaving the thinner layers deposited upon the
upraised plateau comparatively undisturbed. In this way the state of

things represented in Section II. was produced. Thus the beds of the

typical Quebec series, which represent the Atlantic deposits laid down iu

  * G- M. Dawson's Report on 49th Parallel.  Bell, Reports Geological Survey of
Canada.
                 APPENDIX A.                              411

                                          U.C »

is                     o
           GH         c/J

            <3r                                       %

                      oi
                                                       a
                       3

                                                   g

                     .3

                     o . -a»

                                                       5

                 27
»18 APPENDIX A.

comparatively deep and cold water, were thrust against the flat beds of
tbe inland Potsdam and Calciferous and piled up in gigantic earth-waves.
At the same time these crumpled beds were necessarily hardened, rendered
slaty and otherwise modified by pressure and heat.

   Lastly, the denudation which occurred subsequently has no doubt
exposed in places the older Huronian and even Laurentian rocks, thrown
up in the axes of the folds. The extent to which this has occurred is in
reality the main point in dispute between Sir William and his later
critics, whose new views in no respect otherwise affect his larger generali

zations as above stated.
   The discussion of these controverted questions may long continue.

The facts are obscure, and are complicated by the great disturbance of the
beds, the partial alteration of some of them, the varying mineral character
of others in different districts, and the absence of well characterized
fossils from great masses of deposits. Their final settlement, though
locally important and much to be desired in the interest of geological
mapping, is of less consequence to theoretical geology than the broad
views above stated.

   It is not denied that similar views to those of Sir William Logan have

been held by several of the more eminent geologists of the United States,
and that questions may be raised as to priority in their first announce
ment. Into these questions it is not necessary to enter. Sir Wiliam has

himself referred to all the views promulgated before his time. It is only

desired here to vindicate his accuracy in the results which he attained as
to the Geology of Canada.
            APPENDIX B.

LIST OF SIR WILLIAM LOGAN'S MORE IMPORTANT

                        PAPERS, REPORTS, &c.

   On the Character of the Beds of Clay lying immediately below the Coal-
seams of South Wales, and on the Occurrence of Coal Boulders in the
Pennant Grit of that District,--Trans. Geol. Soc., 2d. Ser., VI., 1842,

p. 491.

   On the Tacking of Ice in the River St. Lawrence ; on a Landslip in the

Modern Deposits of its Valley ; and on the Existence of Marine Shells in
those Deposits, as well as upon the Mountain of Montreal. -- Proc. Geol.

Soc., III., 1842, p. 766.

   On the Age of the Copper-bearing Rocks of Lakes Superior and Huron,
and various facts relating to the Physical Structure of Canada. -- Proc.
Brit. Assoc., 1851 ; Am. Jour, of Sci., 2d. Ser., XIV., p. 224.

   On the Occurrence of a Track and Foot-prints of an Animal in the

Potsdam Sandstone of Lower Canada. -- Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc., VII. 1851,

p. 247.

   On the Foot-prints occurring in the Potsdam Sandstone of Canada. --

Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc., VIII., 1852, p. 199.

   On the Physical Structure of the Western District of Upper Canada. --

Can. Jour., III., 1854-5, p. 1.

On the Division of the Azoic Rocks of Canada into Huronian and
Laurentian.-- Can. Nat., II., 1857, p. 255 ; Can. Jour., N.S., II., 1858, p. 439.

II,On the probable Sub-division of the Laurentian Rocks of Canada. --
Can. Nat.,  1857, p 270 ; Can. Jour., N.S., III., 1858, p. 1.

   Relative Dates of various Intrusive Rocks cutting the Laurentian Series

in Canada. -- Can. Jour., N.S., III., 1858, p. 107
420 APPENDIX B.

   On the Track of an Animal lately found in the Potsdam Formation

Can. Nat., V., 1860, p. 279 ; Am. Jour. Sci., 2d. Ser., XXXI., p. 17.

Remarks on the Fauna of the Quebec Group of Rocks, and the Primor

dial Zone of Canada, addressed    to Mr. Joachim Barrande. -- Can. Nat., V.,
1860, p. 472 ; Can. Jour., N.S.,
                                  VI, 1861, p. 46 ; Am. Jour. Sci., 2d. Ser.,
XXXI, 1861, p. 216.

Considerations relating to the Quebec Group and the Upper Copper-
VI,bearing Rocks of Lake Superior. -- Can. Nat.,
                                                  1861, p. 199.

VIII,On the Rocks of the Quebec Group at Point Levis (Letter addressed to
Barrande, March 15th, 1863).-- Can. Nat,          1863, p. 183.

  I,On the Geology of Eastern New York. By Professor James Hall and

Sir W. E. Logan-- Can. Nat, N.S, 1864, p. 368.

II,On the Occurrence of Organic Remains in the Laurentian Rocks of
Canada.-- Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc, XXI, p. 45 ; Can. Nat, N.S.,                                                                       1865,

p. 92.

III, XXIII,On new Specimens of Eoaoon. -- Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc,                                                                    p. 253 ;

Can. Nat, N.S,  p. 306.

                GOVERNMENT REPORTS

  Report of Progress to 1843. Published Montreal, 1845. This was
the first of the regular Reports of Progress published after the appointment
of Logan as Provincial Geologist, and gives a general notice of the Geology
of Eastern and Western Canada so far as then ascertained. It is premised

by "Remarks on the Mode of making a Geological Survey of Canada,"
and by a short "Preliminary Report." Logan's celebrated section of the
measures at the Joggins is given as an Appendix, and occupies about sixty

pages.*

  Report of Progress for 1844. Published Montreal, 1846. Contains

Logan's topographical surveys of the Chatte and Cascapedia Rivers, and
an account of the geology of a large part of the Gaspo Peninsula. An
Appendix of thirty-three pages contains a section of the coal measures on
the south side of the Baie des Chaleurs, and various detailed sections of

the Gaspe sandstones.

  Report of Progress for 1845-6. Published Montreal, 1847.                                                                            Con
                                                                                                                                     and a
tains Logan's surveys of the Ottawa River and Lake Temiscamaug,

description of the Geology of the Ottawa Valley.

   *  Tvhairniouasndmtehme bfoelrlsowoifnhgisvsotaluffm. esFocorpnataritnic, uinlarasddcoitniocnerntiongLotghaenm'sseRoep'orLtiss,t  those of
the                                                                                                                                  of Pub
lications of tho Geological Survey of Canada," propared by the writer and published
in 1879.
APPENDIX B.                                                421

  Report of Progress for 1848-7. Published Montreal, 1847. Con

tains a description of the geology of the north shore of Lake Superior.

  Report of Progress for 1847-8. Published Montreal, 1849. Con

tains a description of the geology of the Eastern Townships.

  Report of a Geological Exploration of Part of the North
Shore of Lake Huron, made in 1848. Published Montreal, 1849.

  Report of Progress for 1849-50. Published Toronto, 1850. Con

tains an account of a geological examination of St. Paul and Murray Bays,
and of portions of the south side of the St. Lawrence.

  Report of Progress for 1850-51. Published Quebec, 1852.  On

the gold of Eastern Canada.

  Report of Progress for 1851-2. Quebec, 1852. Contains a descrip
tion of the geology of the Counties of Beauharnois and Lake of the Two
Mountains ; also a notice of the London International Exhibition and of

the Canadiau minerals exhibited there.

  Report of Progress for 1852-3. Quebec, 1854. Contains a geologi

cal description of the north shore of the St. Lawrence between Montreal

and Quebec, with details concerning economic minerals.

  Report of Progress for 1853-56. Toronto, 1857. Contains a

description of the Laurentian rocks of the Ottawa and the economic
materials found in them. Also remarks on the preparation of a geological
map of Canada.

  Report of Progress for 1857. Toronto, 1858. Contains remarks

by Logan on the various labours of the Survey.

  Report of Progress for 1858. Montreal, 1859. Contains Logan's

topographical survey of the Rouge, with descriptions of the Laurentian

limestones ; also details concerning the Ramsay Lead Mine, the Acton
Copper Mine and miscellaneous economic minerals.

  Geology of Canada ; Report of Progress of the Geological
Survey from its Commencement to 1863. A large octavo of 983

pages ( Vide ante, p. 350.) The Atlas accompanying the Geology of Canada
contains Sir William's beautiful map showing the distribution of the

Laurentian rocks of the Grenville region.

  Report of Progress, 1863-66. Ottawa, 1866. The introductory

Report of this volume is by Sir William Logan, and refers to the geologi
cal work of the Survey in the Eastern Townships, on the Ottawa and else
where, as well as to the subject of Eozoon.

  Report of Progress, 1866-69, A short " Summary of Geological

Investigations-" Ottawa, 1869.
422 APPENDIX B.

   Sir William's large Geological Map is a work which cost him a great
deal of thought, time and toil. Not satisfied with giving the results
obtained by his own Survey in the Provinces of Upper and Lower Canada,
he determined to include the geology of the British Maritime Provinces
and of the Northern United States. In this latter work of compilation he
had the cordial co-operation of Professor James Hull, Dr. Dawson and
other geologists, whose assistance he fully acknowledged.

                                                                EltD.
                         INDEX.

Arrotsford, visit to, 8.              Annual Reports, 138, 140.
                                      Anse a Beaufils, 167.
Abraham, Mr., 273, 288.               Appeal to Finance Minister, 353.
                                      Applicants for aid, 362.
Accounts of expenditure, 239.         Appointment confirmed, 132.
Acknowledgment of Testimonial,        Argyll, the Duke of, interest in

    320.                 Institute,       Eozoon, 374, 375.
Adamson, Mr., 316.                    Artistic tendencies, 2 1.
Address from Canadian                 Artist to the Survey, Logan as, 1 78.
                                      Assassination of French Emperor
310.
    from Natural History Society,        attempted, 298.
                                      Astor House, 102.
317.                                  Atlantic border, geology of, 416.
    to the French Emperor, 298,       Audubon 60.
                                      Aurora described, 78.
    299.                              Azoic, name changed to Eozoic, 369.
Advantages and disadvantages, 397.
Advice to brothers and sisters, 1 4.  Baddeley, Lieut., 333.
                                                papers by, 123.
Agassiz, Professor, 297.
" Air-Breathers of the Coal Period,"  Bagot, Sir Charles, appointment of
                                          Logan by, 126, 131.
   extract from, 114.
                                      Baie des Chaleurs, 144, 211.
Albany, visit to, 181, 183.                    St. Paul, reported coal at, 262.
Albion Mines, geology of neigh
                                       Bailey, Professor, 410.
   bourhood, 120.                      Ballahulish, 43, 44.
Allan, Mr. G. W., 309.                 Ball at Hotel de Ville, 301.
Altered Quebec group, 344.             Basque, John, 147.
America, emigration to, 1 .            Basque's wigwam, 149.
American Association, Montreal         Batrachian tracks of Horton Bluff,

   Meeting, 1857, 324.                      114.
                                       Bayfield, Admiral, 122, 333.
        Springfield, 332.
Amphibian footprints, 117.
Ancient geological periods, deposits

    of, 404.
Anecdotes, fund of, 56.

Animikie group, 251.
424 INDEX.

 Bay of Fundy, section on, 143.            Canoes of spruce-bark, 191 , 203, 207.
 Beauharnois, tracks from, 273.            Cape Bon Ami, scenery at, 156.
 Belfast, visit to, 276.
 Bell, Dr. Robert, 251, 343, 416.                Chatte, 1 90.

          Rev. Andrew, 282, 288.                 Gaspe, 156.
 Ben Logan, 185.
 Bigsby, Dr., 122, 123, 333, 341, 416.           Maquereau, 170.
 Billings, Elkanah, 288, 326, 407.
                                                 Rosier, 186.
          discovery made by, 343.
          on the Gaspe limestones, 220.    Carpenter, Dr. W. B., letter from,370.
 Birch-bark, 160.                                  papers on Eozoon, 375, 379.
 Birth at Montreal, 2.
 Black walnut, 272.                        Cartier-Mc Donald Ministry, 348.
 Bona venture conglomerate, 168.
          formation, 224, 226.             Cartier, Sir George, 378, 379.
         Island, 163, 165.
 Bonnycastle, Capt, 123.                   Cascapedia River, 190, 204, 205, 209.
 Bore-hole in townships, 391.
 Borrowdale, igneous rocks of, 412.        Catanach, Mr. J., 2.
Boston in 1841, 111.
Bowman, Capt., 108.                        Cathcart, Lord, letter to, 245.
Bowmanville coal, 263.                     Chairman of committee for meeting
Boyd, Mr. A , 8.
British Association, 127, 268, 364.           of American Association, 325.
Bruce Mines, 259.
Buckland, Dr., testimonial from,           Chairof geology, endowment of, 176.
     130.
                                           Chairs for England's Queen, 271.
         letter to Bishop of Oxford, 132.
Burdett, Sir Francis, 38.                  Chamberlin, Mr. Brown, 346.
Burns, Robert, son of the poet, 18.
                                           Chapman, Prof. E. J., 282, 316.
Camrrian System, 415.
Canada at Exhibition of 1851, 269.         Characteristics, 395.

        interest in, 72.                   Charlottetown, 174.
        visited in 1823 and 1840, 31,72.   Chatte River, 190, 195.
                                           Chemical assistant, 179.
          the steamboat, 76.               Chemical department of Survey, pro

Canada Club, Vice-President of, 72.           posed separation of, 255.
Canadian coal mines, 262.
Canadian geology, early work in,           Cheerful disposition, 395.
                                           Chelonian footprints? 274.
     122.
                                           Chemung group, 223.
Canadian Institute, President of,          Chevalier of the Legion of Honour.

    310.                                   304.

         address from, 310.                Chief Commissioner, 346.
Canadian Survey, early thoughts of,        Clarkstone, 13, 27, 39, 134.

    111.                                   Clear Grits, 266.
Canal-boat, travelling by, 102.            Clyde, Falls of the, 46.

                                           Coal at Albion Mines, 120.
                                                   growth of in situ, 70.
                                                   in Gaspe, 263.
                                                   material of, 71.

                                           origin of, 62.                  in

                                           of Baie St. Paul, 262.
                                           of Bowmanville, 263, 323.

                                           probability of finding it

                                           Canada, 145.

                                           Coal-fields, importance of American,

                                           110.
                               INDEX.                                    425

Coal-fields, western, 235.                De la Beche, Sir H. T., offers of
Coal-viewer, talk of becoming one,
                                          assistance from, 135, 141.
110.                                          testimonial from, 126.

Cobequid series, 412.                     Demands for information, 361.

Cockayne, Mr., 18, 21.                    Denbigh, Lord, 299.
Colbome, Sir John, 123.
Colours for geological maps, 370.         Deposits of ancient sea-bottom, 404.
                                          De Rottermond, Count, 179, 185,
Commercial pursuits, 12.
Commissioner at Paris in 1855, 298.           199, 232, 254.                    ,
Complex geology, 258.                     Devonian fishes, 224.
Complimentary dinner at Toronto,
                                                  ofGaspe, 221.        303.
                                          " Dialogue with the Queen,"
315.                                      Dickson, Dr. Robert, 49.

Confederation, 378.                       Mr. Sheriff, 288.

Conglomerate limestone, 216, 224.         Difficulties, 136.
Continuance of the Survey, 265.
                                          Discontent, 348.

Coos group, 413.                          Discrepancies in maps, 286.
Copper of Lake Superior, 244.
Copper ore, 51, 81.                       Drudgery, 239.
Copper-bearing rocks of Lake
                                      Su  Dufrenoy, Mr. A., 269, 300.

perior, paper on, 268.                    Dunlop, Mr. R. G., efforts in favour
                                             of a geological survey, 124, 125.
Copper-smelting, 52.
Corniferous formation, 223.               D'Urban, Mr. W. M. S., 331.
Correspondent, Logan as a, 13.
Country life, fondness for, 39.           Early geological work in Canada,
Cromer, visit to, 369.
Crystal! ine rocks of Eastern Canada,         122.

    343, 409, 412.                        Early work of Logan, 403.
                                          East India Company, offer from the,
Curator of Museum at Swansea,
                                              228.
     60.
                                          Eastern Canada, crystalline rocks
Curiosity unrewarded, 154.                    of, 344, 409.
Cuthbert. Mr. 210.
                                          Eastern coal-field of America, limit
Dana, Prof. J. D., 408, 413.   176,
                                              of, 226.
Dawson, Dr. G. M., 416.                   Eastern Townships, bore-hole in the,

Dawson, Dr. J. W., 121, 175,                  394.
                                                  complex geology of, 258
224. 305, 383.
    Eozoon named by, 366.                        rocks of the, 341.
    on air-breathers of Coal Period,      Eaton, Professor, 333, 344.
                                          Economic specimens, 180.
    114.                                  Edinburgh, Logan's father goes to

       on spore-cases in coal, 71.           reside in, 6.
                                          Edinburgh High School, 4.
        on the Quebec group, 403.
        on value of fossils, 414.                progress of the Logans at, 7.
Deblois, Mr., assistance from, 75.        Edmond, Miss Janet E. (Sir Wil
De la Beche, Sir H. T., 55, 268.
        letters from, 134, 138, 228.         liam's mother), 2.
        letters to. 136, 181, 229.        Education begun at Montreal, 3.
                                          Emmons, Professor, 344.
426 INDEX.

Emperor of France, attempted assas       Gaspe, geology of, 216.
    sination of, 298.                            journals, 148.
                                                 limestone, 202, 216, 219, 221.
Empress Eugenie, 299.
Endowment of geological chair and                  sandstone, 202, 216, 221.
                                                 second season in, 184.
    medal, 176.                          Generalizations concerning Quebec
Enthusiasm, 396.                            group, 408.

Eozoic rocks of Canada, 340.             Geographical dinner, 347.
Eozoon, Dr. Carpenter on, 375.           Geological bill, Logan's, 227, 232.
                                         Geological maps, 314, 354, 363, 370,
         history of, 365.
         lecture on by Prof. Ramsay,         382, 400.

     376.                                Geological nomenclature, 184, 415.
                                         Geological Society, elected Fellow
        Lyell on, 368.
         papers on before Geological         of, 59.

     Society, 381.                                 papers before, 83, 373, 380.
Evidence before Select Committee,
                                         Geological structure of Atlantic
     284.
                                             slope, 416.
Exhibition of 1851, 267, 268.
        of 1855, 281, 297, 300.          Geological Survey of Canada, origin
         of 1862, 346.
                                             of, 122.
Exhibitions, exertions at, 400.                   Seleet Committee on, 282.
Eyre, Sir William, 325.
                                         Geological tastes, development of,
Failing health, 329, 357.
Faraday, Professor, 269, 352.                59.
Farmers, information from, 288.
Feathers versus pebbles, 159.            " Geology of Canada," publication
Fees of honour, 305.
Fellow of Royal Society, 270.                of, 350.
Finsbury Square, 12, 49.                 Geology of Eastern Canada, 146.
Fishes, Devonian genera of, 224.
Fishing establishments, 186                     of Lake Superior, 246.
Fitzroy, Sir Charles, 75.                       study of begun, 49, 60.
Flambeaux of birch-bark, 159.                    under difficulties, 200
Fort William, 44, 45.                    Gillespie, Alex., Jnr., 16
Fossils in nacreous slates, 408.                 Mr., 47, 48.
                                         Glamorganshire coal-field, geologi
        of same age different in differ     cal work in, 54, 127, 129, 131,
    ent regions, 406.
                                             132, 349.
         value of, 322, 414.
                                         Gneiss, characters of Laurentian,
Gale, Judge, death of, 379.
Gait, Sir A. T., 347, 348, 360, 378,         334.
                                         Gold from Canada, 274, 275.
    379.                                 Gold medal, the Logan, 176.
Gannet shooting, 165.                    Goldsmith, Lady, 348.
Gaspe, a terra incognita, 147.           Gordon, Duchess of, 40.

       Coal and Fishing Comp'y, 263.     Gower, Mr. A. L., 39, 395.
                                                 Mrs., 267, 276,302.
- .- explorations, 143, 177.
                                         Grand gold medal of honour, 304.
                                         Grand Biver, 168.
                                         Grant for Geological Survey, 126,

                                             327, 331.
INDEX.                                                              427

Grant, Mr. G. B.,390, 391, 394.        Hunt, Dr. T. Sterry, appointed
Granville, Lord, 348.                     chemist to Geological Survey,
Graptolites, 297, 342,414.
Graptolitic shales, 216.               257.
Green, Mr. William, 123, 333.
Greenshields, Mr., 48.                     Associate Juror at Paris, 302.
                                           elected member of Geological
       Mr. John, of Montreal, 72.
Grenville, 279, 329.                   Society of France, 302.
GuIIr and gannets, 156.                    labours of, 257.
Gum-trees of Canada, 273.                   Montalban series of, 413.
                                           name Eeweenian proposed by,
Gzowski, Mr., 316.
                                       252.
HiLiBurTON, Judge, interview with,
                                           on chemistry of Eozoon, 366.
    114.
                                           on Lake Superior geology, 251 .
Halifax, arrival at in 1840, 74.           on metamorphism of rocks,

        journey from to Pictou, 75.    293.

Hall, Professor James. 181, 278, 282,      on Nipigon and Animikie

    283, 297, 329, 356.                groups, 252.                 of
Harbours on Lake Superior, 245.
                                           paper before Institute
Hartley, Mr. W. B , 382, 384.
Hartt, Professor, 410.                 France, 301.
Hastings series, 339.                      services at Paris, 380.
Head, Sir Edmund, 309, 325, 372.
Health failing, 329, 357.                      views concerning   Quebec
Helderberg series, 220.                    group, 344, 409.
Highest land in Canada, 185.
Highlands, a tour in the, 39.          Hurlburt, Mr. J. B., 346.
Hind, Professor H. Y., cited, 398
Hitchcock, Professor, 409, 413.        Huronian system, 239, 250, 337, 344,
Holmes, Dr. A. F., 79, 122, 240.          413,415.
Holton, Hon. L. H., letter to, 354
Honesty the best policy, 256.          Iqneocs ejections, 405, 409, 414, 416.
Honorary member, Natural History
                                       Ill at Pictou, 175.
    Society of Montreal, 319.
Hooker, Sir William, 328.              Incident on Lake Huron, 260.
Horton Bluff, discovery of batra-      India, offer of appointment in, 228.
                                       Ingall, Lieut., papers by, 123.
    chian tracks at, 114.              Inscription on testimonial, 320.
Hospitality, 118, 213.                 Ipswich, meeting of British Associa
Hotel of Mr. and Mrs. Paddy, 185.
Houghton, Dr., 242, 246.                  tion at, 268.
Hubbard, Mr., 242.                     Ireland, visit to, 20.
Hulke, Dr., 390, 392.                  Isle Percee, 155, 163.
Humour, keen sense of, 56.
Hunt, Dr. T. Sterry, 258, 297, 337,            Koyale, 249.

     342, 351, 357, 387.               Italian, study of, 16.

                                       Jackson, Mr. C. T., 251.

                                       Jeffreys, Mr. J. G., letter to, 385

                                               reminiscences from, 388
                                              visit to Canada, 388.
                                       Joggins section, 143, 182.
                                       Jones, Professor T. Rupert, 366.
                                       Journals, 72, 80, 148, 193.
                                       Judicial work, 241.
                                       Juror at exhibitions, 268, 347.
428 INDEX.

 Keeper, Mr. Thomas, on ridging         Letters to --
    of the St. Lawrence, 84
                                                 Mr. Henry Logan, 49.
 Kelland, Professor, 328.                        Mr. James Logan, 7, 9, 15, 17,
 Kent, visit to, 364.
Eentwell, estate of Logan's uncle,           18, 19, 22, 23, 25, 28, 34, 39, 50,

     32.                                     242, 244, 265, 271, 274, 298, 302,

 Ker, Mrs. (Logan's sister), 267, 276,       304, 314, 315, 347, 363, 371-375,
     364.
                                             376-379.
Keweenaw group or Keweenian, 252.                Miss Mary Logan, 45.
         Peninsula, copper mines of,             Mr. Alexander Murray, 179,

     244.                                    237.
                                                 Mr. Rawson W. Rawson, 144,
Key to American geology, 184.
Kingston, 132, 181.                          178.

Knighthood, 304.                        Letters from --

Larrador feldspar, 337.                        Sir H. T. De la Beche, 134,
Lafayette, funeral of, 59.
Lake Huron, copper-bearing rocks             138, 228.

    of, 249.                                    Dr. W. B. Carpenter, 370.
        geological work on, 259.                 Professor Faraday, 352.
                                               Sir R. I. Murchison, 307, 328.
Lake Superior, explorations on, 240.    Levis formation, 343, 410.
        geology of, 246.                Lincoln, assassination of President,

Lake Temiscamang (or Temisca-               378, 379,
   ming, 237.                           Literary and Historical Society of

Landslide on the Maskinongu, 83,            Quebec, 125.

    84, 93.                             Literary capacity, 399.
                                        Little Bon Ami Cove, 157.
Langton, Auditor-General, 309, 360.     Little Gaspe, 153, 158.
Large specimens, 180.                   Liverpool, detained at, 363.
Last illness, 392, 394.                 Logan, James (the grandfather), 1,

          voyage, 390.                      6.
Laurentian, fossil from, 332.
                                               William (the father), 2, 15,
       name used in 1854, 278.
        Sir William's work in connec        28, 29, 133.
   tion with the, 332.                          Mrs. (the mother), 2, 9, 28, 33,
       subdivisions of the, 338, 415.
Laurentides, among the, 279.                133.

Lefroy, General, 312, 372.                     Hart (the uncle), 1, 16, 19, 61.
Legion of Honour, 304, 381.                     James (the brother), 6, 177,
Lehigh mines, importance of, uO.           380. Letters to, see above.
Letters to --                                   Hart (the brother), 22, 25, 302,

      Sir H. T. De la Beche. 136,           389.

    181, 229.                                   Edmond, 13, 15, 20, 22, 25, 28,
        Mr. G. R. Grant, 391, 394
                                            32, 33, 302, 331, 364, 375.
       Hon. L. H. Holton, 354.                  Henry, 13, 15, 20, 2 2, 25, 28.
                                                Miss Agnes (Mrs. Stewart), 15,
      Mr. J. Gwyn Jeffreys, 385
                                            17, 19, 21, 24.
        Mr. Hart Logan. 56.
                                               Miss Eliza (Mrs. Gower), 22,

                                           28, 29.
                                    INDEX.                                429

Logan, Miss Margaret (Mrs. Ker),      Metamorphic rocks, 333, 334, 412.
    24, 28, 29.
                                      Metamorphism, 405, 414.
        Miss Mary, 22, 28, 29, 45.
Logan gold medal and chair of         Michigan, surrender of, 235.

    geology, 176.                     Middle Laurentian, 338.
Logan's farm, 380.                    Miller, Hugh, visit to, 268.
London, life in, 12.
Long Milford, home                    Mineral characters in distinguishing

                                      rocks, 405.

                          of Logan's  Mineralogy, study of, 50.
                                      Mining locations on Lake Superior,
uncle, 32.

Longueuil, ferry to, 79.                    240.
Louis, 207.
                                      Moffatt, Hon. George, 320.
Lowe, Mr. James, 331, 366.            Molson, Mr. John, 78.
Loyalist, Logan's grandfather sup
                                      Montalban series, 413, 415.
    posed to have been one, 2.        Montreal, birth-place, 2.

Lyell, Sir Charles, 102, 103, 364.          arrival at in 1840, 78.
        on Eozoon, 368.                     journey from to New York,

Mrs. (Lady), 103.                           101.

McDonald, Attorney-General, 309,      Morriston, near Swansea, 54.

                                      Mount Logan, prospect from, 191

    316.                              Mules, 107.

Macfarlane, Mr. Thomas, 409, 413.     Murchison, Sir R.1         270, 275, 305,
       on crystalline rocks of the
                                            329, 388.       I.,
Townships, 344.
    on geological formations of             letters from, 328, 307.

   Lake Superior, 251.                        testimonial from, 128.
McNabb, Sir Allan, 266.               Murray, Mr. Alexander, C.M.G., 232,

McNaughton, hospitality of Mr. and    259, 260, 333, 336, 344, 404, 409,

                                      412.

   Mrs., 118.                               choice of as assistant, 141.
McMullen, Mr. John, 365.
                                            letters to, 79, 237.
Madawaska River, section on, 336.           reminiscences from, 142.

Maine, journey to, 79.                Museum of Geological Survey, 178
Map exhibited at meeting of British
                                          239, 240, 278, 279, 359.
   Association in 1837, 127.          Musical tastes, 35.

of Grenville region, 279.             Napier, Lord, residence purchased,
of South Wales coal-district,
                                         from, 6.
    59, 127.                  382.    National Museum, 279.
                                      Natural History Museum, Montreal,
       publication of large,
                                          79.
Marcellus shales, 223.
Marcou, Mr. Jules, 251.               Natural History Society of Montreal,
                                          125, 131, 240,316.
Maskelyne, Professor, 374.                    address from, 317.
Moskinonge, landslide in valley of,           honorary member of, 319.
                                              invitation to American Asso
    84, 93.                              ciation, 324.
Matber, Prof., 410.
Mauch Chunk, 106, 108.                Newcastle, Duke of, 347.

Medals, 304, 305, 381, 401.
Membership of societies, 400.
430 INDEX.

 Newfoundland, visit to, 387.         Philadelphia described, 104.
 New York, tedious journey to, 101.
 Nipigon series, 251.                 Phlebotomy, 191.
 Noble, Capt., 372.                   Phosphalic nodules, 275.
 Nomenclature, geological, 278.       Pianori, 298.
 Norma or Upper Laurentian, 338.
 Notre Dame range, 192.               Pictou, ill at, 175.
 Novels, fondness for, 389.
                                      Pictou coal-field, 111, 118, 382.
 Office work, 239.                    Pigeon River, 247.
 Older formations, Logan's work in    Pillans, James, 5.
                                      Pillar sandstones, 216, 218.
    connection with, 404.             Playfair, Dr. Lyon, 271.
 Olmsted, Mr. Denison, Jnr., 257.     Point Levis, 83, 281, 341.
 Oneida conglomerate, 219.            Political rumpus, 231.
 Oregon, coal of, 235.                Politics avoided, 231, 396.
                                      Polmont, 276.
        question, settlement of the,  Poole, Mr., 118.
                                      Porcupines, 151, 188, 196, 203.
     235.
                                      Porpoises, 188.
 Origin of Canadian Survey, 122.      Portage group, 223.
 Origin of coal, 62.                  Port Daniel, 171.
 Oriskany formation, 224.             Portrait painted, 309.
 Ornithological tastes, 60.           Pottsville, visit to, 105.
 Ottawa River, survey of, 237.        Practical results, 292.
 Ottawa series, 338.                  Preliminary report, 133.
 Owen, Professor, 273, 275. 276.      Presentation of testimonial, 320.
                                      Presentiment, 235.
Pacing, 173, 276, 287.                President of Canadian Institute, 310.
Packing of ice in St. Lawrence, 84.   Primary rocks, 332.
Paddy, his hotel, 185.                Prince Albert, 267, 270, 302, 303.
Palaeontologist, appointment of a,
                                             of Wales, the, 302.
    327.                              Prince's Harbour, 244.
                                      Prizes at school and college, 7, 9, 10.
        importance of a, 356.         Prospect from Mount Logan, 191.
Paper on underclays, 64.              Protichnites from Beauharnois, 273.
Papers at meeting of American         Provincial geologist, appointment

    Association, 329.                     as, 126.
         on Eozoon, 373.
                                      Querec, experiences at, 82.
Paris Expositions, 281, 297, 380.             to Montreal in 1840, 76.
         visits to, 34, 58, 298.
                                      Quebec group, 342.
Parisians, the, 34.                          conditions of deposition, 4C6.
                                              Dr. Dawson on the, 403.
Paspebiac, 147, 174.                          equivalency of, 410, 414.
Pecuniary sacrifices, 357.                    rocks to which the name
Pen-and-ink sketches, 148.
                                         should be applied, 415.
Perce, 162.                                  subdivisions of, 343, 410.
Percy, Dr., information from, 52.            suggestions concerning, 413.

        on Logan's work, 348.
Perry, Mr. Alfred, 271.
Petroleum of Gaspe, 159, 222.
INDEX.                                                               431

 Queen Victoria, Her Majesty visits     Scott, 8ir Walter, kindness to Logan,
    Canadian division of London
     Exhibition, 271.                       8.
          at Paris in 1855, 302.        Seaman, Dr. Berthol, 328.

 Ramsay, Professor (Sir A. C), 328,     Secretary of museum at Swansea,

      329, 37b".                            59.
 Kawson, Mr. R. W., 133, 144.
 Report on Gaspe, 215.                  Section at South Joggins, 143, 182.
                                        Sedgwick, Professor, testimonial
        of Select Committee, 283.
 Reports, 399.                             from, 129.
 Resigns position in Wales, 61.         Select Committee on the Geological
 Retirement from public life, 384.
                                           Survey, 282.
 Retrospect, 230.
 Richardson, Mr. James, 218, 241,       Selwyn, Dr. A. R. C. S., 385, 387, 409.
                                                views concerning the Quebec
     274, 287, 343, 380, 404, 410.
 Rochon's micrometer telescope, 190,       group, 345, 410, 412.

     194.                               Serpentine noticed in 1840, 82, 83.
 Rockfleld, 380, 389
 Rosier, Cape, 147, 156.                Seward, Mr., 377.
 Rouge, River, ascent of, 329.          Sewell, H. D., paper by, 123.
                                        Sheppey, excursion to, 55.
 Royal Institution of South Wales,      Sherbrooke in 1840, 80.
                                        Shickshocks, 191, 197.
     60.                                Ship Head, a stormy cape, 159.
                                        Sigillaria, 70, 71.
Royal Society, elected Fellow in        Sillery sandstones, 219.
                                        Silurian, nomenclature, 278.
     1851, 270.                         ----. Murchison on, 306, 307.
          medal from, 381.              Simpson, Sir George, 245.
                                        Skakel, Mr. Alexander, 3, 10.
Royal visitors, 271.
Russell, Mr. Alexander, 282, 284.       Sketches, 148.
Rustic hospitality, 119, 213.           Skiddaw slates, 409.

Sagacity, 178, 396.                     Smollet, 41.
Salter, Mr., 374.
St. Gabriel street, church on, 2.       Societies, membership of, 400.
                                        South Joggins, section at, 143, 182.
          museum on, 278.               Spain, visit to, 58.
St. James street, museum on, 184.       Spanish friends, 36.
St. Lawrence, freezing of the, 83.      Speech-making, dislike of, 308, 315.
                                        Sperm-whale fisheries, 273.
        packing of ice in, 84.          Spore-cases in coal, 7 1 .
Saskatchewan, coal of, 235.
Saturday Review on the " Geology        8pruce-bark canoes, 191, 203, 207.

   of Canada," 351.                     Stephenson,  George, aided   by
Sault Ste. Marie, 242.
                                        Logan's investigations, 83.
         sandstones of, 249, 250, 251.
Scenery on Lake Superior, 245.          Stevens, Mr., 146.
School of mines, attempt to estab       Stewart, Mr. Alexander, 17, 24, 29.

   lish one, 386.                               Mrs., 33, 348.
Scientific work, summary of, 400.       Stigmaria, 62, 68, 106.
                                        Stirling, early home of the Logan

                                           family, 1
432 INDEX.

Stratigraphy under difficulties, 279.       University of Edinburgh, a student
        value of, 406.
                                               at, 8.             360.      250,
Suffolk, Logan's uncle member for,          Unpaid Commissioner,   series,
                                            Upper copper-bearing
    32.
                                                251.
Summer residence of an Indian, 149.
Summary of work, 400.                       Upper Laurentian, 337, 415.
Surgeon, Logan as a, 183, 191.
                                            Value of large specimens, 180.
Swansea, 276.                               Vennor, Mr. H G., 339, 381.
Sydenham, Lord, death of, 126.
                                            Vermont, crystalline schists of, 343.
         Palace, 303.                       Vice-President of Canada Club, 72.

Tache, Mr. C. C, 298, 300.                  Vigorous constitution, 396.
                                            Volcanic formations of Lake Supe
Taconian series, 409, 415.
Temiscamang (or Temiscaming),                  rior, 247.

   rocks of, 238, 239, 336.                 Voluntary assistants, 288.
Testimonial from citizens of Mon
                                            Volunteer on British Survey, 55.
   treal, 319.
Testimonials from De la Beche and           Wales, removal to in 1831, 54.
                                                    work in, 127, 129, 131, 132, 349.
    others, 126.
Thunder Bay, 247.                           Western coal-fields, 235.
Time, demands upon, 357, 361.
                                            Whiteaves, Mr. J. F., 224.
Tin, a search for, 80.
Topographer to the Survey, Mr. R.           Whitehall canal, 102.
                                            Whitney, Professor, 249.
   Barlow, 400.                             Wigwam, John Basque's, 149.
Topographical work, 233, 276.               Wilkesbarre, lOS, 110.

        accuracy of Logan's, 284.           Wilson, Dr. J., 122, 133, 288, 289,
Topography, relations to geology,
                                                333, 365.
    285.                                    Wirapole street, residence on, 48.
Toronto, 265, 309.                          Windsor, N.S., meets Haliburton at,

Tourelle, pillar sandstones of, 218.            113.
Tracks from Beauharnois, 273.
Tudor, Eozoon from, 381 .                   Wollaston medal, 305.
Turtle, a pet, 102.                         Workshops of the world, 110.
Tyndall, Professor, 372                     Worm-tracks in Gaspe sandstone,

Underclays, 63.                                 161.
Union of Geological
                                            Wyoming coal-field, 109.
   Britain and Canada,
                        Surveys  of         York Literary and Philosophical
                         138.
                                              Society, 124. _

                                       /-"
                                - ¥ .^?= si

*RETURN EARTH SCIENCES LIBRARY
               230 Mccone Hall  642-2997

LOAN PERIOD

1 MONTH

 ALL BOOKS MAY BE RECALLED AFTER 7 DAYS

Books needed for class reserve are subject to immediate recall

        DUE AS STAMPED BELOW

FORM NO. DD8  UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, BERKELEY
                           BERKELEY, CA 94720
             r U.C. BERKELEY                     1
                                      "III I II

             CD34Sc1bDbT

.^IMMMWiMfr

