The life and works of Thomas Graham, D.C.L., F.R.S. : illustrated
by 64 unpublished letters. / Prepared for the Graham lecture committee
of the Glasgow Philosophical Society by R. Angus Smith ; edited
by J.J. Coleman.

Smith, Robert Angus, 1817-1884.
Glasgow : J. Smith & Sons, 1884.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/wu.89095185880

                                          Public Domain in the United States,
                                          Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-us-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain
                                                          in the United States of America. It may not be in the
                                                          public domain in other countries. Copies are provided
                                                          as a preservation service. Particularly outside of the
                                                          United States, persons receiving copies should make
                                                          appropriate efforts to determine the copyright status
                                                          of the work in their country and use the work accordingly.
                                                          It is possible that current copyright holders, heirs or
                                                          the estate of the authors of individual portions of the
                                                          work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert copyrights
                                                          over these portions. Depending on the nature of subsequent
                                                          use that is made, additional rights may need to be obtained
                                                          independently of anything we can address. The digital
                                                          images and OCR of this work were produced by Google,
                                                          Inc. (indicated by a watermark on each page in the
                                                          PageTurner). Google requests that the images and OCR
                                                          not be re-hosted, redistributed or used commercially.
                                                          The images are provided for educational, scholarly,
                                                          non-commercial purposes.
_.2_..I.1r"._"._',_m/H
V.
General Library System
University of Wisconsin - Madison
728 State Street
Madison, WI 53706-1494
U.S.A.

             Prof. Raymond C. Herrin
LIFE AND WORKS OF THOMAS GRAHAM.
          THE LIFE AND WORKS

                                                                           0I3`

THOMAS GRAHAM, D.G.L., F.R.S.

ILLUSTRATED BY 64 UNPUBLISHED LETTERS.

PREPARED FOR THE GRAHAM LECTURE COMMITTEE                        OF THE GLASGOW
                                        PHILOSOPHICAL SOCIETY

                                           BY

DR. R. ANGUS SMITH, LL.D., F.R.S.

EDITED BY J. J. COLEMAN, F.I.O., F.C.S.

                                                   PUBLISHED BY  STREET,  GLASGOW.

JOHN SMITH 8: SONS, `VEST GEORGE

                                                   188 4.
   General Library System
» University of Wisconsin - Madison

   728 State Street
   Madison, WI 53706-1494
   U.S.A.

                                                                GLASGOW:
                                           PRINTED BY ROBERT ANDERSON,

                                                          '22 ANN STREET.
                    EDIT()R'S PREFACE.

                     --§_____

THE Graham Medal and Lecture Fund was established in
1878 by the leading manufacturing chemists of Glasgow
subscribing a sufficient amount of money, the annual interest
of which was to be employed by the Chemical Section of the
Philosophical Society of Glasgow in the encouragement of
research, the name of Graham being coupled with this fund
on account of his being a Glasgow man and a great chemist,
whose aims and methods are worthy of imitation.

   The first Graham Lecture was accordingly devoted to the
life of Graham as an investigator, and was delivered in 1879 _
by Mr. Chandler Roberts, F.R.S.

    The Committee did not think it then necessary to devote
further lectures exclusively to the life and work of Graham,
but it was pointed out to them by the late Dr. James Young
of Kelly that a full life of Thomas Graham had never been
written, and that a large collection of his private letters were
in the hands of Dr. R. Angus Smith, awaiting a convenient
opportunity for publication. Communication was then made
with Dr. R. Angus Smith, who expressed `an opinion that ex
tracts from these letters would be of sufficient interest to
justify the Committee in adopting them as the basis of the
second Graham Lecture, and that he would be pleased to
deliver this lecture for the Committee.

   A letter was received on the 2nd February, 1884`, in which
Dr. R. Angus Smith says :--" As to the Graham Lecture, I shall
endeavour to describe it. It will consist of--First, Preface

about Glasgow--fragmentary, very fragmentary. Second,
An introduction, trying to describe Graham's surroundings
vi Preface.

in Glasgow, also very fragmentary. Third, A long series of

extracts from letters by Graham, from his earliest college
days to his later years. This will constitute the pith and

Inovelty of the paper, and it is this which desire to have

published in connection with his writings as abridged by nIe.

Fourth, The abridgment of Graham's writings. It will not

be in the artistic form of a lecture, but it will contain matter

to be preserved, and it will he as it stands a life of Graham,

fragmentary,   it is true, but capable of being added to, and
the additions
the press."    I may be able to make as it is passing through

                                     `

   The lecture was fixed for the 20th February, 18843 but the

hand of death was already upon Dr. R. Angus Smith, and,
amid much feebleness and effort, the MS. was transmitted

to Glasgow a few days before, and read to the Society by
Professor Ferguson. Dr. R. Angus Smith was born twelve

years after Graham, and died 11th April, 1884, and some
of the last moments of his busy life were employed in

putting together these memorials of his early friend, who

may be called appropriately the "Scotch Faraday," and
who was certainly one of the most distinguished workers

in chemical science of the present century--Dr. R. Angus

Smith himself being not the least notable.

   Dr. Smith's manuscript has required a few editorial re
marks, which are enclosed within brackets; and it may be

mentioned that the Editor has not had the opportunity

of comparing the proofs with Graham's original letters, but

only with Dr. R. Angus Smith's transcripts of them.

                                            J. J. C.
        LIFE AND WORKS

                                                 OF

-THOMAS GRAHAM.

IWHEN think of Thomas Graham 1 go back to a period in which,

it seems to me, Glasgow was by no means a remarkably scientific

spot ; and yet there were individuals there with great scientific

insight, and who have from time to time in twelve` hundred years
                       1
shone brightly in it.

   Fame has made the sap of this community the spirit of Kenti
gern ; but there is always a beginning before the one that becomes

the most prominent, and St. Ninian was earlier. It is from the

community at the High Church, once a Cathedral, that historians,

and notably Skene, have drawn the line of active life that has

become the Glasgow that we see. It is interesting to me to think

whether the teaching of those early men have really influenced

the community to a great extent. Days of savage darkness came
over the country soon after Kentigern's death, but there still

seems to have been a memory of the good deeds of him and his

unknown successors five hundred years after his death, when the

thought came into life in 1150 that Glasgow had once been a

centre of civilization, and ought still to be able to act as one. So

remarkably do the laws of thought act upon man, so fully are we

influenced by tradition, so ready are we to seek the smallest and

most illegible sign-post, that the savagery and confusion of half a

millenium of misery were forgotten, and the faint tracing of

blessed life was enough, at the end, to reestablish the city with

even more of its original importance. Even in the next better

known three hundred years, amid difiiculties which nature and
8 Philosophical Society Qf Glasgow.

man seem to consider essential to the development of civilization,
there was such an advance that it was thought advisable, even by
the pope of the time, that a university should be established in
Glasgow, being a place well suited and adapted to that purpose on
account of the healthiness of the climate and the abundance of
of food, as well as being an Episcopal city. The university was
to be a place " adorned with the gifts of science, that it may produce
men distinguished for ripeness of judgment, adorned with virtue,
and skilled in different sciences ; and that it may be a fountain of
knowledge from the fulness of which all desirous of being in
structed may drink liberally."

    The University at the beginning of this century had Dr. Thomas
Thomson, one of the most enlightened chemists in Europe--I do
not say the most original, but active and industrious he certainly
was. He was far behind his contemporary, John Dalton, in
vigour of thought, but he had a more brilliant vision. and a
greater power of expression; and chemists owe him lnuch for
seeing so closely those laws which have made c-hemistry into a
science. He was GraIha.In's teacher.

   Thomas Graham was born in Glasgow, 21st December, 1805--
Faraday being then fourteen years old--and went first to a pre
paratory school in 1811, thence to the Glasgow High School in
1814, where he studied classics under Dr. Dymock and Dr.
Chrystal. He subsequently studied at the University from 1819

to 1826, taking his degree as )I.A. in 1826.

    1lis taste for chemistry was very early developed, even before
he left the nursery ; his amusements when G or 7 years old were
making gas in tobacco pipes, making eggs move with quicksilver,
and other little tricks of the kind.

   [Graham's father was a merchant of good position in Glasgow,
and the boy was originally intended for the church. His strong
predilections for a scientific career, however, caused him to shape
out a path for himself, much to the grief of his father, who,
probably not understanding the aims and scope of science, was
prejudiced in his judgment. That such was the case was proved
by the sequel. Although Graham eventually became possessor
of his father's property and a comparatively rich man, in these
early days he was poor; but his letters at this time to his mother

and sister Margaret show a gentle and courageous spirit, sustained
by lofty ambition, which make them as literary productions

peculiarly interesting]
DR. R. A. SMITH on Lqlfiz and Works of Thomas Graham.             9

   Immediately after obtaining his degree at Glasgow in 1826 he
went to Edinburgh, where he pursued his scientific studies under
Dr. Hope, and enjoyed the friendship of Professor Leslie.

   One of his earliest letters from Edinburgh, dated June 10, 1826,

contains the following curious sentences :--

                             "To MRS. GRAHAM.

                                                  " From Edinburgh, l0th June, 1826.

   " The Professors here are all at logger-heads with each
other. Leslie calls Hope in his class-room 'the showman in the
other corner,' while Dr. Hamilton has just received £500 from
Hope for defamation."

   [Graham's letters dated from Edinburgh are here printed in the
order arranged by Dr. Angus Smith, with a few connecting

remarks]

                                     Edinburgh, 22nd June, 1826.

MY DEAR MO'l`HER,--I must request Henry to deliver the

Ienclosed letters. The only one which he is not acquainted with is

Muir's. Let it be handed in to Muir's warehouse, which is believe

Iunder Rennie's school. It is requesting Muir to send down to' Henry

the Chemical Society Minute Book, as have at last succeeded in

Iestablishing a similar institution in Edinburgh. If Henry gets

the Minute Book sent down to him, which am rather afraid he

will not, as Steel has it probably away with him, he will be so

good as to send it to me by coach before the end of next week.
It Iwill be too bulky to go into the ofiEice parcel.
                                                      hope you will
Ibe merciful to me in not answering your letters quickly, as singly

Ihave such a number of correspondents, and have before me a vast
deal of writing work.  opened the new Chemical Society last

ISaturday with an essay, and am appointed to deliver soon in the
Hunterian.  am quite well-known here now. My best respects

to Grandmother and Aunt. Will you make my correspondents be

more particular in telling how grandmother is getting on.

            I remain,

                       DEAR MOTHER,

                       Yours sincerely,
                                    THO. GRAHAM.
10 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

                                   Edinburgh, 7th July, 1826.

  IMY DEAR MARGARET,--I am much obliged to you for your

long and elaborate epistle. Till this moment have not had the

smallest leisure to answer it. My first and introductory essay

in the Hunterian went oif with great eclat. On the motion of

Dr. Brown (the poet of Stirling), a vote of thanks was given for

it. This must be a very good thing, if we are to judge of it

from its rarity, as it is the first time which it has occurred in the
Hunterian. The best part of the vote was " and that Mr. G

Ibe solicited to make his essay public"! However, have no
Iintention of publishing till accumulate matter, not for an article,

Inot for a pamphlet, but for a book--God knows when that will be.

   Asfor Edinburgh news, can send you very little. Hamilt'on,

the bookseller, says that Constable's affairs are very bad --that he

has really been in an insolvent state for the last six or seven

years. For several years he has been paying at the rate of

£5,000 a year for mere discounts--a circumstance Which of itself

was enough soon to have ruined him. The editors of the Edin

burgh Medical Journal and Jameson/s Scientific Journal have
                                              His Edinburgh
deserted him, and taken to other publishers.
AMonthly Magazine has been given up.
                                        composition of 3s. 6d.

in the £ is talked of. Sir Walter Scott will get on; he has been

made King's printer--a situation worth £3,000 a year, chiefly in

salary. Sir Walter must have been rather a calculating genius.

It turns out that he was almost sole proprietor in the printing

establishment of James Ballantyne & 00., who have failed; so

that he intended not only to profit by writing the novels, but also

Ito have a good share in the profits of printing them. Ballantyne
was little more than his servant.  have not had time to read
" Woodstock " yet. Sir Walter has in some measure satisfied the

cravings of his creditors by binding over to them "Napoleon,"

and several forthcoming novels. The estate of Abbotsford is

really not Sir Walter's, it is his son's , it was bought with Lady

Sc0tt's money, who had £70,000, and settled upon her heirs, so

that it is in no danger. Lady Scott was a Frenchwoman.

  IBentress is going to Paris in April next ; he confesses that his

estate is worth £1,500 a year. He and were down at the glass

house getting instruments constructed.  He has been so often

there about his Gravimeter that he is as well known (he says) as a
pickpocket. We had glorious fun the night he brought out his
     DR. R. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Graham. 11

instrument in the Hunterian--he was so afraid of a public
Iappearance.
                    followed, and eulogised his instrument. In
Ireturn, when he heard that was to read on " Liquidity," he got

out all books possible on the subject, and was telling MacDowal

that he wished to God that he would be able to make a speech for

Gra-ham (two syllables). . . . You may assure Bell that the
washerwomen are such blockheads here that they did not put an

atom of starch into my shirts--horrible! horrible! . . . We

have had several showers here, and even a wet day or two, but the

rain has scarcely made a sensible impression.
   How are the Miss Campbells? How are all the Glasgow young

ladies? Alas, the want of them is felt most sensibly here ; as Miss

Brown (Mitchell's landlady) says, the gentlemen turn savages when

Ithey go out to the West Indies for want of them. Alas, that

should become

                    Your most loving Indian Savage,

                                      THO. GRAHAM.

                    Edinburgh, 1st August, 1826.

     I IMY DEAR MOTHER,--I had not seen the Annals of lJh'l:l080P]L_7/
since  came to Edinburgh, so that     was not aware, till

congratulated upon the circumstance by him (Johnston) that a
Icertain paper of mine had been republished in the number of that
work for July.      have sent a copy for you. The Annals of

Philosophy is a London publication, and is the leading scientific

journal of the country. It is published monthly, and is 2/6 a

number. You will find in the number enclosed articles by Dr.

Christison, a Professor in the College here, by Mr. Christie,

a Professor at Woolwich, by Dr. Hugh Colquhoun, Professor

IThomson's nephew, an ingenious young chemist, by Sir H. Davy,
page 62, etc ; it is therefore a good introduction.  also trouble

you with the inaugural discourse of a young M.D., a friend of

mine. You need not care although his lairdship [Graham's father]`

see the foregoing.

                                                            Edinburgh, 21st September, 1826.

   MY DEAR MARGARET,--I have been writing a good deal of late
and experimenting too--although from Langstafl"s absence and
12 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

Iother circumstances, not in the laboratory. In the investigations,

however, in which have been been latterly engaged, a laboratory

Iis by no means necessary. My essay in the Annals seems to have

had some effect, as it will appear from a quotation which am
about to make from the N o. of that Periodical for the present
month, p. 100--the author is a Mr. Bailey, and he is criticising Dr.

IHugh Colquhoun's paper "The accurate reasoning of Mr. Graham,
   may also remark, in his observations on the absorption of gases
by liquids (quoted in the same number of the Annals in which Dr.
Colquhoun's paper appears), as well as the experimental evidence
he cites, is entirely favourable to this view, etc."

  It may be proper to mention that that essay forms a part, and

Ionly a small part, of a much greater investigation in which am
Iengaged, which hope will all be equally successful. Perhaps in
Ia month or two will have something additional in the Annals.
IIt is this circumstance which makes me less caring about being

baulked at the Mechanics' Institution. Had got that situation,
the overwhelming labour which would have accompanied the proper
and successful discharge of its duties, would have been amply

Isufiicient of itself--a labour, too, which would be of very little use

to myself--whercas the labour in which am at present engaged
in following out my theoretic speculations, may eventually be even
more productive and profitable--certainly more honourable and
productive of scientific distinction. Clark, my antagonist, has
never got the length of the Annals.

                               Edinburgh, 11th Oct., 1826.

MY DEAR Mornnn,--The basket has been delayed from day to

day in the daily expectation of the journal which accompanies
and which contains another article, as you will see by the contents.
The journal was printed in London ten or eleven days ago, but
is

              I

                          it

                                           is
                                                                                                is

                                                                                                      it,
owing to a passage, per smack, of nine days, did not arrive here

till to-day. The next number will probably contain a notice of a

curious discovery of Miss C. and me in Baking. The present

article, although short,  one of considerable importance. There

nothing that wish more than that somebody should oppose

the theory which  contains, as a discussion of that kind  the

very thing to make one known.
DR. R. A. SMITH on Lift and Works of Thomas Graham. 13

IBefore the laird's burst of eloquence arrived--conceiving that

I Iwas fairly set upon my own pins --I had commenced a little chemical
work, for which think there is a call.  can give you here no

more than its title page.

 THE LANGUAGE OF CHEMISTRY:

                                         OR. A

DEFINITION or THE TERM on THE SCIENCE,

SYSTEMATICALLY ARRANGED, DEVELOPING rrs PRINCIPLES

                           AND OBJECT.

                                        Edinburgh, Oct. 15, 1826.

IMY DEAR MOTHER,--My operations have been interrupted for
two or three days.      find a room, which Miss Cameron occupies

at night as a sleeping room, and which is otherwise unoccupied,

Iforms a very good laboratory for the experiments in which am

engaged, and likely to be engaged for a considerable time. They

are doing very well.

                                        Edinburgh, Nov. 7, 1826.

MY DEAR MOTHER,--I send you, by Mr. Stirling, another
Inumber of the Annals having a short notice of mine in it.
                                                             am

glad to hear by him that you are all well. You could not be

better than we are here. Did Mr. A. Mitchell call with my letter

and Miss C.'s, which was worth half a dozen of mine'?

The students are flocking in here in great numbers, but no classes

have opened as yet, except the medical. My laboratory is getting

on quite to my liking.

"The Language of Chemistry" has been laid on the shelf for

some time. We are tiring to death hero for want of letters from

Cloverbank. At the beginning of next week be so good as to send

IBell down to Howie's, the carriers, for a tin box, carriage paid,

which hope will contain a more faithful and full representation

of matters than this scrawl.--I am, with much respect,

                           Yours affectionately,
                                               THO. GRAHAM.
14 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

          Edinburgh, 20th November, 1826.

IMY DEAR MOTHER,--AIthough  have not achieved a great
Icoat, yet am rather comfortably accoutred in a pair of " gentleman's

Ilamb's-wool pantaloons," alias long-legged worsteddrawers.  My

particular studies are going on very favourably, although    was

obliged to lay out a little in furnishing my home laboratory, yet
it will be easy to make it all up.

  The town is filling very quickly. All the classes, nearly, having

.opened, and the Courts having sat down for the winter. As for
Imyself,
          neither see much of the bustle nor care for it. The
I Imore secluded keep myself from company till have acquired

some standing in science the better. The lassie hereis very

Iconvenient for such interruptions, for whenever she knows that
Iam engaged she takes it upon herself to say that am from home

--very much to my satisfaction in general.

                                                              Edinburgh, 20th November, 1826.

    MY DEAR MARGARET,--lVII`. Dunn, a philosophical instrument
maker, cheated me of the opportunity of having an article in the
 next number of the Annals, by making me wait for ten days or a
fortnight for some very minute weights which he was making for
me and which were necessary. Professor Brande has done me the

Ihonour of giving a very favourable account of my first article in

his Quarterly Journal of Science for October, but which did not

Isee till a few days ago accidentally upon the table of the Writers

to the Signet Library. The Annals were lying there too.

have several articles on the stocks--but more of this anon.

  IDr. Hope intends to give another lady's class this winter.`

have heard him lecture once or twice, and set him down for a
complete puppy.

                                                                          Edinburgh, Dec. 20, 1826'.

    MY DEAR MOTHER,--Dr. Bitchic,- the Professor of Divinity
here, has been doing all he can to prevent Dr. Chalmers from suc
ceeding him. With this purpose he continued to lecture till a few
days ago, although he was not heard in the first bench. One day
a gentleman, who passes under the name of Dr. Syntax, and attends
DR. R. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Graham. 15

all the classes, came in. He was applauded upon his entrance,

but considering this as meant to insult him, he made a long speech

to the students during the lecture, which Dr. Ritchie is so deaf

that he did not notice, so that the students were enlightened by

two lectures at once. At the conclusion of the lecture Dr. Syntax

stepped up to the professor and advised him in an audible voice

to resign his situation, for no one heard a word that he said.

Principal Baird has latterly been reading his lectures.

IThe Hunterian Society had an anniversary dinner at which
several of the professors were present.  had been pitched upon

Ito toast Professor Leslie, who was to be there, but was awfully

cheated of my speech. For just as was about to rise and deliver

my most eloquent speech, Professor Leslie was obliged to leave the

room upon business. Mortifying, indeed!

   [During this year he was occupied with three papers--(1) "On

Absorption of Gases by Liquids ;" (2) "On the Heat of Friction ;"
(3) _"Alcohol Derived from Fermentation of Bread."]

Edinburgh, January 29th, 1827.

MY DEAR MoTHER,--Johnston brought me a letter from Steel,

and two letters of introduction from Dr. Thomson to Professor

Leslie and to Dr. Turner, Lecturer on Chemistry here. Both of

Ithem have delivered, and been very kindly received indeed.
  I found Dr. Turner in his house, Pitt Street, New Town. He

is a very gentlemanly young man, apparently not above thirty.
He is chemical editor of Dr. Brewster's Scientific Journal, and has
written a good deal on chemistry. We were conversing together
for more than an hour. He showed me a work which he has very
nearly finished, and which will be published in a very short time

--" Elements of Chemistry"----in one thick volume. He intends

to have a ladies' class for chemistry this winter in the Assembly

Rooms, instead of Dr. Hope. During my stay his sisters came
in, and were jesting about the method in which they had been
carrying round the hand-bills about these lectures in their muffs,

and leaving them at music shops, and wherever they called. Dr.

Turner promised to return my call, and hoped that we would

Ibecome well acquainted.                                 found him
   Professor Leslie resides in Queen Street, and there

sporting a dressing-gown. There was even a longer confab here
than in the former case. He is a bachelor, and his drawing-room
16 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

Ihas a good deal the appearance of a laboratory, so that there were

plenty of instruments to show and discuss. As suggested to

him a variation and improvement in a favourite process of his,

he was so good as to offer me the use of his instruments to perform

Iit. He also requested \me to prepare some chemical things for

him, for find that although an excellent mathematician and

Inatural philosopher, he is no great chemist. He also invited me
to step into his class and his laboratory whenever  chose, and to

                      He took my address. As Dr. Thomson's
                      did not see what they contained, but should
I Icall at his house.

letters were sealed,

think that they were very favourable, as the first question that
Iboth Professor Leslie and Dr. Turner asked was, if was intending
Ito give a course of lectures.
                                  am much obliged to Dr. Thomson

for these letters, as they give one an excellent introduction to the

scientific society of Edinburgh.

   Steel, in his letter, without any commands from me, had

Itenclosed 15s. 6d., my share of the Chemical Society's funds.

Icame very opportunely, although would rather that it had never

come out of Glasgow.

                                  Edinburgh, January 29, 1827.

   MY DEAR MARoAsar,--The ginger-bread was excellent. Mr.

Johnston got away the last of it as a supply for his Durham
journey, thinking greatly of it from the scientific principles upon

which it had been baked.
I was surprised the other day by the receipt of the card which
I have enclosed for your profitable edification--from Chalmers the
Ibookseller, the Doctor's brother.
                                    have been led to understand

that it arose from something which Mr. Dunn, the optician, had

Isaid to Mr. 0., of and concerning your humble servant. Upon

calling upon Mr. C. as requested, found that he was in a great

dilemma for material for the new popular journal of science which

he is setting about, and the plan of which he borrowed from our

Chem. Society, and that he wished me to give him some papers--
offering six guineas a sheet of 24 pages, 12mo ; the intended

Imagazine being of small size, containing 60 pages for one shilling,

to be published monthly. As might publish anonymously in
I
              I

                                                                                                           is
                                                                                                         it,
told him that would think of it.

By the Powers! a very good method of adding two or three

guineas a month to one's income. What he wants      quite
DR. R. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Graham. 17

different from what would go to the Annals, so that they do not
Iinterfere, and, as wont put my name to them, the L. can know
Inothing about it. Although
                             have been otherwise very throng,
I have sent him two or three short things, and will send him some

Imore for the first No., which will not appear for near a month

yet. suppose he pays when the articles are printed.
   Another great advantage of it is that, for the purposes of the

Magazine, Chalmers receives all the scientific journals, British

and Foreign, and submits them to his contributors. The ob

Itaining a reading of them the moment they come out is what

would have given anything to compass.         .

Notwithstanding my denial, some of my friends maintain here
Ithat
       am the Editor of the Magazine.   Where they got the
I Iinformation know not, as never told them anything about it.

Hoping that you will be satisfied for a season with the above

news, allow me to subscribe myself on this side of the sheet,

       Your affectionate brother,
                                    THO. GRAHAM.

                             Edinburgh, Feb. 23rd, 1827.

   MY DEAR MOTHER,--I was surprised yesterday by a visit from

IJ. Renwick, with parcel of provisions and packet of letters. He

called when was out looking after a situation for Mr. M. Miller.

IMr. Miller is rather troublesome with his situations, and am

determined not to put myself to much trouble in regard to them ;

for, after having, with a good deal of marioeuvering, secured this
J Itsituation for him, he declined it.
                                        was a private classical

academy in Newcastle, like ohnston's, and which was either

worth, or might easily be made worth £150, while he is canvasing

away here for a Lancastrian school not worth £80, and not half

so respectable.
   The publication of Chalmers' Jlliscellany has been rather hindered

for a few days from his absence, occasioned by the death of his

Imother, but it will be out by 1st March.     During his absence
                                              was prime minister.
Mrs. Chalmers had the charge of affairs, and

Mrs. C. very much regretted her mother-in-law. She was upwards

of 90, and was perfectly sensible. Young Mrs. C. had a letter

from her within six weeks of her death, with a present of stockings

                                                                  o
18 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

for the children, of her own knitting. The doctor was her fourth

child, and our Mr. Charles C. among the youngest. Her oldest

son has been all along in London. The doctor left his class, and

was with her at Anster, in Fifeshire, during her last illness, which

was not severe, and only ten days. Mrs. C. said that she had a

great care for all her sons' wives, and liked to bring them all

together about her.
IMr. Renwick stayed here last night.
                                      find upon looking at
Ithe box of instruments that they are in a very bad state.
Inever opened them since                                    have

                          came here. Perhaps some of the '

deficient instruments may be lying about the house.

                          Edinburgh, Feb. 27th, 1827.

MY DEAR HENRY,--YO1l will `see that Chalmers' concern is

printed. The woodcut on the title-page was rather got up in a
hurry, but it is meant for a head of Dr. Franklin. Some say that
it is very like Chalmers himself, and that will probably be the

prevalent theory among the knowing ones at Glasgow. It is

rather thin, but he intends after he has printed a volume to add

a sheet and half more to
is
                                             it,

                                                                                                           `

                                                                                         it
                                                                                                      is
                          and charge ls. 6d. My signature

G.

   Thereis one of my suggestions which you will find under the

head of " A Valuable Appendage to Kitchen Fire-places," which

has wondrously caught the fancy of our Ebony. He says that

calculated 'to produce a complete revolution in the sublime science

of cookery--that all the blue-stocking ladies of Edinburgh to whom

he has mentioned the improvement are captivated therewith, and

that a thousand and one sand baths are forthwith to start into

being. There must, he says, be another and a long article upon

in the next number, and Mrs. Chalmers has been so kind as to
'

   is it

             I

                         it

                          I
                                                                                       it
furnish me with Dr. Kitchener's "Cook's Oracle," in order that

the article may be garnished with apt quotations and "modern

instances."      shall probably devote a couple of hours to some

time this week.

These, however, are merely subordinate pursuits, and neither

they nor their fruits are what aim at. Eminence purely scientific

   more philosophical, more honourable, and more desirable in my
eyes. But leave to time.
DR. R. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Graham. 19

                                     Edinburgh, March 15th, 1827.

IMY DEAR MoTHER,--The other day got £5 from Chalmers
for contributions to his magazine. It was quite a Godsend. It
Icertainly came very seasonably, as do not expect a remittance
Ifrom the L. for a fortnight, if at all.
Ihim.                                           have had no letter from

                 have great pleasure in sending the little presents which

Iaccompany this, as the first-fruits of Authorship. The expense of

them, can assure you, was a mere trifle. They would have been

Ibetter, had it not been for the temptation of adding some con

Veniences to my laboratory. The ring which request you to

accept of, you will perceive is for hair. Just start out the glass

front, by putting the point of a penknife into one of the ends ,

and the hair is put where the silk is at present. It is quite easily

done, and there is n0 danger.                                                                        '

  IDo not `make yourself uneasy  about the L. sending' money,
                                  Mr. Chalmers quite willing
for, if was applying myself to
                             is
                                     it,

                                        I
                                                                is
to give me as much of the magazine _to write, as would yield me
five guineas a month, which more than get from the `L.

I             .
           `
                                     Edinburgh, March 15th, 1827.

MY DEAR MARGARET,--I saw Prof. Leslie yesterday, and he

says that his ladies' class has succeeded beyond expectation, and

keeps him tremendously busy, and he introduced good deal of
                                                is
chemistry for their amusement, in which he             a
                                                by no means an

adept.
       intend to have Dr. Turner at breakfast some of these days,

and to introduce Bentress to him, as Dr. T. studied at Gottingen
under the celebrated Stromeyer, and Mr. intends eventually to
land there.

                                     Edinburgh, April 16th, 1827.

MY DEAR MOTIIER,--I have had a good deal of intercourse with

Dr. B. [Brewster], chiefly,  recollect, since my last letter to
                             iIf
                                    I

                                            it
Henry by Mitchell's parcel; indeed,             was by. a mere accident

that Miss Can1eron's lodgings escaped a visit from this doctor of

encyclopedic renown. Bentress and were promenading Princes

Street upon some business or other, when we met with, and were

hailed by, Dr. B. He was on his `way with the tickets of admission
20 _ Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

to Sir W. Hamilton's phrenological lecture for us. We had then a

Iwalk, arm-in-arm, the whole length of Princes Street, the doctor in

the centre. Bentress had nothing to say, so that had the whole

conversation to keep up with the doctor; but he is a person with
whom one feels perfectly at ease. He was anxious for a paper--

proposing as an inducement fellowship admission to the Edinburgh

I IRoyal Society.
   Talking of Dr. Brewster, do not recollect whether mentioned

that he had sent me a present of some specimens of carbon, similar
to what Colquhoun describes, and which Margaret will recollect.
He also sent me a _liquid to examine, obtained from a portable
oil gaswork in London, which is rather curious. He mentioned

that upon being poured upon hot water it took fire. For, one

night, when drinking toddy with some others in Sir Walter

Scott's, having accidentally had it in his pocket when the servant

came in with more hot water, he_ poured some of the liquid upon
Ithe hot water, and it took fire.
                                   suppose that they had all been
I Irather grogg , for when
told him that thought it impossible

that it could have taken fire of itself, he confessed that perhaps

some of them had set fire to it.
   By the bye, the sand bath, although it cost me very little thought,

Iis making some noise here. Mrs. Chalmers, of St. Andrews, and

many ladies here, are getting them erected. Do you think write
popularly'! Mr. Chalmers thinks as much of my new article on

" A Marine Amulet" as he did of the sand bath.

                                                                     Edinburgh, May 27th, 1827.

  IMY DEAR MOTHER,--I think that will be home for certain
Iwithin a week. Indeed, would have come off with Mr. Mitchell

had it not been that the whole of my pecuniary interest in this
sublunary world amounts to three sixpences, so that it is neces
sary for me to remain a few days and write to raise the wind.

                                                                                         May 30th, 1827.

  I look forward with great pleasure to my visit to Glasgow, as
Inotwithstanding that have now been a whole year in Edinburgh,
I feel as much as over all the solitude and desolateness of being
Iin a land of strangers, which, from my retiring habits, will be

always the case wherever go.
    DR. R. A. SMITH on Lrfi and Works of Thomas Graham. 21

                                                       Edinburgh, July 20th, 1827.

  IMY DEAR MOTHER,--I have seen Chalmers twice, although

neither of the times did enjoy a private téte-a-téte, as other
people were present. He seemed, however, to say that the sale
of his journal had latterly been considerably injured in England

by the "Library of Useful Knowledge." It was detained last

month in expectation of a plate from Dr. Fleming of Flisk, which,
however, did not come forward. Wilson, the painter, and Browne,

Iof the Hunterian, were up last night.
       have not yet returned to my labours, but am drawing up a
plan for them. Everything is sufficiently encouraging, although

I Ishall never know rest and peace till get them completed. But
Iperseverance, doubt not, will overcome every difiiculty.

                                 Edinburgh, August 1, 1827.

   MY DEAR MOTIIER,--I have not seen Chalmers for near a

I Ifortnight, so that do not know what his present plans are.

am busy at present with writing a treatise of a chemical nature on

"Steam as a Moving Power," and performing some experiments

which the subject gives rise to. It may be profitable in two ways

--first, as a book, for it would make a small one, and there is at

present a great demand for such a book, for all the previous writers

of such books were engineers, and confined themselves to the

machinery of the steam engine, neglecting the chemical properties

of steam, upon which everything depends, and of which they are

in general wofully ignorant. Secondly, my investigations into this

subject have led to a slight improvement, which may be applied

with the greatest ease to such engines, and increase the power of
Ithe steam by one-fourth, or more--but of this anon.
                                                      may add
Ithat had been applying myself to this subject a considerable
Itime before was West with you.

                                                                   Edinburgh, August 6th, 1827.

   My DEAR MARGARE'I,--I had occasion to see Blackwood the
other day with the business of another Miss M., although a less

attractive and less lovely object. It was towards the end of last

week. Chalmers had seen him that forenoon, informed him of my
errand, and prepared him for my reception. Upon entering the
22 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

I`shop, requested one of the young men to inform Mr. Blackwood

that Mr. Graham waits for him. Ebony immediately made his

appearance--a business bustling like man ; said that Mr. C. had

informed him of my business, and requested me to walk on with

him. He led the way through a saloon, with a large circular table

in the centre, piled with new works, magazines, newspapers, and

other ambrosial sweets, around which there sat authors, blessed in

their labours, happy spirits! Beyond, at the little door of a deep

Itrecess--a most holy sanctum--Ebony drew up in position second,
and beckoned my entrance.                 was a little cell, and the scanty light

from above played upon the busts of Scott and Byron, supported

on a marble table. These, with two chairs, constituted all the

furniture of the den. It soon appeared in our conference that

Ebony had determined to fight Shy. " So many excellent novels

have now been published, that nothing except` what is very superior
would sell, dzc." He enquired what was the nature of the story

Iand if the authoress had ever published before, and he con

cluded by saying that if sent it down, he would look over
                                                          it
                                                                           it,
although he might not be able to say anything about for a week

or ten days.      sent him the manuscript that evening, so that
it

     is

           II

                                      it
itnow in the hands of the Philistines.                    suspect much, from
                                          is
what little more read of                  before sending  away, that will
                                            I             it

not suit Blackwood. The first volume historical, well written,

and interesting enough for a first volume. But in the second

volume long conversations are given, which have certainly the
merit of being true to life, but to me at least feel exceedingly dull

and vapid. Instead of leaving the heroine uliet's loveliness as
                                          J

much as possible to the conception of the reader, so that every

one may mould her to their own standard of beauty, and none

be shocked, she  is   described most needlessly at sixteen, as "tall
and overgrown."      Certain young ladies are introduced in " yellow

bonnets fitting the head." Now such might have been the fashion

at the period referred too, but the reader of the present age cannot

help associating something ridiculous with characters so described.
A bad impression
                     produced which tells against such characters,
it I
      I

          I
                            is

                                              I
Ittill the reader has forgot the circumstance.            was quite un-'

necessary to mention it.

wish that had seen the second volume before left Glasgow,

as would have prevented me from being so sanguine of its

success.  depended also upon Miss M., who told me that the

latter volumes were _much better than the first.

                                                                                   __
DR. R. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Graham'. 23

                                      Edinburgh, 16th September, 1827.

   MY DEAR MOTHER, ---I was very anxious to hear from Clover

IBank till received Margaret's letter yesterday morning. You
Isee send in another statement--as it is certainly the best policy

to do so as often as possible--sufi`iciently imaginative like the

rest. We are well here and exceedingly comfortable.         The

weather has been rather broken here for a week or two, so that

Ithe laboratory, with its little furnace, is the most comfortable
room in the house.      have scanned off my allowance two very

Ifine thermometers of great accuracy and beauty made by Dunn,

and some other things, so that now go on pretty smoothly.

Robert Logan of Eastwood has been here for a few days, he

I Ipromised to call up immediately and to convey this parcel, so that
  am, as usual, pressed for time. By way of ballast send you a

Icouple of letters, and the scrawl of one of mine. Johnston had

sent up a paper, that should deliver for him to the R. Society,

Iupon which he had been working away for two years, for he has
never published anything.    at once detected a serious oversight

which pervades the whole ofI          and will expose him to a severe

basting he publish it.        isaccordingly wrote him as you have
if                               it,                        I
                                                                    it
in the scrawl. His letter           an answer to mine--a good deal

nettled, you will see, and talking nothing to the purpose.  have'

also answered that, and shown him to be wrong by experiment.is
The other letter a curiosity, in so far as has been in the penny

post, and trying all the Grahams in Edinburgh since June. It
                                      it                                is
                                          it
from Dr. Thomson's nephew, Steel. The whole address originally

was " Mr. Thomas Graham," till at last had fallen into the hands

of Some person who knew me and completed the address.       The
postman delivered last night with that account.
                   it

               Edinburgh, VV. Richmond Street, 4th October, 1827.
1

      iIt, J

                                                 a

                     I1
                                 I
MY DEAR oHnsTon,--Your paper received last night, after

.it had been opened by a person of the same name who resides at

W. Nicholson_ Street. To-day (Thursday), with the intention

of delivering      have called twice on Dr. Turner without finding

him. Nevertheless, trusting to your friendly indulgence,    have
                                                            I
                                                                 I
at last concluded, after severe struggle, to retain the paper and

take no further step till    have communicated with you.
24 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

employed the greater part of last night in perusing the paper; the
result was the discovery (which the clear manner in which your
results are stated made the more easy) of a most important over
sight--not, however, in what you candidly allow to be the
dehateable part of the essay. You make Gmelin's salt, or your

chloro-ferro-cyanide of potassium, to consist of

§ atom chlorine.
3 , , cyanogen.
1 , , iron.

2 , , potassium.

and of these elements (mark) alone, no water, no hydrogen, or
oxygen present. Now this constitution is totally subverted in a

passage which occurs in page 21 of your paper, and is as follows :--

"Heated in a tube they (crystals of chloro-ferro-cyanide of potas

sium) give off no water. As the heat approaches to redness it is
                                                       At a`
decomposed, giving off hydrocg/anic acid and ammonia.

bright red heat it blackens and melts, and is at last totally

decomposed, leaving potash and peroxide of iron."

   Here we have oxygen and hydrogen in abundance in a body

which professedly contains not an atom of either. An analagous

result of the igneous decomposition of the old ferro-cyanide of

 potassium did not disturb Porrett or Berzelius [and perhaps that
'misled you]; but why? Because they allowed 3 atoms water in

their salt, the decomposition of which accounted for the disengaged

oxygen and hydrogen which appeared. Now, unfortunately, your

theory is expressly founded on the supposition that these 3 atoms

of water are got rid of. The decomposition of your chloro-ferro

cyanide should have strongly resembled that of the cyanide of

Imercury; and a very important body it would have been, enabling
us to procure potassium at once.  had been attempting in

vain to form a true cyanide of . potassium for that purpose.

IYou must therefore either sacrifice your experiments on the
composition of Gmelin's salt or your theory.  mean not here by
your " theory " the particular theory of a chloro-ferro-cyanic acid,

to which you give preference--but every theory according to

which you can arrange the same elements, of which you give two
if not three (pp. 12 and 13). To save your experiments you may
deny the correctness of the common analysis of prussiate of potash
thus yielding up your theory, as it is founded on that analysis.

To save your theory on the other hand you must retract your

experiment on the decomposition of the salt by heat. But the
DR. R. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Graham. 25

fundamental synthesis of your salt given at the beginning of your

paper applies strictly not to the ruby crystals obtained on solution,
but to the " yellow substance" formed although the ruby crystals

Iare not a chloro-ferro-cyanide of potassium or compound of such

elements, the yellow substance might be, although do not believe

it. Expose this latter substance properlydried to a red heat, and see.

Repetition of your experiments would probably show that the

whole three atoms water in the prussiate of potash are not displaced
Itby the chlorine.
                    is there you should look for the error. At

present your theory is contradictory.

As your character as an accurate experimenter might be

injured by the publication of your paper in its present shape,

although perhaps in no department of chemistry are such mis
Itakes more allowable, hope you will forgive the extraordinary
I I Iprocedure
           have followed.       am afraid have presumed too

much. But still your paper is valuable--you have ascertained the

existence of chlorine in Gmelin's salt, and from an individual salt

Iyou have raised the class. These results might be published with
out the synthesis which alone are defective.  fear that from

your extreme susceptibility you will feel this partial failure more

keenly than you should. Your paper might be remodelled, so as

to be unexceptionable, although with diminished pretensions.

Anxiously awaiting your commands.

           I remain,

                 JMY DEAR oHnsTox,

                           Your affectionate friend,

                                       THOS. GRAHAM.

I Istrongly suspect (although at present      have not room for

my reasons) that the common analysis of Prus. Pot. on which you
found is inaccurate, and that it really contains more water and less

cyanogen. Should this be the       case, you may get out of the
                                   safe--although not with your
Idilemma with your experiments
theory.    hope it may.                                               T.G.

                                       Durham, 7th Oct., 1827.

IMY DEAR GRAHAM,--I have this morning received yours dated
the 4th.   don't know how it has been so long 0n the way. The

fellow that got the packet must have kept it a long time. How

ever, &c.

                                D
26 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

What a desperately acute fellow you are, and with what a

vengeance you write. Your objection is certainly valid, but even

Iwere it sustained it would have no such overturning effect as you

suppose. You will observe that allow 3 atoms water to the

salt of soda, and yet it contains the same acid and is a cyanide (if
you like)--the water being that of crystallization. It is in this
light that Berzelius views the ferro-cyanide.   Nor does hyd.

enter into the composition of the ferro-cyanide of Porrett--

neither, therefore, need it enter into that of the chloro-ferro

It Icyanide--so that the whole question consists in whether the salt
ofpotash contains water or not.  is true that have founded

my reasoning upon the constitution of that salt, but this was
merely because it was the first formed--the most easily formed--

and that to which my attention had been chiefly directed. Any
other salt would have done as well, only if it contained water it

might have been said that the hyd. of it formed a part of the

acid. But that the chlorine at least of none of the salts, even of

those containing water--that of Barytes, for instance--is not

combined with hyol. is manifest by their giving off uncombined

chlorine when treated with concentrated sulph. acid. When you

mention the yellow powder as probably anhydrous, and as the

only thing to which my remarks apply, you forget the experiment

Istated in which the salt dissolved and carefully crystallized gave
exactly an equal weight of anhydrous crystals.  hope you see,

Ithen, that, allowing your objection, 'your conclusions are unsup

ported, for even if the salt of potash did contain water had only

Ito say with Berzelius--Yes, but it is water of crystallization. And

then you will observe that have stated the quantity of water in

all the salts as very difiicult to determine, and in no one case, so far

I Ias can recollect, have spoken upon it with absolute certainty.
  IThus far, for argument's sake, have discussed the theory of the

matter with you. But still the salt of potash is anhydrous. The

passage which has given rise to your speculations has apparently

I Ibeen carelessly written, whether or not read it over again.
I I Iam not certain, but am sorry that have not a copy of it.
Itake it for granted, however, that the extract you have given me

is a literal copy, and have to beg of you to make one or two

alterations to prevent any such mistakes in future. lst. For

peroxide of iron, read carburet of iron. 2nd. The second clause

refers to the application of heat in contact with, and correct the

whole as follows (I copy from your letter, and make as few altera
DR. R. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Graham. 27

tions as possible to save blotting) :--Heated in a. glass tube they

give of no water. In a platinum crucible, as the heat approaches

to redness, the salt is partially decomposed, giving off hydrocyanic

acid and ammonia. At a bright red heat it blackens and melts,

and is at last totally decomposed, leaving Potash and carburet of

Iiron. Here the underlined parts are the corrections.   The

substitution of peroxide for carburet has,   suppose, arisen

from thinking at the moment of the green sediment, which,

when heated in an open crucible, gives peroxide of iron. Now,
you will see at once the source of the hyd. Potassium, when

heated in contact with air, burns and becomes potash; hydrogen

therefore will be evolved in -proportion to the quantity of the

oxygen it obtains which is due to the decomposition of moisture.
You say its decomposition if anhydrous should be analogous to

that of cyanide of mercury; and so it is--heat cyanide of mer

cury in the open air--it blackens, melts, and gives off white

fumes of hydrocyanate of ammonia. Whence comes the hyd.---is

Iit from water in the cyanide Z As to the absence of water in this

salt, Gmelin and agree; it is not, however, beyond dispute, but

Ithe contrary is unsupported evidence.                  I wish it
      copy the following experiment from my note-book.

could be inserted in a note ; it would show how difiicult it is to

decompose the salt entirely, and that the iron is in the metallic

state :--" 5 grns. heated to redness in a platinum crucible over a

spirit lamp first decrepitated, giving off hydrocyanic acid ; ammonia
was then evolved in considerable quantity, and this continuing,

the crucible was covered and exposed to a strong red heat. Re

moved from the fire, a grayish black powder remains, which
appeared to have been in fusion. With dilute muriatic acid it

effervesces strongly, giving ofl' the smell of hydrocyanic acid. The

solution obtained gave a precipitate of iron with benzoate of

ammonia, the previous filtration having left a slight blue sediment
on the filter. ' There remainedundissolved a shining black matter

at the bottom of the crucible, which, by repeated digestion with

nitric and muriatic acid, was partially decomposed, and in solution

gave the precipitatecharacteristic of iron. It was, therefore, car

buret of iron, and the metal taken up by the dilute muriatic acid

was probably in the state of carbonate. The blue sediment shows

a portion to have been still undecomposed."

   This experiment is dated 18th December, 1826, and was made

Iin Thomson's laboratory. If you think it is of any service, will
  28 Philotop/n'cal Society of Glasgow.

  be obliged by your writing it on a bit of paper and introducing it

  I Ias a note to the word Carburet.                  have so in assuring

    If have not succeeded in satisfying you,

  myself that you have been hasty in supposing this lapsus to over

  I Iturn all my reasoning. As to repeating the experiments you
  mention,  am satisfied myself upon the point.       have made

  Ihosts of experiments--many of which are not stated in the paper.

  Any more made are from blunders of the kind now corrected.
  Ihave stated nothing which have not verified or considered as
  Ialready settled.
                     conceive that upon reconsideration you will

find reason to be satisfied with the presently received composition

Iof the prussiate of potash. It is very difficult to determine the

water certainly, but cannot see how you can increase it at the

Iexpense of the cyanogen without also altering the amount of bases.
            I                              but certainly could not depend on my

                 if

                                      it,
  have tried to estimate

own results different fron1 those of Thomson, Berzelius, and

Philips.    rely 0n Dr. Thomson the more as he has stated that

  he had been obliged to come to that conclusion though anxious to

obtain a different result.

   In my last letter did injustice to Mr. Faraday in relation to
            I
                I
                   I

                                        I,
the disinfecting liquor.                   have since had occasion to alter my

opinion in regard to his correctness, and             therefore, hasten to

make him amends by saying believe him to be right.

II      had `the pleasure of seeing a handsome notice of your paper on
  solution in the Quarterly Journal for this month. Unfortunately

  have no opportunity of seeing the Annals, and, therefore, got
                                                            I

                                                                    is
there the first notice of the publication of your paper. What

given in the Quarterly (Brande's) agree with perfectly. There
                     I
                                II

                                                  it
I isonly about a page: should like to see the whole paper.

      hope that after making the corrections stated you will give

in the paper as early as possible.         fear will now be too late to

  have any chance of insertion in the Transactions.

    Be kind enough to give me as early intelligence as possible, and

believe me, my dear Graham,

            Yours very sincerely,
                                           JAMES F. W. JOHNSTON.
                     (Signed)

                                                                     Edinburgh, 12th ov., 1827.

   MY DEAR MOTHER,--I have been exceedingly negligent in my
Cloverbank correspondence, notwithstanding the highly exemplary
DR. R. A. SMITH on I/lfe and Works of Thomas Graham. 29

Iconduct of my correspondents.    can scarcely hope to be excused,
Ibut the truth is that was never so busily engaged as during the

last five _or six weeks (anxiously engaged, too). Dr. Brewster,
who manages the Royal Society here, is out of town, and intends

to be so during the winter. In the course of a few 'weeks the

ISociety intends to publish a volume of transactions in which am

very anxious to have two papers. One of these papers is already

in the hands of Dr. Turner, and is highly approved of by him and

John Robinson, being, according to the doctor (modesty avauntl),
" a beautiful and complete thing." The other paper is just finish

ing, and is a horribly long one, containing an account of 40 or 50

I Inew compounds, and such is the burdensome richness of the mine
  have opened, that could easily add as many more. Dr. Turner,

Iwhom have told of the nature of the discoveries, says that it will

form a capital paper also. Therea                   therefore, no difiiculty what
                                     is
                                               is,
ever in getting the papers read, and eventually printed by the

Royal Society, but the point to get them read at the very first

meeting of the Society, otherwise they will be too late to appear

in the forthcoming volume of their transactions, and perhaps would

not be printed for year. Now, so little confidence have Turner

and Robinson in themselves that, protesting they will do everything

in their power to meet my wishes, they are not sure whether they

will be able to have both the papers read the first night, in fact

they are quite confused without Dr. Brewster to direct them, and
           really no difliculty in the case. If they do not pick up
there  I is

courage, will write to Dr. Brewster, who will dissipate all their

imaginary difficulties in a moment. If they cannot be got read

and printed immediately by the Society here, will take the
                             is I
                                        I

                                                        a

                                              II
advice Leslie gave me the other day, and send them to the Royal

Society of London.                can assure you           have been in
   Notwithstanding my hurry,

excellent spirits, and as for health, strong as thousand elephants.

Miss C.    is  `also well, and everything comfortable. Never were

things in a more favourable state should choose to set up in a
chemical line here, than they will be this winter or spring. Of

the two lecturers, Dr. Fyfe   setting out to travel on the con

tinent for his health, and Dr. Turner expects every day to be

appointed to the Chemical Chair in the University of London.I
Should he go, can depend upon getting his fine new laboratory
                                  is
moderately, with his practical classes, without any competition, in

the absence of Fyfc. Dr. Turner exceedingly confident that he
30 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

will get the London chair. He told me that the candidates beside

himself are Dr. Fyfe, Dr. Ure, of Glasgow, and Mr. Phillips, the

editor of the Annals--none of them great hands, although Phillips

is certainly the most deserving. Turner thinks, however, that

IPhillips will have no chance, because he has never lectured, as if

there was any mystery in lecturing. think, however, that Turner

has a very fair chance, particularly from his acquaintance with

Leonard I-Iorner, now the Warden or Principal of the University,

who is an Edinburgh man. It is curious how little distinguished

any of the candidates are ; and, indeed, the circumstance that the

election has been put ofi` so long is not complimentary to them.

Indeed, perhaps in no other department of literature or science is

there so little competition in this country at the present day as in

chemistry. The chief reason of this is that the most of chemists

are medical men ; their reputation soon procures them great

practice, which is too tempting to be rejected, and chemistry

becomes neglected amidst their extensive and highly-profitable

professional engagements. This has been the case with almost all

the great London chemists who should have been competitors for

the chair, such as Dr. Prout, Dr. VVollaston, Dr. Bostock, &c. In

fact, they were no longer chemists. Turner expects to hear of the

I Iissue of the election every day, as it was to be decided in the
beginning of November.  confess would feel rather reluctant

at setting up as chemist in Edinburgh, preferring London, but

Iall will depend upon circumstances. Meanwhile everything is en

couraging. Should Dr. Turner succeed in getting to London, will

have a friend at court, and there is another chemical professorship
" On the Application of Chemistry to the Arts "--which probably

I Iwill not be filled up for a year or two. In all these competitions

everything depends upon sheer impudence, of which confess
have too little, confining it to my letters entirely. When Turner

first told me of his being a candidate, and of his confident expecta
tion, it was only his presence that prevented me from laughing,

for he rests his whole merit upon his having lectured for afew

years, and having compiled "Elements of Chemistry," while his

original discoveries amount to nothing, or are exceedingly trivial.

Bentress would never give Turner any credit, and even told Dr.

Brewster that he thought be rated Turner too highly. But Dr.

Turner is very courteous, and really an amiable character, so that

Ipeople are charitable in their opinion of his talents; and, for my

part, will be happy in his success. You recollect of Johnston's
DR. R. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Graham. 31

Ifaulty paper, as he insisted was obliged to give it to Turner, but
I Iat the same time told him that did not warrant its accuracy.

was somewhat amused at Turner and his paper afterwards. He
               and saw there must be something wrong in it;
had examined   it,

                          I
                                     it I
                                           I
                                           II

                                                 II
but being like Johnston, not overly clear-headed, he could not see

precisely where the error lay. The next time met him soon

found he was fishing me to find where placed the error. Of

course this must have been disagreeable to him, so spontaneously
Itexplained the whole matter.
                                  was then "as clear as day, an

error that overturned the whole theory," &c., and was requested

to intimate to Johnston that, while his paper contained so

palpable and manifest an inconsistency,                would not be recom

mended to the Society. This did as mildly as possible, for am

really sorry for poor Johnston. Johnston, however, has given

me provocation which, from any other person, would have been

unpardonable--in a second letter some time ago--but he has now

virtually surrendered, and must feel the excess of regret for his

nonsense.   I have scarcely room to subscribe myself

               Your affectionate Son,
                                         THOMAS GRAHAM.

                                                       Edinburgh, 19th Nov., 1827.

MY DEAR MOTHER,--Dr. Turner has been appointed to the

London University, and am to succeed him here, so far as
            is
succession     practicable.  am to take up his experimental or
               II
                        II

                                                   is
laboratory classes in three months hence, or in February, and to

commence a summer course of lectures of three months in May.

During that time am to have the free use of his laboratory,

apparatus, and everything, which                       an unspeakable advantage.

But next winter shall be obliged to get a class-room, &c., of my

own, as Dr. T.'s devolves by an old compact on Dr. Cullen, the

lecturer on the Practice of Physic. But other favourable circum

stances may arise before that time, and at any rate the present

advantage not to be rejected, while the accident of appearing as
successor to the Professor of Chemistry in the University of
is
   is

                         I
London itself of some value.

These experimental classes to which refer consist of half                           a

dozen students and upwards who come to the laboratory for an
32 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

hour, and get half lecture, half experiment, assisting in performing
the experiments. The fee is three guineas a quarter; and one
may have more than a single class of this kind in a day. They
are what you would call private classes.

  IDr. T. is going up to see how things are doing in London at

Christmas, and it is probable if his stay is protracted that may
lecture for him at that time, for a few days, both in his own
public lectures and in the School of Arts, where he is at present
lecturing in the place of Dr. Fyfe.

   He has promised, while at London, to recommend me as a fit

person for writing certain Treatises on the Chemical Arts "in

the Library of Useful Knowledge" to Leonard Homer and Mr.
Brougham;

   He informs me that it is agreed that Dr. Hugh Colquhoun and

I are to be proposed as members of the Royal Society at an early

meeting.

   [During 1827 Graham was occupied with three papers--(l) "On
the Finite Extent of the Atmosphere ;" (2) " Longchamp's Theory
of Nitrification ;" (3) "On Exceptions to the Law that Salts are
more Soluble in Hot than in Cold Water. "]

                      Edinburgh, llth Jan. , 1828.

  IMY DEAR MOTHER,--Dr. Turner resumed the class yesterday.

He was up here, but for so short a time that got scarcely any

news from him. Sir H. Davy had a paralytic stroke, but is`

getting better. Mr. Phillips, the editor of the Annals, has left

London, having got the superintendence of some great work

about Birmingham. Dr. T. was highly pleased with his reception

among the dons. He breakfasted last Sunday with Mr.

Brougham. The arrangements about the class and laboratory are

quite agreeable to him. The class-room holds 500 seated. He
Jmust go up sooner than he expected--in uly--and open his class

Iin Oct. In the lecturing was more at my ease this week. One
Inight was upon phosphorus, had the room darkened, and was
Iexceedingly flashy.
                      was much amused by the fellows becoming

rather uproarious in the dark, just as we used to be in the Pig's.

IJames says that there was always a number of strangers present.
   was slightly annoyed with two things--a touch of sore throat,
DR. R. A. SMITH on Lzfiz and Works of Thomas Graham. 33

Iwhich got from drinking a glass of water after finishing, and

by inhaling a little of chlorine gas when making
a                                                                                          owing to

                                                                                      it,
James's fault in remaining away too long one day--I had per

mitted him to be operator to Mr. Ritchie, of Tain, who delivered

lecture on Oil and Coal-gas in the Assembly Rooms.

                                                                Edinburgh, Feb. 21, 1828.

   HY DEAR MoTHER,--My silence has been so long as to be quite
inexcusable, but have been always deferring and deferring until
                        II
had something definite to tell you. Shortly after wrote last
I                               it                              is

                     a                                                    I
had two oifers, both of which deserved attention. The first was               I
                                                                                 II
through Dr. Gardiner, from Constable Junior, to write a volume                        iIf I

of his Miscellany (which you have perhaps seen) upon Heat and
Electricity. This was very much inclined to do, as would be

obliged to write lectures on the first of these subjects at anyrate.

But have long had in view to translate and get published in a
I

compressed form, like Ure's Dictionary, Thenard's French System

of Chemistry, which in the original                             in five volumes.           had

employed Mr. Chalmers to sound some of the booksellers, and

Oliver Boyd embraced the proposal at once, and, after was&

introduced to them, and had several meetings, offered to give me

half the profits of the publication, without any of the risk,

would undertake it. This would be considered a good offer as

such things go, but at the advice of both Turner and Chalmers,

particularly of Turner, preferred another plan, for by the former
one quite in the power of the booksellers, who can estimate the
is

       I
                        &

               it I

                                           a

                                                 is
                                                              is
profits at what they choose. This just to require a certain per

centage on the retail price of the book, say 10 or 12 per cent. upon

the price of every copy printed, which would probably be sold

about 25s. Oliver Boyd have not expressed an opinion as yet

upon this plan, and the whole arrangement                         postponed till a copy

of the last edition of the original (lately out) can be procured from
London, and believe will not arrive before the commencement

of next month.                      year to translate Thenard and write

  It would take about

notes to it, and the profits of the first edition might be about £120;

but then there would be as much on every subsequent edition. It

would also be great thing to have one's name attached to a book
                        a
                                                             E
34 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

of such weight and importance. Turner thinks that if he were in
my situation he would adopt the plan at once. Dr. Thomson first

Ibrought himself into notice by translating Fourcray's System of

Chemistry. In the meantime, however, have been doing some`

thing to Constable's business, as it would require more than two

Ior three months--the return about .£30--and as the materials will

do for lectures. On all these accounts have deferred the experi
mental course, of which the success would be rather problematical,

Ibut am still ready for the lectures, should things yet turn that

way. But am somewhat unwilling to set up as a regular

lecturer in Edinburgh! It is soymedical.

                                Edinburgh, 8th April, 1828.

IMY DEAR MoTHnR,-- . . . . .    was admitted into the
IRoyal Society last night.
                                don't care although the L. should

know, but should he think that there is anything to pay it will

take away all the merit of it.

                                Friday, April 25, 1828.

  IMY DEAR MOTHER,-- . . . . . . . The business with

Boyd, of Oliver & Boyd, is not yet settled, although have delayed

Ifrom day to day to write you, expecting that it would be settled.

He seems determined to make a good bargain, and to-day received

a note from the firm, declining my proposal of £130 sure for the

first edition, and half the profits on every subsequent edition, which
Itmight be estimated at £100 on each subsequent edition.
                                                          is not

my charge for the first edition which he quarrels with, but he seems

Ito think that if am made sure of so much on the first edition
Ithat have no title to so much as half the profits upon subsequent
Ieditions.
            am quite aware that my proposal as to subsequent

editions is high, but Boyd is so wary that it is difiicult to guess

proposal as to that matter he would be  disposed to fall in
_ He won't suggest anything. . . . .
Iwhat                                    . At the Royal

with.
Society last Monday had a paper, and made my debut as a

member. Johnston, of Durham, was rejected in the Council as a
DR. R. A. SMITH on Lift and Works of Thomas Graham. 35

member, where he was proposed by Dr. Turner, at his own urgent
Irequest.
             had a great deal of talk with Dr. Hope as to John
Iston's merits, and kept him up as well as could, but to no purpose.
It was Dr. Hope who occasioned his rejection in the Council, he

being, as Miss Cameron says, "no poor man's friend." . . . .
Hope told me that he had repeated my alcohol process, " which he

fancied," before his class with success--it takes a week, so that it

Iis no bad advertisement--and added, with a pomposity which was

almost too much for my gravity, "and may be allowed to ask,
Sir, was this beautiful discovery the result of accident or of

research?" Humbug.

[Graham was occupied with three papers in 1828, viz.:--(1)

"Experiments on the'Absorption of Vapours by Liquids ;" (2)
"On the Influence of Air in determining the Crystallization of
"ASaline Solution," (3)
                         Short Account of Experimental Re

searches on the Diffusion of Gases/']
The poverty of Graham at this period is illustrated by the

following curious anecdote communicated by his sister, Mrs.

Reid:--"I dare say you know of his taking a very poor little

"room at Portobello, and laying wires in the sea, mostly after it

"was dark, but moonlight perhaps, for his experiments.  His

"landlady found some of his things below the bed in his room, and
" told him she did not like to see such things, she doubted he was

"after no good, and he had better take his leave. She put his
" wires, etc., out at the door and bid him walk, she would rather

"want a week's rent than let him in again; so poor Tom had to
"hide his things and walk back to Edinburgh that night. The
" rent of the room was 3s. per week, without fire, which was a

"great deal more than he could spare at that time." Graham

then returned to Glasgow, where he taught Mathematics for some

time at the suggestion and under the patronage of the late Dr.
Meikleham, Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University

of Glasgow. Subsequently he had a Chemical Laboratory in

Portland Street, where he also delivered lectures, and for the year

1829-30 did similar work in the Mechanics' Institution. In 1830

he was appointed Professor of Chemistry in the Andersonian

University.

[During the next six years Graham worked hard in Glasgow--

lecturing, teaching, and sending out workers from the Andersonian

University. ]
36 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

                                          Glasgow, August 2, 1831.

MY DEAR MARGARET,--I had occasion yesterday to address, for

the first time, that most learned body--the Faculty, for the purpose

to get attendance on a course of Practical Chemistry made imper

ative, which should long ago have been the case. Mr. Harry

Rainy seconded my motion, and our'proposal was graciously

received, although, as all dignified bodies move slowly, the bill

must be read a second and a third time at successive meetings

Ibefore it is passed into a law.          Some mad doctor at
       do not know what to say for news.

Port-Glasgow, it appears, lately alarmed the Government on the

fancied appearance of the Russian cholera in that quarter, and
occasioned a meeting of the Privy Council and other unnecessary '

measures. The Faculty replied yesterday to a letter of inquiry

from Mr. Dixon, that the town was never more healthy at this

season of the year than at the present moment.

                                                 Miilhausen, Alsace (Hotel de la Couronne),
                                                                               1st September, 1836.

     MY DEAR MARGARET,--ID his laboratory (Daniel Ktichlin) we
  found the excellent chemist Schlomberger, he is an eléve of Mr.
  K2ich1in's, and who has written the best papers on Madder. The
  chemist was throng at work in his blouse-coat and wooden clogs.
  Kijchlin is himself a most interesting person. By the way, C.
  Thomson is studying with him, and he has a high opinion of
  Walter Crum, and pronounces him, now that James Thomson
  is getting old, the most accomplished printer we have in England.
  The afternoon we devoted to Mr. Hoifer's own establishment;
_ John finds them exceedingly communicative, and they seem to
  show us everything without reserve. He thinks that he has
  already attained the most important objects of his mission, and
  that he will be able, on returning, to produce the beautiful
  Madder rose-reds for which Alsace is famed, so that the journey

 Iwill not be lost
         was amused by the feeling which seems to prevail here in
  regard to the French Institute. They have never published
  Schlomberger's valuable papers on Madder, because they impugn
  the results of a brother member, M. Robiquet; although Mr.
  K6chlin spoke on the subject to Gay-Lussac, Ghevreul, and others.
DR. R. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Graham. 37

IThe fact, believe, is that this exclusive déaling results from no

bad feeling, but the Institute is a coterie, all the members are

familiar with each other, and unwilling to give each other cause of

offence. Gay-Lussac likewise, who is chemical editor of the Annales

de Chimie, is an exceedingly mild man, and is certainly carried too

far by the fear of offending his brother academicians. There is

one of my papers which he has promised to publish (on Phosphu

Iretted hydrogen), but which would not be surprised to find him
Irestrained from doing when he finds that give more credit to

Henry Rose than will be agreeable to M. Dumas. Dumas
Isurprised me much the first day met him by a hasty and
Iunfair criticism on Rose, whom
                                 defended. But afterwards,

on reflection, he was at pains to undo the impression which

his remarks might have produced, and finally transmits through

me sentiments of respect to Rose, so that hope to be the means

of reconciling them.

                                          Hotel de Rome, Dresden, September 27, 1836.

                                                                                                                                                                '

   MY DEAR JOHN,--I have this morning arrived here, having

Itravelled from Jena by way of Leipsic in company with Dr.

Daubeny, of Oxford. After you left me at Frankfort went

Idown to Gicssen and spent two days with Liebig. He is a most

delightful fellow, and was glad to find him in very fair health.

IReturned to Frankfort, and took the diligence to Weimar, near

Jena, which reached this day week. Between 300 and 400
"Natm;/'0rscher" had arrixcd, and the business of the meeting had
fairly commenced. The arrangements were satisfactory, although
there was not the same ostentation and amount of treating as at
the British meetings. In the mornings sectional meetings

the Chemical and Physical Sections meeting together; a general
meeting from 11 to 1, at which memoirs, or rather essays, of
general interest were read. Dinner from 2 till 4, and sectional
meetings again at past 4 to 6 for those who had not taken too

much champagne; and the evenings concluded very rationally
with a ball at which there was a good turn-out of Jena beauties.
As for the communications, they were interesting enough, but
nothing strikingly important. Of the savans who had assembled
Humboldt was the great star, but to me Mitscherlich was the

most interesting.
38 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

   I had a good deal of Mitscherlich's society, and found him very

communicative.  He has a most insinuating address, but there is
Ia cold propriety in everything he says and does.
                                                     was sorry also
Ito notice (and made the same observation of M. Dumas) that
Iwhen stated any little discovery of my own he was fretted and

could not conceal a little disappointment because it had escaped

Ihim. This was not like the hearty good feeling of Liebig or

Henry Rose. But have no reason to complain of Mitscherlich.

IMy opinion of him as a chemical philosopher, high as it was
before, has been elevated by my intercourse with him.                             was

particularly struck by the beautiful simplicity of some hints which

he difiidently threw out as to the eflect of a base, such as water

or potash, on the corpuscular arrangement of particles which cannot

subsist without a base. The base, which may be water, has here

manifestly an effect upon the atomic constitution of the acid, if

we could figure it to ourselves. Water may have a similar effect

on the metaphosphate of water, which contains one atom water.

The influence of the water on the arrangement of the particles

composing phosphoric acid may be diferent from what it was in

the other case. This idea of Mitscherlich        is,

                                                   it
                                                         it

                                                                 is
                                                 of course, altogether

hypothetic, and he by no means pressed it, but                       certainly a

very little assumption, and we can observe in the great secret of

correct philosophising, namely, to advance by the shortest possible

steps. In these corpuscular speculations         it  was interesting to

oberve how naturally he fell into the simple but philosophic
                                                       '
views of Dalton in regard to atomic arrangements.

   You know Clark's letter to Mitscherlich on a difiiculty in

isomorphism, which unquestionably most profound speculation.
                is
                                  it,

                                              a
Mitscherlich has never noticed  which in courtes'y he was bound

to do, even although he has had a second letter from Dr. Clark.

I  more than once started the subject, but he talked of having been

so busy overhauling the arrangements of his laboratory, of being

"tormented from morning till night," suppose to palliate his
                                I

neglect; and the speculation was evidently not to his mind'-too

striding for him. He alluded to other cases of similarity or

identity of form besides that on which Clark founds, such as that

of sulphur and bisulphate of potash, where the constitution of the

two bodies      totally different. Mitscherlich's law                             that two
            is
                          it

                                                                              is
bodies which have the same constitution should have the same

crystalline form, but does not necessarily follow that bodies

which possess the same crystalline form should likewise have the
     DR. R. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Graham. 39

same constitution. Mitscherlich disposed of the question by
observing that because two and two make four that is no reason
why three and one may not make four also.

                                   Berlin (Hotel de Brandenbourg), October 10, 1836.

I MY DEAR MARGARET-- . . . . This morning Magnus and
  visited Prof. Enke by appointment at the Royal Observatory,
where we spent several hours. The Professor explained all the
admirable arrangements of a working observatory to us in detail.
We saw the spots on the sun, and also the two stars which com
pose the double star Alpha Herculis, although it is only of the
third or fourth magnitude, which, considering that it was bright

Idaylight, was a very severe trial of his splendid Frauenhofer.
   have not seen anything for a long time that pleased me so
much as this far-famed observatory.

   [About this time Graham sought the appointment of Professor
at the University College, London, having during the preceding

seven years been at work on the following papers, viz.:--(1)
"Observations on the Oxidation of Phosphorus," (2) "Notice of
              Inflation of                                "       "On
the singular                a  Bladder                  ;    (3)       the  Application  of

Spongy Platinum to Eudiometry ;" (4) "Effect of Animal Charcoal
     So"luRteiosneasrc; h"es(5)on"AAnrseAncicaotuens,t  of the Formation of Alcohol;"
on                                                      Phosphates, &c. ;" (7) " On

(6)
Hydrated Salts ;" (8) "On Phosphuretted Hydrogen ;" (9) "On
Water as a Constituent of Salts/']

                                                        Sablonieris Hotel, Leicester Square,
                                                    London, Saturday, April 29, 1837.

 J IMY DEAR AMEs,»--By the letter which wrote (to Margt.) on

ITuesday youwould learn that had started fairly in iny canvass.
I have seen nothing since contradictory to my first impressions. In

whatever way it goes, the appointment will be made by the medical

Iprofessors, who will take care to be unanimous, or nearly so. Of

the nine or ten virtual electors` have good reason for believing

Ithat four, at least, are not only favourable but anxious for my

appointment, while the others, so far as can discover, are not as
40 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

yet committed to any other candidate. It is also a little fortunate

for me that my supporters belong to both of the two parties into
which the professors occasionally separate, although there is no'

serious division among them. But, as the whole force of the

Irecommendation to be made to the Council by the professors

depends upon their unanimity, am not to expect that my four

friends are to stand out in my favour if there should be a majority

in favour of another candidate. It would be perilling their in

fluence with the Council, without securing my return.

   Johnston of Durham turns out, after all, to be my most formid
able opponent. Both Mr. Richard Phillips and Dr. D. B. Reid
would have some support in the Council--particularly the former,

from his true respectability of character--but they are both given

up for different, although sufficient reasons, by the professors.
IDr. Apjohn, of Dublin, from whom
                                   feared most, has been
Irather inactive, and think his chance of success inferior to
J0hnston's or my own, although he follows us.

I remain, DEAR JAMES,

Yours most faithfully,
'
                                   THO. GRAHAM.
                      (Signed)

                      Leicester Square, London, May 6, 1837.

                            r   am in considerable doubt

IDEAR WILL1AM,--At this moment
Ias to my movements.
                      had intended to start by the steamer

for Leith to-night, and may very likely do so still, but the appli

cations, &c., of the candidates having been lodged yesterday,

and a meeting of the Council taking place to-day at 4, after the

Idistribution of the prizes in University College, am advised by
IDr. Carsewell not to decide till hear whether the Council takes

up the applications at that meeting and refers them to the Senate,

in which case a meeting of the professors would be called for

Tuesday or Wednesday, and a committee then appointed to report

upon the applications. Dr. C. thinks it might be worth while

postponing my departure for a week to give that committee an

Iopportunity of communicating with me personally if they desire

it. The Council will sit till six, and can scarcely hear the result

before seven, which will be too late for the post at this distance.
DR. R. A. SMITH on I/ifiz and Works of Thomas Graham. 41

I shall, however, retain this letter till the last moment. In case
I` remain here, would you make a point of seeing Mr. Young and

 request him to begin the Practical Course, and get on with it till

 the end of the week, assuring the students of my return at the
 beginning of the week following. . . . . . .

I remain, MY DEAR. VVILLIAM,

                  Yours affectionately,

William Graham, Esq.  (Signed)           THO. GRAHAM.

   [Graham was elected Professor of Chemistry at University
College, .London, in 1837--an appointment he held for eighteen
years. He lived in the neighbourhood of this College to the end
of his life, 16th September, 1869--first in Torrington Square and

afterwards in Gordon Square]

                      London, Saturday, Oct. 21st, 1837.

MY DEAR MARGARET,--I have to-day completed the third week

of my course, and am as well and comfortable as at the beginning
Iof it. My number to-day is 221, which have no doubt is the
Ilargest class on chemistry in the United Kingdom.
                                                    have got
I70 pages of my first number in type, it requires 93 or 96. It is

likely to be ready in time so far as myself am concerned, but

there is a risk of the woodcuts, about 30 in number, not being

all ready, as this is the busy season for the annuals, and so forth.

It is not a matter of much consequence, however, if it appears in

the first week of November, as to the exact day.             am

  IWe are all doing well at University College this season.

very much pleased with the attention and respectful behaviour of

my students, more than 120 of them have put down their names

for examination.

                                         London, Oct. 26th, 1837.

IMY DEAR MARGARET,--At Sharpey's advice  have thrown

Iaway the papers, and for a few days past have been extemporizing.

  am satisfied that it is the true system, and will come to be much

                      F
42 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

Ithe easiest in the end. After get my first No. out (which by
Ithe way is all in types), shall not allow it to interfere with my

other` engagements, but only take it up when perfectly convenient.

IThe extemporizing requires one to be both in good health and in

good spirits, and am determined not to risk myself for any con--
sideration ; so keep yourself easy.

                                                                        36 Keppel St., Russell Sq.,
                                                                                   Nov. 3, 1837.

   MY DEAR MARGARET,--Already five weeks over. My No. in
the class is 232, and a third student has joined the laboratory, a.
Mr. Fenton, of Rochdale.

                       36 Keppel St., Russell Square,
                                     Nov. 24, 1837:

IMY DEAR MARGARET,--I have after all left myself very little
time to write to you.  had a very long and agreeable letter

from Liebig a few days ago, conveying the information that his

University have made me a Dr. of Philosophy causa honoris, but

Ithis is a profound secret, and to be kept like all such, as am
Idoubtful whether shall make any immediate use of although

      very flattering. He has been reconciled to Dumas at Paris,
it                     .
                              .
    is
                                                                 0

                                                           it,

                                                                                   2,

                                                                       is
and has a grand project of publishing a chemical journal in three

languages, to be edited by Liebig, Dumas, and myself, but not

before summer.

                       London, Dec. 1837.

MY DEAR MARGARET,-- .  My present number 238,

and we cannot look for any addition till January, when we may be

joined by few new perpetuals, for we do not give the second term

by itself. But you must not think that all my 238 are payees.

This arises from the system of perpetual tickets.

                       Somerset House, 24th March, 1838.

SIR,--I am directed by his Royal Highness, the     ,  President

of the Royal Society, to communicate His Royal Highness's thanks
DR. R. A. SMITH on Lqfc and Works of Thomas Graham. 43

to you for having exhibited your very interesting experiment of

the solidification of carbonic acid gas at Kensington Palace, and

Ialso to express to you the very great gratification which that ex
hibition aflbrded to His Royal Highness's visitors.      am further

directed to suggest to you whether you might not present to the

Royal Society an account of the experiment, which would be very

acceptable to this body.

   In thus conveying to you the sentiments of His Royal High

ness, allow me to express to you my individual gratification in

Iwitnessing your truly scientific experiment on that occasion.
Ifelt, assure you, at a loss which most to admire--the highly im

portant result, the philosophical beauty of the principles on which
it was obtained, or its immediate scientific application.

I have the honour to be,

SIR,

Your most obedient Servant,

      (Signed) S. HUNTER CHRISTIE.

Professor Graham, F.R.S.,

            &c., &c., &c.

                           9 Torrington Sq., Monday, March 11, 1839.

IMY DEAR MARGARET,-- . . . .  attended last night the

first of the Marquis of Northampton's soirées. He has one of the

large houses in Piccadilly, facing the Green-park, beyond Park

Lane. There was a great turn-out. The heliographic drawings

of Niepce, Daguerre's old partner (referred to in the Athenceum of
this week), were on the table. They are on meta-l--extremely

delicate and beautiful when seen in a proper light, suggesting a
mezzotinto drawing. My idea is that the metallic plate, wetted

with nitrate of silver, has been placed in a small camera obscura con

taining hydrogen gas, and then the prospect reflected in upon it.

Where the light fell the white silver was deposited in the metallic

state on the plate, and makes the lights on a darker metallic

ground, while the shade can be etched afterwards by an acid from

which the lights will be protected by the silver. But we shall

see. Mr. Talbot/s plan for prepared paper, in which the lights

and shades are reversed, is curious but not at all new.
44 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.it,
     is
                                          9 Torrington Sq., Monday, April 29, 1839.
     I
   MY DEAR l\lARoARExr,--My compliments to Mr. Reid, and tellis

Ihim that he may have the cabinet for £7 10s., neither less nor more

(the sum for which Howard procured me the bookcase have here),

Ibut not before his house is built and he finds that he has room for

it. If not a very handsome, believe it is a substantial piece of

carpentery, as Mr. Yoimg [Dr. James Young] used to pride himself
on particularly on the hinges of the lower compartments, which
are of his own invention.

   [During the years 1837-9 Graham was busy with three elaborate

and important papers, viz :-(1) "On the Constitution of Salts "
(2) " On the Law of the Diffusion of Gases; " (3) "On the Theory

of the Voltaic Circle/']
                                           is
                                    From York, Sept. 29, 1844.
                                                          ;
J.To MRS.  REID,--I write you in the middle of our meeting

here, which has proved an excellent one. We have the best men

in all departments and a pretty numerous attendance besides.

My own Section particularly favoured as we have the two stars

of the meeting, Professor Matteucci from Italy, and Liebig. The

latter has attracted crowds of country gentlemen to the Section,

which quite a new feature in it. Liebig residing with the
                                    is is
Archbishop, whose son, the Rev. WV. Vernon Harcourt, highly

chemical.  drove out with Mr. Harcourt to dinner on Thursday

at his father's, and arriving early had half-an-hour of the Bishop's

company while the rest were dressing. He a hale old man of

eighty four, of strong sense and highly popular. He was using a

stick from a lameness occasioned by his breaking one of the branches

of the tendon achilles of the heel at the late Royal christening, of

which accident he gave me a familiar account. He suffered so

much that he could not have read the service, but having been a

parish Priest before he was a Bishop he knew by heart; and the
                                    it

Queen and Albert were afraid all the time that he would let the
child fall out of his arms. His daughter Miss H. does the honours;

and the young ladies of the family (her nieces) are fine girls, young
Miss H. in particular, who has had a week of desperate flirtation

with Rev. Deans and Professors who flock about the palace.

I  return to London on Wednesday evening and will therefore

miss the Liebig dinner at Glasgow.
DR. R. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Graham. 45

                                                      Oct. 29, 1844.

    T0 JOHN GRAHAM, ESQ.--I have had a bustling week
owing to Liebig's return to London, and second visit. He

saw no company except private friends, and did not visit out

last week (except once) till we left for Oxford together on
IFriday after my lecture. This was a long promised visit
for me to Dr. Daubeny, and              remained there till Monday,

Ioccupying Felton's chambers in the Dr.'s college (Magdalen) for

three nights. This being term time, saw Oxford, as you may

suppose, to great advantage. The Doctor had his sister and two
nieces on a visit to him in his official residence in the Botanic

Garden, one of the said nieces is not quite a beauty, but every       '

thing else, and very dangerous.

Liebig returned before nIe on Saturday evening, accompanied

by Dr. Buckland, who consented to reniain with him at No. 9,

Iand did the honours of the house till the return of the usual
occupant.        wish Margaret had been here to have met the

Doctor, his good nature and humour or rather classical drollery

are quite overpowering.

   Liebig had a very satisfactory interview with Sir Robert [Peel]
after church on Sunday--Buckland introducing. Among other

things, the Professor was asked his opinion of the new (proposed)
College of Chemistry. He said that its character and success

would depend entirely upon the chemist who should undertake its

management, and that not being settled he could not give any

opinion, although he thought favourably of the principle. It
                                                           is,I
Liebig really believes, at present a job of certain parties, but
would not be surprised to see taken out of their hands. Sir
                         it
                            it
Robert enquired why not attach to one of the existing institu

tions--University College or King's College. This Liebig thought

the proper plan.

Dr. Buckland has much of the premier's confidence, and     is,I

can easily see, his principal scientific adviser.  I  have no wish to

be encumbered with the new college, and believe that the means
of teaching chemical analysis in London are sufiiciently ample and
cheap, more than the public will take advantage of. The best

locale for a Giessen school not London, but some country town,
it
               it

                              5

                                    is

                      I
and might be well connected with an agricultural college.  I

have no wish to meddle with such a speculation or be any way

responsible for   foreseeing, as do, great perils and chances of
46 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

failure. Dr. Buckland, however, having extracted my views of

Ithe subject, adopts them, and have no doubt they will go further.
ISir R., should mention, had expressed his willingness to go as

far as to accommodate such a college of chemistry with house

room, provided the necessary expenses were otherwise guaranteed.

Dr. Daubeny was taken by surprise by the announcement

the Standard of Saturday that Dr. Dalton had left £4000 to found

Ia new professorship of chemistry in Oxford (!!!) One of the

executors (Mr. Nield, believe) also informed Dr. Daubeny at
York that he had a legacy of £100, but of neither of these cir

Icumstances has he received any ofiicial notice or confirmation.
   wish you would let me have what you know on this matter.

The will, having been sworn in Doctors' Commons,
                                              I                suppose,
                                                     is,I
published. Also, how your own proposed professorship in Man

chester likely to be received. Say how much should subscribe.
           is

Dr. Daubeny proposes to give ten guineas, but perhaps you would

expect twenty from one who fraternizes with the League, and

has so much to interest him in Manchester.

[Between the years 1839 and 1844 Graham was busy with three
papers, viz. :--(1) "On Preparation of Chlorate of Potash
                                                               ;"

"On the Constitution of the Sulphates;"       (3) "On the Heat Dis
'
           in  Combination,"  in two  parts]
  engaged

                                                                                         Aug. 31st, 1850.6

   To MISS GRAHAM,--I started from London on Tuesday night,II
and in twenty hours reached Cologne very much cut by sea-sickness7
and fatigue. But aftera night at the Hotel Hollande was quite
recovered, and enjoyed the sail up the Rhine in a very fair day,I9I
the voyage to Biberich near Mayence lasting from to evening2
and reached Frankfort by railway about ten: when got to a;I
good hotel, "the Roman Emperor," the town being crowded from
the fair. The peace people had left. Cobden had been most
admired, and the people here had been gratified by the discursive
style of English addresses which they take as a lesson in public
speaking. Next morning went on by railway and diligence to
Giessen, from to p.m. and after dining at the Rappen called
on the Professor. He appeared to me in better health than the
reports, indeed would imagine quite as well as when first saw
him thirteen years ago. He had many inquiries for you, and has
made up his mind that you are to come and spend four or five
DR. R. A. SMITH on Lr_'/`e and Works of Thomas Graham. 47

months with them. Madame Liebig and part of the family are at

Ostend, he had waited a day or two on my account, and then Dr.

Will and he proceed to Aix-la-Chapelle to analyse the waters--a
Iprofessional engagement.
                           found the leading young chemists of
Ithe place still here, Dr. Strecker whom think very highly of,

Flutmann, and Will. Kopp had already left, but Knapp and

IMadame Knapp were at home ,` also an Austrian young professor

Dr. --we had a very merry supper party. Dr. Hoffman also

found at his mother's, and was introduced to the old lady and his

two sisters, a very pleasant family circle. They know you very

Iwell through Mrs. H. ; she had left again for Darmstadt after a

visit here; she, understand, is very well. The doctor however

has not made so much ground as he should have done. We shall

Ibe occupied all this day (Saturday) about Giessen, then Dr. W.

and go to Marburg to-morrow (by rail) to see Bunsen. On
Monday we propose starting with his married sister for Frankfort,

next day to Darmstadt, and Wednesday to proceed direct to
Switzerland. If you should write a line, it would be best to
Iaddress me to "Post Restante " Berne.
   The season in Germany has hitherto   think been scarcely equal

to England. This, however, is a magnificent day, and they hope

Ifor a warmer Autumn.
      am living with the Professor, and have the world of news and
information. You will be glad to hear that he is entirely reconciled

Ito Dumas. They had met and spent a few days together, at Lille
   believe. The minister of commerce had in command from the

president to present the decoration of the Legion of Honour to
the Professor. Liebig will be over for ten days at Easter to see
the great Exposition, with every body in Germany, and intends to

bring Madame Liebig.

    [Between 1844 and 1855 Graham was at work on ten papers
--eight on small matters, but two of great importance, being his
celebrated papers on the "Motion of Gases," and the " Diffusion of

Liquids."]

   In 1855 Graham succeeded Sir John Herschel as Master of the
Mint. On his appointment to the Mint, he laboured assiduously
and successfully in acquiring a thorough knowledge of the technical

work and financial relations of his office, and discharged his duties

with much energy and judgment. It is known that he brought

about various reforms and economies in the working of the esta
48 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

blishment ; but the service for which he will be chiefly remembered
was the introduction of the new bronze coinage, which, besides
substituting a more convenient medium of circulation than that in
previous use, was attended with a pecuniary profit to the State of
very large amount.

                                      The Mint, Nov. 7th, 1855.

ITo Mlss GRAHAM, Nice,-- . . . .      have not happened to

remark anything of late respecting the state of Rome and other
IItalian cities as regards cholera, but if they are sufering from an
autumn attack that is likely to be on the wane.   shall send,

however, a few daily papers to Nice, and if matters are really

bad you are likely to find some notice of them.

We are keeping up our high rate of work (£420,000) weekly at

Ithe Mint, although it requires constant vigilance on my part,

particularly in the absence of Mr. Barton, whom wish to make

out his month's holiday undisturbed.  He returns in a day or

two.

                                      London, Dec. 1st, 1855.

   To MISS GRAHAM,      Rome,--     I. . . .     hope you will find
a healthy, comfortable  apartment,
                                    and would recommend you not

to be too parsimonious on that head.              IBut have one
   Here things have been going on much as usual.

surprise for you. Dr. Lee, of Hartwell, has just married a lady

of twenty-five. The first news of the happy event, coming through

Admiral Smyth, was set down as a joke, but it has been published

Isince in the Times. At the Royal Society Anniversary Dinner

yesterday, where first heard this, not a bad joke was current

respecting the new Lord Mayor's dinner, Salomons, being, you
know, a Jew. One of the city waiters was addressing the visitors
" Gents., would you have fish," and when Baron Platt remarked

that it was too bad to address judges in that manner, his neighbour
at table asked if the Baron did not know that "Gents." was short

for Gentiles!

Faraday called at the Mint, looking uncommonly well after a

sojourn of three months at Brighton, and in first-rate spirits. He

had many enquiries about you.       Sharpey also appears to be some
what better in health.
DR. R. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Graham. 49

Playfair says that Lord Palmerston does not look favourably

upon the decoration of the English jurors by the Emperor, and that

the crosses will be somewhat contraband on this side of the channel;

Iit is the aristocratic feeling coming out.

      should mention that Lord Wrottesley, notwithstanding his

omissions of the soir-e'es, is giving much satisfaction as President of

the R. S. The two Royal medals were given one to Hind, Mr.

Bish0p's Astronomer, and the other to Westwood the Naturalist.

IThe Copley medal to M. Foucault (pendulum movement, showing
rotation of the earth, &c.)  dine to-day with Dr. and Mrs. Arnott

Ito meet the latter. He made a pretty French speech at the

Anniversary Dinner, where, by the way, was myself called up,

Sabine giving me the alternatives of proposing the health of the

IPresident or returning thanks for " Her Majesty's Ministers," of

which preferred the former.

                                Dec. 13th, 1855.

  ITo MISS GRAHAM, Rome,-- . . . Dr. Hoffman had an accident

to his eye which was at first a little alarming, and got, believe,

into the newspapers. The Rev. Mr. Barlow had caused an

explosion of sulphuric acid, a small drop of which found its way

past the glasses into the Dr.'s eye. He was confined to a dark
room for a week or ten days in consequence of the inflammation,

but is now going about again without having suffered any permanent
injury. You may imagine what a vexation the accident was for

poor Mr. Barlow, who attended at Fitzroy Square like a nurse.

The Dr. promises a musical party as an opening of the house; the

furnishing goes on gradually. At the Mint we have continued to

keep up to our six deliveries a week (£430,000), although

Iunusually troubled with unworkable gold, of which was obliged
Ito complain to the bank. The mischief have since traced to a

small quantity of iron in the gold, which is that of " Ballarat " and
the "ovens" simply melted down, whereas it ought to be refined

before being sold to the bank and sent to us. _ The bank melters,
IBrown and Wingrove, promise to look after this in future.
                                                            am

gradually and quickly suppressing the abuses of the coining depart
ment, and Mr. Brande now submits to my innovations with

resignation if not with a particularly good grace. They were

                             0
50 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

chiefly ridiculous extra charges which the men had been allowed to

Imake, the passing of which every week was a recurring vexation

which now escape.

                                                                                    Jan. 8, 1856.

   To MISS GRAHAM, Rome.--I had your long and amusing letter
giving your visits to the Cardinals and French Commandant, for

which many thanks. It has since been forwarded to Cooper at

ISouthport. On calling on Mrs. Wilkinson, a few days ago, to deliver

your message, received an emphatic contradiction from her of
the report that Dr. Wiseman was going to Rome. She rather
opened her heart to me on the occasion, telling me that she is
the only Catholic convert in the family, her husband having lived
and died--" poor man "--a Protestant clergyman. Her brother
Mr. Porrett, is High Protestant also, and a little intolerant, so
that the good lady holds to her adopted faith under what she
considers no small persecution. She was present at Oscot College
when Mr. Talbot was first received; he gave up an English living.
When she was fifteen or sixteen, the father of Mr. Hemans was
devotedly attached to her, but afterwards married Felicia. She
saw a young man once at Oscot Church, in whom she recognized
the form and features of her old admirer, although the young
man was shorter and not so good looking; this is your Mr.

IHemans. She is very well and sends her compliments.
       got tolerably through the holidays all things considered.

First--I went to a German tea, with which N0. 9 Fitzroy Square

was inagurated, but here made two mistakes---dining beforehand,
for the repast was of a most substantial character, recalling the

Itea-dinners of primeval times. The other, for which in some

degree must blame the Doctor, who had put at the bottom of
his invitation, "evening dress with decorations," was appearing
on the occasion in white choker, black coat, buttoned up to the
throat, and the Rosette and Star of the Legion of Honour blazing
on the left breast. Coming late and proving to be alone in my glory,
the effect upon the company, and especially the female portion of
it, was magnificent, perfectly stunning. The Dr. himself had not
mustered courage for such an exhibition, and there was no other
olecoré present. Miss Hofifmann is evidently more comfortable in
their own house than she was formerly in her brother's lodgings.
DR. R. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Graham. 51

Secondly--I ate my Christmas dinner at W. Tookes, Russell

Square, who has lots of grandchildren, and had the honour to take

out Mrs. Arthur Tooke, an old Pau friend of yours.                                                     ..

Also, old Thomas Tooke, the distinguished political economist, Dr.

IGray of the British Museum, and a remarkable lady whom must

not forget, Mrs. Grant, who has been to Pan and everywhere; she

has a daughter a Ward in Chancery, whose property Mr. Tooke

Imanages.  Mrs. Grant has been presented to all the Queens of
           believe, and discussed the royal bearing of each. She
her time

is not altogether satisfied with the Empress of the French, who

is a nice gentlem:in's wife, but wants fierté. The Queen of Spain
disgusted her. She pronounces our own Queen, little as she to
                                               if
have dignity, and to look the Queen more than any of her
                                                                     is,
                                                                          is,
compeers.

  It a little curious to find myself taken into council by the
is

               I
Government on financial questions, and to be talking over affairs
of state with the Chancellor of the Exchequer and Secretary of
the Treasury, over a parlour fire in Downing Street. The fact

that finance at present offers a. magnificent career one could give

up Chemistry; but no, must remain true to my first love.

                                                                                 Paris, 3rd Oct., 1856.

   To MISS GRAHAM,--Pelouze was at his post, and from him and
the contractor at the Mint have every information that can
desire. We were to-day at the manufactory of MM. Rousseaux,
and saw the production of both sodium and aluminum on a grand

scale.

      shall have scarcely occasion to go beyond Paris, and will pro
bably remain over the meeting of the Institute on Monday.
propose to take Brussels on my way back.
I                                                                                                      I
                                                                                                           I
                                    I'

                                               30th Dec., 1857.

   To MRS. JAMES REID,--The five-pound gold piece was struck

expressly for you as a souvenir of the Mint. It considered one

of Wm.Wy0n's best works. " Una and the Lion," and such pieces
                                             a
are so scarce that they bring a good premium.     am only afraid
                                              I is
that the gold will burn in the pocket of such thrifty person, and

that you will be disposed to realize.
52 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

   [From 1855 to 1860 Graham published nothing of importance,

but in 1861 appeared his celebrated paper on "Liquid Dilfusion

applied to Analysis."]

                                                      16th May, 1861.

To MIss GRAHAM,--The issue of the new bronze is going on

Isatisfactorily, all that is manufactured being out or bespoke.
Last week has been at week of soirées.        could not avoid being

Iout every evening. Among the rest Lord Ashburton's, as Presi
dent of the Geographical.  had not seen Lord A. since his

marriage. He introduced me very kindly to Lady A. Wild, you

will be surprised to hear, has given up his office at the Royal

Society. There is some difference between him and the other

(superior) ofiicers, which has not been exp' lained.  He certainly

Iwas not generally liked.

      was able to send in a paper to the R. S. last week, which

contains two or three years' work, and has cost no small effort to
Iget up amid my other distractions.
Ifolio pages in length.              need only describe. it as 98

                         expeet_ also to hand in two short ones, all

but ready, before the recess. This is an unspeakable relief to me,

Ifor nothing depresses me so much as the falling behind in my

scientific career, consequent upon my official engagements; but
hope to recover in some considerable degree my place in the race

by these papers.

17th.--I had a visit to-day at -the Mint from Prince Arthur, a

fine bright boy. He certainly promises well.

                           Ttli June, 1861, from London.

I ITo MIss GRAHAM, Pau,- . .
                                     forget if told you of the

last move of the oflicers of the R. S.--it was to place me as

Treasurer and Vice-President in succession to Sabine, the latter

being elevated to the chair. This would have suited me better, as

Ithe duty would have been light; but, after some hesitation, have

felt it necessary to decline this also. W. Crum and Dr. Hoffman        is,
agreed with me inthe propriety of this resolution. Sharpey

however, much disappointed, as he had set his mind upon such an

arrangement, which he says would have made Sabine's presidency

go down better with the body of the Society. But the overwork
     DR. R. A. SMITH on Lvfia and Works of Thomas Graham. 53

of last winter and spring has made me nervously afraid of
en countering engagements merely for honour's sake. My chemical
work, on the other hand, is going on very nicely.

                                                                                          4th Nov., 1861.

   MY DEAR MASTER,--I am very glad to be able to inform you
that Lord Palmerston has sanctioned the appointment of your
brother to the ofiice of senior clerk and assistant coiner in the
Mint.

  IThis may be attributed not only to the testimonials of superior

fitness for the office which your brother possesses, but hope that
you will also consider it a mark of the estimation in which, for
your services and the economy you have introduced into the
department over which you preside, you are held.

               Believe me,

                          MY DEAR MASTER,

The Master of the_ Mint.  Very truly yours,

                            7 Nov., 1861, from London.

   To MISS GRAHAM, Pau,--I am enjoying my holidays, after a way.
The change in the weather, wind and snow, sent me up from
Hastings after a few days. The business at the Mint has been

brought up so that things can go on for a few weeks without my

intervention.Mr. Barton and John have it all their own way,

Iand believe   both will be improved by the responsibility'.  In
Ithe meantime   fully enjoy my temporary release.

The election of President of the Royal Society comes on upon

Ithe 30th inst. Dr. Roget is still urgent for Lord Brougham, and

he will be proposed. The election might, believe, be easily secured
                                                It would be an
by a little organization among his supporters.

Iappropriate close to the career of the old hero. In the meantime,

from necessity as well as choice, keep myself entirely out of the

melée.

  IIn making holiday looked in at the National Gallery yesterday

and found Mr. Wornam the Director. The change is surprising.
54 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

IThat Turner room is really a National treasure.  wandered out
Iafterwards to the Zoological where met Lewis with " George
IEliot" on his arm.
                     had never seen the lady before, she has a

Ilong face, and her attractions do not reside in her looks--so far for

first impressions. Last week had a very agreeable communication

to make to Mr. Aitkinson and University College. My old friend

Mr. Evans of Worcester (Hill and Evans, the vinegar makers) gave
me the first intimation to the College, of a. small legacy to U. C.

under a will of which he is one of the Executors. It is about £60

per annum, without any restriction. The testator was an old

gentleman of the name of Webb, 90 years of age.

                                                                    9th Nov., 1861, from London.

   To MIss GRAHAM, Pau,--The issue of the new bronze pieces

Igoes on successfully, and we have the public with us. The change

from the old to the new will, believe, be roughly completed
within the Metropolitan district in the course of a few weeks more.

                              llth Dec., 1861, from London.

To MISS GRAHAM, Pan.--I have obtained another senior clerk, a

kind of deputy to John, principally for the outdoor work. He is

a Mr. C. F. Macdonald, of Manchester, who was recommended to

me by George Wilson, and of whom Mr. Gladstone had also heard

from other sources.        .
IIn this business have allowed an extremely simple system to

develope itself, which has kept the work falling on the department

at a minimum, and procured us an amount of gratuitous assistance

all over the country which is really surprising. We have had

nothing to retract, had no mishap of any kind, and every step we

Itake see my way better, and can advance more confidently.
          I have had letters from old chemical friends respecting

my paper, which is being translated into German and French, and

find that it is attracting attention. Professor Sch6nbein, of Basle,

writes an amusing letter.
DIR. B. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Graham. 55

                               14th Dec., 1861, from London.

To MISS GRAHAM, Pau.--The bulletin of the Prince C0nsort's

health is favourable this afternoon. Dr. Arnott says that all

Iground for uneasiness has ceased. Lord Monteagle, with whom

was talking, says that so serious did things appear yesterday that

the Duke of Cambridge was called away from parade.

Miss Coutts has been to Compeigne, and reports the Emperor

as speaking strongly against the Americans.    He wished they had

tried it on one of his ships.               '

                               J16th an., 1862, from London.

To MIss GRAHAM, Pau.--Doctor Hoffmann has had a tempting

offer of a Chemical Professorship at Bonn. His countrymen are
I Ianxious to have him back, which can well understand.
                                                            was

telling him his countrymen must look upon him as the "missing
planet" between the orbits of Bunsen and Strecker. He was

much shaken by the offer for several days, but he is too well

situated in every respect here to make a change.         .

James Young, with John Thom, Dr. Angus Smith of Manchester,

Dugald Campbell, and John, dined here the day before yesterday..

The gathering was due to Mr. Young's friendly anxiety to support
the claims of Dr. Smith to the Chemical Chair in Aberdeen, which

has become vacant by the death of Dr. Fyfe.
IIn case the Rev. Mr. Yorke should be disposed to look into a
correspondence on the glacier question,     beg to enclose a letter

from Professor Hopkins, the eminent Mathematician and Physical

Geologist, who is to lecture on the subject at the Royal Institution
Ion the 31st., with my explanatory reply.
                                               do not care to publish
Imore on the subject till have had an opportunity of making a

few experiments to illustrate the subject.

                                                            3rd February, 1862, from London.

  ITo MISS GRAHAM, Pau.--Since had your last favour, Professor

Hopkins' lecture on the glacial theories came off at the Royal

Institution. It was very clear and satisfactory so far as it went,

but of too elementary a character to take up such a point as the
56 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

colloidal condition of ice. It was entirely decisive against Forbes's
Aconfused views of viscosity.
                               peculiar idea was brought out by

Mr. Hopkins to account for the glacier movement, so far as it is a

sliding motion. He had observed that when a block of ice is

 placed upon a plane, such as a Welsh slate, slightly inclined, the
 ice will slowly move downwards. This slipping motion was
 admitted to depend upon the melting of the lower surface of the
`mass of ice in contact with the slate. But whence the heat to
 melt in such a way the bottom of a glacier? The internal temper
 ature of the globe to be sure. The Professor had a mass of ice
 placed as described on a slate, to show this motion, but somehow '
 or other it was "no go ; " but Faraday, the moment the cause of

 the expected movement was given, darted off, and placed a gas
 lamp below the slate, thus bringing in the " central heat " with a

vengeance. The movement speedily followed.  There may be

something in this motion of Hopkins', although the prevailing

opinion is- that the effect of the central heat upon the surfaceof
the globe is too small now to be appreciated. But the rocky bed of

the glacier is scratched, showing a sliding motion ; to which it may

he replied again, that the bottom surface of the glacier ice itself

has been found scratched also--not melted away as the hypothesis
seemed to require. Mr. Hopkins, however, insisted most upon
the crushing of the brittle ice, and its subsequent "regelation "

into a homogeneous mass in its new position. Dr. Tyndall's pretty
experiment of crushing the ice into the form of a transparent cup
by a Bramah press was successfully repeated. And here the

lecturer stopped. Mrs. Faraday had her enquiries for you. She
reports Mr. F. as pretty well, "but we must not let him work so

much as he would like." The Bucktons were also enquiring for

Iyou.                        may refer to Mr. Yorke's problem of

   While we are scientific,

the brandy cherries and your own preserved greengages. The

sugar and much of the flavouring material come out and are

distributed through the brandy. It strikes me that the thing

would be made plainer by using a little bag of animal membrane

(or parchment paper) instead of the greengage. Supposing the
little bag was tied up filled with gum-water, and placed in the

bottle of brandy. The first result would be (I believe) that the

water would go out to the brandy, which greatly attracts and
is
                                                                                              a

                                                                                        it,
the bag would collapse. The dilficulty of the brandy entering the

bag greater than that of the water leaving it. But in certain
DR. R. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Graham. 57

time the proportion of brandy would be the same inside and out

side the bag, the latter still much collapsed. So it would end

were it not for the gum in the bag. Gum is one of those sub

stances which cannot get through the walls of the bag (gum being

a colloid), and must therefore remain there. But the imprisoned

gum now attracts water to itself from without by endosmose, and

the consequence is that the bag is again distended, the gages

become plump at last. The water that has so got in is also

followed by alcohol, attracted by the water.

You refer to the sad coal-pit accident. Some one has cut out of
Ita paper and sent to me the enclosed slip.
                                              was an old idea of

mine, but the material mentioned should be kept in store in all

mines liable to choke-damp.  But still, it is the old story, the

life-boat not at hand when wanted. The surest guarantee against

such accidents is the Scotch law, which gives to friends of the

miners an action against the mine proprietor. In Scotland each

of the widows would havethus received, at least, £250.

                                                            14th February, 1862, from London.

    To MISS GRAHAM, Pau,--~He (Mr. John Graham) is very much
engrossed with our bronze issue, which is truly a considerable

affair. It requires a great deal of attention, but goes on

prosperously.

    Last Friday evening we had an interesting lecture from
Professor Huxley, at the R. Institution. The great point was
producing a human skull from the bone cavern--the skull of

the man who made the flint implements found in the drift. It

appears that the skull in question was found so long ago as
1830 or '40, in a bone cavern near Liege, and was described by
a good native_geologist as being contemporaneous with the accom
panying elephant and tiger remains; but nobody believed it.
Lately, however, Sir C. Lyell went into the question, and on re
examining the skull, found it to be in exactly the same fossil
condition as the other bones, and manifestly of the same age.

It was a fairly formed skull. Next Friday evening Dr. Odling

is to illustrate " Dialysis." Calvert, of Manchester, lately gave a
lecture there on the same subject. Redwood followed.

  ISaturday was the private view of the picture exhibition of the

British Institution, which would not like to miss. It is a kind

                                                         H
58 Pbilosop/zicul Society of Glasgow.

Iof harbinger of Spring, the snowdrop of exhibitions. There met

old artistic friends, Wornam, D. Roberts, your Caucasian admirer

Solomon Hunt, R.A., &c. It was a pretty show, remarkable, as

usual, for the large number of fair pictures, rather than for any

salient production.

  I19th Feb.--I have allowed several days to elapse. 0dling's

lecture hear from all quarters went off exceedingly well. The

Isubject admitted of a number of pretty experiments which he
made the most of.    dined on that day with Bence Jones, found

Col. Thos. Yorke, Dr. Hoffman, a Miss Raphael or Gabriel (I
forget which angel), a clever creature and great favourite of our

host. The Franklands were expected, but by some accident did

Inot come although they were at the lecture with Miss Colvill
afterwards.  had also a quiet dinner with Dr. Sharpey last week,

to meet a brother of Professor Ktilliker's, who  is is,I

                                                               I
                                                  believe, a Swiss

merchant.    All your friends were enquiring for you. Miss

Hoffman still very weak, and has not come down stairs, but
is I
                iswas admitted to a visit. She also desired to be particularly

               I isremembered to you. Their sister, Mrs. Raw, with her. James

H. and Carl are both well. The Dr. has cleared up lately with

great success the nature of the magenta colours, which was very
obscure. The amount of good work he gets through is something

Itextraordinarf.   The printed copies of my second paper came to
                         a much less general subject than the last, and
hand to-day.

not of the same popular interest. But shall post a copy to `you.
                     I

                                                                            I
                                                                                         '
am drawing up my report on the Hong-Kong currency, which

seems to drive everything else out of my head for the time, and

the only apology can offer for scarcity of news.

   [In 1863 appeared Graham's paper on "The Molecular Mobility
of Gases and Atmolysis"--the remaining years of his life being
chiefly occupied by this subject and that of the occlusion of gases]

                     llth Feb., 1863, from London.

To MISS GRAHAM, Pau,--I am getting a head of the Queen

engraved by a German artist, C. Weiner, who has come to settle

in London. His first attempt certainly good as likeness, but
                     I is

                                        it
                                                             a
                                                               a

                                                            if
too realistic to please. He will probably try again, and          a

portable impression can be taken, shall send for your opinion.

Weiner's designs for the Rumford medal met with   qualified
      DR. R. A. SMITH on Lifi»; and Works of Thomas Graham. 59

approbation only in the Committee of the R. Society. The
Committee included Sir C. Eastlake and Mr. Westmacott, the
sculptor, who pronounce rather decidedly against the taste of the
work. Weiner' has improved the designs greatly, acting upon
suggestions of Mr. \rVestmacott, and it will now probably be passed.
The old dies to be superseded were quite wretched.

                                   9th May, 1863, from London.

ITo MIss GRAHAM, Pau,-- . . . . The fact is had an

evening occupation for the last two months which has nearly
Itexcluded everything else, correspondence in particular.
                                                           is the

Icomposition of a paper for the R. S., embodying several years'

work--the subject, the Gases--which was very anxious to get off

my hands. It has cost more work (I mean investigation) than the
Idialysis, but is necessarily a little mathematical, and consequently
less generally interesting;     am glad that it is now off my hands,

Ihaving been delivered in fairly copied only last evening. . . .
     had a few words with Playfair last night, who had just returned

from Osborne. He describes the Queen as in fair spirits, and able

to speak of the late Prince, which she is constantly doing, without

suffering. He is very thankful for the information you sent him
Itrespecting the education of his boy at Pau.
                                               was a meeting of
Ithe Chemical, and found Stcnhouse there, remarkably vigorous.
                                '
IHofiinan also in great force.
have avoided any inquiry about the Bonn business.       It seems

publicly rather to have passed over. Stenhouse gave the general

Iimpression that the Bonn salary, about £400 a year, would be
insufiicient for the Dr. after his London experiences.  am to dine

with him next week at Mrs. Wilson's,'and then may perhaps hear

more of his intentions. There is a little stir just now with the
appointment to a new ofiice, the Inspector of Chemical Works, for

which Dr. Angus Smith, of Manchester (James Young's friend),
is the favourite candidate. Young was in town, and went with

me to dine at the R. S. club. He considered himself very fortunate

on the occasion, as he was placed between Sir Wm. Armstrong
and Sir R. Hill. He had been in'Glasgow, and spoke favourably
Ias to Mrs. Reid's health.
                                have not heard anything direct from
IBlythswood Square for a long time.
                                     accepted an invitation
from the " divine Rachel" to visit Bushey Park and see the
60 1'/nlosophical Society of Glasgow.

Ichestnuts next Sunday afternoon, dining afterwards with the
Chadwicks, at Richmond.        have been little out for some time,
Ibut dined last Saturday with Dilke. Except Willis, of Cambridge,

and myself, the party were chiefly old family friends. The

President's soirée followed, at which the Prince of Wales made his

appearance. Dilke says, by the way, that the Queen has spent a

great deal of money lately, that she insisted on refunding all the

Danish expenses from Copenhagen to London, also the Hessian,
It"because they had not the money to do it."
                                                appears that the

English ofiicers who escort on such occasions receive large douceurs,

two or three hundred pounds. She also paid the hotel bills.

Being in mourning, she did not receive the visitors in Buckingham

Palace, which explains why her visitors were in hotels.

Enclosed you have a little piece for Hong Kong, a thousand in a

dollar, or twenty in a penny.

    [This completes the letters of Graham, who belonged to a group
of chemists of the first rank, whose education and experience were
entirely acquired on British soil, and, moreover, of a group of
chemists whose powerful generalizations materially advanced the

science throughout Europe.
   The matter which follows is exactly as written by Dr. Angus

Smith, and appears to call for no further remarks by the Editor.]

As a private man Graham led an uneventful life; but no man

has passed through the world more uniformly respected. Too

retired, too quiet, his life appears to have a deep tinge of melan

choly in it, notwithstanding its eminent success. Very intimate

friends he had few out of the circle of the family of brothers and

sisters, who were strongly attached to him, and to whom he was'

much devoted, being himself unmarried.
`It was by Dr. Thos. Thomson's teaching that Graham first

learnt Chemistry, and however much his boyish mind may have

Ibeen attracted by the wonders of experiment, it was at a very

early age believe that he began to think of the recondite laws of

matter. In 1826 there is a memoir by him on the absorption of

gases by liquids, and his shrewdness and calm mode of speculation
are as apparent there at 21 as at any time of his after life. He

supposes for example that absorption and liquefaction of gases are

regulated by the same fundamental properties.*

* Faraday's experiments on the liquefaction of gases were made in 1823. [ED.]
DR. R. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Graham. 61

   Next year, viz. 1827, speculating on the atmosphere, he thinks
that it may become liquid or solid when cooled to 284°C. He
says that if the air cools at the rate of 1 degree for 300 feet, it

may lose its elasticity at 27-27 miles, and temperature occasion a
limit to diffusion. Here then we almost say we find him beginning

his work, and next year we have a memoir by him on the absorption

of vapours by liquids, and another giving an account of experi

mental researches on the diffusion of gases, seizing boldly the

subject as it was left by Dalton and others.
IIn the same year we have the nucleus of his work on the
diffusion of liquids. This  consider to be found in his paper
" on the influence of air in determining the crystallization of saline
solutions. "

Whilst he was speculating on laws of liquids, vapours, and gases

at this time he was also very much occupied with practical ideas,

and one would almost have expected from his note book to see

him come forward as a manufacturer, or what is now called a

Chemical Engineer. Some of his thinking is to be found in
Chalmers's Joarnal--referred to in his lctters--when it was

published monthly in small octavo, and even then able to say
that "from the highest to the lowest, the various ranks of the

community appear to vie with each other in the acquisition of all

that in Science and Literature hath a practical bearing on their

convenience or comfort." In the first number, page 25, we have

a short article on the great weight of charcoal, signed G., and

showing some of the remarkable transformations of that element.
There is also an article on the advantage of copper bolts in

soldering.

   Another short article is a proposal to use a sand-bath as a cook
ing apparatus, an idea that might readily come from a chemical
student in early days. This seems to have pleased the readers of
the Journal, and brought out in number 2 a longer discussion
of its advantages. He recommends also that ladies should have
for themselves, outside of the kitchen, a sand-bath for " the more

delicate and interesting processes, and to present to our country

women a fair field for the exertion of their culinary powers, unen
Acumbered by the coarser details of the art."
                                               drawing is given

in the third number, and thanks presented for the encouragement

he had received. In this number--that         number page 121.
                  is
                                                              is,

                                                                  is
                                                                                          3,
May, l827--there  an article by Graham on a " Marine Amulet

or Life-preserver, on a new principle." This the production of
62 1'hiloaophical Society of Glasgow.

carbonic acid in an air-tight bag. The bag may be put round the
body, and take up so little room as scarcely to be felt or seen, but
the moment it is immersed in water a valve opens, and allows a
certain amount of water to enter. This enables an amount of

tartaric acid and soda bi-carbonate to act, and the bag distends,

A bag capable of holding a gallon, when distended, is filled to the

extent of one-third in ten seconds by using half an ounce of each

of the powders. It is worth while giving this more fully. The
production of buoyancy is a most valuable quality, and if we can

so apply gases that the act of foundering produces the means of
elevation, we have gained a great point. May this principle not
be employed to raise sunken vessels'!

   The following is the account given of "The Marine Amulet" in
C'halmers's Journal of Useful Knowledge and Monthly Miscellany
of Arts and Sciences, 1827.

    " The instantaneous production of a large quantity of air is
familiar to everyone in the case of mixing the solutions of soda

powders. Could such an evolution of buoyant gaseous matter be
made to take place in a proper recipient, and without trouble, upon
the occurrence of an accident, a life-preserver, correct in principle,
would be obtained. This principle might be applied in different
ways, but perhaps the following is the most simple :--

   "A bag of Macintosh's water-proof double cloth, of cotton or silk,

being procured, and found upon _trial to be air-tight, a collar of
strong and stiif leather may be fixed to the mouth of it. This
collar should be three or four inches long, and of a flattened con
struction, perhaps two inches across in one direction and three
fourths of an inch in the other. The open mouth would now be
closed with a valve or lid, opening inwardsl The valve or lid
would, of course, _be as wide as the collar, or two inches by three
fourths of an inch. Supposing the bag to be capable of containing
four quarts, or a gallon, a quantity of the soda powders, amounting
to half an ounce of each, may be intimately mixed, and introduced
into the neck of the bag, still dry, by pushing back the valve.
The apparatus may be then fixed to the person, the empty bag
stretching across the breast, and the flattened neck or mouth being
brought out from beneath the waistcoat at the right side, so as to
be easily got at by the hand should that ever be necessary. As,
when the apparatus is so ar'ranged, the collar would be in a position
-somewhat oblique, most of the powder would rest upon the interior
side of the collar, and not press much upon the valve, which would
DR. R. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Gralmm. 63

therefore be loose, and probably not altogether shut, although

sufiiciently so to retain the powder. A sudden plunge into the

water would therefore be unfailingly attended by a considerable

insinuation of tlie liquid into the neck of the bag, the valve yield
ing inwards to the stroke. But the moment that water comes in

contact with the powders they violently react upon each other, pro

ducing a copious evolution of incoercible air [carbonic acid gas],
which would violently press down the valve, and inflate the bag

with considerable force. We have found by experiment that the

bag, in such circumstances, is filled with air to the extent of at

least one-third, which is enough to render a man buoyant within

ten seconds; in twenty seconds the bag is more than half-filled,

and within a minute it is completely filled, and all perceptible

action at an end. Should a person invested with such a preserver

be accidentally thrown into water, the air-producing apparatus

would be brought immediately into action, and the bag forcibly

inflated, although previously it had been flaccid,                                                     and had occupied
                                                                                                    '
very little space.
" The collar which is appended to the bag, and the valve or lid,

which are the most important parts of this apparatus, might be con

structed of various materials, and of any shape which was found

most convenient.    The most important circumstances to attend

to are, that the neck or collar be of such materials as would not

readily collapse or close together from external pressure, and that

the valve be of considerable size, and such as would admit the

water with ease. Should it be thought advantageous to admit

more water than has entered at the first rush, the valve could be

if
   it
             it

                    is
                                                  it,

                                                                                    a

                                                                       it
                                                                                   is
pushed inwards by the hand near and morewater would enter;

or, was perceived that more air would be produced than was
necessary to inflate the bag to its full dimensions, from too great

a quantity of the powders being employed, momentary opening

of the valve would remove the injurious excess. From the con

struction of the apparatus, and the manner in which                                                    attached

to the body,        evident that when in actual use in the water,

the inflated bag would rise and maintain a superior position,

while the collar and valve would be constantly under wat_er--an
arrangement which would secure the retention of the air in the
bag. The air, too, within the bag would not be in immediate

contact with the valve, which would be protected and made

certainly air-tight by the water which had entered and induced

the action."
64 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

At this point it is remarkable how varied was the action of

Graham's mind, both in practical and theoretical Chemistry. But,

perhaps, chemists are, by the nature of their studies, driven to a

Itgreater variety of subjects than most other men.      may be

interesting, llowever, to remark, that we find. in the note-book,

1827-1828, reasoning on--

    Nitrification,                  ..  page 1.
    Sulphuric Acid,                           l6.

    Steam                                       25.

    Steam-engines-- Cylinder--Piston.

    Steel Pens.

    Miscibility of Gases.

   On this point, his note-book contains the following at page 144
" Dalton's theory, of the tendency of gases to mix with each other,

that they are vacua to each other, is faulty, as it would occasion

an instantaneous and complete mixture, which certainly does not

Itake place, and have shown previously that cold could be produced
Ion mixture as a necessary effect of Dalton's supposition, which

have found on trial not to be the case. The gases must, therefore,

actually press against each other. Aqueous vapour in the atmo

sphere must be pressed upon, and be really as dense as the
                                 '
atmosphere.

    Suppose a vacuum made in the receiver of an air pump, as
nearly perfect as possible. Admit a little water, the vacuum

would be filled completely with aqueous vapour of light tension,

upon admitting air into the vacuum, the first effect would be to
                                    Ifcompress and condense it.
drive the aqueous vapour before  it,
                                                            it
                                                                        is
                                                                               is
the bottom of the receiver was not dry, aqueous vapours would

rise without the artificial introduction of water, and  probably

the condensation of such vapours which occasions the haziness

often observed on the entrance of air. This, of course, quite

iscontrary to Mr. Dalton's theory of vacua."

  It interesting to see one of his earliest private thoughts on

this subject, but, also curious to find that he, like many others,

had not entered fully into Dalton's mind on the subject. Dalton

never doubted that one gas could drive forward another, as rod
                                        if
                                                                                a
of pine would drive forward a rod of oak pressure were suitably

applied, although, at the same time, he never could clearly express

the mystical relationship which he supposed each gas to have to
DR. R. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Graham. 65

the particles of its own kind. Graham too had not made clear to

himself at this time the distinction between specific gravity and

tension.

The same note-book speaks of Phosphates, Iodides of Carbon,

IAlcohates, Salts of Magnesia, Atomic weights, and Combining
Volumes.  think he must have been early on this subject.

Then we have the absorption of salts from solution, evaporation

of saline solutions, water of crystallization, a subject on which he

spent much time; Howard's patent for sugar boiling, Perkin's
ideas of steam, and a plan for an Academy of Science, with some

other discussions.

VVhen Graham came to Glasgow, in 1830, to lecture at the

Andersonian University, after he had been some time in Edin

Iburgh, there was a good deal of interest excited about him, and

Ifancy this was felt more by the boys than the general population.
   was told by a boy, now pretty far advanced in years, that a

wonderful young man had appeared, one who, although only
Inineteen years old, had still a great reputation,
                                                    went to hear
Ione or two of his popular lectures, and remember his looks well.

He might have been taken for nineteen, but, in reality, he was
twenty-five when he first lectured at the Andersonian. He had the

same quiet, rather stifl', and hesitating manner which he never

lost. He did not cause enthusiasm by brilliancy of address, but

a certain reserve and a certain feeling of power, as well as of

ambition, which his letters prove to have been strong in him, so

acted on his demeanour, that students became attracted, and were

ready to work beside him and devote themselves also to his service.

Amongst these was James Young, of parafiin oil celebrity, who,
from a student, became an assistant, and played a part in the

industrial world which was not less remarkable than his teacher's
Ipart in the scientific.
                          remember hearing him also spoken of as
Ia very wonderful individual, but remember little more, as he

stands out before me, chiefly as a head sufficiently red and un

combed, by no means like the smooth yellow hair of his middle

age, or the venerable white of his later years.
   When Graham first lectured here, it was certainly to an audience

ready in interest, a Mechanics' Institute had been formed some
years before, and the University was proud of Dr. Thomson. Dr.

Ure, a man of great mental activity and power, a man who might
have been a force in Europe, preceded him in the Andersonian,

Itbut lost his position by attending_ too much to his interest.

                          I
66 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

Iwas pleasant to find a young man who took an interest in young
people.   well remember how far the sympathy went. One of

my playmates, Edward Craig, became a small walking laboratory,

his waiscoat pockets had each a range of several small vials. He

had no test tubes, beakers, or basins, he asked us to put out our
hand and to make it as hollow as possible. Into these " loofs " he

poured his solutions, made precipitates, solutions and smells. That

boy made more than one chemist; he himself did not continue the
subject, but next year had his pockets full of abridgements of

Locke, Bacon, and others, and on these he raised many discussions.
Nothing came of Edward Craig, he had too little ambition in
any direction. This was a little offshoot from the scientific

schools.
IGraham's direct influence was exercised in a manner which
Irather think may be called quite new.
                                        incline to call him the

founder of the practical system of teaching Chemistry, at least in

this country. Liebig was two years older, and opened his Giessen

Laboratory in 1826 ; Graham began his very naturally, and not by
imitation. His pupils wanted work, and he gave them his to
do. He early got into a very languid mode of life, owing to

simple constitutional want of elasticity. The work on water of
crystallization was all done in these early days at the Andersonian,
whilst Graham himself sat looking at the fire in weather not at
all wet or cold, too languid even to look at the experiments. But
the cause of this was partly mental. He was often in great straits

for want of money. Once he required a silver crucible to make

some experiments for a commercial firm, but he could not buy one

and he was refused credit. In that Laboratory were taught some

chemists of which Glasgow might be proud. Dr. Stenhouse, who

lately died, may be mentioned first, as a man of great force of

character and wonderful energy, who has left numerous results

Iof his shrewd enquiries in botanical chemistry. Sir Lyon Playfair

and Dr. Gilbert being still in full vigour, shall only allude to

them; the same may be said of Mr. John Thom of Chorley, who
in reality did the experiments which based the theories of consti
tutional and saline water. - The Griflins made a departure in
another direction of no small advantage to the community, and
the family still continues their important services to chemists.
Crum and Harvey are still great manufacturing names in Glasgow.
These names first showed themselves as attached to chemists in

Graham's Laboratory. Blyth and Thom still hold their ground as
      DR. R. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Graham. 67

great manufacturing names in Lancashire, and promise to continue
to flourish.

   As a scientific man, his claims were never disputed; he was not
called to assert his position, and he remained the undisputed head
of his department. He received in early life (1834) the Keith
Medal of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, and the Royal Medal
of the Royal Society in 1838, and in 1862 the Copley Medal. _He
was made a Doctor of Civil Law of Oxford, Honorary Member of
the Royal Society of Edinburgh, Corresponding Member of the
French Institute and of the Academies of Berlin and Munich, and
of the National Institute of Washington. His election into the
Royal Society was in 1836.

   In 1841, in concert with some friends, he formed the Chemical

Society of London, and was elected its first President.

GRA1mM's CHEMICAL AND PHYSICAL R/ESEARCHES: AN ABRIDGMENT

        or THOMAS GRAIIAM'S Womc, CONTAINING AN ABSTRACT or

        ALL ms PAPERS.

                                                              GASES. `

          I.--Absorption of Gases by Liquids--1826'.

                From "Annals of Philosophy," xii., 1826, pp. 69-74.

LIQUIDS miscible in all degrees, as alcohol and water; or in limited
degrees, as ether and water. Some mixtures exhibit chemical
union. Water impairs the volatility of alcohol. Gases may be
considered volatilized liquids, and such bodies may have the common
properties of liquids.

   It is assumed then that gases liquefied by pressure or other

means will mix with liquids in some proportion. Sulphuric acid,
at boiling, or 600° F. (3l6° C.), will liquefy steam of the same
temperature, although it would require to pass down to boiling
point to be condensed. Gases may owe their absorbability to
their capability of being liquefied.

    Gases already liquefied, by Faraday, easily absorbed.
    The sp. gr. of the liquids formed, and of their solutions, are
confirmatory. Dr. Henry's law, that absorption is directly pro
portional to pressure at variance; ex. gr., in muriatic acid, but
may be approximately true when absorption is small.
    By diminishing temperature we diminish the absorption of a
gas, not in the same but in much greater proportion. Amount
GS Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

of gas absorbed by a liquid depends on the gaseous residue or
amount of gas exposed to the liquid. This is deducible from the
gases being liquefied. Analogous instances occur with liquids.

   Finally, absorption of gases is in the same class as miscibility of
liquids.

       II.--On the Finite Ewtcnt of the Atmosphere--1827'.

From " Philosophical Magazine and Annals of Philosophy,"

                                                  pp. 107-109.
                                                           it                1827,
                                                             it
   Wollaston's opinion that the limit of the atmosphere would be
arrived at on mechanical principles. Faraday's illustration. But        i.,

may be that by being cooled down to 284° C. becomes liquid
II itIfor solid.
                          the air cools degree for 300 feet  will lose its
                            1

elasticity at 27-27 miles, and temperature occasion a limit to

diffusion.

     I.--L0ngchamps' Theory of 1Vit1'1_I/ication, with an extension of

                                            it--1827.

From " Philosophical Magazine and Annals of Philosophy,"        i.,          1827,

                                                  pp. 172480.

Reason to doubt Glauber's theory, the prevailing one, that
" saltpetre
I                         formed by the decomposition of mineral and vege
                      is
table substances."

The solution of lime, by the free carbonic acid of the air, enables

the oxygen and azote to act on each other more effectually.

                               of

                                                    by
V.--Experiments on the Absorption Vapours Liqm'ds--1828.

From "Edin. Journ. of Science," xvi., 1828, pp. 326-335 ("Schweiggcr
                   Jouru.," liii. (Jahrb. xxiii.), 1828, pp. 249-264).

Saturated solution of chloride of sodium absorbs water in a

position where water evaporates, and where the crystals do not
deliquesce, at 57° F., 14" C.

   Saturated solution of muriate of ammonia and sulphate of

magnesia.                   A solution of chloride of sodium,                                                                           in
   \Vater lost '23 grains.
-l
                                                                                                                                     1
                                                                                                                              41
of water, gained 39 grains. Carbonate of potash,                             in of
DR. R. A. SMITH on Lift and Works of Thomas Graham. 69

water, gained 6'5. Table of gain of water in six days, and in

fourteen days in 10 solutions of salts. Not only deliquescent,

but even efllorescent salts, absorb water when in solution, saturated

solutions being used, except in the case of carbonate of potash and

chloride of calcium.

 ' All saline solutions just as readily inhale as exhale vapours,

according to the atmosphere. Column of boiling points. Index

of the invaporating powers of the solutions. Liquids invaporate

when they take in vapour, and evaporate when they give it out.

Gain in five days with chloride of sodium. Loss with sea water.

   Examples of solutions which boil at the same point. Absorp
tion of water by muriatic acid, at temperature not above 55°
(13° C.) giving out acid and absorbing vapour` till the strength
is 10960.

Sulphuric acid absorbs the vapour of alcohol.

Absorption of alcohol vapour by camphor.

   Absorption of carbonate of ammonia.       Passage of dry sub
carbonate into water.
                                             '

V.--0n the Influence of Air in detewnining the Crg/stallization
                        of Saline Solutions-1828.

From "Edin. Roy. Soc. Trans.," xi., 1831, pp. 114-118, Author's Reprint
      (" Phil. Mag," iv., 1828, pp. 215-218 ; "Sillimann Journ.," xvii., 1830,

        pp. 373-374).

Various opinions. Solutions of Glauber's salts might be kept

in tubes inverted over mercury in a trough without crystallizing,

if the mercury were heated first, and the whole allowed to cool

gradually.

Sometimes solutions did not crystallize by introducing a bubble

of air, at temperature not exceeding 150° or l70°F. ; in all suc

cessful cases crystallization commenced around the bubble of air.

Effect may be by absorbing air, the smallest increase causing a

change in saturated solutions.  The most absorbablc gases had

the greatest effect.

Ammonia and sulphurous acid act vigorously. Hydrogen,

less influential than common air. Minute quantities of foreign
liquids, soluble in water, act well. The solution does not expand

as water does in freezing. Expansion, temporary, caused by rise

of temperature of 20°---30°F. (1l°--17°C.).
70 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

DifVI.--A Short Account of Experimental Researches on the
     J!fusion Qf Gases through each other, and their Separation by

              echanical Jleans--1828.

From "Quart. Journ. of Science," ii., 1829, pp. 74-83 (" Poggeml. Annal.,"
      xvii., 1829, pp. 341-347; "Schweigger Journ.," lvii. (Jahrb. xxvii.),
       1829, PP- 215-227).

   Law that gases diffuse, developed by Dalton. Berthollet's
results. Diffusion of the different gases into atmospheric air.

   Evident that the diffusion of gases is inversely as some function

of their density--apparently the square root. Diffusion of mixed

gases into atmospheric air.
   OE mixed gases, the more diffusive gas leaves the receiver in

greater proportion than in solitary diffusion, and the less diffusive
in less proportion than in its solitary diffusion.

   By taking advantage of diffusion a light gas may be eliminated
from others by a species of rectification--so of a denser gas by a

converse method.

Diflizsion of gases into other atmospheres than common air.

Examples--hydrogen and olefiant gas, etc.

It§5. Concentration of alcohol by spontaneous evaporation                 of
water.  is conceivable that imperceptible pores or orifices               of

excessive minuteness may be altogether impassable (by diffusion)

V                                                                         by dense gases, and

        .

      J
                                       a
                                                                     is,
by gases of low diffusive power, that

passable only by gases of certain difl'usive energy.

   II --Obsermti0ns on the Oxidation of Phosphorus--1829.4

From " Quart. ourn. of Science," ii., 1829, pp. 83-88 (" Poggend. Annal.,"
      xvii., 1829, pp. 375-380; "Schweigger Journ.," lvii. (Jahrb. xxvii.),

        1829, pp. 230-240).

   Some curious properties of phosphorus mentioned. The presence
of a minute quantity of certain gases and vapours entirely prevents
the usual action of phosphorus upon the oxygen of common air.

  I%U of olefiant gas in common air, in July and August, prevented

the smallest oxidation over water. With -.5I6 of olefiant gas in
three months the phosphorus never became luminous. Essential
oils prevent luminosity, so also per cent. of chlorine in the
surrounding medium, also 20 of sulphuretted hydrogen. Alcohol
also at about 80°. Not so vapours from eamphor, sulphur, iodine,
     DR. R. A. SMITH on Lifi: and Works of Thomas Graham. 71

benzoic acid, carbonate of ammonia, iodide of carbon, at 67°.
Muriatic acid increases, nitric acid diminishes it. Phosphorus
therefore cannot take oxygen from mixtures of olefiant gas.

   In 1 of air and 1 of olefiant gas, luminosity begins at 200° F ;

3 of air and 2 of ether vapour, luminosity begins at 215° ; 111
of air to 1 of naphtha, at 170° ; 166 of air and 1 of vapour of
turpentine, at 186°. Luminous in air, with 50 per cent. olefiant
gas under pressure of half-an-inch of mercury. Table of lumi
nosity at different pressures and proportions.

    Potassium oxidation retarded by vapour of ether or olefiant
gas. Perhaps allied to the property olefiant gas has of preventing
explosion of hydrogen and oxygen.

   VIII.--Notice of the Singular In-flation of a Bladder--1829.

From "Quart. Journ. of Science," ii., 1829, pp. 88, S9 ("Schweigger
                  Journ.," lvii. (Jahrb. xxvii.), 1829, pp. 227-229).

   A bladder filled with coal gas became inflated in carbonic acid

gas standing over water.
   The outer portion of the bladder would be moist and absorb car

bonic acid. The water would pass the bladder, and the carbonic
acid would evaporate within as nothing, but the presence of car
bonic acid within could prevent the disengagement of that gas.
I

                                               is
                                                  it,

                                                                                   is
                                                                                                            is
X.--On the application Q/'Sp0ngy Platinum to E'udiometry--1829.

From "Quart. Journ. of Science," ii., 1829, pp. 354-359 ("Erdm. Journ.
                             Tech. Chem.," viii., 1830, pp. 20-27).

Olefiant gas, which had been found to prevent the oxidation

of hydrogen and oxygen, was found to lose this power when

sedulously washed with caustic potash. Then the ball with

platinum acts in a few minutes, and the heat  so great that

some of the olefiant gas  oxidized, and carbonic acid always

appears. The same with vapours of naphtha and essential oils.

With sulphuretted hydrogen the latter gas only oxidized, and

little of the free hydrogen. Sulphurous acid also hinders the

oxidation of free hydrogen. The action of these gases there

fore unlike the action of the same gases and vapours in protecting

phosphorus from oxidation. The action not influenced by

diminishing barometric pressure.
K`I'

                     is
                                                            is

                                                             of
               Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

           X.--On the Law of the Difusion                        Gases--1838.

From "Phil. Mag.," ii., 1833, pp. 175-190, 269 276, 351-358 ("Poggend.
      Anna," xxviii., 1833, pp. 331-358; "Edhl. Roy. Soc. Traus.," xii.,

        1834, pp. 222-258).

   The object to establish with numerical exactness the following
law of the diffusion of gases. "The difihsion or spontaneous

intermixture of two gases in contact effected by an interchange

of position of indefinitely minute volumes of the gases, which
volumes are not necessarily of equal magnitude, being in the case

of each gas, inversely proportional to the square root of the
density of that gas."

    The volumes may be called equivalent volumes of diifusion:--

air, hydrogen, 3-7947; carburetted hydrogen, 13414; water,- 1;
vapour, 1-2649; nitrogen, 1'0l40; oxygen, (T9487; carbonic acid,

0-8091 chlorine, 0'6325. Gases being separated by screen, with
apertures of insensible magnitude, the interchange of " equivalent
volumes of diffusion " effected by a force of the highest intensity:
                     is is                    is
    the gases are of unequal density, there                 a
if                                                               an accumulation on

the side of the heavy gas. The process of exchange continues

till both sides are equalized. Doebereiner's explanation, viz., the

capillary action of the fissure in the case of broken jar, im
                                                                 a             is

probable; hydrogen          condensed and absorbed by porous bodies,

according to Saussure, with greatest difficulty, and we have no

reason to suppose that its particles are smaller than those of other

gases. When hydrogen escapes air always enters.

    Better than broken jars are 'Wedgewood stoneware tubes un

glazed. But these are superseded by gypsum.                                    plug

  A diffusion-tube--a glass tube open at one end, and with
                     a2
                                                         is
                                                                         6

                                                                                     ;
                                                                                   8

                                                                                         a

                                                                         it

                                                                                                  is
of gypsum at the other, was filled with hydrogen, over mercury,

when that liquid rose inches in three minutes with water

striking, the rise in tube 14 inches long                           to inches in as

many minutes.

    Amount of five gases absorbed in the pores of the stucco--

oxygen hydrogen, nitrogen, carbonic oxide, olefiant gas, and coal
gas, not in sensible proportions. Vacuity of the stucco one-third
of the volume. Experiments on the diffusion of hydrogen in the
air. \Vet and parched plugs of stucco. Some anomaly in the

action of hydrogen.

   The more compact and dense plugs are the best. When the
plug lose, the return of air notably diminished in the case of
    is
                                          is
      DR. R. A. SMITH on Lzfi: and Works of Thomas Gralzaqn. 7 3

hydrogen. Passage of gases into vacuum in time through a stucco
plug, not in direct proportion to pressure.

Tables of the times. The kind of gas in the receiver did not

alter the velocity with which hydrogen entered under a certain

pressure.

   Dry sound corks answer well as a substitute for stucco-plugs.
This passage of hydrogen is against Dalton's opinion that one gas
is vacuum to another. Diffusion of carbonic acid. The gas
confined over a solution of common salt.

Chlorine, Sulphurous acid, protoxide of nitrogen, Cyanogen.

Muriatic acid, ammoniaeal gas, sulphuretted hydrogen.

Oxygen, Nitrogen, olefiant gases, carbonic oxide.            In the
Carburetted hydrogen of marshes. General table.

volumes of oxygen, nitrogen, and carbonic oxide, theory and

I experiment agree as closely as could be desired.
     Density of any gas diffused into air, both being in the same

state as to aqueous vapour, is obtained by the formula D =
                                                            A the returned
(3)2  where   G is the volume    of the  gas diffused, and
air.                            within   100th part of the  specific gravity
       It is  possible to come

by operating on a cubic inch of gas.

Nitrogen and carbonic oxide diffuse without any contraction on

either side. Same density. Inequality of density not essential

requisite in diffusion. Plugs not used for some days did not

diffuse. Hydrogen opened a passage in a few minutes, and they

went on as before. Heat also restored- the action; dust the cause

of stoppage. Evaporation may be explained on the principle of

diffusion.

Mechanism of respiration. Carbonic acid being carried out from

the air-cells, oxygen is carried in.

Heavy carbonic acid exchanged for a larger amount of oxygen,

and may explain inflation of the minute tubes. To insect respir

ation most distinctly perceived applicable. Diffusion takes place

by interchange of position of indefinitely minute volumes of the

gas, not between sensible masses. The law not provided for in the

corpuscular philosophy of the day. Supplementary observations

on the law of difl'usion of gases.

Some gases mix more rapidly than others, still keeping in

conformity with the law. This is connected, in the case of

hydrogen, with the apparent deviation from the law of diffusion,
It. mentioned p. 53.
                      is there shown that more hydrogen passes

out than the exact quantity proportional to the return air.
                                                   K
74 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

               XI.--On Phosphuretted Hydrogen--1835.

From "Edin. Roy. Soc. Trans.," xiii., 1835, pp. 88-106 ("Phil. Mag." v.,
      1834, pp. 401-415; "Erdm. Journ. Prak. Chem.," iii., 1834, pp.

        400-416).

    Spontaneously inflammable, prepared by heating phosphorous,
lime, and water; not spontaneously inflammable when allowed to
stand over water 24 hours, or when made by heating hydrated
phosphorous acid. The peculiarity attributable to something
adventitious. Not free phosphorus presumably, because that is
less accendible than the hydrogen compound. Loss of accendibility
over water caused by rise of oxygen from air in the water. Free

hydrogen unexpectedly rendered the gas self-accendible, but not if

quite pure.
   Caused by nitrous acid vapour.

   Spontaniety destroyed by charcoal, caustic potash,--phosphorous 4
acid, strong arsenic acid, essential oils, and most hydrocarburets,
alcohol, olefiant gas slowly and potassium.

   Spontaneous action restored by small quantities of nitrous acid,
not by a large amount, between 1 and 10 to 10,000 of phosphuretted

hydrogen.

   Nitric oxide acts only when nitrous acid is in it.

  In the reaction there is a spontaneous formation of compounds

of phosphorus and oxygen.
   The gas obtained by ordinary processes probably owes its

peculiarity to a minute trace of such a compound, analogous to
nitrous acid.

XlI.--On a New Property of Gases--184i5.

From Report of Brit. Assoc. for the Advancement of Science, 1845
                                        (Part ii.), p. 28.

The passage of gases into a vacuum.  Speed of -effusion.

Proposal to find the density by speed of effusion.  Passage of
gases through porous bodies, called transpiration. Air more rapid

than oxygen. Carbonic acid more rapid also, and under low

pressure more rapid than air.

XIII.--On the Composition of the Fire-damp of the Newcastle

                                     Coal Mines--1845.

             From Memoirs of Chem. Society, iii., 1845-48, pp. 7-10.

   Only carburetted hydrogen, nitrogen, and oxygen found. The '
power of resisting oxidation remarkable in light carburetted
     DR. R. A. SMITH on Life and `Works of Thomas Graham. 75

hydrogen; cause of its being found in coal mines. Resists the
action of platinum black, but permits other gases to be oxidated.

XI V.--On the Motion of Gases. Part l.--1846.

From Phil. Trans. iv., 1846, pp. 573-632; ii., 1849, pp. 349-362.

   Necessary to keep apart the phenomena of the passage of a gas          I
through a small aperture in a thin plate, and its passage through

a tube of sensible length. Rate of discharge independent of the
material of the tube.

Rate of discharge of gases by tubes has no uniform relation to

the density of the gases. Passage of gas through a thin plate.

Effusion tube. Transpiration.               of hydrogen into a
   Part l.---Effusion of Gases.---Effusion

vacuum by a glass jet.
   Effusion of oxygen and nitrogen; of carbonic oxide; of car

buretted hydrogen of marsh gas.
   Effusion of carbonic acid and nitrous oxide; of olefiant

gas.

   Effusion into a vacuum by a perforated brass plate A, with

results. Different gases pass through minute apertures into a
vacuum in times which are as the square roots of their specific
gravities. For a proper effect the plate ought to have no sensible

thickness.

    Tubularity of the opening quickens the passage of carbonic acid
and nitrous oxide in reference to air, they being more transpirable
and less diffusive than air. Effusion of nitrogen and oxygen, and
of mixtures of these gases under different pressures, by a second
perforated brass tube B.

    Table of effusion of air, nitrogen, oxygen, and mixture.
    Effusion of air, carbonic acid, oxygen, and mixture, at different
pressures, by plate B.
    Effusion of carbonic acid, air, and of mixtures of carbonic acid
and air, at different pressures, by plate B.
    Effusion of mixtures containing hydrogen.
    Effusion into a sustained vacuum by platinum plate E.
   Effusion of air of different elasticities or densities by brass plate
B. The effusion time of air of two atmospheres falls below that
of air of one atmosphere.

   Effusion of air of different temperatures by plate F.
76 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

Effusive time of air of different temperatures is proportional to

the square root of its density at each temperature. Moist air,

great effect in opening fissures.
   Part 2.--Transpiration of Gases.--Transpiration of air of

different densities or elasticities by a glass capillary tube E.
   For equal volumes of air of different densities the times of

transpiration are inversely as the densities. Transpiration of air

of different temperatures.

Preliminary experiments on the transpiration of different gases

by capillary A.                  '

Preliminary experiments on the transpiration of different gases

by capillary B.

Preliminary experiments on the transpiration of different gases

by capillary C, 1 inch long.        '

Preliminary experiments on the transpiration of difi'ere_nt gases

by capillary C, 2 inches long.

Preliminary experiments on the transpiration of different gases

by capillary C, 4 inches long.

Transpiration by capillary H, 22 feet long, of glass, into vessels

of different sizes.

  Transpiration by capillary H with cupped ends. By/cupping

the end of ingress the passage of air became slender in the propor

tion of 509 to 496 ; cupping the egress caused no further change,
pressure being between 285 and 235 inches.

Transpiration of different gases by a capillary tube of copper ;

tube, 11 feet 8 inches; diameter, 0'01l4 inch.

Transpiration of diiferent gases by a glass capillary E. This

was 20 feet long and 0'0187 inch diameter.                           _  to

  All these tubes gave the same co-efiicient    of transpiration

each gas.

  A certain length of tube most favourable.
  A certain interference supposed to depend on friction.

   Theory of transpirability, that it is a kind of elasticity, depend

ing upon the absolute quantity of heat, latent as well as sensible,

and more immediately connected with specific heat than any other

property of gases.

Transpiration of olefiant gas.

Transpiration of nitrous oxide.

Transpiration of sulphuretted hydrogen.

Conclusions drawn from Tables XLII. to LV.

Tables of the observed transpiration of gaseous mixtures.
              ._._-_,.._~4-_--_-.-_-P-"__-_v----s__.-.___..-___..'_.. . .

DR. R. A. SMITH on Life and Wor/_cs'0f Thomas Graham. 77

X V.--On the Motion of Gases. Part II.--1849.

              From Phil. Trans., 1849, pp. 349-392.

   The velocities of gases attain a particular ratio with a certain
length of tube and resistance. After attaining this the passage of
of gases become slower.

   Transpiration velocity of hydrogen double that of nitrogen ; that _
of carbonic oxide and nitrogen the same. Velocity of nitrogen
and oxygen inverse to the densities, equal weights and not equal

volumes being transpired!
   Points demanding attention. Capillary tubes for transpiration.

  Transpiration by capillary H reduced to 237875 inches.
Transpiration of equal volumes by capillary H of different lengths.

Transpiration of all gases does not become normal for the same

length of tube or resistance.      '

Use of a thermometer tube of fine flat bore, capillary K, 52%

inches.

  K shortened to 39-37 5 inches.

,,            26-25            ,,

,,            13-125           ,,

,,            s-75             ,,

,, 6-4375 ,,

,, 4-3125 ,,

KUse of capillary M 52% inches thermometer, tube as above, bore
cylindrical.  and M have 50 times the resistance of E and H

capillaries of extreme resistance recommended.

Capillary P, a compound one, formed of 30 capillary tubeseach
K4 inches in length, in a sheaf 400 times the resistance of
                                                             and

M. Gases compressed instead of being drawn into a vacuum.
   Results obtained by this sheaf of capillaries of extreme resistance

the most uniform of all.

   In carbonic acid the carbon gives velocity to the oxygen, showing

the important chemical bearing of transpirability.

Transpiration of various gases and vapours :
Protocarburetted hydrogen.
Olefiant gas.
Ammonia.

Cyanogen. Hydrocyanic acid.

Hydrosulphuric acid.   Sulphurous acid.
Bisulphide of carbon.
78 ` Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

    Sulphuric acid.
    Chlorine.
    Bromine, Hydrochloric acid.
    Ether.

    Methylic ether.
    Chloride of methyl.
    Water. I
   Alcohol, naphtha and coal gas.
   Transpiration of air of different densities or elasticities.
' Transpiration of air and other gases at different temperatures.
   Transpiration of equal volumes at diiferent temperatures.
   Transpiration of air under pressure (into air) at different tem
peratures.
   General results of the inquiry.

X VI.--On the Molecular Mobility of Gases--1863.

From Phil. Trans., 1863, pp. 385-405 ("Chemical News," viii., 1863,
      pp. 79-81; "Paris Comptes Rendus," lvii., 1863, pp. 181-192; "Phar
      maceut. Journ.," v., 1864, pp. 166-171; "Poggendorf Annal., cxx.,

        1863, pp. 415-425).

The passage of gases under pressure through a thin porous plate

or septum.

Description of the graphite diffusiometer. Pores so small that

molecules only can pass, not gases in mass. Sole motive agency,

the intestine movement of molecules.  The hypothesis of the

movement of gaseous particles, by Bernoulli, revived in recent

times by J. Herapath.

   The passage of gas through a graphite plate agrees with the
times of diffusion, not of transpiration.

Diffusion tube with pressure of 100 mms. of mercury.
Diffusion tube described to obtain a torricellian vacuum.

Movement through graphite and stucco plates.

Stucco under pressure gives mixed diffusion and capillary tran

spiration. Movement through biscuit ware.

   Passage through graphite closely proportional to pressure.
Passage of a mixture of air and hydrogen.

Time neither diifusion nor transpiration. Gas altered in

composition.  Each gas impelled by its own molecular force.

Separation is a consequence of the movement being molecular.
     DR. R. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Graham. 79

    Permeation through the graphite plate into a vacuum, and the
diffusion into a gaseous atmosphere due to the same inherent
mobility of the gaseous molecule. The diffusive mobility is a
property of matter fundamental in its nature.

    The physical basis is the molecular mobility.

  'Diffusion of mixed gases intb a vacuum with partial separation

--Atmolysis.
    Oxygen and hydrogen, amount of separation in proportion to

the pressure.
    Oxygen and nitrogen, separation of.

   All porous masses will have some effect in separating mixed

gases. The tube atmolyser---a clay tube within a glass or metal
one to increase rapidity`.

    Separation of oxygen from hydrogen and nitrogen.
    Interdiffusion of gases--double diffusion. Remarks on Bunsen's
results.
    Interdiffusion without an intervening septum.

   A portion of carbonic acid travelled at an average rate of 73

millimetres per minute, of hydrogen a third of a metre in one
minute

X VII.--On the Absorption and Dialytic Separation of Gases by

                                          Colloid Septa.

                        From "Phil. Trans./I' 1866, pp. 399-439.

   Part I.--Action of a Septum of Ca0utchouc--Dr. Mitchell's

experiments.
   Important to remember the complete suspension of the gaseous

function during the transit through the colloid membrane.
   Passage of gases through caoutchouc.
   The relation not that of diffusion. The first absorption of the

gas by the rubber must depend on a kind of chemical affinity.

   A film of caoutchouc has no porosity, and resembles a film of

liquid in its relation to gases.
    Liquids and Colloids have an unbroken texture, and afford no

opportunity for gaseous diffusion.
   Penetration of varnished silk.
   Absorption of gases by a block of caoutchouc. Dialytic

separation of oxygen from atmospheric air (1) by means of other
gases; (2) by means of a vacuum.
S0 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

Dialytic action of caoutchouc in various forms.

Dialytic action of silk cloth, varnished with caoutchouc on one

side, slightly vulcanized.

Percolation of air through gutta-percha and other septa.

Part II.--Action of Metallic Septa at a Red Heat.

Platinum porosity when heated. Deville.    Not permeable to

Platinum tube l'l millm. in thicknbss.

hydrogen till of a red heat, and then more permeable than

caoutchouc. Is the difference of temperature the cause'!

Heated platinum, with oxygen and nitrogen, not sensibly

permeable. Carbonic acid penetration incalculably small.
   Heated platinum, with chlorine, not sensibly penetrating.

Hydrochloric acid do., vapour of water do., ammonia do. Carbonic

oxide, marsh gas, and olefiant gas not penetrating.
   Hydrosulphuric acid not penetrating. Table of above results.

Absorption and detention of hydrogen by platinum.

A new property in platinum to absorb and retain hydrogen

at a red heat, occlusion of hydrogen 3'7 9 vols. for wrought

platinum.

Palladium.

   Occlusion of hydrogen 643'3 vols.  Hydrogen absorbed at
natural temperature in vacuo.

Action of the occluded hydrogen on salts.

Palladium, its absorptive power for liquids. Alloy of silver and

palladium.

Conclusions regarding the absorption by palladium. Hydrogen
                                                      `
taken up as a volatile liquid.

   Separation of pure hydrogen from a gaseous mixture.    Passage
of ether through palladium.

Speculations on the pores of metals, and the excess obtained in

the diffusive co-efficient of hydrogen, caused by a small amount of
liquefaction. Osmium-iridium, no absorbent power. This is con
sistent with its crystalline character.

Copper--occludes 0306 vol. hydrogen. Gold--occlusion of

nitrogen, oxygen, carbonic acid and oxide, hydrogen.
   Silver--occlusion of above gases.

Iron--penetration by hydrogen.
-By carbonic oxide 4-l5 vols. Acieration and carbonic oxide.
DR. R. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Graham. 81

X VIII.--On the occlusion of Hydrogen by Meteoric Iron--

                                                1867.

From Proceedings of the Royal Society, vol. xv., p. 502,      May 16, 1867;
      -" Comptes Rendus," May 27, 1867, vol. lxiv., p. 1067;  "Poggend.orf's

      Annal.," vol. cxxxi. (1867), p. 151.

   That of Lenarto yielded 2'85 vols. of gas, with 86 per cent. of
hydrogen.

XIX.--On the occlusion of Hydrogen Gas by Metals--1868.

From Proceedings of the Royal Society, June 11, 1868, vol. xvi., p. 422 ;
      (" Comptes Rendus," May 25, 1868, vol. lxvi., p. 1014; " Archives des
Sciences," June 1868, vol. xxxii., p. 148; "Annales de Chemie et de

Physique (4),"   vol. xiv., p. 315; "Poggendorf's   Annal,"   vol. cxxxiv.,
1868, p. 321; "  Philosophical Magazine (4)," vol.  xxxvi.,   p. 63.

   A thin plate of palladium in contact with zinc which is giving

off hydrogen in sulphuric acid occludes that gas. Still more, when
the plate is the negative electrode to a Bunsen battery of six cells.
This gas is not given out in a vacuum, it is taken out by heat, or
by reversing the position of the palladium in the cell, and evolving
oxygen on the surface.

   Palladium charged with hydrogen apt to heat spontaneously in
the air.

    Platinum charged with hydrogen by voltaic action. Soft iron
occluded 0'57 vols. hydrogen. I

    Explanation by the electro-chemical theory.
   Precipitated palladium occluding 982-14 vols. of hydrogen.
   Penetration by hydrogen and carbonic acid. Liquid diffusion
explains the passage of hydrogen through a soft colloid metal.
    "Solution afiinity " of metals confined to hydrogen and carbonic

oxide.

  XX.--On the Relation of Hydrogen to Palladium, and on

                                   Hydrogem'um--1869.

From Proceedings of the Royal Society, vol. xvii., pp. 212, 500, Jan. 14,

1869; "Comptes Rendus," Jan. 18 and June 28, 1869, vol. lxviii.,

pp. 101, 1511; ''Annales de Chemie et de      Physique (4)," vol. xvi.,
p. 188; " Chemical News," vol. xix., p. 478;  " Berichte der deutschen
chemischen Gesellschaft (No. 2)," 1869; " Annalen der Chemie," vol.

c1ii., p. 168; "Philosophical l\Iagazine," December 1869; "Poggen

dorf's Anualeu der Physik," vol. cxxxviii. (1869), p. 49.

   Properties of occluded hydrogen, which if metallic would have

to be called hydrogenium. Palladium charged with hydrogen is
                                                           L
82 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

lowered in density. Emits bubbles when in water, so that the
density is obtained best by measurement and calculation.

  A piece of palladium wire 609-144 millims. long, charged with

936 vols. of hydrogen, was increased to 618-932 millims., showing
increase of 9-778 millims. (or 23-982 inches gained 0-385 in.),
increase in length 100 to 101-605, and in cubic capacity from 100
to 104-908.

Alloy :--Palladium 95-32.

Hydrogenium 4-68.

100- giving density of hydrogenium 1-708,     _

The palladium wire lost when heated 9'7 millims. below original

length: gravity less: length only was contracted. Mobility of

metallic particles. Combustion of the wire. Another experiment,

hydrogenium 1'898 specific gravity, and a third l'977.

Further trials, highest number 2055, retraction of the wire

continues in four experiments.             '

Loses its power to occlude hydrogen, and after 6 times only

320 and 330-5 volumes. Power restored partly by heat, and
wholly by extracting the hydrogen by electrolysis in an acid fluid.

Tenacity of palladium being 100, that of palladium and hydrogen

was 8129 electrical conductivity, copper 100, palladium 8'10,

palladium and hydrogen 5'99.

    Hydrogenium, a magnetic metal. Slight absorption of hydrogen

lat a high temperature. Speed of movement through palladium

millim. in thickness is 4 millims. per minute.

  Alloy contains about 20 volumes of palladium, and l of hydro

genium. An approach to equivalents. Summary.

XXI.--Speculative Ideas concerning the Constitution of Matter

                                                   --186'/,.

From the "Philosophical Magazine" for February, 1864.

It is conceivable that the various kinds of matter may possess

one and the same ultimate or atomic molecule in different conditions

of movement.                                                            .
   Ponderable matter and a common atom.
                                           The atom is not at

rest. Motion due to primordial impulse. This gives rise to

volume. The more rapid the movement the greater the space

occupied by atoms. Matter of different density forms different

substances. This not applied to known gases which are composed
DR. R. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Graham. 83

of molecules or groups of atoms. There may be infinite repetitions
of such steps. Molecular volumes of different elementary sub

stances have the same relation to each other as the subordinate

atomic volumes of the same substances.

Volumes uniting retain a portion of the original movement and

volume. This is chemical combination. The same result attained
Aby hypothesis of a fluid medium caused to undulate.
                                                       special

rate of vib' ration or pulsation imparted to a portion of the fluid
medium. No incompatibility between the liquid, solid, and gaseous
states. Possibility of something like an undeveloped condition of

matter connecting two states.

Molecular mobility has an obvious bearing on the communication

of heat to gases. The impact of the gaseous molecule, when more

rapid, produces more frequent contact. A hot object in hydrogen

is touched 3'8 times more frequently than in air. Dalton ascribes
this to mobility. Hydrogen in an air engine favours the alternate

heating and cooling of a confined volume of gas.

                          SALTS AND SOLUTIONS.

I.--On Ewceptiorzs to the Law that Salts are more Soluble in Hot
           than in Cold Water, with a new instance--1827.

From " Philosophical Magazine and Annals of Philosophy," ii., 1827,

                                                     pp. 20-26.

Phosphate of magnesia prepared by precipitation.

Efliorescent. Solution cloudy at (l20°F.) about 50°C.
Precipitatelike anhydrous phosphate.
                                                    I

            l774 parts water dissolve at 7°'2, and

            _ 1151        do.  do. 1 at 100°.

Time required to dissolve it.

Mere continuance of heat did not increase the precipitate. A

solution once precipitated by heat did not precipitate more except

by greater heat. Efliorescence in hydrates shows a weak afiinity

for water.

    As all the hydrates of salts lose water by heat, there is a point
at which every salt diminishes in solubility.

Some substances insoluble in water whilst the hydrates are

soluble, such as silica.
84 I    Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

II.-An Account of the Formation of Alcoates. Definite Coin

         pounds of Salts and Alcohol analogous to the Hyolrates

           --1831.

From "Edin. Roy. Soc. Trans.,'' xi., 1831, pp. 175-193 ("Phil. Mag.," iv.,
      1828, pp. 265-272, 331-336; "Journal de Pha.rm.," xv., 1829, pp.

                       Annal.,"' xv.,                                                    Jouru.
                      pp. 442, 443 ;
      J105-124; "Poggendorf                                                              (J ahr

      of Science," ii., 1828,
                                        1"82S9c,hwpepi.g1g5e0r -153o;ur"nQ.,u"alrvt.i.-

      buch xxvi.), 1829, pp. 180-203).

   Mode of concentrating alcohol by quicklime.  Quicklime ab-'
sorbs a small quantity of alcohol vapour.

Sulphuric acid absorbs the vapour of absolute alcohol, as of

water.

Chloride of calcium absorbs it. Compound described.

Alcoate of nitrate of magnesia.

      D0. of lime.

      D0. of protochloride of manganese.

   D0. of chloride of zinc; chlorides of magnesium and iron.
Dent-absorption of dent-oxide of azote by protochloride of iron

and alcohol more than by the salt alone.

Absorption by the iron salt may show a tendency to deliquesce

in an atmosphere of that gas, the retaining power being equal to

the absorbing power.

  II.[ --Researches on Arseniates, Phosphates, and Modifications

                                 of Phosphoric Acid.

             From " Philosophical Transactions," 1833, pp. 253-284.

   1.--Subsalts.--Description of subarseniate and subphosphate of
soda.

   Explanatory hypothesis that phosphoric acid is disposed to
unite with three atoms of base, common phosphate of soda being
phosphate of soda and water. For the water another base may be
substituted, as an atom of soda. in the subphosphate, or an atom of
silver in the corresponding salt. Pyrophosphate produced by
heating phosphate, not by subphosphate, as it leaves an excess of
base. Phosphoric acid by burning phosphorus.

    Water in the crystals of subarseniate of soda, probably 24 atoms
differing from the neutral arseniate by an atom of soda substituted
for water.
DR. R. A. SMITH on) Life and Works of Thomas Graham. 85

Subphosphate dried, heated, fused with protoxide of lead.

Calcined with exposure to carbonic acid.

Subsesquiphosphate formed.
Subphosphates and subarseniate of potash.

Barytes, lime, and lead salts.                                  on the
2. Neutral Phosphates and Pyrophosphates.--Clark

action of heat on the phosphate of soda, and removal of the last

atom of water.                               .

Phosphate of soda has three atoms base--two soda, one water;

added to earthy and metallic salts, gives precipitates, with three

atoms base; one may be water, the basic function of which is

essential to the phosphate of soda. The pyrophosphate has two

atoms base, and gives accordingly bibasic precipitates. Unusual

appearance of the crystals after long boiling of the solution.

3. Of the Superphosphates.      (lst) Of the biphosphate. Be

markable body. Its dimorphism. Crystals contain four atoms

of water, and   lose two at  212° F. ('l00°  C.), and  no more  till 375°
F. (l91° C.)

Two atoms essential to the salt--one atom soda, two water, and

a double atom of phosphoric acid--these three atoms replaceable

by three of oxide of silver. Second variety of bipyrophosphate

of soda. The biphosphate heated to 400° F. (204° C.) rapidly
semifuses, and one atom of water comes off in ebullition.

Salt, still soluble, but altered. Precipitates silver white, and

with two atoms to a double atom of the acid, pyrophosphate of

silver.

   Third variety of the biphosphate of soda. The above biphosphate

heated between 400° and 470° F. (204° and 243 C.) for several
days. Small part insoluble nearly, see p. 34]. Solution exactly

neutral. Probable composition.

  Fourth or insoluble variety of biphosphate of soda. If sufficient

heating were possible, water would probably be incapable of acting
on it. Reasons for this. Fifth variety of biphosphate of soda.

The preceding insoluble Variety heated to low redness.

Description of its properties. l\[etaphosphate.--Not crystallized,

changed. The acid coagulates albumen. The glacial acid was

supposed to be pyrophosphorie.  The hydrated salt retains one

atom water heated to 400° F. (204° C. ), becoming bipyrophosphatc
The anhydrous fused metaphosphate is not changed by heating for

several days, change effected by water; dried sharply, or.with

sufiicient alkali, becomes common sub-phosphate.
S6 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

   Metaphosphate of Barytes.--Insoluble even by washing in hot
water, but on long boiling is decomposI ed and dissolved, biphosphate
of barytes being in the solution.

   4. On the Modifications of Phosphoric Acid.--Acid in common
phosphate of soda has three atoms of base to the double atom of
acid. Does not effect albumen. Other modifications pass into it
in solution, after some days in water or boiling, on fusion with
three proportions of fixed base. Pyrophosphoric acid of the fused
phosphate forms salts with two atoms base. Does not disturb
albumen, or make a precipitate in muriate of barytes.

    The 1_netaphosphoI-ic acid disposed to form salts, with one atom
of base to the double atom of acid. Made by heating the other
modifications per se, or with only one atom of certain fixed bases.
These three acids, even when free, have still their usual proportion
of base, and that base is water, or they are a terphosphate, a bi
phosphate, and a phosphate of water.

   Table of oxygen in the salts. Loss of water by heating phos
phoric acid. Possible hydrates of the acid. Binarseniate of soda
does not undergo the same changes as biphosphate.

 IV.¥On Hydrated Salts and Metallic Oacirless with Observations
                    on the Doctrine of lsomerism--1834.

From "Brit. Assoc. Report," 1834, pp. 579-582 (" Liebig Anna .," xii., 1834,
                 pp. 1-12; "Poggend. Anna1.," xxxii., 1834, pp. 33-75.)

    Certain salts mentioned with five or seven atoms of water retain
one in more intimate union than the others.

    Sulphate of zinc loses 6 atoms at 65° F. (1S'2° 0.), and retains
one up to 410° F. ('2l0° C.) This salt may be viewed as a sulphate
of zinc and water, with 6 atoms of water of crystallization. This
last atom discharges a basic function explaining the disposition of
the salt to form double sulphates. Sulphate of potash may take
the place of this water, and form the double sulphate of zinc and
potash. Sulphate of lime, peculiarity.

    Protochlorides and cyanides. Tin. Two oxides. Different
hydrates. Various peroxides and some salts obtained as débris
of hydrates by heating. Incandescent on heating to redness.
Isomerism, which has been proposed to explain the change of
character in bodies of the same composition, may often be ex
plained by certain diflerences in composition when carefully
DR. R. A. SMITH on Lzfi: and Works of Thomas Graham. 87

examined, ex. gr.,--( 1) The water of the phosphoric acids; (2) Some
bodies are mere débris of chemical compounds; (3) The proximate
constitution may be very different when the ultimate is. the same.

No evidence of cyanogen in fulminic acid. Tartaric acid and

racemic probably have as little relation to each other as any two

vegetable acids which could be named, certainly contain different
Aradicals. (4)
                 minute trace of adventitious matter may affect a

body. See phosphuretted hydrogen.

V.--0n Water as a Constituent of Salts---1836.

Froin "Edin. Roy. Soc. Trans," xiii., 1836, pp. 297-314 ("Phil. Mag.,"
      vi., 1835. pp. 327-334, 417-424 ; "Annal. de Chimie," lxiii., 1836, pp.
       45-64; "EI-dm. Journ. Prak. Chem.," v., 1835, pp. 90-109, xv., 1838,
      pp. 437-439; "Liebig Annal.," xx., 1836, pp. 141-149; "Poggcnd.

       Annal.," xxxviii., 1836, pp. 123-142).

Water in salts of ammonia. Water of crystallization, feeble

afi`.inity. Water in the caustic alkalies h_as the function of an acid.

The inseparable water of acids, as of sulphuric acid, has been

held to be basic, and that acid to be a sulphate of water and bisul

phate or bitartrate of potash a double salt. Development of this

view in the memoir on the phosphates. Now finds water to exist

in a different state, replaceable by salt. The tendency of phos

phate of soda to unite with more soda was traced to the existence
of basic water in the former. The question arose, Does an analo

gous provision exist in such salts as form double salts'!

   In the sulphates of magnesia, zinc, iron, manganese, copper,
nickel, and cobalt, an atom of water seems essential. In sulphate

of zinc and potash one of the seven atoms of water in the first

salt is replaced by sulphate of potash, and the six atoms of water

remain as water of crystallization.
                                              `
Supersulphates,                                  Second atom of water in sulphuric
                 double salts.

acid replaced by sulphate of potash, but the first replaceable only

by a true base. The sulphuric acid hydrate, therefore, has an

atom of basic and an atom of saline water, just as the hydrous

sulphate of zinc is a sulphate of zinc with saline water. No super

sulphates of magnesia, &c., are analogous in constitution, and do

not tend to combine. Sulphate of water with saline water. The

primary sulphate. Specific gravity, 1'78. The dilute acid may

be concentrated at a temperature not exceeding 380°F. (l93°C.),
88 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

without loss of acid, the water reduced to two atoms. At 400° or

410° F. (264°_--`>10 C.) this hydrate begins to be decomposed.
   Sulphate of water and sulphate of potash. Bisulphate of potash,

without water or crystallization.

    Sulphate of potash, sulphate of soda. Of the ten atoms of water
in crystals of sulphate of soda, none essential to its constitution,

crystallizes anhydrous from a hot solution.

    Sulphate of Zinc with saline water. Heated above 410°F.
(2l0°C.), loses the last atom of water, but regains it with evolution
of heat when moistened. Sulphate of zinc and potash. Retains

the six atoms with more force than the sulphate of zinc alone.

The sulphate of potash does not neutralize the acidity. -
   Sulphate of zinc and soda. Not obtained merely by crystallizing

together the mixed salts, but from a solution of bisulphate of soda

and sulphate of zinc ina day or two.

   Sulphate of copper and saline water. Loses its fifth or saline
atom above 430° F. (22l°O.) Takes it up with evolution of heat.
Sulphate of copper and potash. Table of water at different

temperatures.

Sulphate of copper and soda.

Sulphate of manganese, with saline water, five atoms of water

reduced to one, at 410° F. (2l0° C.) Table of water at difl'erent
temperatures. Sulphate of iron with saline water. The saline

Aatom of water retained to the temperature of 535° F. (27 9° C.)
Hydrated sulphate of lime.        sulphate with one atom of water

obtained by heating the hydrate over sulphuric acid in vacuo at

2l2°F. (l00° C.) The salt can be made anhydrous at 300°F.

(149° C.) Table of water at different temperatures. Monohydrate
does not adhere like stucco. This power retained to 270°F.

(l32° C.) The heated sulphate--the débris of the hydrate, not to

-be confounded with anhydrate.             or minus after it
   Anhydrous gypsum may be written with a

to show that something is wanting. Anhydrate requires no --

as it takes up no water. Sulphuric acid and other salts may be

equally represented. This view of the constitution of sulphates

must not be hastily applied to other classes of salts, as each has its

own peculiarities to be studied.
DR. R. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Graham. 89

    VI. --On the Water of Crystallization of Soda-Alum--1836'.

From " Phil. Mag.," ix., 1836, pp. 26-32 ("Liebig Annalen," xxiii., 1837,
          pp. 269, 'Z70; " Poggend. Annal.," xxxix., 1836, pp. 582-585).

Of soda-alum. This alum, like potash alum, has octohedral

crystals, but is said to contain two atoms more water than the

latter. N0 proof of isomorphism of soda and potash, but rather

that soda, plus two atoms water, is isomorphous with potash.

Mode of preparation. Efilorescent.                             Contains, like potash

alum, 24 atoms of water.

VII.--Inqm'ry respecting the Constitution of Salts, Owalates,

         Nitrates, Phosphates, Sulphates, and C/dorides--l837.

From "Phil. Trans.," 1837, pp. 47-74 (" Liebig Annal.," xxix., 1839,

                                              pp.-l-35.)

From the paper on water in salts would be inferred an analogy

.between any hydrated acid and its magnesium salt. So the

oxalate` and nitrate of water resemble the oxalate and nitrate of

magnesia. In certain subsalts of the magnesium class of oxides

the metallic oxide replaces the crystallization water. As in the

case of sulphates, an atom of water seems to be replaced in the

oxalates, so as to form double oxalate.

l.--Of the OXalates.--Oxalate of water, or hydrated oxalic

acid. Three atoms of water one basic. The two others may be

termed constitutional, and are found in the magnesium oxalates.

By drying, two atoms are lost or none.

Oxalate of Zinc.--Retains its two atoms water strongly.

    Oxalate of Magnesia.--Retains                              these two atoms still more

                                                            '

strongly.

   Oxalates of Iron, Nickel, and .Gobalt.--Not obtained pure, as

they appear to carry down partof the precipitant. N o binoxalate

of magnesia.

Oxalate of Lime.--Contains two atoms of water, lost readily.

Oxalate of barytes---one atom water, and thus difl'ers from pre

ceding.                                                        Bi
   Oxalate of Potash.--Crystalizes with one atom of water.

noxalate of potash contains three atoms. The constitutional

water of the neutral oxalate displaced by oxalate of water, which

`has two atoms.

                          M
90 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

    Quodroxalate of Potash.--The two atoms of preceding salt
replaced by two atoms of hydrated oxalic acid. Has seven atoms

of water, four of which it loses at 240° F. (116° 0.), being the two

atoms of water of the two atoms oxalic acid.

   Oxalates of Ammonia.--Agree with those of potash. There is

also a quadroxalate as well as binoxolate.

   Oxalate of soda.--Least soluble of soda salts. Anhydrous.

With oxalic acid forms a binoxalate. N o quadroxalate. Absence

of water probably shows an indifference for further combination.

   Binoxalate of soda--three atoms of water. Like the potash,
salt loses only two at 300° F. (147° 0.)

   Double oxalates.----One member of the magnesium class of oxides,

namely--copper forms binoxalates with an alkaline salt.

   Oxalate of copper and potash.--One form of crystal has two, the
other four atoms of water. The second loses two by elfiorescence.

The oxide of water is substituted for the basic water of the bin

oxalate.

Oxalate of chromium and potash, with six atoms water.

Oxalate of peroxide of iron and potash.

Oxalate of peroxide of iron and soda.

These three salts occupy the same important position among the

oxalates as the alums among the sulphates.      the nitrate of
   2. Of Nitrates. -- (1) Hydrated nitric acid  three held less

water. This has one atom of water as base, and

powerfully.
   (2) Nitrate of C0pper.--Two crystals. The prisms contain three,

the rhomboids six atoms of water, and lose three readily; the other

three cannot be expelled without loss of acid.

    (3) Subnitrate of Copper.--Thinks the single atom of water to
be the base, and the three atoms of oxide of copper in place of the

constitutional water of the nitrate of water.

    (4) Nitrate and Subnitrate of Bismuth.--The neutral nitrate
contains three atoms of water like the nitrate of copper.

    (5) Nitrate of Zinc.---C0ntains six atoms of water which cannot
be reduced below three without loss of acid.

   (6) Nitrate of Magnesia.--Contains six atoms of water. At

heat of melting lead reduced to one atom. This intimate com

bination of one atom does not indicate a disposition to form a

double salt, and is probably the result of a new arrangement of the

constituents at a high temperature. No proof of the existence

of supernitrates.
DR. R. A. SMITH on Lift and Works of Thomas Graham. 91

3.--Of Phosphates.--Table of phosphoric and salts. Nomen

clature--monobasic, bibasic, and tribasic.

   ( 1) Tribasic phosphate of soda, ammonia, and water.--The
name expresses the view of the constitution of the salts.

   (2) Tribasic phosphates containing oxides of the magnesium class.
--Tribasic phosphate of zinc and water has two atoms of water

difiicult to expel, besides one basic. Tribasic arseniate of magnesia

and water has fifteen atoms water of which three, one being basic,

are retained at 212° F. (l00° C.)
   (3) Tribasic phosphate of magnesia and water--has fifteen atoms

of water reduced at 212° F. (l00° C.), to seven atoms one of which

is basic.

4. (4)Tribasic phosphate of magnesia and ammonia.--This not

        ifa double phosphate, but formed from the tribasic phosphate of
                    is
magnesia and water by the substitution of oxide of ammonia for

the basic water of that salt.

    Sulphates.          (Chromates.)  See former paper.

As to the suggestion that bisulphate of potash                          a double
                                      it

                                                                    is
sulphate of water and potash, and therefore nearly neutral in com

position, all bisalts are neutral in composition, what explains

the condition of the bichromate?      The vapour of anhydrous

sulphuric acid          absorbed by sulphate of potash and chloride of

potassium without decomposition. Chromic acid forms analogous

compounds; with neutral chromate,           forms the red chromate,

and with chloride of potassium Peligot's salts analogous to, but

more permanent than R0se's sulphates. The red chromate may

then belong to a new order of combination.

   Sulphates hold water with remarkable force. That of copper
retains its four atoms at 212° F. Alum an alkaline sulphate with

alumina attached.

5.  Chlorides.--Hydracids have a weak aflinity for water.

The law seems to be that chlorides of the magnesian class have

two atoms of water pretty strongly attached. Some have two

or four more, advancing by two's.

   (1) Chloride of copper, two atoms of water.                          in value
   (2) Chloride of manganese, four atoms water.
   (3) Protochloride of iron, four atoms water.
   (4) Chloride of magnesium, six atoms water.
   (5) Chloride of calcium, six atoms water, reduced
over sulphuric acid to two.

(6) Double chloride of copper and amonium with two atoms water.
92 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

   The disposition of the protocyanide of iron and of the cyanide
of copper to combine with two atoms of cyanide of potassium
may depend upon the cyanides of iron and cop'per possessing two
atoms of constitutional water.

             VIII.--On the Theory of Voltaic Circle-1839.

              From "Brit. Assoc. Report," 1839 (Pt. ii.), pp. 29-31.

   The polar molecules of a salt contain negative and positive, or
rather chlorous and zincous afiinities, called also halogenous and
basylous. (Gra.ham's elements of Chemistry, 1850, p. 239, etc.)
Explanation of the apparent travelling of hydrogen to the copper
plate, by a series of transferences, beginning with the first partially
fixed atom of hydrogen (in the case of hydrochloric acid), i.e. by a
propagation of a decomposition through a chain of particles of the
acid (see also Elements of Chemistry, p. 272, etc.)

IX.--On the Constitution of the Sulphates, as illustrated by late

                         Thermometrical Researches--1842.

From "Chem. Soc. Mem.,"                               1841-43, pp. 82-84; "Phil. Mag," xx., 1842,
.
    (                                                  pp. 539-541.

                                                 i.,
   No heat evolved in uniting sulphate of magnesia with sulphate
of potash, some with sulphate of ammonia, but on stirring the
latter when the double salt fell the temperature rose 5°'40 F.
 3° C.), and fell on resolution. No heat of combination, because
sulphate of potash and water are equicalorous in the constitution
of such salts.

      X.--Eazperq'nnents on the Heat diseng/aged in Combinations.

                                      Part 1--1842.

-Frmn " Chem. Soc. l\IeIn.," i., 1841-43, pp. 106-126-ii., 1843-45, pp. 51-70.
       "Annal. dc Chemie," viii., 1843, pp. 151-180; xiii., 1845, pp. 188
       216. "Erdm. Jouru. Prak. Chem.," xxx., 1843, pp. 152-183. `fPhil.
        l\Ia.g.," xxii., pp. 329-352; xxiv., 1844, pp. 401-420.

Sulphuric acid.                                       sulphates.     family.
Hydration of magnesium                                of the potash
Sulphates and ehromates
Double sulphates.
      DR. R. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Grahmn. 93

    Table of heat absorbed by equivalent quantities of crystallized
salts on dissolving in water

   Simple relations observed between the heat disengaged by the
sulphates of magnesia and zinc, which appear to belong to one
class, whilst the sulphates of water, copper, and manganese belong
to another.

"XI.--Eacpem'ments on the Heat disengaged in Combinations.
                           Part II.-4843.

Neutralization of various acids by hydrate of potash.
1. Neutralization of potash by nitric and hydrochloric acids.

2. ,, potash by sulphuric acid.

3. ,, bichromate of potash by hydrate of potash.

4. _           ,,  acetic acid by hydrate of potash.

5. ,, oxalic acid by hydrate of potash.

6. ,, bicarbonate of potash by hydrate of potash.

7. ,, arsenic and phosphoric acids by hydrate

of potash.

             XII.--On the Dzflusioat Q/' Liqm'ds--1849.

From "Phil. Trans," 1850, pp. 1-46, 805-836; 1851, pp. 483-494. "Annal. '
     de Chemie," xxix., 1850, pp. 197-229; "Brit. Assoc. Report," 1851
     (Pt. 2), p. 47; "Chem. Soc. Journal," iii., 1851, pp. 60-67; "Jour. de
     Pharm.," xix., 1851, pp. 394-401; "Liebig. Annal.," lxxvii., 1851,
     pp. 56-89, 129-160; "Phil. Mag.," xxxvii., 1850; pp. 181-198, 254-281,

       341-349.

Any substance in solution is difl'used uniformly through the

mass of the solvent by a spontaneous process.

The subject .has been obscured by the experiments being made

with a membrane which imbibes the substance and produces

endosmose, not connected with diffusibility. A difl'usibility like

that of gases would afibrd means of separating bodies, and present

a scale of densities for substances in solution analogous to vapour

densities. Gay-Lussac's theory. Chemical combination attended

solution with cold; dissimilar bodies combine, whilst soluble
substances and their solvents are like, or analogous. Solubility '

is not the same as the intensity of the'solvent force, the gradations

of which may depend on unequal diifusibility.

Diifusion of liquid or. dissolved carbonic acid slow compared
                                                               '
with gaseous.
94 .Philosophicat Society of Glasgow.

Mode of experimenting without a diaphragm.

Solutions of salts of the same density diffuse equally.

1. Characters of liquid diffusion. Diffusion of chloride of

sodium.

Quantity diffused closely proportioned to the quantity of salt.
Diffusion increases with the temperature. Nearly the same for

eight days, but diminishing.

2. Diffusion of various salts and other substances. 20 salt to

100 Water at 60°'5 (l5°'8 C.) for eight days. Salt, sugar, gum,
albumen. Sugar less than half the diffusibility of chloride of

sodium.                                                  .

   The diffusion of albumen very much lower than of saline bodies.
   Chloride of sodium appears 20 times more diffusible ; actually
more so, as nearly one-half the matter diffused from the first con

sists of inorganic salts. Value of this low diffusibility in retaining
serous fluids in the blood vessels.

Diffusion of solutions of 10 salt to 100 water, at 59°'5 F. (15°'3 C.)
       Do. do. do., at 37°'5 F. (3°'O5 C.)

    Near equality of certain isomorphous salts.

    Diffusion of acid solutions, 4 acid to 100 water, at 59°'3 F.

(l5°'1 C.)
   Considerable latitude in the diffusibility.

3. Difi'usion of ammoniacal salts of copper.

4. Diffusion of mixed salts.

Inequality of diffusion is not diminished but exaggerated in

mixtures. Same observed of mixed gases.                  -

5. Separation of salts of different bases by diffusion. The potash

salts more diffusive than the soda salts. Experiments. Sea salt.

Slowness of diffusion.

   In the sea salt does magnesium exist as a chloride or sulphate?
Will diifusion show this by taking out the most oliifusible'.l Or
will the most dilfusible, the chloride, form because of its opportu

nities to difl'use'l Liquid diffusion, as well as gaseous evaporation,

can produce decomposition.

   6. Decomposition of salts by diffusion. Bisulphate of potash.
Potash alum. Ammoniated sulphate of copper. Alkaline salts

with lime.

   7. Diffusion of double salts. A mixture of sulphate of magnesia

and sulphate of potash gave in diffusion the sum of the separate

diffusions. The salts probably not combined immediately on dis

solving.
DR. R. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Graham. 95

8. Diffusion of one salt into the solution of another salt. Chlo

ride of sodium does not resist carbonate of soda diffusing into it.
Sulphate of soda does. Nitrate of potash is not resisted by nitrate

of ammonia, although isomorphous.         They  are  inelastic to          each
other, like two gases.
                                                                        -

At a_ certain pressure attraction impairs the elasticity of a gas,

so at a certain saturation the salt molecules tend to crystallize.

Further analogy between liquid and gaseous diffusion.

Diffusion of salts of potash and ammonia. Vials for diffusion

holding 2,080 grains (13474 grammes), outside vessel or water

atmosphere 8,750- grains (or 571-1 grammes). Density 2, 4, 6%,

and 10 to 100 water by weight. Some at two temperatures.

Diffusion of carbonate of potash, sulphate of potash, and sulphate

of ammonia. Sensibly equal except at the densest point.                    Close
   Diffusion of chromate of potash and acetate of potash.

correspondence, even to the 10 per cent. solution.

Diffusion of bicarbonate of potash and bichromate of potash.

Close approximation: so that equality is not confined to isomorphous

salts.                                                     A slight
   Diffusion of nitrate of potash and nitrate of ammonia.

superiority in the latter.

Diffusion of chloride of potassium and chloride of ammonium.

Agree well: related to the preceding nitrates.       Crystallizing

attraction in strong solutions resisting diffusion.

Diffusion of chlorate of potash. Inferior to the nitrate. Its less

solubility may be connected with a tendency to crystallize,
uniformity of diffusion greater in weak solutions.

Diffusion of salts of the sulphate of potash class. Diffusion of

1 per cent. solutions. Ferrocyanide and ferricyanide of potassium.

Diffusion of salts of the nitre class. .

Nitrate of potash andcarbonate of potash.

Times of equal diffusion. A 4 per cent. solution of nitrate of

potash diffused for 7 days, or as 1 to 1'4l42, the square root of 2.

Leading to the idea of solution densities, and further analogy

with gases. Further trials.

Hydrate of potash. Compared with nitrate and sulphate.

Diffusion of salts of soda.

Diffusion of sulphate and carbonate of soda. Nitrate of soda.

   Relation of salts of potash to salts of soda.     Times of equal
diffusibility as the square root of 2 to that of 3.

Diffusion of sulphate of magnesia.
96 Pln'los0pln'caZ Society of Glasgow.

   Has half the diifusibility of sulphate of potash, and one-fourth
that of the hydrate at 52° F, (l2°'2 C.) Sulphate of zinc differed .
from sulphate of magnesia 4 per cent., although isomorphous.

   Table of solutions of 1 and 2 salt to 100 water.
    Summary of results :--Difl'usion a property of a fundamental
character. Supplies the densities of a new kind of molecules.
   Relations in diffusion refer to equal weights, not to atomic

weights, or to larger molecules, if not of equal weight, of weights

with a simple relation to each other. Classes of equidiffusive
substances. Division of salts of potash. Separation of salts by
diffusion. Decomposition by diffusion. Use in the study of

endosmose.

Supplementary Observations on the Dtfiasion of LiqmIds--1850.

Diffusion of hydrochloric acid. One of the most diffusive

substances. Effect of time.

Diffusion of hydriodic acid, hydrobromic acid, and bromine.

   Diversity of physical properties compatible with  equal  difi'usi
bility in substances which are isomorphous.

   Hydrocyanic acid. Nitric acid.

Sulphuric acid. Chromic acid.

Acetic acid. Sulphurous acid.

Ammonia.

Alcohol.

Nitrate of baryta.
Nitrate of strontia. Nitrate of lime.

Acetate of lead. Acetate of baryta.

 Chloride of barium. Chloride of strontium.     Nitrate of copper.    '
Chloride of calcium.
Chloride of manganese. Nitrate of magnesia.

Protochloride of iron. Sesquichloride of iron.

Sulphate of magnesia.

Sulphate of zinc.

Sulphate of alumina.
Nitrate of silver. Nitrate of soda.

Chloride of sodium.

Chloride of potassium.

Iodides and bromides of potassium and sodium.

Chloride of ammonium.
DR. R. A. SMITH on I/1._'/`eand Works of Thomas Graham. 97

   Dichloride of copper. Diffusion diminished by excess of hydro
chloric acid. Same efl'ect of acid on chloride of sodium. Effect

of acids.

Bicarbonate of potash.      Bicarbonate of ammonia.
Bicarbonate of soda.

    Hydrochlorate of morphine.
   Hydrochlorate of strychnine. Observations in this paper favour
the existence of a close similarity or equality in difi'usibility

-between certain classes or substances. Chlorides and nitrates and

their acids show this, isomorphous salts also.

Additional Observations on the Difusion of Liqm'ds--1851.

   In the following the salts of potash and soda only are used, and

in four different proportions. Hydrate of potash.
   Hydrate of soda.
   Carbonate of potash.
   Carbonate of soda.

Comparison of potash and soda.     Sulphate of potash.                     of
Sulphite of potash.                of potash. Hyposulphite
Sulphite of soda. Hyposulphite

soda.                                                                   I  Oxalate of
   Sulphovinate of potash.
                            Sulphovinate of soda.

potash.                            Oxalate of soda.
   Sulphate and oxalate compared.

    Acetate of potash. Sulphate and acetate compared.

    Acetate of soda. Acetates of soda and potash compared.

    Tartrate of potash. I
    Tartrate of soda. Tartrate of potash and soda compared.

Double tartrate of potash and soda decomposed by difiusion. In

nine pairs of potash and soda salts the potash salts uniformly
exceed the soda in diffusibility, the ratio sensibly the same, the

hydrates not included.

IX II.--On the Application of Liquid Difiitsion to produce

                                 Dec0mpositv'ons--1849.

           From "Chem. Soc. Journ.," vol. iii., p. 60, 1851.

   Observations made on the spontaneous diffusion into pure water                      '
of several salts already dissolved in 100 times their weight of

                                                                       N
98 Philosop/w'cal Society of Glasgow.

water. Apparatus as before. The water of the water jar is an
atmosphere into which the salts diffuse from the solution phial
within. Together they form a diffusion cell. Time, seven days,
unless stated otherwise. Temp., 50° F. (10° C.)

   Salts diffuse from a one-per-cent. solution in equal times.
    Decomposition of sulphate of potash by lime in diffusion cells.
    Decomposition of sulphate of soda. Potash salt most decom

posed.

   Alkaline chloride very slightly decomposed. Decomposition of
sulphates by lime in dilute solutions, which cannot deposit sulphate
of lime. Decomposition of sulphates by carbonates of lime.

   Effect in the soil. No decomposition in saturated solutions of

chlorides.

   An agency in the soil by which the alkaline carbonates required

by plants may be formed from the chlorides of potassium and
sodium, as well as from the sulphates. This brought into action
by top-dressing with lime.

IX V.--0n the Concentration of Alcohol in S6mmering's        Experi

                                               ments--1854.

From "Brit. Assoc. Report," 1854, pt. ii., p. 69.

   The alcohol was, by Siimmering, concentrated in a bladder; it
was here shown that gelatine had the same effect.

X V.---L2'qm'd Dcfmsion applied to Analy/sis--186].

From "Phil. Trans," 1861, pp. 183-224 ("Roy. Soc. Proc.," xi., 1860-62,

pp. 243-247; "Chem. Soc. Journ.," xv., 1862, pp. 216-270; "Liebig

Annal.," cxxi., 1862, pp. 1-77, cxxiii., 1862, pp. 90-112; "Nuovo

Cp"puP.no2eg7ng5teo-n2,d7".9x; vA.n", nP1a8hl6.i,2l".,  pp. 92-94; "Paris Comptes Rendus," liii., 1861,
                                                        Mag.," xxiii., 1862, pp. 204-223, 290-306, 368-380;
                                                        cxiv., 1861, pp. 187-192).

   Volatility 'a means of separating bodies. Diffusion similar in
character. Hydrate, sulphate of potash, etc., "volatile " as regards
diffusion. The fixed class are silicic acid, albumen, gums, etc.:

crystalline bodies the type of first; gelatine the type_of colloids.
Distinction intimate molecular. The crystalloid state is statical,
the colloid dynamical.
DB. R. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Gmha/m. 99

   Colloidal has energia. The source of force in vital phenomena.
    Colloid substances assisting diffusive separations. Starch and
pectin greatly resist passage of less diffusive substances, and

entirely cut of colloid substances. A mere film of jelly is enough.

   Instances with sized paper. Not as a filter. Only molecules

permeate, and not masses. The water of the colloid is in a state
of combination, although feeble, and cannot be used as a medium

for diffusion. The crystalloid can separate the water, molecule by
molecule, and make its way through the gelatinous septum.
This action called dialysis.

Vegetable parchment or parchment paper made by M. Gaine.

Unsized paper dipt in sulphuric acid. Dialysing vessel or saucers      '

of paper. Jar diffusion explained.

   Diffusion of 10 per cent. solutions of chloride of sodium, sugar,

gum, and tannin in fourteen days, at 10° C.

Diffusion of sulphate of magnesia, albumen, and caramel for

fourteen days.

Diffusion of chloride of sodium in different times.

Diffusion of a 10 per cent. solution of cane sugar in different

times.

   Hydrochloric acid compared with salts, sugar, and albumen.
Diffusion in alcohol of iodine and acetate of potash. Diffusion of
alcoholic solution of resin.

Diffusion of 5 per cent. solution of chlorides of potassium and

sodium.                                               _

Diffusion of 5 per cent. solution of chloride of sodium and

sulphate of soda at 10° C. for seven days.

Same for fourteen days. Can_two unequally diffusive metals be

separated by varying the acid?                        and 4'88 of
   Diffusion of 5'12 per cent. chloride of potassium

sulphate of soda for seven days at 14° C.

   Diffusion of 4'01 per cent. chloride of sodium and 5'99 of
sulphate of potash for seven days at 14° C. Effect of temperature

on diffusion.

Dialysis.

    Diffusion of a 10 per cent. solution of chloride of sodium in the

jelly of gelose for eight days at 10° C. A crystalloid passes through

a firm jelly with little or no abatement of velocity.
    Heat. The effect of heat increasing diffusion is diminished in

dialysis. Bell jar. Bulb dialyser.

   Effect of volume of liquid in the dialyser. Effect of acids.
100 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

   Dialysis through parchment paper during twenty-four hours at
10°--I5° C.

   Dialysis through animal mucus during twenty-five hours at 10°
--15° C.

Dialysis through parchment paper during twenty-four hours at

12" G.

   Purification of colloid substances by dialysis.  silicic acid.
   Crystalloids eliminated by diffusion. Soluble    from it in a
Hydrochloric acid and chloride of sodium removed

`hoop dialyser in four days. Pure solution of silicic acid, limpid

and colourless, preserved a few days.

   Ooagulated by earthy or alkaline carbonates and carbonic acid,
precipitated on calcareous stone without penetrating; acid like

carbonic acid, precipitated by certain other colloids (ordinary

silicate of soda not colloidal). Soluble silicic acid forms a peculiar
class of compounds also colloidal.

   Silicate of gelatine. Colli-silicates or cosilicates.
   Cosilicic acid. Albuminic acid. Soluble alumina made by placing
on the dialyser a solution of alumina in chloride of aluminium.
Very unstable. Coagulated by extremely minute amounts of salts.
Colloidal alumina has a_ high atomic weight, like cosilicic acid.

   Soluble metalumina. Crum's discovery. Heating a binacetate

to the boiling point of water, and keeping thus for several days;

also by dialysing an acetate of alumina that has been altered by
heat; not a mordant. Soluble peroxide of iron. Preparation.

   Solution of the peroxide in the chloride goes on for months.

Slow action characteristic of colloids.--Very unstable solution.

Separation by diffusion.

Soluble mctaperoxide of iron. Ferrocyanide of copper.

Neutral Prussian blue.              '

Ferrocyanide of iron, soluble in oxalic acid and binoxalate of

potash. Sucrate of copper. Sucrate of peroxide of iron. Sucrate
of peroxide of uranium. Sucrate of lime. ' Soluble chromic oxide.

Hydrated uranic oxide and glucina. It appears that the hydrated

peroxides of the aluminous type when free are colloid bodies; two

species exist, of which alumina and metalumina are the types.

   The double type in fibrin of blood.
   Peroxide of tin. Metastannic acid. Titanic acid.

   Dialysis of organic colloid substance.--Tannin difiuses, at most,
200 times less than chloride of sodium. Gum, 400 times less

diflbsive than chloride of sodium.
DR. R. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Gmham. 101

Gummic and metagummic acids.--Gummate of gelatine, dextrin,

caramel, varieties of. Cane sugar, albumen.              Extract
   Emulsin. Coagulated albumen. Gelatinous starch.

of flesh. Separation of arsenious acid from` colloidal liquids.

95 per cent. of the arsenious acid diffused out in 24 hours.

Amount with albumen and gum.
   Arsenious acid with other organic substances.

Colloidal condition of matter. --Colloids and crystalloids different

worlds of matter, distinct as the material of a mineral and the

material of an organized mass. Colloids may be soluble or

insoluble. Easily thrown out of solution by crystalloid. Crystal

loids sapid ; colloids insipid.
   Tendency to change in colloids.--Colloids equivalents high.

Possibly a collection of crystalloid molecules.

Gelatine an important colloidal base.

Ice.--Colloidal and crystalline. No abrupt transitions.

   Osmose.--Caused by hydration and dehydration of the mem
brane. Outer surface being pure water is most hydrated. \Vith
full hydration through the membrane 0smose is checked. Weak

alkalies swell the colloids, and cause extreme osmotic sensibility.

X VI.--On Capillary Transpiration of Liquids in relation to

                             Chemical Composition--1861.

From " Phil. Trans.," 1861, pp. 373-386 ("lioy. Soc. 1'roc.," xi., 1860-62,
   - pp. 381-384; "Chem. Soc. Journ.," xv., 1862, pp. 427-445; "Paris
      Comptes Rendus," liii., 1861, pp. 774-777).

   Poiseuille.--Greatcst retardation of alcohol is with six equi
valents of water.

   Nitric acid.--Retardation greatest with three atoms water.
    Sulphuric acid.--Twenty-four times slower than water. Least
transpirability in the crystallizable hydrate, or one atom of water
added to SHO,. Transpiration time of water 109 seconds.
    Acetic acid.--The hydrate C4H,() 4 + H20 has a transpiration
time 2'7 times longer than water.
    Butyric acid.--With three equivalents water greatest retardation.
    Valerianic acid.--Retarded most by two equivalents of water.
    Formic acid does not follow the same rule.
    Hydrochloric acid.--Its retardation indicates a 12-hydrate. No
appearance of a point indicating a 16-hydrate.
102 Philosoplvical Society of Glasgow.

Alcohol.--Poiseuille's fundamental discovery confirmed by

numerous experiments.      Methylic alcohol, 6-hydrate of amylic

alcohol.

Ethers.--Formiate, acetate butyrate, and valerianate of ethyl,

give transpiration times progressively rising--this may be

connected with the increased weight of the molecule.

Acetone.--Time greatest with twelve equivalents of water.

Glycerine.--No point of retardation found.

   Importance of observing transpiration. Retardation of hydrates
may be caused by the increased size of the molecules, but it is

possible to conceive a decomposition caused by the friction of

passage and the propelling power lost by conversion into heat.

Table of the transpiration of water at different temperatures.

Table of the transpiration of alcohol at different temperatures.

XVII.--0n the Properties of Silicic Acid and other Analogous

                              Colloidal Substances--186`¢

                From the " Journal of the Chemical Society," 1864.

Hydrate of silicic acid soluble according to hydration. A jelly

with 1 per cent. of silicic acid gives a solution with one of that
acid in 5,000. Time alone may cause coagulation which is opposed

by concentration and warmth.         N 0 crystallization.          Colloids
   Pectization by pounded graphite.

transpire slowly. The particles aggregate.

Alcohol and silicic acid.

Ether and silicic acid. Glycerine and silicic acid.

Sulphuric acid and acetic acid.

Restoration of the liquid from the pcctosc state. Liquid stannic

and metastannic acids.

Liquid titanic acids. Liquid tungstic acid.

Molybdic acid.

                                      UNCLASSED PAPERS.

                I.--On the Heat qfFricti0n--18:!6.

           From " Annals of Philosophy," xii., 1826, pp. 260-262.

A speculation on the separate existence of heat.
DR.` R. A. SMITH on Life and Works of Thomas Graham. 103

II.--Alcohol derived from the Fermentation of Breacl--1826.

           From "Annals of Philosophy," xii., 1826, p. 363.

There was found alcohol equal to 0'3 to 1 per cent. of the flour
                                                             '
employed.

III.--Efl`ect of Animal Charcoal on S0lntions--1830.
JFrom " Quart. ourn. of Science,"
  Journ.," xl., 1831, pp. 443-446;    1830, pp. 120-125 ("Dingler Polytechn.
                                    " Poggend. Annal.," xix., pp. 139-144).
         it
             is

                                                i.,

                                               of
Here           shown by several instances, chiefly of metallic salts,

that the charcoal removes more than mere colouring matter from

solution.

lV.--Note on the Preparation                         Chlorate of Potash--184l'.

               From "Chem. Soc. Mem.," 1841-43, pp. 5-7.

   Loss of oxygen by acting with chlorine on carbonate of potash
alone. Recommends addition of hydrate of lime. The chlorine
attacks the potash, and the lime takes the carbonic acid at the
same time. Similar result of secondary action found when sulphate
of soda added to lime, which mixture takes up two equivalents
of sulphuretted hydrogen to one of lime.
         is
                                                          a
              V.--Lettre do M. Graham M. Dnrnas--184Q.

                   From "Annal. de Chimie," iv., 1842, pp. 177-186.

   Some ideas arising from the law of substitution--evcn an isolated
element, such as a metal, held to be made up of several parts.
Combination the natural state of matter. Electro-chemical theory,

and mode of writing the symbols under this theory. A view of

the constitution of several molecules of compound bodies.

VI.--Note on the Useful Application of the Refuse Lime of

                  Gas-1'/:orlcs--1845.by
                     a
`                                                            " Erdm. Jour. Prak.
                                                        it
  From "Chem.                                                                                                         '
               Soc. Mem.," ii., 1843-45, pp. 358-359;

Chem.," xxxvi., 1845, pp. 48-49; "Frankl. Inst. Journ.," xi., 1846,

pp. 281-282.

   By exposure to air refuse lime becomes                    quickly oxidized, and
one-sixth of its weight has been taken from                    as crystallized hypo

sulphite of lime  single crystallization.
104 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

VII.--.ZVote on the Existence of Phosphoric Acid in the Deep Well
                    Water of the London Basin/----1845.

From "Chem. Soc. Mem.," ii., 184345, pp. 392, 393; "Bibl. Univ.," lK.,

                                                   1845, pp. 385, 386.

    Deposits carbonate and phosphate of lime. Green confervoe
grow readily. Does the value of water for irrigation depend on
the phosphoric acid?

                 VIII.--Obseroations on Etherification--1851.

From "Chem. Soc. Jouru.," iii., 1851, pp. 24-28; "Journ. de Pharm.,"xviii.,
        1850, pp. 124-130; "Liebig's Annal., lxxv.," 1850, pp. 108-116.

   The most direct method of preparing ether is to add 4 to S of
alcohol to 1 of strong sulphuric acid of 83 per cent., and to heat
to 320° F. (160° C.) under pressure. No distillation or sensible
formation of sulphovinic acid necessary. Action of the acid com

pared to that on the essential oils. A polymerizing action.
                   APPENDIX.

CRITICAL REMARKS ON THE FOREGOING PAPERS OF THOMAS
    GRAHAZII, BEING PREFACE BY DR. R. ANGUS SMITH TO

     "PHYSICAL RESEARCHES OF THOJIIAS GRAHAIII," PUBLISHED
    FOR PRIVATE CIRCULATION BY DR. R. ANGUS SMITH AND

    JAIIIES YOUNG IN 1876.

                   GRAHAM AND OTHER ATOMISTS.

ATOMS and eternal motion are amongst the first known scientific ideas.

We find them discussed with full keelnness of insight by the earliest

Greeks of whom we have received definite accounts. If the opinions did

not spring from Hellenic soil they certainly found themselves in a land

well fitted for their development; but so many of the thoughts of men have

'come from the East that it is natural to suppose that both had their origin

Ithere. India has'had several atomic systems and acute discussions on
atoms and matter.  shall leave it to others to decide at what time the

earliest known were written, but it is at least clear that the subject was

thought out in a peculiar method, with occasional logic of the keenest

known, moving forward into regions where reasoning is diflicult and
mysticism reigns. There we may find thoughts, the same apparently as

led to the centres of force of Boscovich and original fluid or universal

ether, as well as the various atoms of the Greeks, or the clearest ideas of
                                                                          It is said
moderns, too clear at times to be sufficiently comprehensive.

that Leucippus obtained his opinions from a Phoenician called Moschus

(and Mochus), and it is pleasant to think of this earlier name of an atomist
to whom it seems unnatural to deny existence, even if he be little known.

And although ZellerI tells us that the roots of the ideas lay in the earlier

Greek mode of thought, this scarcely is sufficient for separating the East

and the `Vest, since tradition in very remote times led to the belief in

frequent and interesting communication. Such names are not forged, and

when characters are invented we find them rarely to be men of science.

Still, the accounts are vague, and Indian literature waits arrangement.

Although Kapila as a philosopher is almost lost as a personality, his

system2 shows a long train of successfully cultivated thought. How and

when did Canade's notion arise that an atom was the sixth part of a mote

in a sunbeam? If, however, we turn to the second idea, namely, "eternal

motion," we must claim for it decidedly an Eastern origin, and perhaps it

is still to be found among the remnants where Chaldaeans or Accadians

may have recorded their thoughts, When their astronomers and astrologers

sought wisdom out of the heavens. Science seems to have begun amongst

r In Die Philosophie der Gricchen, p. 688.                of the Hindus.
2 Colebrooke's Essays on the Religion and Philosophy

                                                       O
106  Philosophical Society of Glasgow.  '

the heavenly bodies, and even amongst the Greeks Anaximander brought
 forward his mystic idea of the immeasureable, before the smaller move
 ments in matter were considered. To follow a late writer,I even the idea.
of eternal motion, as held by that early Greek speculator, referred only to
the motion of the stars and the unceasing changes of the sun and moon.
 \Vhen Leucippus gave his mind to the study of atoms he saw there also the
need of movement, and the restlessness of all creation in detail was thus

early expressed by him. It was the result of a process of reasoning, begun

by observing objects that strike all men unceasingly, and ending amongst
those too small to be visible; `it began with what to us is infinitely great,
and ended with what to our senses is infinitely small. Leucippus seems to
have concluded, as so many thinkers have since done, that arguments con
cerning the infinite divisibility of matter must end in empty words, or in
thoughts of awe regarding the unlimited, which we cannot comprehend.
To assume an actual end of division was to take a basis of thought; without
such a foundation where would he stand to observe the building up of the
world? The assumption, if it be one, formed the atom of science, and its
study, although without a distinct advance for ages, has richly rewarded
the student of the present century, giving us the basis of a rational view of

matter, as the atoms are the basis of the matter itself. In the mind of this

early Greek, first or not, the action of the atom, as one substance taking
various forms by combinations unlimited, was enough to account for all the
phenomena of the world. By separation and union, with constant motion,
all things could be done.

   These great thoughts, the oneness of matter and the power of motion and
combination, were given to gifted men of the early days, and, like some
other great thoughts, they have been misunderstood or neglected to a very

late time. It is because Graham took a similar view, and advanced the

idea of atomic motion with unity of material to that which might be fairly
called its utmost limit, that he is brought forward here with Leucippus.
The Greek told us that all was in motion. Graham conceived the idea that
the diversity in the motion was the only basis of the diversity of the
material, or, in other words, that an atom constituted an element of a

special kind, according to rate or peculiarity of its movements. To the
study of the motion of atoms, or at least of molecules, the practical atom
of our chemistry, or that which although in a. sense divisible is not known
to be divided, Graham gave all the leisure of a. thoughtful life. \Vhen he
came to the subject it had advanced far beyond the early stage, notably by
the thoughts of Dalton and the chemists of the earlier part of this century.
To pass over more than two thousand years in a bound is apparently to
forget the effect these thoughts had on mankind; but it cannot be denied
that no important results followed for the human race, and only a few men

seemed seriously to think on the subject until very modern times. A glance
at a few of the more striking halting-places will help us to see better the

relative position of Graham as an atomist and a philosopher, words which
suit his character better than chemist, although chemistry was his pro

fession and the source of all his speculations and reasoning.

                     x Gustav Teichmiiller, Studien Guchichte der Begnfe. Berlin, I874.
Apjoendix.                                                                            107

   Leucippus was soon almost forgotten, until a time came when men gladly
treasured. the little that was remembered of him; but his successor was
better known, and Democritus has obtained much of the honour of the

acute thoughts that taught us atomic motion. It is said that Xerxes him

self stayed, when at Abdera, with the father of Democritus, who was very
wealthy, and that the magi in the great king's train taught the theory of

atoms to the young man. It may be true, for the East ever appears at the

beginning of things, and the fresh minds caught up the richest crops as they

showed themselves on the face of the creation, expanding before men's eyes.

A few words, quoted from Lange,I give the position of Democritus so far as

we are here concerned :--
    " The difference of substances arises from the difference in the number,

size, shape, and arrangement of the atoms. The atoms have no internal

conditions; they act by pressure and percussion only.'7

    These words express the early theory with great beauty and precision.
VVe do not say here with Aristotle, "Matter cannot move itself," and so
inquire further into the subject; for us it is enough to remember the
physical theory. So far as is apparent, Democritus left the pure physical
theory of oneness of atom, and he makes many varieties, so that at last it
is said that "the soul consists of round atoms, fine and smooth like those

of fire, and by their motion, which penetrates the whole body, the whole
phenomena of life are produced." But although this theory leaves the
oneness of atoms, it keeps closely to the idea of motion as the only one
phenomenon conceivable for matter or mind, and it is without much doubt

the origin of the saying that life is motion, the great thought of Heraclitus.

All life consists of this constant moving, nothing is but as a movement. If

we care to view the subject very strictly, we may say that the simplicity of
the atom is gone even at this early stage; but if the simplicity of the atom

is gone, the age of the molecule commences, a body composed of bodies not

to be separated; and although the atom of Democritus is spoken of as one
in quality, its diversity of size gives it a composite character, and one might

 even choose to find in him the germ of an opposition to the theory showing

 itself during the very building.2 The peculiar soul-atoms3 destroy even the

 supposed qualitative uniformity of atoms; but Leucippus is said to have

had the same opinion. At best this early atom is a practical one, like that
 of Newton's, not an intelligible one, an idea that has still to be imagined in

 a reasonable manner. This difliculty produces the non-atomists, but the
 atomist may see it quite as clearly, and leave the reasoning for a stage,

since he cannot proceed with any firmness of step. A consistent atomist

 of the Dalton type may be a thorough non-atomist when he breaks up in his
 mind the present elements.

    We 'do not find that anything fitting our present purpose was added to
 the theory of atoms until the time of Lucretius, if indeed he can be said to
 have added anything. He, however, as the only full expositor of the
 doctrine among the ancients, must be viewed with attention. As a philo
 sophic poet, Lucretius is interesting, it ought rather to be said interesting

r F. A. Langc, Geachichte des materialismms. I87:3.
2 Zellcr, vol. 699; Aristotle quoted in the note.
i.,                                                                          P. 729.
                                                                          5
108                       Philosophical_ Society                      ly`  Glasgow.

for the time in which he lived, but he contradicts himself more than the

early Greeks in his theories, and his explanations, that are so satisfactory

to himself, seem to many men to explain little. Nevertheless he deserves a

full share of honour.

  If attempted to give by quotations from Lucretius a good idea of his
     it
system, we get rather into confusion. The reason probably that he had
         is                                                                                            is
                      is                                                                                         it
not thought out the details clearly in his own mind, and indeed every man

who has attempted consistency in this department has failed; but may

be said that his atoms are solid and eternal, with some unalterable motion,

and a tendency downwards as well as to the side, easily agitated also

by many forces. They are made of parts, which parts cannot exist by

themselves, the atoms are partly like our molecules, but the parts seem

hypothetical existences, conceived apparently in order to bridge over the

distance between nothing and something, a difiiculty frequently attempted

by those who reason outside the atomic idea. Motion to him everything
                                                                           is

that can be found in life and thought, which are only the clashing of atoms,

light or heavy, round or smooth, made by more or fewer of the combinations

of small points that do not exist by themselves. This theory allows of any

shape of molecules, even hooked ones, which are spoken of as explaining

combination both in Lucretius and more modern writers, and to which the

name of atom applicable only with suitable explanation.

  In reality, Lucretius sometimes loses the clear meaning of the atom he

admires; as he loses also and objects to the idea of centres in the universe,

preferring up and down as fundamental ideas. After the first great thoughts

are uttered, the rudest ideas come into play, and the carpenter and hammer

seem to be set to do the whole work as was done by his predecessors, and

which his successors continue to admire.

The alehemists got rid of this, but lost also the idea of atoms. They re

tained, however, the one fundamental matter of which they were composed;

with loss of clearness they gained in breadth. Roger Bacon, so much
     a

                                     is
                                                               is
superior to the most, may be looked on as an ideal one. He says logically:
" The elements are made of ylé.I Barley a horse by possibility, that
                                                                                                       it
occult nature, and wheat  a possible man, and man possible wheat."                                            is
                                                                           ' is
De Arte C'h_1/mire.
   If, however, we come to the atom which has done most good work in

modern chemistry, we are after all obliged to turn back to one of the
descriptions of by Lucretius in one of his best moments, and after has
              it
                                             i.
been modified by the powerful hand of Newton, and freed from connecting
              Lucretius says, book line 603, " Primordial bodies are solid
obscurities.

in their simplicity, and consist of the smallest parts closely united, not

combined by a union of others, but rather endowed with eternal simplicity:

from them nature allows nothing to be taken away or to be diminished,

reserving them as seeds for bodies."
                          2
                                              r
                                                                   2
                                               Or the one original matter.

                          " Sunt igitur Solids Primordia simplieltate.
                            QNuozneemxinuimlloirsumstlpoaotnav.ecnothnerceonntcilpiaatrati,bus arcte:
                            Sed magis aaterna pollentia Simplicitutc:
                            Unde neque avelli qulcquam, neque diminui jam
                            Concedlt natura, rcservans scmina rebus."
Appendix.  109

   Newton's well-known words may be quoted, since they form an era in
the theory of atoms, not so much by new ideas as by distinctness, and the

elimination of much confusion:---" It seems probable to me that God in the

beginning framed matter in solid, massy, hard, impenetrable moveable
particles, of such sizes and figures, and with such other properties, and in
such proportion to space, as most conduced to the end for which He formed
them; and that these primitive particles being solid, are incomparably harder
than any porous bodies compounded of them; even so very hard as never
to wear or break in pieces; no ordinary power being able to divide what
God himself made one in the first creation. While these particles continue
entire, they may compose bodies of one and the same texture in all ages;
but should they wear away, or break in pieces, the nature of things de
pending on them would be changed. Water and earth composed of old
worn particles would not be of the same nature and texture now with water
and earth composed of entire particles in the beginning. And, therefore,
that nature may be lasting, the changes of corporeal things are to be placed
only in the various separations and new associations and motions of these
permanent particles; compound bodies being apt to break, not in the midst
of solid particles, but where those particles are laid together, and only
touch on a few points."

   Here, then, is the real atom of the chemist-explainin g a mode of combin
ation which Bergman, \Venzel, and Richter laboriously tried to understand,
which Higgins reached but did not see with vigour---the atom which Dalton
Inade his fertile discovcry----the atom which has built up the modern science
of chemistry, and from which our most precise ideas of the constitution of
matter have been acquired, one which must remain probably without
fundamental alteration until a new mode of analysis is found, and one
which probably is in principle true even at stages considerably below that

which contains our unaltered elements. This atom, however, is by no
means of necessity indivisible in every sense; it is only indivisible by us,

although some chemists may have different views. It may be in a strict

sense a molecule, but it is much better to keep that word for a combination
of atoms of known bodies rather than of hypothetical existences, a double
atom of hydrogen or other element being our simplest molecule.

   When we arrive at this point we pass to the next important stage, namely,
the motion of gaseous molecules, if not of atoms, and the beginning of the
attempt to define it precisely, The first definite ideas are by D. Bernoulli.
They are explained in his Hydrodynamics,I which, although published in
Strasburg in 1738, were previously. worked at when he was Professor in

St. Petersburg.
   D. Bernoulli says,--" The chief peculiarities of fluids are these: lst, they

are heavy; 2nd, they expand in all directions unless they are confined; and
3rd, they allow themselves to be compressed more and more, according to

   r Dunielis Bernoulli, Joh. Fil.. Med. Prof. Basil. Ilydrodynamica, sire do viribus el motibus
jluirlorum Commentarii (Argcntorati, I738). p. 200. Scctio decima :

   " Fluids. nuuc elastica considemturis licebit nobis talem iis afilngere constitutionem, quae
cum omnibus adhuc cognitis conveulat affectionibus, ut sic ad reliquas ctiam nondum satis
cxploratas detur aditus."

                        0
110 I'lzilosop/deal Society of Glasgow.

the increased force applied."I Speaking of a vessel of air with a weighted
cover, and which he illustrates with a diagram, he says, " So the minute
bodies, whilst they impinge on the cover E F, keep it up by their continually

repeated strokes, and form an elastic fluid, which expands itself when the

weight is removed or diminished."-' "VVe shall consider the corpuscles

enclosed in the hollow of the cylinder as infinite in number, and when they

occupy the space E C D F we shall say that they constitute the natural

air." 3

Davy and Count Rumford entered the field when this theory of gaseous

motion was forgotten, and inaugurated a new theory of heat founded on

molecular activity. That heat is immaterial was no rare opinion last
century, or since Lord Bacon spoke of it as motus et Tlillil aliud. However,

atomic motion ceased from the time of Rumford to be a vague idea. Davy4

spoke definitely when, without calling in the aid of forces, he supposed that

in solids the particles are in a vibratory motion, the particles of the hottest

bodies moving with greatest velocity and through the greatest space; that

in fluids and elastic fluids, besides the vibratory motion, which must be

considered greatest in the last, the particles have a motion round their own

axes with different velocities, the particles of elastic fluids moving with the

greatest quickness; and that in ethereal substances the particles move round

their own axes and separate from each other, penetrating in right lines

through space. Temperature may be conceived to depend on the velocity

of the vibrations, increase of capacity on the motion being performed in

greater space, etc.

This is evidently the work of Rumford and Bernoulli, with additions

after passing later through an original and powerful mind.
We may take the next step to Herapath.5 At p. 15, vol. he says:--
" Theory of Gases.--From these considerationsa
                                                             follows that a number
                                           if
                                              it

                                                    it

                                                                  a

                                                                it
                                                                    if if i.,
                                                                             if

                                                                             if
of small bodies be inclosed in any hollow body, and be continually impinging

on one another, and on the'sides of the inclosing body; and the motions

of the bodies be conserved by an equivalent action in the sides of the con

taining body, then will these small bodies compose medium, whose elastic
force will be like that of air and other gaseous bodies; for the bodies be

exceedingly small, the medium might, like any aeriform body, be com

pressed into very small space; and yet                       had no other tendency than
54 3 2 1
          Ewhat would arise from the internal collision of its atoms, would, left to
               C
                   Faitself, extend to the occupation of space of almost indefinite greatness.
And its temperature remaining the same, its elasticity would also be greater

when occupying a less, and less when occupying a greater space; for in a

" Fluidorum autem elusticorum praecipuaeaflectiones in eo posihe sunt: I°, ut sint gravia:

2°, ut se in omnes plagas explicent, nlsi c0ntineantur, et 3°, ut se continue mazis magisque
comprimi patiantur crescentibus potentiis compressionis: lta compsratus est aiir, ad quem

"---potissimum presentes nostrse pertinent cogita.tiones."   idemque suis sustinent impetibus
                 Sic corpuscula. dum impingunt in operculum
                                                 2
                                                        E
                                                            F

                                                                                                    P
continue repetitis fluidum componunt clasticum quod remoto ant diminuto ponders sesc

cxpaudit ------."

"Corpuscula cavitati cylindrl inClusa considerabimus tanquum uumero infiuita, et cum

spatlum  D occupant, tuuc aiirem illa dicemus formare naturalcm."

Collected Works, vol. iv., p. 67.

lllathemalicalPh1/tics, etc., by John Hcrapath.  vols, 8vo, I8-17.
Append'£a'.                                                                            l 11

 compressed state the number of atoms striking against a given portion of

 the containing vessel must be augmented, and the space in which the atoms

 have to move being less, their motions or periods must be shorter, and the

 number of them in a given time consequently greater; on both of which

 accounts the elasticity is greater the greater the compression. Besides,

 when other things are the same, the elastic force augments with an augmen
 tation of temperature and diminishes with a diminution; for an increase of

 temperature, according to our theory, must necessarily be attended with an

 increase of velocity, and therefore with an increase in the number of

 collisions."
    Joule took up the subject immediately after Herapath, and says: " Since

the hypothesis of Herapath, in which it is assumed that the particles of a
 gas are constantly flying about in every direction with great velocity, the

Ipressure of the gas being owing to the impact of the particles against any

surface presented to them, is somewhat simpler, shall employ it in the
following remarks on the constitution of elastic fluids," etc.I Dr. Joule
continued the subject, and introduced it into the region of experiment and
observation, or, in other words, to the science of modern times.2 Joule

might have added that the view he adopted is not only in accordance with
the known laws of the elasticity of gases, but conforIns to the ratio of the
specific heats of gases. The mathematical development continued to make
progress in the hands of Clausius, Clerk Maxwell, Holtzmann, and others,
taking us to new fields, and outside the region of Graham's activity.
. Graham is as strict an atomist as perhaps can be found. We have seen
how difiicult it has been to hold the doctrine pure, how even Democritus

looked on the atoms as containing parts, and to get rid of the difficulty,

Lucretius makes the parts incapable of existence par se,---thus introducing
the inconceivable; even, with Newton, and decidedly with Dalton, hitherto

the greatest of atomists, because his system has had the most substantial
results, the atoms are either compounded of matter, besides many properties
which for want of a better name we might call metaphysical, or are sur
rounded with forces which act very independently, and attach themselves

to the atoms doing apparently most of the work.

   It was a true movement in the direction of atomism, when Davy gave his
ideas; and one may almost say that it was the object of Graham's life to

find'what the movement of an atom was. Davy does not define his vibratory
motion, which could scarcely be imagined in an unconfined space unless the
body had parts; for fluids he gives a motion of rotation making thereby a de
finite boundary; but we do not see in his opinions what an atom, say of iron,
would do when alone. He would probably in such a case give it the same

revolving motion as he gives the parts of gas. Graham avoids picturing the
most primitive motion in all its character, but he seems to indicate one of
revolution as he brings in the similarity to the orbit of a planet, and in 'this
way with Davy connects in an interesting manner the very first speculations
on the eternal motion of the heavens with those movements the smallest

conceivable of atoms.

I Memoirs of Lit. and Phil. Soc. of Manclmster, vol. iv. I851, p. III.  Read in I848.

2 See Math. Physics, vol. i. p. 264.
112 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

He has, however, advanced further, when he adopts the theory of one

kind of matter, each atom being distinguished by the extent of its motion,

one primordial impulse for each kind. This movement is an unalterable

one, unaffected even by heat. These atoms do not come to us free, but are

believed to be congregate, forming the compound atom or molecule, whose

movements have of late been more carefully studied, and which form, in

fact, the elements as the chemist finds them. And then, in his cautious

manner, he adds that they have a singular relation connected with equality

of volume. Equal volumes can coalesce and form a new atomic group,

retaining the whole or the half, or some simple proportion, of the original

movement and consequent volume. This is chemical combination.

  It is therefore clear that Graham was a true descendent of the early

Greeks, his mind altered, of course, by intervening thinkers; but in one

point he differs from most, if not all, known to us, in that he devoted his

whole life to the study of this subject.

  In all his work we find him steadily thinking on the ultimate composition
of bodies; he searches after it in following the molecules of gases when

diffusing; these he watches as they flow into a vacuum or into other gases,

and observes carefully as they pass through tubes, noting the eifect of

weight and of composition upon them in transpiration. He follows them
as they enter into liquids and pass out, and as they are absorbed or dissolved

by lcolloid bodies, such as caoutchouc, he attentively inquires if they are

absorbed by metals in a similar manner, and finds the remotest analogies,

which, by their boldness, compel one to stop reading and to think if they_

be really possible. He follows gases at last into metallic combination, and

the lightest of them all he makes into a compound with one of the heavier

metals, chasing it finally through various lurking-places until he brings it

into an alloy and the form of a medal, and puts upon it the stamp of the
Mint. Indeed, he is scarcely satisfied even with this, and he finds in bodies

from stellar spaces--in meteoric iron--this saIne metallic hydrogenium,

which he draws out from its long prison in the form of a gas.

  It was a wonderful, and one may say romantic, ending to a series of

inquiries, to the eyes of most men the most uninteresting. His works are

full of care, but not of joy. He slowly collected figure after figure, never

idle with his theories, but never venturing without a reason.

  If we examine his work on Salts and on Solutions we have a similar train

of thought. One might have slighted the importance which he attached to

the water of salts and the temperature at which it was reduced, but in his
hands it was a revelation of some of the most mysterious internal phenomena.

of these bodies. Although the inquiry was made without reference to the

new position which hydrogen takes in acids, it was entirely on a. track of

preliminary necessary thought; the modern view he received favourably at

an early period in his history of chemistry. Other advanced ideas were

stimulated by him in the lst vol. of the publications    of the C' avendish
Society--a Society established mainly by his influence.
A chemist must take great pleasure in followingr Graham when he seeks

the laws of the diffusion of liquids, and traces their connections, especially

when they lead to such results as he has expressed by dialysis, a process

founded on a new classification of substances, and promising still the most
A ppendiac.  I  113

valuable truths. VVe see in the inquiry how carefully Graham thought on
the internal constitution of bodies, by examining the motion of the parts,
and from the most unproInising and hopeless masses under the chemist's
hands--aInorphous precipitates of alumina or of albumen---brought out
analogies which connected them with the most interesting phenomena of

organic life. Never has a less brilliant-looking series of experiments been
made by a chemist, whilst few have been so brilliant in their results or
promise more to the inquirer who follows into the wide region opened.

  It is easy to see that, however various the subject on the surface of his

writings, Graham's inquiries all led to one end, namely the condition and
motion of the molecule or atom. In using the word atom chemists seem to
think that they bind themselves to a theory of indivisibility. This is a
mistake. The word atom means that which is not divided, as easily as it

may mean that which cannot be divided, and indeed the former is the prefer

able meaning. Even when Lucretius speaks of primordial bodies that
cannot be difided, he does not deny that they have parts, although these,
as we have seen, cannot exist by themselves, and Graham, as well as other

atomists, give a similar opinion, that is, that the original atom may be far
down. Graham speaks of this in more than one place. There comes to us
a something indivisible by us, and it is consistent to call it an atom, as it is

 consistent to call the smallest particle of alum, with its twenty-four equi
valents of water, an atom, simply because it is the smallest possible portion
 of alum, which to divide would be to destroy.

    Some have preferred to leave the atom without believing in infinite
 divisibility, and it is strange that when we come to the point of deciding
 on the existence of atoms the mind insists on going further and finding of
 what the atom is composed. By doing this the atomist often ends by being
 a non-atomist, and probably this is the necessary double conclusion: we

 believe in atoms because Nature seems to use them, and we break them up
 continuously because we know not when to stop. There are various methods
 of spanning the distance from nothing to something. B0scovich,by his
 centre of force, forms an atom, but it differs in nowise from Newton's but

 in name. Newton and Dalton, and all others, would allow all the forces
 that Boscovich can desire. Sir W. Thomson has made a vortex atom in the

 perfect fluid described by Helmholtz, and some such fluid is much required
 for the explanation of many phenomena.

    In 1868 Graham acknowledged the possibility of the vortex atom when
 he said, "We may imagine the same result from atoms and from a fluid
 medium to a position of which a special rate of pulsation is imparted,

 enlivening that portion of matter into an individual existence and con
 stituting it a distinct substance or element."

     Davy's revolving atom has been more fully considered by Czirnianski,
 but our real success is confined to the fuller development of the idea of
  motion in gases and in solutions.

     We see, then, that Graham advances the idea of atomic motion, and

  teaches us also how to observe it. The accuracy of his method, as well as
 of his work, is proved by the results; and it is not without reason that he

  is placed in that chain of eminent thinkers which has been represented by
  such as Leucippus, Lucretius, Newton, Higgins, and Dalton.

                                                             P
114 Philosophical Society of Glasgow.

  In Graham's lifetime chemistry had been enriched with inquiries into

atomic volumes, the volumes of compound molecules, and the specific heat
of the atom, or the relation of heat to the atomic weight. The relations in
which the atoms of a. compound stand to each other have been viewed very
diflerently by chemists, and given rise to a certain change in the names,
whilst the idea of atomicity has been developed more fully. To some of
these Graham contributed his part in his inquiries on Salts, but to the
mechanics and statics of the molecule, so to speak, he gave his special
attention; and although new names have already arisen of men who have
carried the subject in directions not followed by Graham, it is still true
that his own mode of thought is peculiar, and he has left no on'e who can
be called a successor.

   His Elements of Chemistry form two admirable volumes, where the kernels
of thought could be obtained free from shell, and where the student was led
up to the newest opinions. As a. text-book, however, time has removed
much of its value.
   5`lU°l5L&5&BU                            llll

lllllliilllllilllllllill|i|ll||l|Wll|lll|0

   b89095185880a

                                                  nnq-I ~\|-II
. x4J\filu\fl
   BQDQSLBSBBU

lll|l|ll|llllllllll|llll|||lllllll|lll||llll|l|ll

   B89095185880A

