Newton: his friend: and his niece. By the late Augustus De Morgan.
Edited by his wife, and by his pupil, Arthur Cowper Ranyard.

De Morgan, Augustus, 1806-1871.
London, E. Stock, 1885.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.b4252905

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
 UC-NRLF

lllllllllllll!"lllllllllllllllllllllll!llllllllllllllllllllll

       B *4 E52 `IDS
My
    490         '20   'va?

     N.          "/4
A `a?
         "1»0_  3}` (49`
NEWTON: HIS FRIEND: AND HIS NIECE.
     NEWTON:

HIS FRIEND: AND HIS NIEGE.

                                           BY THE LATE

          AUGUSTUS DE MORGAN.

                                                                                 w

                                                    EDITED BY
                          HIS WIFE, AND BY HIS PUPIL.

                              ARTHUR COWPER RANYARD.

                                  LONDON :           ROW, EC.

ELLIOT STOCK, 62, PATERNOSTER

                                               1885

Price Fit/c Shilling: and Shiv/Ia`.
              In compliance with current copyright law,
U. C. Library Bindery produced this replacement volume on
paper that meets the ANSI Standard 239.48-1984 to replace

                    the irreparably deteriorated original.

                                              1 994
'I_L _
                   PREFACE.

THIS little volume has been enlarged from the size of

article written, in 1858, for The Companion to the
Almanac. It was the last of a series contributed by

.llr. De Morgan, and was rejected by Mr. C. Knight,
the editor, who thought that the question discussed in
it would not be held generally interesting.

  A reference to this article, the grounds for its

rejection, and a letter, treating of the relative duties
of editors and contributors, will be found on p. 264 of
the memoir of Augustus De Morgan (Longman and
Co., 1882).

    The original MS. was revised, and received some
additions, in the years 1864--6. And, later still, on
the accession of new evidence, it was enlarged to the
form in which it now appears ; containing fresh informa
tion on the question of Catherine Barton, and on the
laws relating to marriage.

   It is needless to say that the justification of Newton

in the matter of his niece's marriage was not, in the
writer's estimation, merely a subject for literary or
vi Editm"s Preface.

historical gossip. His intense reverence for Newton
would have given way before the clear conviction of a
grave defect in moral character. He had been compelled
to admit the culpable weakness, to call it by the mildest
name, of Newton's conduct to Flamsteed; but a con
tinued countenancing of immorality, by which he was
supposed to be himself the gainer, would have been, in
my husband's view, enough to darken even Newton's
intellectual brightness. He believed, however, that the
suspicion of this had been cleared away; and the argu
ments which led to this belief are placed before the
reader. The question is not an unimportant one to
those who hold moral excellence to be of more value

than intellectual power, and who are sometimes apt to

believe the possession of the one implies that of the
Ifother.
          these readers find the evidence now brought

forward strong enough to set the question of Newton's

acquiescence in wrong-doing at rest, they will be better

satisfied to leave the philosopher in his niche of undis

puted greatness.

                  SOPHIA ELIZABETH DE MORGAN.
NEWTON: HIS FRIEND: AND HIS NIEGE.

THE subject of the following treatise, hitherto confined
to the pages of the Notes and Queries or to Sir David
Brewster's ` Life of Newton ' and its reviewers, is worth
wider circulation than it can obtain in a vehicle of
learned discussion and antiquarian research, or in a

large work and the criticism on it. A mere casualty

afterwards threw an important piece of evidence in my
way; and other such casualties might possibly occur,

if the circumstances were more generally known. A

very curious letter, containing an allusion which must
instantly have struck anyone who had the requisite
knowledge as deciding the question, remained useless
until 1856 ; other letters, or documents of other kinds,
equally to the point, may be in existence, and equally
unknown.

  I have lengthened this paper by many digressions on

collateral points, and have punctuated my title accord
ingly : the colons denote that the paper contains matters
relative to the parties separately, as well as to their con
 nexion. These ofiishoots may attract attention and

                                                                                                              1
2 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

Imay lead to evidence. Should anyone object to this

accumulation of details, remind him that he may

skim or skip. Little matters, which give or revive

knowledge of the times, are very useful additions ; the

smallest of them may be a clue.
   For nearly a century and a half there has existed a

smothered rumour, derived from contemporary asser

tions which it has been customary to keep out of

history, that the niece of the great Isaac Newton, the

beautiful and accomplished Catherine Barton, the
`famous witty Miss Barton,' was~ the mistress of

Charles Montague, Earl of Halifax, Newton's old and

close friend, and at last his political patron. There are
neither frequent nor decided allusions to this rumour in

biographies of Newton: some very difficult recorded
circumstances give it a strong air of truth, and might
have led to a suspicion that Newton had connived, it

being known that his connection with Halifax suffered

no interruption. That Newton actually did connive,

and was rewarded by the  of a public post, was

asserted in one of the most notorious scandal-books of

the day--a well-known and widely read production, and

not proceeding from an anonymous writer, but from a

lady who, though she had not character, had position

and acquaintance with public men. The fact of the

Istatement having been made during the life of Halifax

  take to have been unknown to the biographer; if

known, it was suppressed. And the most authentic
account of Halifax which exists contains the statement

that Catherine Barton was the superintendent of his
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.  3

domestic affairs, and calls her a widow, which it is

certain she was not.

Though the character of Newton in the social relations

was above impeachment, and his life of the utmost

strictness, the suppressors (if wilful suppression there

were) probably felt that, as to the reign of Queen Anne,
and a generation who had been boys and girls under

Charles II., it was not quite conclusive to argue from

what a man was to denial of his having been compelled
by the state of society to countenance some of its irre

gularities. The utmost biographers ventured on, pre

viously to recent discussion of the subject, was the

statement that Montague was deeply attached to

Catherine Barton, and that the circumstances which

prevented their union are not known.

   It was not only in England that the scandal gained

circulation. Voltaire spread it through Europe in the

most ofi'ensive form. He was no opponent nor maligner

of Newton, but a fervent admirer and the writer who

first drew the attention of France to the theory of

`Igravitation. In 1765, in the ` Lettres Philosophiques'
(Letter 21),` he says:  thought in my youth that

Newton made his fortune by his merit. No such thing.

Isaac Newton had a very charming niece, Madame

  J* ` 'avais cru, dans ma jeunesse, que Newton avait fait sa fortune

par son extreme mérite. Je m'étais imagine que la cour et la ville

do Londres l'avaient nommé par acclamation grand maitro des
monnaies du royaume. Point du tout. Isaac Newton avait une
niece assez aimable, nommée Madame Conduit; elle plut beancoup au
grand trésorier, Halifax. Le calcul infinitesimal et la gravitation ne
lui auraient servi de rien sans une jolie niece.'

                                                                   1--2
4 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

Conduit, who made a conquest of the minister Halifax.

Fluxions and gravitation would have been of no use
without a pretty niece.' The last biographer of New
ton (Sir D. Brewster) declares that Voltaire ` makes no

Iinsinuation against the character of Miss Barton.' This
  refer to those who know Voltaire's writings, and have

learnt his manner. The insinuator, it will be observed,

represents the niece as a married woman ; and when a

Frenchman of his day, without any explanation,

describes a man as getting a place through the friend
ship of a minister for his married niece, he means more

than the simple words imply.

   Voltaire was in England during Mrs. Conduit's life ;
he was here three years at least, and left in 1728. The

answer to his stinging innuendo, so far as concerns
Newton's place at the Mint, lies in a couple of dates,
which show that Newton got his post while his niece
was a child; and in the further information, that her

uncle never had a tenement of his own, except .the old
Manor House at Woolsthorpe and a set of rooms in

college, until his ofiice at the Mint brought him to

London. But this answer was not given. The reason
undoubtedly was that biographers felt it worse than

useless to- answer only a part. They saw there was

something inexplicable about the matter, which it would

perhaps be as well to let alone. A lurking belief that

Voltaire had insinuated what was substantially true was

not at all uncommon, though hardly ever expressed in

print. People saw--that  is,  all who read about the

matter--that the biographers culled their conclusions;
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.  5

they admitted the attachment of Montague`to Catherine
Barton, and rejected the connection between them,

though every evidence of the first fact was accompanied
by exactly the same evidence of the second.

    But the belief in some sort of connivance, infrequent
and undefined, never made any head against the total
unbelief inspired by Newton's moral life and moral
reputation. Amidst all the controversies about his

scientific treatment of scientific opponents, his life has
stood without impeachment, and his reputation without
stain. Biographers have probably been fully persuaded
that, happen what might in the way of discovery,
Newton would be found faultless. Therefore, they
seemlto have inferred, ` Let well alone.' They ought to
have shown their faith by a most searching examina

Ition. A lawyer, of more than fifty years' experience in

cases civil and criminal, before whom put an abstract
of the case, pronounced that there must have been a

marriage if there were one decent person among the

three--Newton, friend, and niece. We might almost

draw the same conclusion from the certainty that both
the slanderer and the eulogist of Catherine Barton, in

print and at the time, make the uncontradicted state
ments that she lived in the house of Lord Halifax, and
from our knowing that the friendship of Newton and
Halifax suffered no diminution.

    The reserve of biographers about the illustrious dead

is a very unwise proceeding. There is another instance

of it by which, had additional presumptions in favour of
Newton been wanted, they might have remained want
 6 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

 ing. Newton had a half-nephew (his nephews and
 nieces were all of the half-blood, his mother's grand
 children), Benjamin Smith (born about 1700, rector of
 Linton-in-Craven, 1743-17 7 6), one of the most marked
 specimens of a profligate clergyman at a time when
 such specimens were more frequent than now by at least
 twenty to one, to speak charitably of past time ; and so
notorious in early youth, that his ordination produceed

-even at that time-what Warburton (afterwards
bishop) called a `furious scandal.' And it is a queer

illustration of the time that Dr. Stukeley, who thus
underwent Warburton's rebuke for giving B. Smith a
title, answered that he had refused him a testimonial,

and had only given him a title, which had reference to
his support, and not to his morals. And \Varburton
was pacified by this version of the matter, even to the
extent of congratulating Dr. Stukeley on the goodness
of his justification! (Notes and Queries, 2nd Ser., iii.

41.)

    To this nephew, when a very young man, Newton
wrote in such plain terms as his conduct justified,
describing his haunts and his practices in language
which decent people reserve for such occasions as im
peratively require it. The clergyman into whose hands

these letters fell after Smith's death, destroyed them, for

the sake of Newton's reputation. In his disgust at the

coarseness of their language, he forgot to consider the

necessity of the case. What followed? It oozed out

that Newton had written to his nephew letters so ob

jectionable, that a worthy clergyman destroyed them,
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.  7

lest they should damage the writer's character as a

respectable man : the clergyman himself furnished the

information that he burned them for `vulgar phraseology.'

But it did not transpire that the unpresentable language

was necessary to point out to a young profligate an

Iuncle's knowledge of his courses, until, a few years ago,

when availed myself of my acquaintance with relatives

of the clergyman who destroyed the letters. They dis

tinctly remembered the account he had given of what
Ibe destroyed.
                did not suggest the reason. It came
Iout without my informant's knowing what wanted to
I Idiscover; had a strong suspicion which carefully
Ifconcealed.
              it had become necessary, as might have

been the case, to collect every possible presumption

against Voltaire's insinuation, the loss of these letters,

or, at least, of their real character, would have been felt.

For there would have been lost the argument that an

uncle, who reproved his nephew's vices in strong and

irritating terms, could hardly have been an uncle upon

whom it might have been retorted that he was, or had

`been, a consenting party to the dishonour of his own

niece. And certainly, but for the good tradition still

existing, there would have been heard and seen in print

the sarcasm that though `Newton--as made prominent

by-the last biographer-was so austere in public, that he

broke with a colleague for one coarse story, he was
free enough in his private letters to a nephew. To

which, possibly, might have been added, that a hypocrite
in one thing is likely to be a hypocrite in all ; so that,

in spite of his apparent purity of life, he might have
8 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

countenanced an advantageous connection between his

patron and his relative. But by the simple truth be is

safe from all reproach and from all inference, except

that he used appropriate terms when more limited

language might have conveyed only equally limited

disapprobation to the nephew whom he wished to

reform.

  I Inow proceed to the string of facts from which

infer that Mrs. Catherine Barton, as by usage she would

have been styled, or Mrs. Barton, as for special reasons
she was often called, was privately married to Lord

IHalifax about April, 1706. From what have pub
Ilished at different times it will appear that have held

this conclusion in two different ways: before the dis

covery of Newton's letter, as the supposition on which

the circumstances take an air of probability which no

other will give ; after the discovery of that letter, as an

inference which cannot be avoided. (See Notes and

Queries, 1st Ser., viii. 258, 429, 543, 590; ix. 18 ; 2nd

Ser.,  161, 265, 390; iii. 41, 250, 297. See also

Brewster's `Life of Newton,' and the review which I.

wrote of it in the North British Review, for August,

1855, No. 46.)
   Charles Montague (born 1661, died May 19, 1715),

fourth son of a younger son of the first Earl of Man

chester, entered at Trinity College, Cambridge, in 1679.

Newton, nineteen years older (born December 25, 1642),
was then Lucasian Professor. Johnson says that he

was placed under the care of Dr. Montague, his rela

tive, Master of the College. This is most likely: for
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.  9

every student was then, as now, placed under the care

of one of the fellows, who was his tutor (in loco parentis,
not necessarily teacher). In our day, the number of
fellows who are tutors is limited; and they are teachers.
In the old time, many, probably the great majority, of _
the fellows were tutors ; Newton himself was one. Dr.

Montague was not Master until 1683, and so might
have been a tutor in 1679. Charles Montague gained a
fellowship, which be vacated in 1688. The records of a
college are a strange mixture of memories and oblivions.

Mr. Edleston is able to state that the rooms in which

he wrote his annals of Newton's life were those in which

Montague lived, and which he gave up at Midsummer,
1688. But the College does not know, nor will its

records tell, what sort of thing--some dispensation,

perhaps, to be got for money--was the supersedeas

which appears in Newton's accounts among his otiose et
frustra ewpensa. It has been suggested that it was a

quaint name for some kind of chair--a supposition by
no means to be rejected. As little would it have been

known what were the reashes which he ate with

sherbet, if we had not happened still to have the word

ruslcs.

    Newton had been Lucasian Professor ten years when

Montague entered college as a fellow-commoner--a grade
which, as the name imports, brought him into daily

communication with the fellows. It will appear from

this how completely, at the beginning of their acquaint-

ance, Newton was the great man and Montague the

little one. A warm friendship grew up between them.
10 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

Though of noble family, Montague was the younger

son of a younger son, not strong in purse, and intended

for the Church. Shortly before the Revolution, he

married his connexion, the Countess Dowager of Man

chester; she died in 1698. This lady was a daughter

of Sir Christopher Yelverton, Baronet, and had borne

nine children to her first husband, Robert, Earl of

Manchester, who died in 1682. The marriage must

have taken place in 1688, when he vacated his fellow

ship: he was then aged twenty-seven, and his bride

must have been at least ten, probably twenty, years

older. It is important to remember this, in reference

to some of what follows. Montague, a man of the

world, a wit and a satirist, feeling ridicule as fashion

able men of that day usually felt
a                                                  made his escape

                       it,
from the Church, and found his way into Parliament,

upon the jointure of lady many years older than him

self, whom he would certainly have been held to have

married for that jointure, as probably he did. The

scoffers of that dreaded corporation, `the Town,' when

his rapid rise in politics made him mark, held him up
a
        a
                                                a
to ridicule as the paroenu of public life, making his

entry, to use the phrase of one of the squibs, `under

the tutelage of venerable matron.' He had then the

position of burnt child with respect to what his world

would call an unsuitable marriage; and had therefore

more reason than most others to conceal any second

marriage, at which that world would have laughed, or

at which he would fear  I itmight laugh. The peer,

whose infamous deception      shall have to allude to
   W

--___ _`.---_¢---_.--

Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.              11

in the sequel, was one who had probably suffered under
similar ridicule: not for his own conduct, but for that
of his father, who married the daughter of a small
Dutch farmer. And perhaps Montague may have felt
that his own appearance would give zest to any ridicule
he might incur. The Duchess of Marlborough says of
him: `He was a frightful figure, and yet pretended to

be a lover; and followed several beauties who laughed
Iat him for it.'
                  assume the ladies' satire to have some

thing in it. Newton and Montague found themselves

colleagues in the Convention, which arranged the
Revolution of 1688-89. For this course of action

Montague soon passed Newton; and, by 1695, was a
minister of the Crown. Newton, it clearly appears,

formed during the earlier part of his parliamentary

carwr, if not before, a wish to be employed in public

affairs: this we may not call a sign of weakness; for it

subsequently turned out that part of his strength, both

intellectual and moral, lay in administration.  His

election to the Convention was a proof of high con

fidence in his power, out of science, on the part of the
members of the University: it may well be doubted

whether such a constituency, at such a crisis, would
have invested half their share of the settlement in a
compliment to the author of the `Principia,' which, it

may be added, was then little more than a twelvemonth
old. That desire of place was in Newton's mind, and

strongly fixed, there are two remarkable indications,

and Locke was the especial depository of his thoughts

and wishes on this subject. In a letter of 1692 is the
12 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

proof of the only coolness which Newton ever felt, so

far as known record goes, towards Montague: he is
inclined to believe that his friend is a false friend in

respect to his getting a place. In the well-known
letter to Locke of 1693, in which he begs pardon for

certain injurious suspicions, he represents himself as

having thought that Locke was trying to `embroil him

with women,' that a          as he proceeds to explain, `to sell
                        is,
him a place, and to embroil him.' Montague acted in

the matter like man who knew that his own power

was based entirely on opinion, and could be confirmed

only by success: he waited until he could put Newton

in his proper place; by which delay he incurred sus

picions of his friendship.   The renovation of the

coinage, resolved upon in 1695, was the opportunity:

Montague brought Newton to the London Mint, Halley

to the Chester Mint, and Locke to the Board of Trade.

Perhaps this was hardly patronage to an old friend:
                  is
                     it
                           is

                                  if

                                                it
                                                                        a it
may be that Newton would in any case have been

selected on the same grounds which determined the

selection of Locke or Halley: unless we prefer the
hypothesis that Newton brought in his friends. But

there are indications that he was not strong enough for

this. A few days before his actual appointment, in

lettei" of wounded feeling, he begs  may be contra

dicted that he to be comptroller; he does not want

any oflice at all;           clear that the inferior ofiice had

been offered, and indignantly rejected. And here, again,

we should perhaps be wrong we attributed the refusal

to feelings connected with the dignity or salary of the
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.              13

post offered to him. He knew the kind of undertaking

which he was brought in to superintend; and he may

have formed his own opinion as to the position he must

occupy in order to be able to carry out his own views.

It was notorious that the place on which Newton pro

bably insisted, the wardenship,'had become a sinecure,

and had been held by fine gentlemen who rarely showed

their faces at the Mint. Newton may have guessed--he

did guess harder things--that he as warden, with an

efiicient comptroller under him, could do new and heavy

work better than as comptroller, with a fine gentleman

warden over him; if so, the success of his operations is

a presumption of the correctness of his views.

Newton was appointed Warden of the Mint in March,

1695-96, with £600 a year ; and succeeded to the

Mastership in 1699, with £1,500 a year. This second

step was not patronage; Newton had been mainly

instrumental in giving to Montague much reputation

and a peerage, and the promotion was his due, and

especially from a minister who had publicly declared that

I Ihe could not have got through the coinage matter with

out him. When first took up this subject, made

some investigation about the renovation of the coinage,

Iand formed a much stronger opinion of the difiiculties

and hazards of the crisis than could find expressed by

anyone who had then written on the history of the
Itime. Since
              made that little inquiry Macaulay's

account has appeared, which, to me at least, has none

Iof that exaggeration for the sake of effect with which
some charge the readable historian.  suspect that, by
14 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

assumption of converse, the describers of the past are

often gauged by a test of this kind. Ifthe volume,

when taken from the shelf, give no dust, it                  is,      Brilliant
`Jfellow! shallow dog!' If the air be somewhat obscured,
then, udicious writer trustworthy guide                         !' `  But  if
         !
                       !

                             a
there be no breathing without cough for ten seconds,

`      Profound inquirer sound philosopher               !'

      a If there be one or two clouds upon part of N ewton's

memory, in matters of temper and behaviour towards

other men of science, there not speck upon his fame
         a

           is

                       a
                                        is

                                            is
as public officer, whether as to talent, judgment, or
even our highest standard of integrity. It
                                                                      to my

purpose to remind the reader of this. We may feel
pretty sure that the direction of the Mint now per

manently established as scientific office. From the

death of Conduit, Newton's successor, down to the
appointment of Sir John Herschel, in 1850, the Mint

was usually held by one or another of those gifted

politicians, whose qualifications for coining money,

carving letters, etc., etc. were so nicely balanced that
         is

             a

                                                      ,

                                                    is
their positions were of necessity settled by circum

stances, independent of the duties they had to perform.

There    little coincidence which just worth noting,

as pro tantulo assimilating the career of Newton and his

remote scientific successor. Newton added one coin to

the national list, the gold quarter-guinea, which con

tinued in circulation until towards the end of the last

century. Sir John Herschel had die constructed for
                            ;
                                a

                                          a
the gold quarter-sovereign  few coins were struck off,

but none were issued. Newton created the coin for
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.       15

circulation ; Sir John Herschel produced his specimens
to show that the coin would be so small that it must

often be lost ; for which, and other good reasons, he was »

against the proposal. (See my notes on the `History
of the Coinage,' in the ` Companion to the Almanac ' for

1856. And if you happen to have the index to the

Edinburgh Review, please make the following correction:

for `De M. (A.), his services in the renovation of the

coinage,' read `De M. (A.), his account of Newton's

services,' etc.') '
   Catherine Barton (born, 1680 ; died, 1739) was the

daughter of Newton's half-sister, Hannah Smith, who

was the daughter of Newton's mother and her second

Jhusband, Barnabas Smith, a clergyman (married, an

uary, 1645 ; died about 1656). Mr. Barton was also a
clergyman. His status in society is a part of the pre-

sumable reason why Montague should wish to conceal
a marriage with Miss Barton, if such a thing took place.

IIt is desirable my reader should know at once that
I Ihave nothing to do with this reason.
think prove

the marriage, and in a manner wholly unconnected with
                                                                                              '

the motives for concealment.

   A memorandum of Conduit, Miss Barton's (second)

husband, is preserved, stating that the Bartons of Brig

stock possessed estates in Northamptonshire for several
hundred years, and were nearly related to the Earl of
Rockingham, Lord Grifiin, Sir Jeffrey Palmer, and other
honourable families in that neighbourhood. To which

Mrs. Conduit her'self adds they were descended from

the Swinfords ; and to this the biographer further adds,
16 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

for the greater glory of Miss Barton, ' from Catherine

Swinford, the wife of Sir Hugh Swinford, who became

the mistress of John of Gaunt.' If the family had been

flourishing, we should have been told the name of the

reigning chief; in all probability it was decayed, and

may have been no greater than that of Newton of

Woolsthorpe, of which manor Sir Isaac was lord from

the moment of his birth to that of his death. . The

question is whether there was anything in all this which
would have made the wits and the versifiers see more

in the wife of the gay minister than the daughter of a

country parson without a penny.

   A correspondent of Notes and Queries, who seems to

be a connection of the Barton family, and has furnished

details of their history, does not give so decided an

account of their position. He says (1st Ser., viii. 543):
` The Montagues had a residence in the village of Brig

stock, in Northamptonshire, where the Bartons lived.

The Bartons were a family of good descent, and had

long been lessees of the Crown, with the Montagues,
                            If these Montagues
Ifor lands near Braystock'
be, as suppose, the family of Lord Halifax, the dis

covery of the descendant of the co-lessees of his ances

tors in the niece of his old friend would be of a tendency

to promote the growth of acquaintance.  .

A person must have some notion of the real tone of

the time before he can judge what the coffee-house wits

would have said. Addison's Spectator, etc., gives only

the same sort of notion which Scott's Ivanhoe gives of

the brutality of a Norman baron. Modern sensibilities
               Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.          17

--in England at least--require that the bugle should
sound before the poor Jew is actually broiling on the
coals; and Addison could not have painted real life in
all its colours without much risk of his nose being slit.

      is,
                           it

                                                     a
That           in the character of reproving moralist; he

might have cracked up, as the Americans say, with

every encouragement.

   The gay world made little account of the rural

aristocracy, except when the wealth or the rank was

great. Respect for descent from worthy ancestors of

local importance was not the feeling of the classes for
whom the lower novelists wrote. Many will remember

the school of what were called fashionable novels, which
flourished forty years ago. They described coteries of

trumpery men and women, who by virtue of having

nothing to do, and being quite unable to do             a itthey

had, constituted themselvesa                               ifclass apart, paid the
                              a
Crown slight respect, with deep sense of the honour           I
they conferred, and ostracised the Duke of Wellington
a
as of vilain ton--a reproach which Byron borrowed.a
remember one of these productions, in which fashion

able minister--a Halifax of our day-had condescended

to marry the daughter of considerable country baronet,a
  very pompous goose, no doubt; but the exigencies of

these novels made all rural gentlemen geese who did not

spend the season in London, that they might set the
fools feeding and dancing. The remarks which were
made, and the ridicule which was cast upon this un

worthy derogator, were just such as subsequent reading

about the time of Anne showed me as likely to have

                                                        2
18 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

been made, with all the coarseness of the earlier period,

Iupon such a marriage as believe to have privately

taken place. This marriage, notwithstanding the uncle's
fame and position, would have been looked upon as
laughable in the gay minister of State, and would have

been measured by the father's position, and the money
prospects of the uncle, in 1706. The Frenchman's
comment upon such a match would have been a mild
expression of public opinion. ` Elle est bien quant a la
physique; mais quant a la morale! trois mille francs;

pas davantagel'

   Miss Barton was educated by Newton, and she alone,
so far as positively known, of all his nephews and

nieces; she was probably an orphan, and certainly
without means. She had one brother, who was in the

army, and was killed in 1711; his death was better

than his life, and nothing known of him at all relates to

his sister. In 1700 the niece, then aged twenty, had

become a resident in her uncle's house, and was in the

country for recovery from small-pox. It has been afiirmed

by the biographer, who introduces positive assertions

pro re nata, that she had not come to London in 1700.

Of this the reader shall judge for himself from the letter

which Newton wrote to her, fortunately preserved by

his having made some Mint calculations on the back of
Iit after her return.
                       premise that, independently of

Conduitt's information, Catherine Barton was educated

by Newton. A connection of the family (who signs H.)

writes in the Gentleman's llfagazine: ` He had a half

sister who had a daughter to whom he gave the best of
Newton: his Friend : and his Niece.                                                               19

educations--the famous witty ll'liss Barton, who married
Mr. Conduitt of the Mint.'

` To Mrs. Catherine Barton, at Mr. Ayres, at Pudlicot, near "feed

stock, in Oxfordshire.

                                                                  ` LONDON, August 5, 1700.
   `DEAR NIECE,

      `I have your two letters, and am glad the air agrees with
Iyou; and though the fever is loath toleavc you, yet hope it abates,

and that the remains of the small-pox are dropping off apace. Sir
IJoseph Tilley is leaving Mr. Toll's house, and it's probable may
Isucceed him.
               intend to send you some wine by the next carrier,
Iwhich beg the favour of Mr. Gyre and his lady to accept. My

Lady Norris thinks you forget your promise to write her, and wants

a letter from you. Pray let me know by your next how your face

and the fever be going. Perhaps warm milk from the cow
is,

         if

        if
                                                                     `

                                                               is `

                                                                                  a
may help to abate it.  `I am,

                        Your very loving Uncle,

                                                                                   Is. New-row.'

Now, anyone cannot see that this                                                     letter written

to an inmate of the writer's house, away for change of

air, no one can make him: every line breathes implied

appeal to the receiver's knowledge of London. Miss

Barton, aged twenty, could hardly have known Lady

Norris up to the point of correspondence she had
never lived in town. And the girl who had not lived
               is

                                   T
                                                   if

                                                                         is,
with her uncle to know Mr. oll's house, that the

house of which Mr. Toll was landlord; of this we are to

suppose her uncle had informed her in previous corre

spondence, just to keep her ready for what might happen,

before Sir Joseph Tilley had made up his mind to seek

                       wonder he had gone all the way
another residence.     I

                                   if

up the street, to be in omnia paratus? It should be

                                                                                     2--2
20 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

added that Newton, who was then in Jermyn Street,

did not change his residence until 1709, when he resided
in Chelsea for a year, and then in the house in Martin

Street, at the corner of Leicester Fields, which is so

well known as his abode.

    Miss Barton, then, was with her uncle before 1700:

the presumption is that she began to keep his house in

1697, as soon as he had a house to keep; she would

then have been just about leaving school. Where and

what she was from 1706 to 1715, is the main object of

the present inquiry. In August, 1717, she married John
Conduitt, M.P., who was in the Mint during Newton's

life, and succeeded him at his death. Mr. and Mrs.

Conduitt lived with Newton, when in town, from their

marriage until his death. Mrs. Conduitt's only child, a

daughter, Catherine, married, in 1740, John Wallop,

afterwards Lord Lymington, his father being created

Earl of Portsmouth in 1743. This explains how

Newton's papers, which came into Mrs. Conduitt's hands,

became the property of the Earls of Portsmouth, who

are the descendants of Newton's mother, and, by failure

of the male line, as near as any to Newton in blood. A

grandson of Catherine Wallop took the name of Fellowes,

on  succeeding  a  maternal  uncle.

'   In the life of Sydney Smith, by his daughter, Lady

(Sir Henry)"" Holland (1855). There was a startling

* We want some way of distinguishing ladies which shall be shorter
Ithan a full and additional description of their husbands.
                                                            have

met persons who had a vague idea that Lady (Lord) Holland wrote

the ` Life' in question. It is not to be wondered at. Sydney Smith
Newton : his Friend: and his Niece.  21

announcement that the famous witty divine was the
grandson of `the famous witty' Catherine Barton, who
was alleged to have married M. Olier, a French refugee.

In the second edition reference is made to a correction

by Sir D. Brewster, and further inquiry is hinted at.

In the fourth edition the lady is ilfaria Barton, alleged

to be of the same stock. This may easily be true, for

Colonel Barton, Catherine's brother, left children, and

thus Sydney Smith probably is adescendant of Newton's

mother. It is even possible that the wit of Sydney Smith

and of his great great aunt may have a family likeness:
but not a word of the lady is preserved to judge by.

   Mr. Conduitt left certain family memoranda, one of
which states that his wife lived with her uncle, before and

after her marriage with himself, nearly twenty years.
Newton lived in London just short` of thirty-one years,
from his appointment in March, 1696, to his death in
March, 1727. Conduitt's rough mode of speaking will

be amply verified, if allowing her to have joined her

uncle before 1698, when she was eighteen, she were away

from him during the interval 1706--1715. And

Ithis is the period which believe to have been that of

her marriage with Halifax, as he was then called. The

circumstances attending the beginning, duration, and
end of this period, followed by the letter which Newton
wrote immediately after the death of Halifax, form the

proof of the marriage. There are corroborations, and

was a visitor at Holland House, the lady of which was well known
for her talents ; in a couple of generations it may be the common

story.
22 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

there are difficulties : these the reader may deal with as

he pleases: there is no upsetting the facts from which

my inference is drawn.
   April 12th, 1706, Halifax added a codicil to a will

made two days before, in ' which codicil he left Miss

Barton all his jewels and £3,000. He left these legacies--

and the words must be carefully noted with reference to

an additional word used at a later period----` as a small

Itoken of the great love and affection have long had for

her.' In this same year (October 26th) an annuity of

£200 a year for the use of Catherine Barton, and on

her life, was bought by somebody in Newton's name, and

held in trust by Halifax. That the purchaser was

either Newton or Halifax may be assumed. If Newton,

it would have been as easy to have said it as to have
used language which rather implies the contrary, and it

would have been far more respectable ; for annuities pre

sented to young and beautiful women by other than

near relatives have an awkward look even now, and

would have looked worse in 1706. It must be re

membered that £200 a year was then an afiluent provi

sion for a single woman, fully equivalent in purchasing

power to £500 a year at the present time.

Looking at Miss Barton's age, it is hardly to be thought

that this annuity could have been bought for £2,000, at
Iwhich, as a minimum,  may place it: De Moivre,

reckoning as high as six per cent, would have made it

£2,400; and De Moivre, Newton's intimate friend, and

the first actuary of the day, would almost certainly have

been consulted. Newton, when at Cambridge, could
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.                         23

not have saved money. In 1676, he was excused the

payment of a shilling a week to the Royal Society : and

Ithough suspect, with Mr. Edleston, that his applica

tion to be excused was made under the impression that

he would speedily have to vacate his fellowship ; yet we

never hear of his being able to renew his contributions

during his Cambridge career. He had enjoyed £600

a year for four years, and £1,500 a year for six years,

receiving thus £11,400 in ten years, from which

a deduction must be made for expenses of settle

ment in London and of taking possession of ol`fice.
Newton's patrimony, though he was lord with court leet

Iand court baron, and pit and gallows too for aught

know, was only £30 a year; his matrimony, as we

should have called  it,  the word had not been strangely

                      if

divorced, was an estate of £50 year belonging to his
                          a

mother, and parcel of land,' value not stated, which
           a

               `

his mother made   it  a  condition of her second marriage

should be settled by her intended husband on the son of

her former marriage. Some take the estate of £50 and

the parcel of land to be all one. His fellowship at

Trinity, as resource in London (at Cambridge there
was also board and lodging), was pittance, the amount
           a
                                                        a

of which may be guessed at by the description of that

simple-minded genius, Dr. Barrow. Speaking of
                                                           is

                                                                            a
gentleman who resigned his fellowship, rather than take

orders, he says: `Indeed fellowship with us now so
is
                                                      worth holding by an
          I
                                                   a

                                        it
poor that  cannot think

ingenuous person upon terms of so much scruple.' This

vague, as Barrow does not give any notion of the rate
    24 Newton: his Friend : and his Niece.

per annum at which an ingenuous person can keep

    down scruples ; but all things put together we may be

pretty sure that a Trinity fellowship did not yield £60 a

    year to a non-resident. Newton held his fellowship

    Iuntil 1701. The Lucasian Professorship was reckoned,

    when was an undergraduate, worth £100 a year; in

    Newton's time it was probably less : he held the profits

    I Iuntil 1699. (Since wrote this, have come upon Mr.

    Edleston's publication of the college accounts during
    Newton's time, by which it appears that £28 rather

    overdoes the average money value of the fellowship ; this

    includes the allowance pro pane et potu--breakfast

    money we may call and so subject to some deduca

    tion for non-residence. This, with rooms and dinner,it,

                           a

                                  is
    includes everything. Mr. Edleston puts the Lucasian

    professorship at £100 year: but here he has no guide,

    and probably speaks by the present time. To Mr. Airy

I it   was worth £99 year.) There not much likelihood

    that, by 1706, he should have saved £2,000. It
                                               is        a is

                                                      a
    incredible that he should have saved great deal more.

    Now Newton had peculiar notions about the claims of
    next of kin he seems to have thought that they had
               ;
    right- to the way in which the law distributes the person
                 a
    ality of intestates. He made no will, but he gave theof,
                                            a
    children of    deceased nephew (Catherine's brother)

    their share during his lifetime. The unworthy nephew

      have spoken  shared with the rest, as did Mr.

    Conduitt, the annuity.* All these things put together

       * This Smith was certainly loose talker. He gave accounts of
    his uncle which contain only what he might have found in print,
Newton: his Friend; and his Niece.  25

make it incredible that the annuity, so large as it was,
could or would have been bought by Newton ; a moderate
provision would have had less improbability, and we
cannot suppose that, if he had given Miss Barton her share
during her life-and the annuity would have been a

lion's share, looking at his age and hers, and valued by
actuary's lore, which Newton understood as well as any
man--he would have allowed her to take with the rest,

after Halifax had made her richer than himself, as we

shall see, and she had married a member of Parliament

of ample means. Her daughter passed for having
£60,000 in possession or reversion, when she married
Mr. \Vallop: so said the Gentleman's hlagazine, which
used in those days to give the reputed fortunes of new

made brides. It would have better deserved its name if

it had given the fortunes of those who were left.
    Finally, and conclusively, Conduitt left a list of the

and some of it palpably false. He represented himself as having
been left £500 a year in land, though all the world knew that Newton
died intestate, and that aNewton was lieir-atrlaw. He had his share
of the money, as one of the next-of-kin. He represented himself to

his clerical friend as author of the song beginning :

                               ` Young Orpheus tickled his harp so well,
              , With a twinkum, twankum, twang,' etc.

This is possible, but not probable, for Smith was born about 1700,
and the song was so well established in 1729 that the tune to which
it went was referred to as the air of `Old Orpheus tickled,' etc.
One of the airs in ` Folly,' Gay's second part of the `Beggar's'
Opera (1729), which was refused licence on political grounds, is
described as to this tune. In 1705-18 there were two masques and
a ballet, as we now call on the subject of `Orpheus and this
probably the period of the song.
it,

                                                                ;'

                                                                      is
26 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

benefactions which Newton bestowed on his relations
during his lifetime, in which there is not a word about
any annuity bought for Miss Barton. And this, though
the annuity itself had been published to all the world in

Halifax's will, in terms of severe ambiguity. It was

not then Newton who bought the annuity; it must have
been Halifax, who accordingly in 1706, besides leaving
Miss Barton all his jewels and £3,000, presented her
with an annuity of £200 a year, with the consent of her

Iuncle, in whose name it was bought.
   Next, am to ask what account can be got of Miss

Barton during the time (1706--17l5) between the gift
of the annuity and the death of the giver. On this

point there are three evidences from very different

quarters. It is quite certain that she and Halifax .were

very frequently together, either in her uncle's house or

elsewhere; and if it were in her uncle's house, no one

who frequently mentioned both their names could have
any reason, either to avoid all allusion to their know
ledge of each other, or to avoid all mention of Newton.

   Dean Swift (not yet Dean) was during the period an
intimate acquaintance of Miss Barton, for whom he had
a genuine respect and affection. She was, as the
Gentle-man's lllagazihe afterwards called her, the ` famous
witty Miss Barton.' Swift, as is well known, had an

intellectual craving for intelligent female society. It

cannot be traced that Swift had the smallest acquaint
ance with Newton, either in private or in public, and
there is hardly such a thing as an allusion to Newton in
his writings. There is one burlesque compliment in
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.  27

the preface to his Polite Conversation, which, as most

readers will not have seen it--I prefer this phrase to

the usual statement that every higher-form schoolboy

knows it--I quote:

  I`And yet so incurable is the love of detraction, perhaps beyond

what the charitable reader will easily believe that have been

assured by more than one credible person, how some of my enemies
have industriously whispered about that one Isaac Newton, an in
strument-maker, living near [Swift should have said in, which will
presently be worth some note] Leicester Fields, and afterwards [he

should have said then, which also note; it would seem that Swift
fancied Newton had an ofiicial residence in the Mint, when master] a
workman at the Mint in the Tower, might possibly pretend to vie
with me for fame in future time. The man, it seems, was knighted
for making sun-dials better than others of his trade, and was thought

to be a conjuror, because he knew how to draw lines and circles
upon a slate, which nobody could understand. But adieu to all

noble attempts for endless renown, if the ghost of an obscure me

chanic shall be raised up to enter into competition with me, only
for his skill in making pothooks and hangers with a pencil, which

many thousand accomplished gentlemen and ladies can perform as
well with a pen and ink upon a piece of paper, and in a manner as
little intelligible as those of Sir Isaac.'

Swift was an old acquaintance, and in his Whig days

a political friend of Halifax. As late as October, 1709,

`IHalifax was endeavouring to procure him promotion.
In that month he writes:  am quite ashamed for

myself and my friends to see you left in a place so in

Icapable of testing you. . . . Mr. Addison and are

entered into a new confederacy. . . . till your worth is

placed in that light it ought to shine. Dr. South holds

out still, but he cannot be immortal. . . . And upon

Iall occasions that shall offer, will be your constant
28 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

solicitor, your sincere admirer, and your unalterable
friend.' Four years afterwards, the unalterable friend

called Swift a villain in the House of Lords, or assented

to the name when given by another. But then Swift

had joined the Tories, and had written very naughty

antiwhiggery. This point must be noted: Torifaction
began in 1710, and was a gradual process.

   In l7l0--1711, as appears by his journal to Stella,

he often visited Miss Barton at her lodgings. This word

did not then mean hired apartments, but any residence
whatever, even the rooms of a guest in the house of his

host, or of a prisoner in the Tower. Strafl'ord's plan

was to enable the Crown to keep up the army without
any aid `from the king's lodgings!' Nor did it imply
part of a house, as distinguished from the whole, it is the
synonyms of residence, as now used. Sir D. Brewster,

who professes to quote all the passages of the Journal
in which either is mentioned, gives the passage in which

Swift dines with Miss Barton at her lodgings, and

explains that, because Newton was then changing his

house, she was probably in lodgings in our modern
sense. But he omits the passage in which, near the

same time, Swift dines with Halifax at his lodgings : no

reason suggested itself why the rich minister of the

Crown should happen to be living in apartments at so

much a week. To no one mention of Miss Barton does

Swift attach the name of the husband, uncle, or other

relative with whom she lived ; he does not even describe
Ifher as Newton's niece.
                          the lodging had been in

Newton's house, it is very difiicult to see how Swift,
Newton: his F'rie'ncl : and his Niece.                 29

who was giving Stella every possible gossip, great and

small, could have avoided all allusion to his frequent

visits at the house of the world-famous author of the

`Principia,' Master of the Mint, and President of the

Royal Society. We have seen that Swift must have

afterwards believed that Newton lived at the Mint, as

Master, after living in Leicester Fields: not a likely slip

for a man who had often visited at the house of the

Master of the Mint in Leicester Fields. But why

should he write to Stella about his friends' friends, in
Iwhom she could take no interest?
                                                       know not why,
Ibut know that he did so in hundreds of cases ; and,

especially, he notes the death of Colonel Barton,

Catherine's good-for-nothing brother, for whom she

could mourn only as ` matter of form.' The number of

subjects connected with literature, and sometimes with

science, according to his notion of which he ventures
a
              a

            it

                                             a

                                                  it,
A to bring forward, as non secus ac nota, show that Stella

had tolerable stock of reading, notwithstanding what
we know of her small share of regular education. When,

towards the end, he makes his first--I think his only--

mention of new friend who was to be an old one

`Mr. Pope has published fine poem called Windsor

Forest: read '--he seems to imply that all the new

literature was at once within Stella's reach. It
                                                       ;
incredible that he should have come in contact with
                                                           is
Newton, time after time, without ever naming him he

gives the visits of every day. Observe that the question

lies between Miss Barton living in Halifax's or in

Newton's house.  I  have met with some who, to recon
                    '

30 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

cile matters, suppose she left her old uncle--who, by
their account, was the person who had just bought her
£200 a year--while she lived alone in her own lodg

Iings, seeing fashionable company ; with these need not

argue.

  If Swift met Miss Barton at the house of Lord

Halifax, the peculiar circumstances would more easily
explain why the host is never mentioned in conjunction

with the lady. It can be gathered from Swift's account

that she was in respectable society, and that her private
conversation with her bachelor friend had the full
freedom of a married woman of that time, being a trifle
more than the freedom of our own. This appears from
anecdotes which he gives Stella, as told by Miss Barton.
These anecdotes Sir D. Brewster has omitted from
the list of passages which he professes to give entire.

If these conversations took place in Halifax's house, we

can imagine why Swift was silent on the relation of his
two friends. Stella was afterwards his own privately
married wife; but whether she were so in 1710-11 is
not known; and it is probable that his own position
would render an allusion to similar circumstances, in

Ianother case, difficult and embarrassing. For myself,

am inclined to believe that Swift was married to Stella

before he left Ireland, though a later date is usually

 assigned.
    Again, suppose Miss Barton living in Newton's house,

 . nd Halifax her frequent visitor, attracted by the charm
 of her wit and intelligence, and an older friend's admira
 tion of her beauty. Swift, too, is another friend of the
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.  31

same kind. The two are among Swift's dearest: he

`loves' Halifax better than any Whig, and Miss Barton

better than anybody. The two are certainly intimates.

Swift dines with both, talks with both, inveighs against

the Whiggery of both. But he never mentions them in

the same sentence; never refers to either in any way

which contains allusion to the other. There is not even

so much as a rap at the lady's VVhiggery as the retail of

Halifax's wholesale. This is unlike all the rest of the

journal, which is one of the most gossiping records of

who and who were together that ever was otted down.

It is marvellous, if there were no special reason for

silence. He dines with Halifax by invitation on the

28th, and with Miss Barton alone on the 30th. This

he writes in sentences separated by a few lines. And

not even then, when the names of the two dear friends

of himself and of each other come almost out of the        '

same dip of ink, does he make any allusion to their
Ifknowledge of each other.
                            indeed all the circum

stances should prove that they were living together in

private marriage, we can understand the studied silence,

and we can find no difiiculty in the adjacent visits.

\Ve may fancy we hear the lady say, in the party of the
28th, ` We can have no talk with all these people round
us; come and dine with me the day after to-morrow,

when the earl will be out, and we can chat at our

ease.'

   Something may be drawn from the way in which
Swift speaks of his friend; she is always Jlfrs. Barton.
By the (declining) usage of the day, as a single girl

                                                                                                                                                                               A
32 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

who is what is now called out, she would have been

IMrs. Catherine Barton; as a girl in the nursery, she
would have been Miss.  should not have insisted on

this taken alone; for Swift, who had lived in the country

or' in Ireland nearly all his life, might easily have been

ignorant or negligent on such a point. But there is

more: Swift, whether by being in advance of his age, or
because the Irish habit differed from the English, was

an inveterate M iss-er of single women. The fast young

lady of the Polite Conversatimi is always Miss Notable;

the publication was in 1738, but the dialogues were

written many years before. We go back to the ournal,

and find a correction which shows that he paid attention

to such points. Miss Forester, as Swift calls her when

he first names her, a maid of honour, was twenty-three

years old in 1711. Ten years before she had been

married to a boy of fifteen, Sir George Downing; and,

as usual in such cases, of which several are recorded,

the bridegroom was at once removed. In this case Sir

George Downing continued on his travels for more than

ten years. The pair at last found out that neither had

any liking for the other, and a suit of nullity by reason

of age was in progress in 1715. A pamphlet then calls

the lady .Mrs. Forester; and this title she seems to have

borne in right of her ring. When Swift mentions her

again, two months afterwards, he seems to have learnt

her history, for she is then styled Mistress. \Ve may

from such slight points take Swift as good evidence

that his friend was styled illrs. Barton, which agrees

with the biographer of Halifax, as presently mentioned.
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.  33

As a single girl in the house of her uncle, she could not
have been so styled; the Christian name must have

been inserted.

    She thus passed for a wife or a widow. Baily, stating
that she was not the widow of Colonel Barton, adds--
and is followed by Sir D. Brewster--that Mrs. was in
that day the title of unmarried ladies. So it was ; but

not without the Christian name. In law-papers, wills,

etc., even down to our own day, the Christian name is
added; and notice would be served on Mary Smith,
widow, as `Mrs. Mary Smith.' This explains how
Mrs. Barton, as she certainly was called in 1710, is
Mrs. Catherine Barton in her register of marriage with
Conduitt. But, out of law form, Miss Mary of the
nursery became Mrs. Mary of the drawing-room, and
so continued until marriage. The transition remained

a usage until within forty years of this day; but it

shifted its period. Miss Mary passed all her youth
under that name, and became Mrs. Mary--or took brevet
rank, as the ladies used to say, in ignorance of the old
usage--at such time as she chose to call herself an old
maid. This has now disappeared; and the Americans

are making a new step, and beginning to call wives by
the title of Miss.

   In 1710, and again in 1711, a Mrs. de la Riviera

Manley published what she called `Memoirs ' . . .
written by Eginardus. This work was reprinted several

times, and had a great run. It contained a great

quantity of current scandal; had it been better known
in our day, Macaulay would not have been unable to

                                                                                                 3
34 Newton : his Friend: and his Niece.

trace the meaning of Pope's allusion to the handsome sum
which the Duchess of Cleveland gave to young Churchill:

              `The gallant, too, to whom she paid it down,
                 Lived to refuse his mistress half-a-crown.'

Mrs. Manley says that Churchill, when holding the
bank at play`in a private party, refused to lend twenty
pieces to the duchess, who had lost all her money.

   In it Catherine Barton, under the name of Bartica,
is distinctly represented as the mistress of Lord Halifax;

and Halifax is represented as saying that he had got
her ` worthy ancient parent 0. good post for connivance.'
The word parent is used in the French sense. Mrs.
Manley (de la Riviere by birth) was born and bred in
Guernsey; she talks of a person rendering himself to a
place, etc. That this story was never noticed nor
answered at the time proves nothing; but when we
come to the wording of Lord Halifax's last will, we
shall see how much the knowledge which he must have
had of Mrs. Manley's story, and its circulation, augments
the presumption to be derived from his own description
of the relation between himself and Miss Barton.

   It is very remarkable that Swift, who, bold as the

 word may be, was as much the foe of immorality as he

Iwas the friend of indecorum, was partial to Mrs. Manley.
   have seen it said that they were joined in the editor
 ship of the Examiner ; but this seems to be a perversion
 of an equally erroneous statement of Steel's. He speaks
 half in satire of her first edition as the ` noble memoirs

 of Europe.' When Harley was stabbed by Guiscard at
 the Privy Council, Swift, whose`intimacy with Harley
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.                          35.

and his friends gave him the best information, sent
`hints' to Mrs. Manley for a sixpenny narrative. He
interceded with Lord Peterborough for a pension,
grounded on the Atalantis--a former work of 1709--

which was a satire on the Whigs; and he dined with

her at the desire, and even, it would seem, in the

company, of Mrs. Van Homrigh.*

One thing seems to me insuperably probable. Halifax

was, of all the Whigs, the one whom Swift continued to
`Iregard as a friend.
                       told him he was the only `Vhig
Iin England loved or had any good opinion of.' Of
`IMiss Barton he says,
                        love her better than anyone

here, and see her seldomer.' Swift was a strong friend

and partisan; if the story told in the Eginardus about

his two favourites had been a malicious turn given to

the familiar friendship of the two in Newton's house

and under Newton's sanction, showing Mrs. Manley

capable of deliberately originating the attempt to blast
the character of a woman--and that woman Catherine

Barton--in order to vex and lower a Whig leader--and

Halifax the man-I do not believe that Swift would

have furnished her with materials, or endeavoured to

get her a pension, or dined with her. But-and even

this much is strange, though one of the two suppositions
must be the truth--it may more easily be credited that
he was tolerant of a satire which only embodied a current

belief, arising out of her living in the house of Lord

Halifax; for which, as we shall presently be told, `those

   " For some information on this  subject, see Notes and   Queries,
vol. iii. 2nd sen, pp. 351, 392.
                                                      3--2
36 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

who were given to censure passed a judgment upon her
which she no ways merited '--and no wonder.

    The journal must be read by those who would know
how strong were the feelings of this arch satirist, and
how likely an unfounded aspersion on valued friends

would be to rouse him. Just after Harley was stabbed,
he writes to Stella in such agitation that his words seem

to misrepresent the place in which the crime was com

Imitted. ` Pray pardon my distraction ; now think of

all his kindness to me. The poor creature now lies
stabbed in his bed by a desperate French popish villain.

IGood-night, and God preserve you both and pity me--
   want it.' This story has many digressions as yet to
the matter; the following is wholly foreign. No story
has been ofizener repeated about Swift than that he
allowed Harley to call him Jonathan ; and this is always
 told to prove that he was a parasite who bore with dis
respectful familiarity from his political patrons. An
 odd imputation this on the man who, when Harley sent
 him money as payment for writing a pamphlet in aid of
 the cause, blew his patron up in strong language, and
 refused to go near him again until he had humbly
 apologized. Nothing is more notorious than the familiar
 arrogance with which Swift treated the ministers, who
 bore with it for the sake of his support. He dispatched
 one minister into the House of Commons to tell another

 that he would not dine with him if the hour were later

 Ithan six. These facts are adverse to the impression

  derived from Swift's toleration of familiarity; do not
  say they ought to create an opposite opinion about
            Newton: his Friend : and his Niece.  37

JSwift.     ohnson's remark may have truth as well as

pungency--` No man can pay a more servile tribute to

the great, than by suffering his liberty in their presence

to aggrandize him in his own esteem.' It is strange
that the whole story about Jonathan should rarely, if
ever, be made complete; often, if not always, the liberty

was such as would be that of calling a man a horse, by

way of saying that he was not an ass. Swift had a sore

point in his dislike of his cousin Thomas Swift, who,

among other things, was willing to be called the
principal author of the `Tale of a Tub.' Harley found
this out, and used to call him, and introduce as, Dr.

Thomas Swift, to his great disgust. It may be suspected

that often, perhaps from the beginning and always,

Jonathan was a joke which was to be read not Thomas

this time.  .

To return to the subject. All the slight indications

which can be gathered from Swift's journal seem to

confirm the belief that Miss Barton was not living with

her uncle. One, yet unmentioned, has two sides. Swift,

when in or near Leicester Fields (now Square), calls
Mrs. Barton his `near neighbour.' Now Newton lived
in a house touching Leicester Fields. Take this alone,
and we suppose the niece was living with her uncle.
But, independently of the silence about the uncle, how
are We to explain that Swift, who records his frequent
visits to many people he cared little about, at long

distances from his own lodging, complains that the one
he loved best he saw least of. Was it so difiicult to

look in for a gossip upon a neighbour who was close at
38 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

hand? \Ve know that Miss Barton returned his regard;

and we may suspect that the `famous witty' young lady

wouliliave let the cook spoil Uncle Isaac's favourite

pudding rather than miss a dish of talk with the author
of the ` Tale of a Tub.' Her character for wit and

Jintellect charmed all who have come down; as speaking

of her, ` 'ai conservé,', writes Remond de Montmort in

1716, `l'idée du monde la plus magnifique de son esprit

et de sa beauté.'

   Suppose that the lady was in the house of Lord

Halifax, and we see all about it; it was of increasing

difficulty for Swift, who had gone over, and was more
and more Torified every day, to keep up his connection
with Whigs, even when dear friends. We see his

intimacy with Halifax gradually drooping as the j ournal

goes on; and we may presume that he was obliged at
last to watch his opportunities, and to visit Miss Barton
when Halifax, and still more his friends, were out of
the way. His friendship with her continued to the end;

among his correspondence is preserved a letter from her

as Mrs. Conduitt. It is of Nov. 29, 1733, and is labelled
by the Dean, `My old friend Mrs. Barton, now Mrs.

Conduitt.' So completely is she isolated in the journal,
that it would be open to anyone, but for the label of
this letter, to contend that Mrs. Barton of the journal

was a different person from Newton's niece. It must be

added that there is record elsewhere of Swift being
employed by the Tory Government to carry to Miss
Barton a proposition for Newton's consideration, that
he should retire in favour of one of their friends upon a
              "Hf.. -- ._~H_W__

Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.            39

pension of £2,000 a year. Newton, whom a job repelled

at a higher rate than the inverse square of the distance--
though he was, in all honesty, both a place-hunter and

a money-hoarder--sent back that they might have the
Iplace, but he would not have a pension.
                                          wish he had

accepted the offer ; he would have made it a good job

for science.

   There may have been a temporary alienation. The
last time Swift mentions her, it is as vexing him with

Iher politics. ` have been so teased with Whiggish

discourse by Mrs. Barton and Lady Betty Germaine;
never saw the like.' As to Halifax, his friendship

seems to have ended, a year or two after, with an ex
plosion in the House of Lords, on the debate about
Swift's `Public Spirit of the \Vhigs.' Some accounts
give Wharton, some Halifax, as demanding the dis-1;
covery of `the villain who wrote that false and scandalous
libel ;' but the sentiment was in the mind of both ; and

both knew, what everyone else knew, that Swift was

the author.

    The rupture was complete, and Swift had bitter

recollections. At least, as long after as 1739, Swift, in

the note he made to the `Characters,' by Macky, as he

called himself, writes of Halifax : `His encouragements

I(of literature) were only good words and good dinners;
  never heard him say one good thing, or seem to taste
what was said by another.' Mrs. Conduitt's letter,

above mentioned, hints at a cessation of intimacy, and

refers to twenty years back from 1733, that is to the

time of the rupture with Halifax. She says :
40 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

  I` should have guessed your holiness would rather have laid than

called up the ghost of any departed friendship, which, since you are
brave enough to face, you will find divested of every terror but the
remorse that you were abandoned to be an alien to your friends, your
country, and yourself. Not to renew an acquaintance with one who
can, twenty years after, remember a bare intention to serve him,

Iwould be to throw away a prize am not now able to repurchase.'

   Swift had just as much as seen her in the long in

terval. In April, 1730, he writes to Lady Worsley:

I`How is our old friend Mrs. Barton (I forget her new
name) ?   saw her three years ago at Court, almost

dwindled to an echo, and hardly knew her. . .'

Sir D. Brewster quotes the passage in which Swift

says he sees no old friends except Lord Halifax, `and
him very seldom.' These words he puts in italics, of

which the meaning that he see Halifax but seldom,
          is,

                  if

                                   is
and Miss Barton were living with Halifax, he would

not often see Miss Barton, which against evidence.

But few lines further on, Sir D. Brewster has
a

to quote Swift as saying that he loves Miss Barton

better than anyone, and sees her seldomer.' These
          `
                                        :

                       I
words he does not put in italics so must.

   At the end of his list of quotations, Sir D. Brewster

says, that `after reading the preceding passages,  it

would be difiicult to understand how Mrs. Barton,

whom Swift esteemed and loved, could ever have

resided under the roof of Lord Halifax as his mistress.'
I:So say
          the impression on my mind        is  that Swift

alone clears her of this; and so thought Lord Macaulay,

as we shall see. But Sir D. Brewster gets into singular

confusions; he thinks, throughout his argument, that
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.  41

he upsets one whenever he makes out a strong pro

bability that Miss Barton is simply a friend. The

question between him and me is whether she was a

Platonic friend or a wife: it is amusing to see how

hard he fights against the marriage. Anyone who dips

into some parts of his book would suppose that the sole

Iquestion was, wife or mistress : for the wife, and he

for the mistress.

We may ask how Swift came to be acquainted with

Miss Barton at all. Sir D. Brewster says it was pro

bably through Lady Betty Germaine, whom he had

known from her childhood: the three are known to

have been once in company together, and this is all
that is in print of the acquaintance between Lord

Berkeley's daughter and Miss Barton. It is much

more likely that it was through Halifax, even on the

supposition that Miss Barton lived with her uncle, and

Halifax was but her intimate friend. Swift was much

backwards and forwards in London, from the time he

went to Ireland, and he spent all 1708, and part of

1709, in London. Hence, when in 1710, being again

in London, he began his journal to Stella, he might

easily have been acquainted with Miss Barton for

several years; it may be that the acquaintance com

menced in 1706, when, according to my verdict, Halifax

married Miss Barton. In 1709, Swift hints that he

gets political news from her; meaning, no doubt, that

Halifax was her informant. Writing to Mr. Hunter,

prisoner in France, he says: `Mrs. Barton is still in
Imy good graces.
                   design to make her tell me when
42 Newton : his Friend: and his Niece.

I Iyou are to be redeemed, and will send you word.

There's it now, you think am in jest; but assure

Iyou the best intelligence get of public affairs is from

ladies, for the ministers never tell me anything. . .'
When Halifax died, in 1715, a very eulogistic life was
immediately issued from the press of the notorious
Curll, written, it is said, by a certain William Pittis,
whose name is found in Watt, but this work is not

mentioned. A book of this publisher, it has been

argued, is of no authority: knowledge of the time
disputes this conclusion. The reader must remember

that in 1715 the bookseller performed functions now
almost entirely restricted to the editor of the political
or literary journal. As seller of, and solely responsible
for, hosts of anonymous pamphlets which were .very
effective, he kept open a kind of news-bazaar, of which
the articles were sold separately. His shop was an
emporium of gossip and intelligence--as gossip and in
telligence then went; slander and loyalty in one place,
slander and treason in another. His counter was

spread with flying sheets, which would in our day have

been articles, if our journals could have tolerated such

articles as they would have made. While the very best
of the publishers, as Tonson and Lintot, were not
accustomed to consider the pillory as quite out of

practical possibility, the very worst, who may have been
Curll and Tom Osborne, who had stood in the pillory,
were bond fide publishers of good literature, and risked
large sums on works of lasting value: take Curll's
county histories as an example. The very name of
     Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.                                43

Osborne is an illustration. He bore a bad character,

both as a publisher and as a man; but Sam Johnson

was afterwards in his employ, and the Harleian Cata
logue was from his press. And though it was rather

Osbornian to make a fifth volume of that catalogue out

of his own stock, and sell the contents as parts of Lord

Oxford's library, yet those contents do no discredit to

the collection described in the preceding volumes.

Curll was no worse than Osborne ; and Pittis may have

been as good in moral character as Johnson. When
the great lexicographer knocked Osborne down in his

own shop, the deed was done with a copy of the Septua

gint. In our time, possibly Osborne would have lived

in Holywell Street; but the Septuagint would, perhaps,

                                                                  it,
not have been at hand, nor a good man to use for

reproof or correction.      say perhaps, for even in our
               is
own day there  mixture of the sound and the tainted
                   a

                      it I
in the trade of some booksellers.

    We may rely upon that Curll's press, in serious

and eulogistic biography, did not circulate, far less

invent, groundless stories against the individuals whom

it  was praising and defending nor willingly admit and
                                                               ;

produce anything but what was too well known to be

denied or concealed. The writer says that, after the

death of his wife, Halifax determined on single life,

and

  Cast his eye upon the widow of one Colonel Barton, and niece of
the famous Sir Isaac Newton, to be superintendent of his domestic
affairs. But as this lady was young, beautiful, and gay, so those that
were given to censure passed judgment upon her which she no
ways merited, since she was woman of strict honour and virtue.'
`
                                                      a

                                                            a
44 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

   An additional sentence, assuring the reader that
Halifax's will clears her of all imputation, will be
quoted in connection with the will. We find then, and

without contradiction from Newton, the assertion that

Catherine Barton lived in Halifax's house as his house

keeper; and that an unfavourable judgment was passed

upon her by persons given to censure. The story is

one which the friendly biographer cannot but admit;

and his publication was a very different thing from

Mrs. Manley's. There is reason to think that the

biographer was in communication with the family of

Halifax. His article was the mortuary account of the

distinguished statesman, which, in our day, would have

been written for the leading newspapers. It was one of

the chief authorities for the article on Halifax in the

`Biographia Britannica,' in which it is quoted more

than thirty times, the passage above being given at
length, and fully relied on. And this biographer,
whose account was printed in 1760, stands to the time
of his narration as we, in 1866, stand to 1821. Men of

`P'; Isixty-five were adults when Halifax died. The signa
ture to the article is  but am not aware that

these signatures can now be identified. The signature

to `Newton ' is also `P'; but from that article it does

not even appear that Newton had a niece. No trace
of any contradiction exists: none by Newton on behalf

of his niece ; none by the husband whom she afterwards
married, not even in the memoranda which he left,

though those memoranda, as we have seen, mention

twenty years where thirty want explanation; none by
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.                              45

the niece herself when she furnished notes for her "

uncle's life to Fontenelle, though she must have been

aware of the charges made against that uncle on her

account; none by her daughter or her daughter's

husband, when Voltaire gave the worst version of the

story to Europe in an innuendo, which has all the force
Iof an assertion that the thing was well known.
                                                                may

add that the story has been generally credited, to the

extent of the biographer's fact, namely, that Miss

Barton did live in Halifax's house. The suppression
of Newton's biographers has given consent. Sir D.

Brewster, in his first life of Newton, allows this passage,
for he uses some of its words, to prove that Halifax

was strongly attached to Miss Barton, but suppresses

the main point, as follows (p. 250).

   `This accomplished nobleman was created Earl of Halifax in 17 00,
and after the death of his first [why first '!--what was lurking in
the author's mind in 1831 wife be conceived strong attachment
for Mrs. Catherine Barton, the widow of Colonel Barton [this
mistake has been rectified in our own day], and the niece of Newton.
This lady was young, gay, and beautiful, and though she did not

escape the censures of her contemporaries, she was regarded by those
who knew her as woman of strict honour and virtue. We are not

acquainted with the causes which prevented her union with the Earl
of Halifax . .
.'
     a
                              '1]
                                                             a

   The biographer of Halifax opens his paragraph in                 aa
curious way, near the end of his work.

  `I am now,' he says, `to account for another omission in the

course of this history, which that of the death of Lord Halifax's
lady, upon whose decease his lordship took resolution of living
single life thenceforward, and cast his eye upon the widow . . . (as

before).'
is
                           a
46 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

    The truth slips out: the biographer is not to supply

an omission, but to `account for ' it. It may be matter

of wonder that the story was mentioned at all; there

was no occasion for it. Reason for the insertion seems

to have arisen while the work was in preparation:

perhaps the curiosity which the legacies had excited,

and the stories set afloat about their cause, accompanied,

of course, by much revival of the slanderous stories in the

Eginardus. It may be suspected that it was at first in

tended to leave it to be supposed that Halifax had had

a wife who lasted his life, that it was found this would

Inot do, and that the omission was rectified and further
information given.  suppose the writer got into con

fusion ; and that, being in communication with Halifax's

nephew and successor, and perhaps some more of the

relatives, the 'widow included, too many cooks spoiled

the broth. It is important to remember that the bio

grapher and his advisers, aware of the slanderous state

ment which had been made, had a case which was

actually before the public to meet. His statement seems

to admit a good deal, even when looked on by those

who know nothing of Mrs. Manley. But as the answer
--such it must be held to be--to the positive assertions

which had been allowed to circulate for five years, it is

either full admission or a way of insinuating `a private

marriage. That                                         full ad
a
        is,
                                                   is
                    the housekeeper story

mission, unless the description of the-lady's untarnished

character in the mind of those who knew her be held

declaration of private marriage.

From Miss Barton being mentioned, as widow of
Newton : his Friend: and his Niece.  47

Colonel Barton, it may be supposed that she had passed
under the character of a widow. That she had lived in

Halifax's house is clear; and no one will suppose that

she left her old uncle, who wanted a housekeeper as

much as Halifax, to be nothing but housekeeper to the
peer. Nor will anyone imagine that the niece of an
afiluent member of Parliament, with £200 a year of her

own for life, bought for her by the old uncle with whom

until then she had lived, being also young, beautiful,

and gay, would hire herself to a fashionable bachelor as

the superintendent of his establishment. The bare fact

has only one construction, if no marriage be supposed;

namely, that of John Nichols, in his edition of Swift:
` In her widowhood she was entertained by Lord

Halifax, who was very liberal to her at his death?'
The word entertained is a genteel word; in French--

entretenue.

That Halifax was her admirer in 1703, appears from

his verses contributed to the inscriptions on the toasting

glasses of the Kit-cat Club. This club not only gave

its name to the pictures still so called, but, by report,

first gave the name of toast to any beauty whose health

was often drunk. It seems to have been quite forgotten

that the fair toasts were originally attached to the clubs
`Iby a kind of ofiicial tie.
                              shall likewise mark out

every toast, the club in which she was elected, and the

number of votes that were on her side.'--( Guardian,
1713, No. 107.)

   These verses are omitted in some editions of the

British poets, but they agree in character and metre
48 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

with those which are always inserted, as by Halifax, in
honour of other ladies.

`Stampt with her reigning charmes, this brittle glass

 Will safely through the realms of Bacchus pass ;

 Full fraught with beauty, will new flames impart,
 And mount her shining image in the heart.'

    These are very poor; but the following, which appear
with them in the ` Toasters,' from which the ` Biographia
Britannica' quotes, are so exceedingly bad that it may

be charitably hoped that they were forgeries, made in

ridicule, at the time when the pair were the talk of the

town.  `Beauty and wit strove each in vain
        To vanquish Bacchus and his train ;
        But Barton, with successful charms,

        From both their quivers drew her arms:
        The roving god his sway resigns,
        And cheerfully submits his vines.'

IHalifax, it is well known, was Pope's Bufo: he is
here Bavius as well.  hope that Macaulay, who de

scribes the verses made by Halifax for the glasses as
` neatly turned,' spoke of the series from which the last

quoted couplets were omitted. Not to omit any excuse,

let us remember that Pope had not then taught versifica-

tion and driven out the smaller epigram.

  I now come to the death of Halifax, and to the point

Iwhich settles the matter, to me, most conclusively.

had brought the evidence, in my own mind, to the con

viction that the private marriage was the most probable

alternative; and had so stated it. There is no use in

presenting a result as only the more probable ; the
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.                                 49

biographer of Newton, and most of his reviewers, took
Ime to have maintained the marriage as proved.
                                                                   did
Inot do so then; do so now, meaning by proved what

is meant by that word in the jury-box, not in the

mathematical lecture-room. All mathematicians make

this distinction; but many physical philosophers, and

all that part` of general society which imitates their

methods, are wholly unable to keep it in mind.
   In 1856, my friend Mr. Libri showed me, merely as

an autograph, a letter written by Newton which he had

Ibought at a sale. At the first glance saw the words

which I have placed in italics. About the handwriting

there can be no question: Halifax died on the 19th of

the month.

            `LEICESTER FIELDS, May 23, 1715.
I I` Sm JOHN,
       ` am concerned that  must send an excuse for not waiting
Iupon you before your journey into Lincolnshire. The concern am

Iin for the loss of my Lord Halifax, and the circumstances in which
Istand related to his family, will not suffer me to go abroad till his

funeral is over. And therefore can only send this letter to wish

you and your lady and-family a good journey into Lincolnshire, and

all health and happiness during your stay there. And upon your

Ifirst return to London will wait upon you, and endeavour by fre

Iquenter visits to make amends for the defect of them at present.
                                           ` am, Sir,

            `Your most humble and most obedient servant,

                            `Isaac NEWTON.'

   This letter was sold by Christie and Manson in 1856,

being lot 938 of H. Belward Ray's sale. It was de

scribed as part of a quantity of papers connected with
Newton, purchased by the late Thomas Rodd, a very

                                                                                       4
50 Newton: his Friend : and his Niece.

good critic in such matters, as all know who remember

him. Some of these papers are in the hands of the
Rev. H. T. Ellacombe (Notes and Queries, 2nd series,

     173). Lord Monson says (3rd series, i. 191),
` When the late Mr. Rodd, the bookseller, died, he lefi; a

Ivast quantity of Newton papers, which were dispersed
by auction.  have myself many volumes of these

letters, and other documents.' But this does not
Iaccount for all.
                   hope both Mr. Ellacombe and Lord

Monson will carefully examine these papers.
   The address of the above letter is wanting; but Sir

John, of Lincolnshire, must have been Sir John Newton,

whom in other letters Isaac Newton calls his kinsman.

As we know not what other letters there may be in

existence, or where--for Rodd's collection did not come

from Newton's immediate family---it may be worth
while to describe the receiver of the letter. John

Newton, of Barr's Court in Gloucestershire, was created

a baronet in 1660, with remainder, after direct heirs, to

John Newton, of Gunwarley (or Gunnerly) in Lincoln

Jshire. This second John Newton succeeded in 1661,

and married a daughter of Sir ervase Eyre, of

Rampton, Nottinghamshire. He died in 1699, and was

succeeded by his son John, the receiver of the letter.

This third baronet married, first, Miss Heveringham ;
secondly, a daughter of Sir Michael Wharton, of

Beverley, by whom he had a son, Michael, who suc

ceeded his father in 17 34. This Michael Newton,

already Sir Michael as a knight of the Bath, was chief

mourner at Isaac Newton's funeral; which means that
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.  51

 the Lincolnshire baronet considered himself, and was

 acknowledged, by the executors, to be Newton's chief, as

 the Scotch call it.

    When, in 1867, the Pascal Letters were brought

 forward at the French Institute, Sir D. Brewster asserted
 in the Athenwum, that the full name Isaac, occurring in
Newton's signature, was a strong presumption of
forgery; that he could only recollect one instance in

which there was anything but `Is. Newton.' The

letters are obvious forgeries; but Sir D. Brewster

 should not have trusted his memory. Whenever

Newton is emphatically on form, as he is in the above
letter, he is `Isaac.' To his especial fi'iends, Keill,
Halley, and Flamsteed, he is generally `Sir . . . Is.
Newton.' But when he is on high form, he lengthens

both ends. It is `Dr. Keill . . . Isaac Newton.'

When he writes a very important letter on the fluxional
dispute, it is `Dr. Halley . . . Isaac Newton.' When

he asks the Astronomer Royal, almost ofiicially, for cal

culations, and this to his old and dear friend, after fifty
years of acquaintance, it is `Mr. Flamsteed . . . Isaac

Newton,' on two occasions, when summoning F lam
steed to a meeting of the referees on the catalogue.

Not that the letter ceases to be private personal com

munication; in both cases Flamsteed is asked to stay

and dine. In one case Cotes gets `Isaac' at the end of

a short letter--in several cases length alone seems to
produce it--but then the letter ends with a very em

phatic request, quite a demand that he may not see any

more of Cotes's preface; he does not want any responsi
                                                                  4--2
52 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

bility for what may be said about the dispute on
fiuxions. Flamsteed gets ` Isaac ' in another letter; but

this one ends with expressions of strong obligation.

Great people get `Isaac,' as the Due d'Aumont and

the Lords of the Treasury.  '

The full name is either formality or emphasis; and

the letter to Sir John Newton is both formal and

Iemphatic. But it is rare; it does not come, should

Ithink, so often as one time in ten; and when it does

come, think there is always an explanation.

  It now appears that there were circumstances in which

Newton stood related to the family of Halifax, known
to Sir John Newton, which were worthy of being given

as reasons for keeping the house after the funeral, side

by side with the grief of Newton at the loss of his old

friend. The intimacy of Newton and Halifax had been

long and close; for thirty-five years they had been, not

only friends, but associated in occupation and in locality.

From the time when they made a joint attempt to found

a Philosophical Society at Cambridge, through parlia

ment`ary and ofiicial life both had been in different parts

of one career. And the vigour of their friendship re

sisted the dangerous change of position by which the

undergraduate and junior fellow, who looked up to the

unrivalled mathematician in the seat of learning, became

the Minister of State who looked down upon the ofi`icial
subordinate in the public service. Permanence of warm

personal regard under such a trial is rare; and to abate

wonder it must be remembered that the change was not

sudden; there was an interval of social equality in the
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.  53

Convention Parliament. All the records in existence

would not enable us to approximate to the time at
which Montague passed Newton. The great reason
known to the world in all its completeness, the singular
friendship of thirty-five years' duration, was quite enough;
there was no occasion to judge a second reason to prove

to a Lincolnshire baronet that he ought not to be offended
at the omission of a visit of ceremony. And Newton

was not the man to do it; in the expression of matters

connected with feeling he was plain and brief, easy to

Isee through, and wholly destitute of finesse. (NB.

never for a moment believed in the letter'" to Lady

Norris.) The second reason, then, must have been one
of weight resembling the first, and joining it with what
goes before, and with what is to come, it must mean
that Sir John Newton knew that Isaac Newton's niece

was Halifax's widow.

   But might not Newton have had some very intimate

Irelations with Halifax's next-of-kin? On this point

must be very distinct. No one, until he comes to try
at the establishment of a new point, can be fully aware
of the wildness with which even practised reasoners
conduct argument on any subject which has not had its
own groove cut in the thinking machinery. Newton
and the new Lord Halifax had to adjust the transfer of

Miss Barton's annuity, which Halifax held in trust_
Here was a. circumstance relating Newton to the family

Iof Halifax; and have had it gravely put that it was

  * A letter given by Sir David Brewster, in which Sir I. Newton

proposed marriage to Lady Norris, a rich WidOW.--ED.
54 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

the circumstance which kept him in the house, or helped

to keep him there, until after the funeral; or at least
that it might have been. The proposer, certainly, was

I Ivery much bent on my being wrong; but, as many of

my readers may be in the same plight, state all have
been able to collect about the possibilities of Newton

having been acquainted with the family of Halifax.

   As follows :--Halifax had nephews and nieces; we
must take it as of the highest probability that Newton

Iused to speak to and shake hands with them; and

should not venture to find fault with any one who

declared that they sometimes--nay, often--dined at his

house. But there is no direct evidence that Newton

ever spoke a word to, or set eyes on, any one of them.
Newton had a friend named Laughton or Lawton;
Halifax mentions nieces of this name in his will. Some

trifling circumstances make it not very improbable that

Newton's friend was the relative of Halifax's nieces.

The Hon. Dr. Montague, Halifax's uncle, was actually
Master of Trinity College during part of Newton's

Iresidence. And this is all can find.

  I suppose it will be conceded that if the words of

Newton's letter refer to the connection between Halifax

and his niece, under the name of his `family,' these
Ifwords establish a marriage.
                               it were anything else,

whether Newton were a conniving party or not, we may

be certain he would not refer to it.. The times were

bad, but not bad enough for this.

  ITo my sins of digression will add the following.

It will be seen how coldly Newton addresses his
Newton: his Friend : and his Niece.  55

Ikinsman----` Sir John . . . am, sir, your most humble

Iand obedient servant.' Having always looked curiously
at the forms of old correspondence,  have come to a

clearness that the most ceremonious civility was never

an offence, but rather the contrary; and that all departure

was real feeling, ungoverned by rule. Dear Sir was not

a form. Thus Newton, when his thoughts were turned

upon his friend and his niece, does not give his relative

the smallest remission of ceremony; but in another

letter to Sir John Newton, written under different cir

cumstances, we find `Your affectionate kinsman and

Imost humble servant." In aid of my theory observe

that, in the great majority of cases in which the mode

of address varies, the relaxation is at the beginning,

and it has subsided into ceremony by the end. Sam

Johnson sometimes begins to his step-daughter with

`Dearest Dear,' and ends with `Madam, your most

humble servant.' Mixtures of address are exceedingly

common; thus Robert Boyle is Lady Ranelagh's
` Afi'ectionate brother and most humble servant.'

Brook Taylor ends to one sister with ` Pray give my

affectionate respects to my sisters, and accept the same

most cordially from your obedient servant.' In a letter
previously quoted, Swift is `Sir' to his constant

solicitor, sincere admirer, and unalterable fi'iend, who is

also his `most obedient and most humble servant.'

IBut one of the most amusing instances which ever

met with is the way in which the author of ` Woman's

   * This was a letter of 1707, written to recommend an undertaker
for the funeral of a distant relation of both parties. j
54 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

the circumstance which kept him in the house, or helped

to keep him there, until after the funeral; or at least

that it might have been. The proposer, certainly, was

I Ivery much bent on my being wrong; but, as many of

my readers may be in the same plight, state all have
been able to collect about the possibilities of Newton

having been acquainted with the family of Halifax.

   As follows :--Halifax had nephews and nieces; we
must take it as of the highest probability that Newton

Iused to speak to and shake hands with them; and

should not venture to find fault with any one who

declared that they sometimes--nay, often--dined at his

house. But there is no direct evidence that Newton

ever spoke a word to, or set eyes on, any one of them.
Newton had a friend named Laughton or Lawton;
Halifax mentions nieces of this name in his will. Some

trifling circumstances make it not very improbable that

Newton's friend was the relative of Halifax's nieces.

The Hon. Dr. Montague, Halifax's uncle, was actually
Master of Trinity College during part of Newton's

Iresidence. And this is all can find.
  I suppose it will be conceded that if the words of

Newton's letter refer to the connection between Halifax

and his niece, under the name of his `family,' these
Ifwords establish a marriage.
                               it were anything else,

whether Newton were a conniving party or not, we may

be certain he would not refer to it. The times were

bad, but not bad enough for this.

  ITo my sins of digression will add the following.

It will be seen how coldly Newton addresses his
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.   55

Ikinsman--` Sir John . . . am, sir, your most humble

Iand obedient servant.' Having always looked curiously
at the forms of old correspondence,  have come to a

clearness that the most ceremonious civility was never

an offence, but rather the contrary; and that all departure

was real feeling, ungoverned by rule. Dear Sir was not

a form. Thus Newton, when his thoughts were turned

upon his friend and his niece, does not give his relative

the smallest remission of ceremony; but in another

letter to Sir John Newton, written under different cir

cumstances, we find `Your afi'ectionate kinsman and

Imost humble servant." In aid of my theory observe

that, in the great majority of cases in which the mode

of address varies, the relaxation is at the beginning,

and it has subsided into ceremony by the end. Sam

Johnson sometimes begins to his step-daughter with

`Dearest Dear,' and ends with `Madam, your most

humble servant.' Mixtures of address are exceedingly

common; thus Robert Boyle is Lady Ranelagh's
` Afi'ectionate brother and most humble servant.'

Brook Taylor ends to one sister with ` Pray give my

affectionate respects to my sisters, and accept the same

most cordially from your obedient servant.' In a letter

previously quoted, Swift is ` Sir' to his constant

solicitor, sincere admirer, and unalterable friend, who is

also his `most obedient and most humble servant.'

IBut one of the most amusing instances which ever

met with is the way in which the author of ` Woman's

   * This was a letter of 1707, written to recommend an undertaker
for the funeral of a distant relation of both parties. j
56 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

Revenge ' (1718) subsides into ceremony after a flash

Jof most familiar quizzing in a letter to his brother-actor,

James Spiller. It commences with ` Dear emmy ;'

and the writer, after congratulating his friend upon the
success with which he had acted a Newgate bird in the

piece, ends as follows :

I`And you must not think flatter you when I tell you you have

a natural impudence, proper to the character, and became your

I Ifetters as well as any who ever wore them. And am sorry could

not, without giving offence to the critics, and deviating too far from

the rules of comedy, bring you to Tyburn for the better diversion of

Ithe audience; but hope you are satisfied with my good wishes,

and will give me leave to subscribe myself, your obliged humble

servant,

                ` CHRISTOPHER BULLooK.'

When the last will of Lord Halifax was opened, it

was found that Catherine Barton had a very handsome
Ijointure---as
                call it--left her. There was a second

codicil, dated February 1, 1712-13, intended to revoke

the original bequest, and leaving her £5,000 absolutely,

the rangership, lodge (a curious house, F lamsteed calls

it), and household filrniture of Bushey Park for life,

and the manor of Apscourt for life. Common rumour

valued the legacy at £20,000 ; meaning--to put it at the

lowest--that it considered her to have as good as the

interest of that sum for her life. We should probably

be below the mark if we put this income, exclusive of

her annuity of £200, at £1,200 a year. The preceding

generation valued income at 10 per cent. of the capital ;

when Chillingworth told his hearers that heaven was

worth more than a hundred thousand pounds, he added,
   Newton: humane; and his Niece.                 57

this you all know is ten thousand pounds a year. Miss
Barton, then--so to call her--was left with £1,400 a

year; more than the income on which a country gentle
man of that time often thought of trying to represent
his county. Macaulay, speaking of Congreve having
£1,200 a year, says that as an income for a single
man this was not merely easy, but splendid ; and

he puts the average income of a member of the House

of Commons in the time of Charles II. at £800 a year.

The estimate above is given by Flamsteed, two months
after Halifax's death, as. the common notion of the

whole. He puts £20,000 as exclusive of the bequest in

money (£5,000) ; but as he clearly does not under

Istand that the £3,000 of the first codicil is revoked,

take it he would have put the whole, had he understood

the matter well, at not less than £20,000.

                        it,

                                         If,

                                                         a
   The detail of the legacy is very significant.  as

the biographer of Newton would have she had always

lived, and was to live on, with her uncle, why should
man who was very rich in money as well as land have
burdened her with Bushey Lodge and another manor,
with all the cares of rangership, of finding tenant
   a                                        1,
                 a
                                               a
for the lodge, and of managing landed estate
a                                           it,
  All this would best have devolved upon the heir, and

  round sum of £20,000, or life interest in would

very visibly have been the better way of providing for

Miss Barton. The legacy seems intended to give her
the status which she might have expected, had she been

an acknowledged widow.

   The legacy was left in terms which, supposing
58 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

Catherine Barton not his wife, would make any man

think that Halifax had attempted to represent her as his
`Itmistress.
              was given,' he says, `as a token of the
Isincere love, affection, and esteem have long had for

her person, and as a small recompense for the pleasure

Iand happiness have had in her conversation.' This

was said of a woman whom the scandalous part of the

world called his mistress, as he knew; and, as if to

make the worst part of the scandal more prominent, he

describes her as Newton's niece, and leaves Newton

I£100 `as a mark of the great honour and esteem have

for so great a man.' And he is careful to specify that

the annuity'--the most suspicious of the gifts--was

bought in Newton's name.                                 .

   In 1706, Halifax left a legacy for `love and affection ;'

Iin 1712 he added `the pleasure and happiness have
I Ihad in her conversatimz.' When began this inquiry,

very much under-estimated the force of "his one word.

I thought that discourse or colloquy was one of its mean
Iings; but cannot find a single instance in which it

refers to this and no more. It now naturally slips in,

and becomes a substitute whenever colloquy occurs, or
Ia synonym.
              have had quoted against me more than

once, ` Let your conversation be Yea, yea,' etc., and have

been obliged to refer my opponents to the version itself,
in which they found, ` Let your communication be,' etc.,

etc. In our day we converse with persons, and are

conversant with things; and there is a plural, conversa

tions: in older English there is no distinction between

conversing with and being conversant with ,' both apply
           Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.          59

to persons as well as to things; and conversation has no
more a plural than conduct. The old phrase of `con

versing with books' is the invention of a time when to
`converse with' was what we now call to `be con

versant with.' It would otherwise have been a very

absurd idiom; we may make Aristotle talk to us, but
how are we to talk to Aristotle P The grand old Greek
is now, as Madame de Stael said of Coleridge to Crabb
Robinson, tremendous at monologue, but incapable of

dialogue.

I Before giving a list of instances from many quarters,
   will produce one from that prince of English ver

Inacular who                       of all, most destitute of the power of
                             is,
                              is is          mean John
setting foot outside his own domain;     `I

Bunyan. From many uses of the word, all of one kind,

  select those which occur in the description of Tatlcative,
the pilgrim who all good profession and bad practice,
and in whom Bunyan gives the exquisitely funny illus

tration that he an unclean beast, because, though he

may chew the cud, i.e., may seek knowledge, he does

not divide the hoof, i.e., does not part with the way of

sinners. It will be seen that talk and conversation are

used as we use profession and practice. As in, Religion
                                             `

                                                    ;
hath no place in his heart, or house, or conversation all

he hath lieth in his tongue.' The `heart, house, and

conversation' are several times repeated in the same
`Isense,_as in
                have heard many cry out against sin in

the pulpit, who yet can abide well enough in the
                                     it

heart, house, and conversation. Again, To say am
                                               I

thus and thus, when my conversation and all my neigh
60 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

I Ibours tell me lie, is great wickedness. Again, `

have heard of you that you are a man whose religion
lies in talk, and `that your conversation gives your pro,
fession the lie.' Not only does Bunyan mean conduct:

but he has no other word for conduct and behaviour

except conversation. But it does not follow that this

exclusive sense lasted through a generation ; many of
                                                        '
the following instances will speak to that point.

In no one of the twenty instances, or thereabouts, in

which the word occurs in the authorized version of the

Bible (1611) does conversation mean only colloquy ; it
always refers to the mode of conducting life. The

origin of the Latin conversatio obviously gives for the
first meaning `a turning again and again ;' and this is

also the idea in dvao'rpodm, which is translated conversa

tion in the authorized version thirteen times. These

words come to mean the habit of conducting life, but

have no especial reference to colloquy. There is the
same idea in woke-tuna and 'rpovrog, both of which are
sometimes translated conversation. But no word is so

rendered which has more to do with a` man's talking

than with his eating, or walking, or trade.
   As between two persons, it was meeting, eating to

gether, having common places and objects, all, of course,
with communication. As between man and woman, it

generally implied the conjugal relation, the living to
gether, with or without legal sanction, as the case

might be. Edward Phillips, Milton's nephew, in his
` World of Words ' (1657), makes conversation to be `a

keeping company with, or being familiar with, any; and
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.  61

he gives no other meaning. Littleton, in his English
Latin Dictionary (4th edition, 1715), renders conversa
tion by ` conversatio, commercium, consuetudo, usus.'
This word began in later Latin, in which the meaning

was, as may be gathered from St. Jerome, when he

mentions those who have presumed `indigna nomine

Christiano de mea conversatione jactitare ;' or from St.

Valerian, where he says, ` In hoc solum constat conver
sationis nostraa ratio, ut boni simus.' And the original

meaning is strongly illustrated by the old technical

meaning in theology, the monastic life.
   Newton, writing to Collins in 1673, speaking of some

rudeness he had met with at the Royal Society, says he

will `decline that conversation which hath occasioned

what is past.'

   John Hawkins, in the English Dictionary to which he

forged the name of Cooker (1704, 1715), has the follow
ing, which shows that the illiterate man has no more
notion of restriction to colloquy than the well-read
Phillips.' ` Conversation [Latin], one who is conversant,

or keeps company."
   Very frequently, of course, the word used generically

will still make sense in a specific meaning. Thus when
Strype says that the conversation of two of his worthies

was so wise and useful that they were called the golden

couple of fathers, he speaks intelligibly to those who
make him mean only their discourse or colloquy, though
he does not mean their whole course of. conduct. Lord

  ' Cole (`English Dictionary,' 1724) has `Conversation: a being

conrcrsant, keeping company.'
62 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

Clarendon says of Waller that he is himself a wit, and
` of an intimate conversation ' with other wits ; here the

word is used in the whole meaning. But when the

same Clarendon speaks of the same Waller, to extol him
for `the excellence and power of his wit and pleasant
ness of his conversation,' he might be taken as speaking

of his discourse only; though since wit is an important
part of communication, it is rather loose phraseology.

The reader will find, if he looks through all my in

stances, and gets some more of his own, that no two

Iwords are more alike than conversation at the time

write of (1600, 1730 . .     and companionship now.
                          .),
In the Secret History of the Calves' Head Club,' 1713,is
`
all the objects of blame are the eating of the calves'
  is
heads and singing blasphemous anthems; which be

haviour called `scandalous and contemptible conver

sation.' Bacon  is    often quoted as saying that reading,

writing, and conversation severally make the full, exact,

and ready man; but his word         conference. Selden's

famous book  is       Table-talk, being Discourses .    is
                                                              .
                   `                                           .'

`Swift's Polite Conversation,' already quoted,                  `a

complete collection of genteel and ingenious conversa

tion, according to the most polite method now used at

Court, and in the best companies of England.'           It      all

                                                            is

talk, because talk the only part of conversation that,
                is

without pictures, can be reproduced in type. But his

own words for the body of his work are discourses and

dialogues, never conversations--a plural which he does
not know. And he to improve and polish all `parts
                      is, is
                                                   it,
of conversation,' that as he describes of behaviour
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.      63

at meetings in the streets, dinner, tea, etc. And we

have seen that, even in the slipshod English of his

journal, he does not complain of whiggish conversation,
but of discourse. We have lost both discourse and

dialogue, except as very high and serious terms. In

French, the Academy gives no meaning to conversation,

except entretien familier ; and entretien, though colloquy,
in a derived sense, is the treatment or cawying-on.
Shakespeare, whose use of the word will be found to

Isupport what have said, makes Othello complain that,

being a black, he is deficient in some `parts of conver

sation.' This does not mean that he fails in participles

though he succeeds in verbs ; or the like: and it comes
of his blackness, which puts no difiiculty in the way of'

colloquial correctness. Moliere's pre'cieuse does, indeed,
call to a servant for a chair, by the title of ` la commo

dité de la conversation ;' but she twists all her phrases,

and may very easily be made to mean companionship,

and not colloquy.

This is enough to show that Halifax meant more

than talk ; what more is a fair question, but still more :
Ifhe meant some kind of companionship.
                                        he only

meant that he had constantly associated with Miss

Barton in the house of her uncle, he used a disrespectfiil

ambiguity of phrase which he had no right to use, any

more than a single man who had frequently talked to--

and even flirted with--a young lady in her mother's

house, would now have a right to say that his con

nexion with that young lady had been a great source of

happiness. Had he wanted to describe Miss Barton as
64 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

having been to him a wife or a mistress, he could not

have found a more expressive way of doing                   or one
                                                a
more sure to be so taken by common usage; and he    a

                                                        it,I
applied this word to lady whom the gay world had
                   a
called his mistress, whilst leaving her large fortune.a

   Flamsteed underlined this word in letter which

Baily has published with the rest, and to which               have

already referred.                  '

   He had sore recollections connected with Newton,

and the support which Halifax had given Newton his
                                      I. is

                                                                       is
                                                                                 ;

                                                                                    9,
inuendo would prove nothing but this, that all which
was wanted to show his meaning was merely to under

line that word. `The passage as follows: (July

1715)

a       doubt not but you have heard that the Lord Halifax dead of

 I`violent fever If common fame be true, he died worth £150,000;

out of which he gave Mrs. Barton, Sir Newton's niece, for her at

cellcnt conversation, curious house, £5,000, with lands, jewels, plate,

money, and household furniture, to the value of £20,000, or more.

Sir Newton loses his support in him, and having been in with Lord
   I.

Oxford, Bolingbroke, and Dr. Arbuthnott,  a isnot now looked upon as

he was formerly."

  It has always been to me rather matter of surprise

that we find nothing more on this subject in Flamsteed's
letters. He and Newton were on very bitter terms
                                                              is ;
hard words had passed between them and lamsteed
                                          a
not sparing of acrimonious assertions.            ;may possibly

                                                 It
                                                    F
be that he came to hear that marriage had taken

place. When the biography of Halifax appeared, the
following words would certainly provoke inquiry " . . .

though she might be agreeable to his lordship in every
       Newton: his Friend: and
                                                    a                        Niece.             65.
                                                                        his
particular, that noble peer's complaisance to her pro
ceeded wholly from the great esteem he had for her wit
and most excellent understanding, as will appear from
what relates to her in his will at the close of these

memoirs.' No man with grain of sense, looking at

the codicil, could see any declaration that the legacies

were only given for the reasons just alleged: the publi
cation of such remark as that just quoted can only be
;it
explained by reference to the writer's knowledge, that
                     a
                           aamany would understand the bequests in their true

                          itsense, and would circulate the true state of the case.*

The Barton family seem to have cherished the connec

tion, whatever                                      was. The Rev. Geofrey' Barton,

Catherine's first cousin, called daughter Catherine (born
in 1709) and son Montague (born 1717) another
son was Charles. The Montague family remembered
                                                    a
                                                        a

                                                        I
                                                                                          ;
 for Charles Barton received living from them.
These are the grounds on which am satisfied that

there was  private marriage between Newton's old

friend and his favourite niece contracted in 1706, known

and acknowledged in their private circle, but `not
published to the world. In the following discussion of

difiiculties and objections, am not considering them
with reference to their bearing on the proof of marriage,
                                                    I

                                                                   a

                                                                              is
but only as those accompaniments to disputed questions

which      well to examine when point established,
it

         is

         it

               is

                                                 ;
   * In the Biographia Britannica (Art. `Montague'), all Pittis's words
and the whole of the codicil are given in large type in the text.

This very significant for those who know the work would think

five hundred to one that the codicil would have been put in note
                                                                                     0
like the first codicil.                                                                     aw
66 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

as leaning-ground for the settlement of cases yet doubtful.
That Halifax gave a life annuity and a legacy at the
beginning of a certain term; that during that term,
which ended with his life, common rumour asserted

Miss Barton to be his mistress ; that one of the dearest
friends of both never mentions them together, even in
his private letters, though often apart ; that a friendly

biographer, at the moment when general attention
would be directed to Halifax by his recent death,

declares that Miss Barton managed his house, and was

a woman of honour; that a large fortune was left her,

in terms which, as used by a person who knew the

rumours, contradict nothing and imply much ; that the

uncle asserts, without the least necessity, that he stood

in relation to the family of his friend; that the term

between the annuity and the death of Halifax, the period

of currency of the scandalous rumours,
it                                                precisely
             it

                         a
                                                a
                                                                is,

                                                          it ?

                                            it I
enough, the length of time during which the second

husband's evidence shows she did not live with her

uncle ;--all these things make case which will not be

permanently resisted.

   The difficulties are: How comes there to be no con
current rumour of marriage, assuming that there was
no such rumour because we know of none, which am

content to assume against myself? How came that

Halifax did not acknowledge the marriage in his will,

or by other paper left to be opened at his death                   How

came that Mr. Conduitt did not proclaim the marriage

after he had married the widow? How came that he

left no note of in the family memoranda of which so
        Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.  67

much use has been made? These were all grounds of

suspense until Newton's letter was found.

That letter at once turned many opinions. Lord
IMacaulay, to whose teeming memory
                                           owe my first

information that Swift mentions Miss Barton--a fact

unnoticed by all the scientific biographers--was a man

of very decided conclusions, not easily shaken: this all
`I Iknow. Lord Lansdowne's (rumoured) gibe,
                                            wish

could be as sure of anything as Tom Macaulay is of

everything!' resembles the income of half a million so

ofien attributed to the possessor of fifty thousand.
But nothing small can be so successfully exaggerated;
five hundred never passes for five thousand. And there is

another remark to make. The world abounds in people
who are positively certain of everything ; and, so long as

they have nothing in particular to say for themselves, their
certainty passes almost unseen. But when a man of many

facts, good memory, and power of argument, backs his

certainty with a case, his assurance becomes a word of two

meanings. His opponent, galled by his reasons, falls foul
of the strength of the conclusion, and says,with Jack Cade:
` He shall die an it were but for pleading so well for his

life.'

Lord Macaulay was strongly opposed to my whole

view until Newton's letter was found, when he at once

changed so far--far for him--as to write, `Ido not entirely

Ireject your hypothesis ;' he then raises the difiiculty of
the continued secrecy.  expected that Dean Peacock,

in whose mind was a chart of scientific history and

biography, would also be more or less turned round;
                                                                   5--2
     I

                  ;

               it

                                  his

                               `I

                                                               a
                                                                                                    a
'68        Newton:  Friend: and his Niece.

but found this could not be done; he'was already

satisfied  was his old opinion that there had been

relation between the parties.  think your hypothesis,'

he writes, `seems to clear up difiiculty in Newton's

life, which has hitherto been inexplicable; no discredit

seems to have attached to Miss Barton during `her life

time on account of her connexion with Lord Halifax.'
He then raises the same difiiculty. Take notice that

the undigue collata membra of the subject had formed- the
basis of decided opinion that relation existed, in the
mind of the best-read man in England in the history of
'

  a
                 a

                                 a

                     I
                                                                  a
                                                                           5,
science, strong in general literature, and much relied on
for soundness of judgment in the affairs of life.' My

readers will look with interest at the letter which T. B.

Macaulay wrote to me on my forwarding, for his perusal,

the manuscript which had prepared for the Notes and

Queries (being substantially all but the last column and

     half of what appeared on November                                         1853). Many

persons`would be suspected of having gone to the book

and got up memory; but those who remember
Macaulay's conversation will not entertain any such

notion. The letter was dashed off when my paper was

returned, very soon after its receipt; there are some

slight inaccuracies which recent acquaintance with the

book would have prevented.

      return your paper. It very interesting; but there are some

important facts which seem to have escaped your notice. Mrs.
     I`
           I

                                                  is
                                                                                                                               a
   * Take notice also, that the strong impression which so good
testimony would have made` on my mind was no source of assurance
to me, for never knew of Dean Peacock's opinions until my own

had been published.
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece. _           69

"IBarton was a most intimate friend of Swift.  love her better

than anybody," is the expression he uses about her in one of his

letters to Stella. She is mentioned perhaps twenty times in his

journal. He never hints the least suspicion of her virtue; and his

regard for her must be supposed to have been very strong since it

overcame his party feeling. He was then [not so soon-see what
precedes] completely estranged from Halifax, and was the great

literary champion of the Tories [he was rapidly becoming so]. Yet
he suffered Mrs. Barton to talk Whiggism to him, and seems not to

have liked her the less [he complains of it]. She evidently lived
at that time, not with Halifax, but in a lady-like manner by herself,

seeing the best company, and giving handsome dinners. [We know
not who dined with her except Swift: she dined at Lady \Vorsley's
Iand at Lady Betty Germaine's]
                                cannot believe [no more can I]
that Swift, who, though he had no religion, had a great deal of pro

fessional spirit [I have worded this very differently], would have
haunted the house, and sate at the table of any man's keptrmistress,

above all the kept-mistress of his enemy [enemy to be ; as yet, the

beloved friend]. But you can look at the letters to Stella, and judge
for yourself. Swift mentions the brother, an officer, a sad dog, who

was killed in Hill's unlucky expedition to Quebec."

  `You must not, I think, say much [I had not said what] call
much] about the purity of Halifax's morals. He is accused of

libertinism by Davenant ; and though Davenant was a malignant
Ifellow, and little to be trusted, do not know that we have the
Imeans of refuting the accusation.
                                    am very unwilling to believe
Ithat Mrs. Barton was Halifax's mistress; but cannot think that

she was his wife. There was no conceivable reason for his not

avowing the marriage, if it had really taken place. There would

have been no mésallz'ance.  He was a younger son of a younger

brother, and had been educated for the Church. [This, and what

follows on the same subject, has been already discussed] Dorset's
patronage, and his own abilities, raised him in the world. But in

all the lampoons of the time Montague is spoken of as a parvenu

[unless he accepted the designation, he would all the more fear an
unequal marriage]. The sister of a colonel in the army, the niece

of a member for the University of Cambridge, was surely a match

for any man. [Here is a mine of good puns, not intended, and which
70 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

has never been worked] My own belief is that Mrs. Barton was

neither Halifax's mistress nor his wife, and that the liaison between
them was of the same sort with that between Congreve and Mrs.
Bracegirdle, with that between Swift and Stella, with that between

IPope and Martha Blount, with that between Cowper and Mrs.

Unwin. But, whether it were so or not, have no doubt it was so

considered by Newton, who, sagacious as he was in his own sphere,

was the last man in the world to have discovered an amour, if the
parties took the most ordinary precautions. With all his genius, he

was as simple as a child ; and the coldness of his own temperament

Iwould have made him slow to believe that others had been led astray

by their passions. If anything more occurs to me, will write

again.'

    The character given of Newton is the mythical
portrait: recent knowledge has recoloured it. He was
not a simple-minded man in the sense propounded: he
was not like the old philosopher who knocked his foot
against a stone while `he was looking at the stars.
Though not learned in human nature, he was very
much the man of the world; he stuck to the main

chance, and knew how to make a cast. He took good
care of his money, and left a large fortune, though very

-even magnificently--liberal on suitable occasions,

especially to his family. He was observant of small
things, as are all men of suspicious temperament; and
he had a strong hatred of immorality, whether in word
or deed, which, no doubt, would have turned his acute
ness of observation, and his tendency to suspicion, upon
anything from which inference could have been drawn.
Those who imagine that Newton was always thinking
of gravitation might just as well imagine that Wellington
was always thinking of strategy. The following de
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.    71

scription applies to both. After this (the Principia or
Waterloo, according to the person thought of), he lived

about forty years, during which his attention to what

had been his main pursuit was intermittent and casual,

and rather directive of others than executive. He had

a new career before him, in which again he was

eminently successful; and in the last years of his life

he was of all his contemporaries the most famous and

Ithe most respected.

      take this opportunity to record the fairness of

Macaulay's mind in a matter in which unfairness is
Ineither sin nor shame.
                         have taken trouble to make

small researches for many busy men ; but it is not the

Irule that those for whom do this will find time to do

as much for me. But Macaulay held equal rights to

mean quid pro quo. He began by asking information

Ifi`om me, which took pains to give; he took equal
I Ipains to return an equivalent when asked of him.
Ithen began to send him scraps, as found them, un

asked; and this he retorted in kind.

The private reasons which dictated secrecy during

Halifax's life might have remained in force after his

death ; but on this we cannot speculate without knowing

those reasons. And we must distinguish between not

knowing that the marriage was ever acknowledged, and

knowing that it was never acknowledged. Some years

ago opponents would have been very vastly tickled if

they had been told that they must not infer that

Newton never acknowledged any relation because no
such thing had been made known; and yet their
72 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

laughter would not have annihilated the letter to the
Lincolnshire baronet. And it may now be thought
likely enough that many other written acknowledgments
existed, even from Newton himself. The first half--

and more--of the last century was a bad time for

biography. The `age was corrupt, and was mending;
shamelessness was gone, and of this a disposition to '
hide scandals was the first fruit, while knowledge of
past irregularities made it seem better to drop every

thing than to inquire into anything. A collection of

correspondence was most often a muck-heap; and
candid biographies, reinforced by documents, were not.
frequent. The story dropped, and it is not very easy to
explain how. But it must be remembered that the
period 1715-1745, in which it would most naturally be
canvassed, was a period of great political uncertainty,
ushered in by one formidable rising, and ended by

another.

   The nine weeks which followed the death of Halifax

was a period of foreboding--of impeachments--of
arming to resist insurrection, etc. ; at the end of which
the Earl of Mar, who actually proclaimed the Pretender
four weeks afterwards, was concocting his measures
with, as was supposed, about a score of the Scotch
peers. The discussion of a private scandal must have
been much checked by such a state of public fear.

   In England, digressive biography, which investigates

disputed points, began with the `Biographia Britannica,'
in 1747 ; and here the story was revived. But the idea

of a legal union was not put forward. In fact, so far
Newton : his Friend ; and his Niece.  73

Ias my reading goes, am not aware that any writer on

the subject, earlier than myself, ever seriously mentioned

marriage in connection with the two, except Mrs.

Manley, who makes Miss Barton claim that justice of

Halifax, to which he answers that he will wait until she

Iis less saucy; except, also, as believe, Newton himself

in his letter to Sir John Newton.
I IWhen speak of acknowledgment,
                                   do not mean

public avowal; it is not credible that such a thing as

this should have died out. But suppose that when
Conduitt sought the lady's hand, he had thought it

advisable, if not for his own sake, for that of his family,

to exhibit evidence of the former marriage to those
whom it was to concern. Suppose any one of twenty

imaginable cases. Laugh at them while you may, you

who would have derided the notion of an acknowledg
ment under the hand of Newton. When the points of

the case gain wide publicity, the chances of discovery
will be much increased.

   The more anyone reads of the social life of the time
of Anne, the more will he feel that no inference can be

drawn by help of impressions derived from the manners
of our own day. The first elements of decency were

engaged in a reactive struggle with ungodly brutality,
itself a reaction against the godly brutality of the
Puritans. The reigning school of life delighted to call

itself `The Town'; just as all the vice and all the

meanness which is now tolerated delights to call itself
` The World.' There was a great deal of religion afloat,
but it was, in all ranks, much tinctured by a principle
`74 Newton : his Friend: and his Niece.

                   a,of relaxation which prevails in our own day, but is

                                                     anever expressly brought forward. That principle may
be illustrated by an anecdote of which the date has no
                                                                      it,
internal evidence. A gentleman had a qualm of con

science in reference to a duel he was going to fight.
Being a sound Churchman, as became a duellist--the
dissenter had very imperfect notions of the beauty of
the institution--he consulted his clergyman. The
spiritual guide let him off easily. ` Rely upon sir,'
said he, God Almighty will take practical view of the
exigencies of gentleman's position'!

   Few men of fashion could bear the satire of the coffee
house gang, which may have formed the larger part of
`genteel society, but which at any rate, by its noise and

impudence, appeared to be the larger part. Nothing
was so ridiculous, so utterly below man of condition,
as an unequal marriage. .The braver spirits, whom the

rest had the virtue to admire, though not always the
courage to imitate, held that, failing the possibility

of inducing woman to dispense with marriage, none
but mean-spirited fellow would have recourse to

legal tie, when private ceremony and witnesses ready
for absconsion (we must have the word, unless we
accept from America absquatulation and skedaddlement)

or perjury could be got for money. An English noble

man, who died in 1702, had found himself unable to

seduce beautiful actress he accordingly offered mar
riage the ceremony was performed by his trumpeter in

    clerical dress, and witnessed by his kettle-drummer.
This worthy lord was the privy councillor of several
a
                 a

                      a
                                                                a

                                                                                           a

a

                ;

             a

                                                           ;
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.     75

sovereigns in succession, the premier Earl of England,

the hereditary Lord High Chamberlain, and the

twentieth and last of the De Veres of Oxford, the

longest and one of the best of the lines which have
interwoven themselves into our history. But this, it
may be said, was exceptional. Have not the annals of
our own day shown the exposure in a court of law of a

common cheat in a person from whom such conduct

would have been as little expected as De Vere's baseness
from the premier earl ? As another instance, then, take

the story revived not long ago of the gallant Earl of

Peterborough. Eccentricity should, one would think,

have preserved this man--of whom Pope said that he

would neither live nor die like any other mortal--from

fear of the world's wit, at least when fired only at his

memory. .But there was the greatest difiiculty to

induce him to acknowledge, on his death-bed, his mar

riage with the public singer who had charmed him.

This is the recent revival: another account--which

may also be true--is, that he made the avowal years

before at Bath, by privately directing his footman to

announce, before a large assembly, ` Lady Peter

borough's carriage,' to the great surprise, though not

at `all to the information of all present, including the

lady herself                        .

I have given the special reason why Halifax should

be more afraid than another of public ridicule in such a

Imatter. The real difiiculty, and say it quite in

earnest, is to explain how the wits did not, in any case,

circulate and insist upon the story of a marriage which
76 Newton: his Fm'end: and his Niece.

would, especially as a second marriage, have given a

better laugh against one whom they did their best to
Ifappear to despise.
                        the lady and her uncle had been

their objects of assault, they might have done as they

did; but they feathered Halifax's cap in their own

minds when they made him the conqueror of the niece
of his old friend, the great Newton. The easiest way
out of the difiiculty that the marriage was known or
suspected, and that slanderers might decide, after de
liberation, that the false story was the best way of
                        is,
vexing the statesman, much as       might go against
                                           aa

                                             it

                                                               a
their hearts and their principles to treat seducer as

such with ridicule.

       never thought anything of the difficulty thatis I
Halifax did not acknowledge marriage in his will, or
in some other mortuary paper. Few put into writing
what they most especially desire to keep secret during

their lives; they know that robbery, an unfaithful

servant, and accidents of many kinds may reveal the

whole matter. Those who consider the marriage proved,

    may think that Halifax did, in his codicil, give some

    thing as near to an acknowledgment as he could trust
    to the accidents aforesaid; and this especially when
                      N

                                                     a

                                                                              it
        considered how explicitly he connected all that he
    said with the name of Newton. He proclaims that his

    conversation with ewton's niece has Newton's sanction;

.that Newton had lent his name to the annuity and to all

    connected with it.

    We cannot fully estimate all the possible reasons of

    the continued secrecy, without  consideration of the
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.  77

state of the marriage law; and this is a subject which

in the bulk is known to very few except those who have

made especial inquiry. All who can look back before

1836 remember the fight which was made to retain one

of `the last badges of .inferiority which marked the Non
conformist. No valid marriage, except between Quakers

and Jews, could be contracted in England otherwise

than according to the form of the Establishment, no
matter how much the doctrines expressed or implied in

that form might offend the parties contracting. It was

not to be wondered at that many of the established

clergy should feel that, so long as the law continued, the

necessity and reality of marriage would reflect a sort of
distinctive necessity and reality on the state form of

religion, as compared with others; and there were to be

found those who were wicked and foolish enough to try

to deter women from availing themselves of the change

in the law by calling them bad names, or at least by
denying their good ones. Such a clergyman, a man of
spiteful career, declared that no ` honest woman ' would

marry by civil contract, and deliberately published the
sermon in which he uttered this and other malignant

ejaculations. It will be remembered with amusement

that the Unitarians assumed what the Scotch call

liberty to add and eke, and were married ` in the name

Iof the Father protest against the Father, and of the
ISon protest,' etc., etc. This protest tempts to a

digression. It was often presented in writing, which

 was a more judicious mode. For it is to be remem

 bered that the alternative was not inability to contract
78 Newton : his Friend: and his Niece.

marriage, but the inconvenience of a journey to Scott

land. The logic of both sides was amusing; both

forgot that the objectionable form was often, perhaps

most often, employed by Unitarians themselves in bap

tism. This seems to be clear from the advice given by

Priestley in 1786, being at the period in which the

protesters of 1820 were baptized. He says: `It is to

be hoped that the Unitarians of the present age will

imitate their predecessors by baptizing, as the apostles

did, in the name of Christ only, without invocation of

the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, or expressing what

they apprehend to be the real meaning of that phrase

ology.' The orthodox did not produce the actual use

of the form by Unitarians, as showing that those Uni

tarians were ready in their own sense to use the phrase

to which they objected; and the Unitarians, in objecting

to the form, because those who used it meant to imply

the Trinity of persons, conceded to the ofiiciating clergy

man a right of interpretation. They should have taken`
IfPriestley's advice, as given about baptism.
                                               a general

council of the sect had promulgated a declaration that

in marriage the Unitarians would receive and use the

words in the meaning of Jesus Christ, leaving the ofii

ciating minister to his own construction, Athanasian,

Platonic, Hindoo, or any other, they would, without

more than a fair slap of retort upon what is now ad

mitted to have been a paltry and unhandsome attempt

Ito force conformity, have done much to hasten the relief

which they obtained in 1836. What have here to do

with what precedes is to recall that there was an almost
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.                79

universal belief that marriage had in all Christian time
been essentially an ecclesiastical ceremony, except in
Scotland and in France since the first revolution. And

yet many old persons, holding that belief, must have

been the offspring of marriages which were not made in

churches, and at which the presence and assistance of a
person in orders was merely the pleasure of the parties.

For, until the Act of George II., marriage was in law a

civil contract, and the system, which fell in 1836, had

existed no more than eighty-two years.
   The old law of Christendom declares that a valid

marriage is a contract between man and woman; and it

requires simply that they should be able to contract,

Ifwilling to contract, and that they should contract.

either of the parties deny the contract, it must be proved

against him or her; as by witnesses who heard the decla

ration: if both admit the contract--and cohabitation

under the name of man and wife was admission--.this is

proof that there was a contract. This is substantially
the Scotch law in our own day, and it was the law of
Europe. This is God's ordinance, and it is the law of`

nature, too, for man is a monogamous animal, and does

Inot avail himself, as a rule, of the right of polygamy or
of divorce, however fi-ee he may be to use them.  am

told that the abolition of polygamy begins to be agitated

among the Mormonites themselves.                  _

Marriage, then, was a contract, no more and no less;

in most countries clerical influence superadded the

notion that no such contract was a proper contract
unless it were ratified by a church and performed in a
80 `Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

mode dictated by a church. A long volume, of many

chapters, might be written on the consequences of this
unwarrantable change in the meaning of a word; on the
hundreds of thousands of adulteries and bigamies which
it has produced; on the manner in which it has set
conscience, where conscience exists, at work upon false
meanings and false distinctions. The churches, one and

all, as was their duty, enforced by every spiritual means
the proprietyof lending to the most solemn of human

contracts the most solemn form of execution; but

never, in old times, was a church foolish enough to deny
that marriage was marriage in any case. Irregular
marriages were subjects. of spiritual censure, but they

were binding. The religious tendencies of mankind led
strongly towards the notion of religious ceremony being
an essential of the contract, and the old churches, far fi'om

aiding, resisted this. The whole history of precontract
is the history of the care which was taken that a new

marriage, or pretence of marriage, fortified by the sanc
tion of religious form, should not supervene upon a real

and previous civil marriage. The Council of Trent, in
enacting that a priest must be one of the witnesses of a

marriage, made the first innovation, but the decrees of

this Council are not received throughout the whole of

the Roman Church.

   But some readers may ask how the pure civil contract

could be a sacrament. They might as well ask how lay
baptism could be a sacrament. The sacrament was, by
its own nature, held to be in existence in the contract

between Christians; the phrase  iIs,  have been informed,
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.  81

 that in `baptism, etc., the baptizer gives the sacrament,

Ibut that in matrimony the parties give the sacrament to

 each other. What had collected on this matter need

not be detailed: if we allow the Pope to be a sufiicient

 expounder of his own system, the question is settled by

the encyclical letter of 1864, and if not, this is a matter

Ion which am willing to err with the Pope.

    In the catalogue of errors which is appended to that
 document, it is declared false to say that `the sacrament

 of marriage is only an adjunct to the contract, from
 which it is separable, and that it only consists in the
 nuptial benediction,' i.e., in the priestly share of the
matter. And the reader may amuse himself by read
 ing the following involution of four negations: The

 Pope says it is false to say that it is false that the con

tract is null if the sacrament do not exist. \Ve can now

 see how the Roman system formerly acknowledged,

among its sacraments, the mere declaration of parties
made by words de prwsenti before witnesses, no one of
whom was in orders.

I As to England, with which we are now concerned.
   have more than once heard it denied by clergymen

that marriage was ever a civil contract: very common

books would have prevented so simple a mistake. In
the very year in which Halifax married Miss Barton, Chief
Justice Holt (Wigmore's case, Salkeld, vol. ii. p. 437)
laid it down as the law of England, that a contract per

verba de prcesenti is a marriage; and also per verba de

futuro, if the parties afterwards live together. The

churches, as above noted, never denied that irregular

                                                                                                  6
82 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

marriage was marriage. When informal or im'egular
marriages were prosecuted in the ecclesiastical courts,

the irregularity was punishable by excommunication,
but the marriage was neither void nor voidable. And
it may be questioned whether any ecclesiastical censure

involving penalty could be directed against a purely

civil marriage, if the parties employed no clergyman at

all. When Archbishop Whitgift proceeded against Sir
Edward Coke for celebrating his marriage in a private
house without banns or license, the clergyman was also
prosecuted. The lawyer made submission, and pleaded

ignorance; for excommunication in those days had other
inconveniences besides payment of costs. Much remark
was made upon Coke's plea of ignorance; but in all
probability it was genuine; the common lawyer might
well have been without the knowledge of an almostdisused

ecclesiastical canon. Coke was a strong churchmen, and,

what is more, a strong Cokist, he was not likely to give
wilful offence to the system which he favoured, and by
which he hoped to be favoured. The modern way of pro
hibiting illegal marriages, inaugurated by the very act of

George II. is by making them null and void--no marriages

 at all. But in old time they would no more have thought
 of this way out of the difiiculty, than they would have
 tried to prevent stealing of apples, by declaring that all
 round esculent balls, taken from an apple-tree without
 consent of the owner, were no apples at all. The
 Attorney-General Ryder, in introducing the Act of 1753
 to the House of Commons (Hansard, XV. col. 3), said
 --after repeating in substance the dictum of Chief
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.  83

 Justice Holt--that marriage without banns or license had

 long been prohibited by statute : but he never said that

 the prohibited marriages were invalid, when completed;

and all the world knew the contrary. In 1836, in the
 debate on the Marriage Bill, Dr. Lushington (Hansard,
 3rd S. xxxiv., col. 492) afi'irmed, without the slightest

 attempt at contradiction from any quarter; that ` up to

 the year 1756 (misprint for March 24th, 1754) marriage
 was a civil contract. Two people declaring themselves

 man and wife before witnesses were as indubitably
 married as persons making the same declaration in
 Scotland, with the exception of not being. able to claim
 some obsolete remedies as to real property.' The
 penalties of irregular marriage were ecclesiastical; but
invalidation was impossible. The Earl of Oxford's

 deception, already noticed, was a marriage: the dressing

`up of a trumpeter in a clergyman's dress was merely to
 satisfy the lady that usual forms were observed.* The
 general feeling demanded a religious ceremony; and it
 was the universal-but wrong--belief that a clerk in

 orders was necessary.
     The Fleet parsons who plied for marriages in gown

 and bands were probably for the most part in real
 orders. Goldsmith, who wrote the `Vicar of Wakefield '

 a few years after the change, sticks to the wrong notion
 of the old law in the fictitious marriage. The deceiver

 of the deceiver palms a real license and a real clergyman
 upon him when he wanted shams ; and so far the

     * This is what the continuer of Granger means when he says the
 Earl ` may be said to have committed polygamy.'

                                                                   6--2
84 -Newton: his Friend.' and his Niece.

marriage holds good under the new law. But the`

marriage is not made in a church, and so it was null

and void, which it would not have been under the old

law,* and which the novelist does not make it.

But seven or eight years later, when he wrote the

` Goodnatured Man,' Goldsmith had learnt the new law,

and he sends his couple to Scotland, or would have

sent them if the money had not failed. And here I may

digress to say that the ridicule of Scotch poverty, which

is sometimes thought to have begun with Johnson, runs

through the century, and seems to date from the Union.

Swift, in the work which provoked the discussion in

the Lords, says that some of the nation had gained an

amount of money in England, of which no Scotchman

could form an idea unless he had travelled. And Gold

smith, when his young lady asks if they could not go
without the money, makes her servant reply: `To

Scotland without money! Lord! how some people

understand geography

   In 1749 and 1750,
a                                                              -
                              a l';
                                     work was published by Dr.

Gally, king's chaplain, on clandestine marriages.

Clandestine, meaning secret in Latin, was the technical

term applied to all marriages not made in facie ecclesice,

;  *The very possibility of sham clergyman was, under the new
                    a
law, an absurdity for the oliiciating minister must have been then,
as now, the well-known incumbent or curate of public church, or
clergyman who had satisfied the incumbent of the reality of his

character. It certainly has happened in few cases, that person

not in orders has deceived an incumbent, and procured permission
to ofiiciate, but such depth of plot must not be taken, without
mention, to be in the novelist's intention.
                                     a
                                                 a

                                                                       a
                                                                                     a

a
          Newton : his Friend: and his Niece.  85

no matter how publicly. It appeared that banns were

seldom published; that the ordinary run of respectable

marriages were contracted under license, given without

inquiry on tender of the fee; that a very large number

were solemnized without any witness except the ofiiciat
ing minister. The tradition of the Fleet parsons is still

prevalent. Women used to be married to men whom

they were never to see again, in order to be protected

by certificate from arrest for debt, and one man would

lend his name to any number of women for this purpose.

It does not appear that the state of things was one bit

better in 1706 ; and thus we see that a marriage, good in

all respects before the law, and reputable in society,

might be contracted with any degree of privacy, and

attended by any subsequent notoriety which the parties
chose to give, and this without any record being in
existence. The marriage-shops at the Fleet and May
fair kept no registers; and it appeared in the debates of

1753, that at one of these places, called Keith's Chapel,

six thousand marriages were performed in a year ; while
at the fashionable church of St. Anne's, Soho, there were

not more than fifty in the same period. It was not pre-

tended that these irregularities were of recent growth,

Iwhether as to quantity relative to population or as to
quality.  dwell upon these points because of the

impression which many have that no marriages were

ever valid except those performed by a person in orders

and in facie ecclesice. In the third volume of the `Lexicon

Technicum ' (1744), a learned work, a few years before

the new law, it is laid down as notorious that marriage
86 JVewton: his Friend : and his Niece.

Iwithout a priest is not null and void, but only irregular.

  have seen it stated that there are no cases in which

these irregular marriages were afiirmed by the courts.

But if the merely living together by the name of

husband and wife, under a common surname, were

sufiicient proof of marriage, the cases in which the fact

of marriage was impugned after the death of parties
Ifmust have been very few.
                            we look to the drama, up

to some years after the Act of George IL, we find every

where `a mixture of law with custom. The valid cere

mony neither requires a consecrated building, an interval

of notice, nor an inquiry into the age of the parties, but

always a performer in orders. Taking up a collection of

Iplays, opened on ` All the World's a' Stage.' There

is a difiiculty in this play; Parson Dozey would not
dare to afi'ront the Squire; but the Rev. Joe Tackem,
a friend of the bridegroom, chances to arrive at-the end

of Scene 3, and the two, the girl a minor, who have
`just stepped out,' step in again as one at the beginning

of Scene 4. It is quite clear that the world at large

knew `the law in every point but one: the universal
habit of employing a clergyman had produced the im
pression that this also was a part of the law. This
opinion continues down to the present time. An article

Iin Household Words (No. 436), which chanced to meet

with on the day of writing this, says: ` That all marriages

were valid, without reference to age, place, or circum

stances, which were solemnized by an ordained minister

of the English or Roman Church.'

  IThe most curious proof which have found of the
Newton : his li'riend : and his Niece.                          87

vulgar error that a person in orders was necessary is in

Wycherley's `Country Wife.' Here a marriage, cele

brated by a pretended priest, is repudiated as soon as

the pretence is discovered--which happens in an hour

or two--and the lady is then married by a real priest to

the pretended priest himself, who had put on the dis

guise for the purpose of foiling his rival. This was not
the law ; Chief Justice Holt against all the dramatists:
but it was the vulgar notion ; Wycherley against all the

judges. There is another ground in the play, that the

minister did not `say all the Common Prayer;' this

would have been no objection at all. In our day we

know that the minister may curtail the service provided

no essential be omitted; that                       without invalidatingis,

the marriage: and the essentials, distinctly recapitulated; it

when the parties are pronounced man and wife, are the

consent, its publication, the pledges, and the ring as          aa

proof. The idea of the mutilated service making

mutilated marriage reminds one of the sailor who came

to the altar without cash enough to pay the fee: `Never
mind, old fellow marry us as far as will go
I                                                               1'

              if                                                          is

                    it
                                                 !
      have noticed the reason of the importance attached
to precontract; by shifting of words, this importance

lost. Since marriage was but contract, precontract was

premarriage,                                      had been de prwsenti and the distinc

tion between this and de futuro was one of much difli

culty in many cases, demanding inquiry in all. Under

our present law the registrar could not refuse to perform

his offioe though five hundred women were to produce

solemn written promises against the man, and five
88 Newton : his Friend: and his Niece.

hundred men against the woman, all signed de prcesenti
by both parties. `Probably the priest could not refuse,
though perhaps there is yet enough of unrepealed letter
to make it a question for the courts. But in old times,

even after the Reformation, precontract was sufiicient

ground to refuse a license; it opened the inquiry

whether marriage had not taken, place, and that inquiry
could only be provoked by, publication of banns. In
the canons, both of 1584 and 1603, precontract, con
sanguinity, and afiinity; in that order are mentioned
together as examples of reason against granting license
to dispense with the trinundine denunciation, commonly

called banns---of course alleged precontract, etc., are
intended. The canons of 1603 require parties divorced

a mensa at thoro to give security that they would not
proceed ad alias nuptias. This new marriage would

be no marriage at all; the meaning seems to be that

the parties are to be under a penalty, capable of legal
enforcement, not to contract that common-law marriage
--no matter how void--iwhich ecclesiastical law could

not prevent.
    There is no old statute legalizing the marriages of

Quakers and Jews; their method was legal in itself. In
the long account of the grievances of the Nonconformist

Iwhich Edward Calamy (the younger) gives, cannot

find a word about marriage; and for good reason: he
knew it was not necessary to have anything to do with
the Establishment in that matter. Had he been bound

to employ a clergyman and the Church form, we should
have had remonstrance and defence. Under the Com
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.            89

monwealth, in 1653, it was expressly enacted that all
marriages should be solemnized before a justice of peace,

and that no other mode should constitute marriage

according to the law of England. This was the first

time that mdlz'ty of marriage was manufactured by law;
but it was the act of the Convention. When a more

formal parliament, in 1656, confirmed the enactment, it

omitted the clause that no other marriage should be

held good. Marriage was a civil contract; the Conven

tion enacted that it should be nothing but a civil con

tract. It may be that Selden was the adviser, or an

adviser, of the measure. He died in 1654, and in the

Table-talk, the collection of the sayings of the last years

of his life, we find `Marriage is nothing but a civil con

tract; 'tis true, 'tis an ordinance of God; so is'every

Iother contract. God commands me to keep it when

have made it.' This is rather strange, for it would

justify any number of contracts, or indefinite polygamy,

and would apply to women as well as to men.
IfThere was one thing which long puzzled me.
                                              the

idea of nullity of marriage, by reason of departure from

conventions imposed by law, were so new, as it must

have been in 1753, why do we not meet with some

proofs of the novelty having had a startling effect upon
Ithe public mind?
                   suppose this may have arisen from

the thoroughly established habit of employing a clergy

man, and the consequent infrequency of the purely civil

Icontract. Evidences of wonder or of satire may perhaps
be found by those who look for them.  never found

more than one, but my stray reading has little to do
90 Newton : his .Frimzd: and his Niece.

with 1750-60. There is a vignette caricature, dated

1757, and headed `The Devil of a Medley.' It consists

of portraits, books, etc., heaped together, each repre
senting some sign of the time. One of these is a book
outside of which is written nul mariage, but whether by
carelessness, or from want of room, or from an intention
to represent the change as brought from France--a
common imputation on all that was new--I cannot tell.

IHere, however, must say my remarks refer to the

paucity of things addressed to the public at large, as
tales, dramas, caricatures, etc. Those who fought about
the new Act produced shoals of pamphlets, in which the
annulling clause is a bone of contention. There were
those who denied that nullification was in the power of
the State, even in the case of minors being of marriage

able age ; and the right was defended on the other side.
But even the nullifiers had not got to the idea of nullity;
to annul was then, as now, according to dictionaries, not
to afiirm nullity ab initio, but to annihilate, to make
something into nothing. They maintained--I use their
own phrases--that the State had a right to prohibit
clandestine marriages on pain of nullity. Herein they
show that they could not divest themselves of the
idea that marriage is marriage, until the law steps in
with its nullification; just, as a murderer is a murderer
until the law deprives him of that and all other titles
with a halter. What the law has pronounced void, their
prepossessions confounded with voidable--a state of
things to which the law respecting the prohibited
degree had accustomed all. This is a difiiculty of the
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.            91

human mind, which finds it very hard to declare some

thing to be nothing, or nothing to be something, by a

convention, whether of thought or of law. The mathe

maticians had faced and overcome the difficulty a

century and a half before, when, after a struggle, 0 took

its place in the series 0, 1, 2, 3, etc. It is possible that

the word nullzfy was originally a clerical satire on a

mathematician. It is not found in dictionaries of the
seventeenth century ; nor can I, nor does any reader of

Notes and Queries, produce any anterior use of it.

Now, Aubrey, speaking of Harriot the algebraist, who,

towards the beginning of his century, was said to have

repudiated the Old Testament, relates that the clergy

imputed his death to a special judgment, for nullifying

:Bthe word of God. Harriot, as well known, was the
first who dared to say A  in the form A--B=O, one

of the greatest sources of progress ever opened in

algebra. This slight change was a very startling one;

and it may be supposed, until other instances of the

words shall be produced, that the opponents meant to

signify that 'Harriot treated the Old Testament as he
A-B,had treated
                 and invented a word for it.

The great point of the Act of George II., which in

time remedied all old disorders, was the refusal of legal

recognition, except in the case of Quakers, etc., to all

marriages, except those which--failing the special license
of the Archbishop-were solemnized in a public church

or chapel, after banns published or common licence

obtained. It was held that the ceremony must be per

formed by a person in orders; but the Act is not
92 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

Iexpress on this point. Probably the legislature cared

nothing about this matter: suppose the judges held
that a necessary consequence of the enactment must be
taken for intentional. Now, the obligation to solemnize
marriage in a church or chapel, which could not be
open for any solemnity except by the consent of the

incumbent, made the clerical performer as good as a
necessary consequence of the law.

   In such a state of society as we now see to have

existed in 1700, we may with reason imagine that the
unacknowledged marriages, especially between people of
very different rank, were much more common than in
our day. The scanty evidence of private life which
has come down to us has not been well sifted with

reference to the point ; but there is enough to induce
the suspicion that the Halifax and Peterborough cases

were far from standing alone--they were probably
cases of a small and known class, not numerous enough
to be recorded in history as a feature of the time, but
common enough to prevent its members from being
objects of much curiosity.

   The state of society being as above described, the
difficulty of the secrecy and of its continuation is com
plicated by the difiiculty of assigning all the sufiiciently
probable reasons, and of weighing their relative force.

I should be loath to put forward any supposition as

having great force in my own mind, except one, as
follows :

   Whatever the reason may have been, it is unlikely
that it was regarded as final. Few private marriages
    Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.                93

are made upon the supposition that they must always

remain private. Halifax, we may presume, did not

calculate upon a fatal fever at the age of fifty-four, and

his reason may have had much more force as for tem

porary concealment than as for permanent suppression.

   Arguing merely on the difiiculty as a matter of

Icuriosity--for again disclaim all feeling of necessity to

meet it as an argument against my conclusion--I pro

pound, first, the possibility of a. failure of evidence, say,

by death of witnesses. The usage of the times would

be to think lightly of the necessity of preserving evidence.

When the parties had notoriously lived in public acknow

ledgment, and under one name, no proof would in general
be wanted ; for, as in the present Scotch law, public and

continuous acknowledgment would itself furnish all the

evidence required. Our highest court has recently

(July, 1867) supplied a decisive case as to the law of
Scotland. An adulterous couple lived as man and wife;

the real husband died, and the pair lived on as before,

without any ceremony or declaration. The House of

Lords decided for the legality of the marriage, and the

right of succession of the heirs--that
                        is                            the continu
                                                 is,
ance of cohabitation, from and after the time when

marriage was possible,  marriage according to the
Scotch or ancient law. It seems from this case that,

even the woman had never heard of her real husband's
if

death, and had continued to believe herself only                   a

mistress, she would have been wife without knowinga

Ifit. the contemplated secrecy had been only temporary,

perpetuation of evidence might have been neglected, the
94 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece. '

reason for secrecy might have continued longer than
was expected, and until the wholly unexpected death of
Halifax came like a thief in the night. While in most
vigorous health, to all appearance, he was taken suddenly

ill on the 15th of May, of inflammation of the lungs, and

died on the 19th. To assume that sufiicient evidence

must then have existed is sufiiciently answered by the
assumption that there must have been what was held
a good reason for not using it.

   We cannot now tell whether Halifax had taken the
precaution, very common then as now, of barring the
dower of his lands; they were various, acquired at
different times, by a man of very busy political occupa
tions. Had there been any portion, however small,
subject to dower, no way of announcing the marriage
would have been worth a straw, unless it had been
established in the Courts, and claim of dower made.

Any other method would have been nothing better than
a proclamation of the connexion, and a confession that
the alleged marriage had no evidence which would bear
the inspection of judge and jury or of Doctors'

Commons. It could not have been contended that the

legacies were in bar of dower: and even in that case,
the widow had her election to make. And dower, how
ever small it might have been, would have put the
marriage before the world with the utmost force. Nor
would law, on this account, have been slow to help.

   To use a remarkable phrase of Chief Justice Coke, `It

is commonly said that three things be favoured in law
life, liberty, and dower.' And among the cases, things
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.  95

far plainer than rules, is the following. A man was

attainted, and his land was given by the Crown to a
second, who sold it to a third. Upon the attainder

being subsequently reversed, the widow recovered her
dower from the purchaser. When we are looking for

possible reasons for the continued secrecy, we must be
content with possible answers to objections: a thing

seldom seen by opponents, who very often demand
demonstration. Here is a case that might easily have
arisen: failure of evidence during the life of Halifax
which would have made the establishment of the

marriage impracticable, as against the heir-at-law on the
question of dower. We must remember that each

surmise of reason may be unlikely: if we can state six

possible and imcompatible reasons as to which, in our
total ignorance, we are similarly situated, it is at least
five to one against each of them. The reader must

Iremember that am speaking of the law of dower, as it

was in the reign of Anne, not as it is now.

   If it were thought reasonably possible that the proof

of the marriage would have broken down, the wisdom
of letting well alone would have been manifest. We

have evidence that Mrs. C. Barton's position was highly

respectable, as to the society she could command, and

the esteem in which she was held. And there was no

very long period during which there was any occasion
to agitate this question. Halifax died in May, 1715,
and the lady, in August, 1717, contracted a marriage
which would not have been derogative in his acknow

ledged widow, and which was a splendid match for one
96 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

in her original position. There were but two years and
Ifthree months between these two events.
                                          but three

months after the husband's death be allowed for

repose, and                        during six months before the second
it
    ismarriage, the shadow of the coming event be permitted

                     a if,to have placed the question in abeyance, there but
                                     a
                                  a
                                                     If,

                                                   I
                                                                      is
eighteen months of diificulty. For the second marriage

was as complete testimony to the respectability of the

bride as the times could give, as well from Conduitt's

personal character as from his position.  as suppose,

the first marriage had been matter of private under

standing in respectable circle, there could have been

no occasion to court publicity after the second marriage,
so far as Mrs. Conduitt's comfort was concerned. And

not likely that, in that day, and in the mind of
                                     a
                                          a

                                                            a

                                                                                                          a. a,
lady who had submitted for ten years to be reckoned

mistress out of her own circle, content with the know

ledge and that of her friends that she was wife, there

would have existed so intense desire for the public

clearance of her conduct, after the evidence of her second

marriage, as would be supposed by woman of our own

time to whom the idea of submitting without deserving

to woman's worst reproach had never been familar.

The circumstances of Halifax's will are very curious,
it

          a

                    It
and publicity may bring forward something to develop
their bearing on the probabilities of the case. There
the will (April 10th, 1706), duly attested by three
                                     is
witnesses, one of whom
                                                                      ;

                                                                                  is
                                     the celebrated publisher,

Jacob Tonson.                        need give no surprise to find him

here: he was much in the great world and he was
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.     97

secretary of the Kit Cat Club, of which, as we have

seen, Halifax was another member. Pope, in the

satirical account of his journey on horseback into the

country, with Tonson's rival, Bernard Lintot, makes
ILintot say, ` If had a son big enough to go on with
G- Ithe business, by
                      would keep as good company as

old Jacob.' There are three schedules, say, A, B, C.
Of these A is the first codicil (April 12, 1706), attested

by two witnesses, neither of whom attested the will, and

devising personal property to Miss Barton. C is the

second codicil (Feb. 1, 1712), devising, inter alia, a life
interest in real property to Miss Barton, and accom

panied by a memorandum (Aug. 30, 1713) acknow
ledging interlineations. B is a memorandum (of the
same, Aug. 30), of the nature of a codicil, revoking A

on condition that there shall be no dispute on C, and

enjoining the executor to raise no opposition. All is

in the handwriting of Halifax ; but B and C, though

signed, have no attestation whatever. Appended to the

will, however, is an afiidavit sworn by two persons

before a surrogate and a notary public (June 18, 1715,

a month after the testator's death), to the effect that

A, B, C, are entirely in the handwriting of Halifax, and

signed by him. On all this we may ask how, after the

Statute of Frauds, this afiidavit could have been of any

legal effect? How could any proof of handwriting

give validity to the unattested codicil? Did the

executor (George Montague, the nephew, who succeeded
to the barony, and was afterwards created earl), who

was also heir by the will, as well as heir at law, give

                                    7
98 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

effect to the codicil from regard for his uncle, who not

only left him land and money to the reputed value of

£130,000, as well as the reversion of the property

subject to Miss Barton's life interests, but had resigned

in his favour, shortly before his own death, the very

lucrative post of Auditor of the Exchequer, of which he

had previously got his nephew the reversion ? This is

Ivery likely : nothing, believe, is known of the second

Lord Halifax which should make it otherwise. Or did

Miss Barton and her friends compel him to give effect to

the codicil by threatening to prove the marriage and

claim dower, if the dower would have exceeded the

legacy in value? This is not impossible: there are

men of good repute to whom it would not be safe to
trust for the relinquishment of £20,000, or value, even

after a  of £130,000 and a rich place. And was it

knowledge of the power left in the widow's hands which
made Halifax careless about signing B and C in presence

of witnesses? Was the second codicil understood

between him and his wife to be in bar of dower, he

trusting her and Newton on the one hand, and his

nephew on the other? \Vas the memorandum of 1713

inserted on discovery of the accidental omission of the

attestations, on the knowledge that the codicil could not

`fail to be sufiicient for the previous reasons ? And why

was the first codicil deferred two days after the will,

and attested by new witnesses? Was it that it was

preferred to attest this bequest, which arose out of the

marriage, by the hands of witnesses to the marriage

(F. Lambert and Nath. Cowdery; one Habbakuk
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.             99

Cowdry is ridiculed in the history of the Calves' Head

Club), so as not to give knowledge or ground of surmise

to any new persons? All these are questions only

of curiosity to those who are satisfied by the evidence
of the marriage; to others there is what presumption

they may offer on one side or the other. There is

not the slightest reason to suppose that the unattested

codicil was disputed.

But Conduitt himself gives no information in the

memoranda which he left, beyond stating that his

wife lived, before and after her marriage with him,

twenty years with her uncle, when thirty years had to

be explained. This was far the greatest difiiculty, to

my mind, before the discovery of Newton's letter. We

can hardly speculate on it. If these memoranda were

made long after his own marriage, he may have known

that the story had died out, and may not have wished

to give means of revival. But his omission does not

Idestroy the evidence have given. And more, if his

silence about the marriage be a difiiculty on one side,

his silence about the notorious scandal, thatI his
                                          is,
want of denial, as great difiiculty on the other.
   As yet have had no opponent except Sir David

Brewster and his reviewers. At the time write this
I                      a
          is
                          is
(1865-66) Sir D. Brewster in his eighty-fifth year,
anear the end of long course of celebrity and utility.

All his other claims are lighted up by the noble

enthusiasm with which, for more than thirty years, he

followed up the subject of Newton's biography, and

in 1856 produced the most complete result yet attained,

                              7--2
100 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

Ihis former production of 1831 being then more complete

than any of its predecessors. Before publish this

paper, which has already existed in one form or another
for more than eight years, it is but too probable that

this distinguished career will have come to an end: if

not, it must have passed the utmost point at which

literary controversy can be expected. Under the

circumstances it would be difiicult--in many cases--

for me to steer a course satisfactory to myself in regard

Ito arguments which cannot always treat with respect,

and quite impossible to find one which will be approved

by all ; the plain truth being that it is imperative on me

Ito give the proper description of very amusing can't-sees

and very evasive won't-sees. observe that forbearance

shown to the proposer of an argument out of personal

respect, when it takes the form of mild treatment of the

argument itself, turns all that is omitted into strength

for the argument, and, more often than not, all that is

presented into disrespect to the proposer. In a difficulty

Iof this kind know of no better resource than to appeal

to the opponent himself, and to ask him how he would

treat those for whom in life he had both respect and

regard, when `he finds it necessary to hold any of their
qualities very low? And the best answer is his own
Imode of proceeding.
                      examine his treatment of Francis

Baily. It must be remembered that the terms he

applies to his departed friend are the effect of documents

which that friend had never seen, `and could not have

seen, as he knew'; himself admitting that Baily's case

was unanswerable by any documents within Baily's
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.  101

reach, though he thinks he can make a good answer

from his own discoveries among the Portsmouth

papers.

   Whcn Flamsteed learnt that Newton and Halley had

broken the seal of his observations without his consent,

he was, says Baily, :of course very much annoyed and

irritated ;' here is an inference as to Flamsteed's feeling
in March, very well borne out by his recorded feeling
in the following October. Sir D. Brewster, on the

ground that Flamsteed made no complaint, none being
recorded in what to his mind were certain likely
occasions in the interval, instead of allowing Mr. Baily
his opinion, and counterpoising it by his own view
of the force of the intermediate silence, writes (ii. 230)
as follows :--` The whole statement of Mr. Baily, that he

was annoyed and irritated at the piece of unexpected

intelligence, is an entire fiction.' This is the way

in which Sir D. Brewster often states, as positive
assertions of fact, the inferential conclusions which it

pleases him to set against the inferential conclusions of

opponents. The charge of fiction, taken alone, might be
interpreted as meaning that Baily was under a delusion ;
but this does not consist with what is said in other

places. We find that (Preface, p. xii.) Newton is to
be defended against a ` system of calumny and misrepre
sentation unexampled in the history of science.' System

seems to point to more than one person; though it may

refer to the continued action of one person, as Flamsteed.

Not so here. In the preceding page we are told that
`it was reserved for two English astronomers, the one
102 Newton:  Friend: and his Niece.

 (Flamsteed) a contemporary, and the other (Baily)

 a follower, to misrepresent and calumniate their

illustrious countryman.' To all who knew Francis

 Baily it is unnecessary to say a word: to others,
the complete way in which his supplement dealt with

objections is quite enough to show the full right he had
to advance all he brought forward, and to maintain all

he advanced. The late Dr. Whewell, whose stout

defence of his own opinions was conducted in a rough
and overbearing style which every mortuary account
has recorded, and very properly--it would be absurd to
describe St. Paul's without mentioning the clock--was
Baily's most vigorous'and most able opponent. But he
was, under the rind, a candid and truth-loving man;
and was silenced by reason, in the mouths of those
who stood up to him, more times in a twelvemonth

that many soft_spoken men in their whole lives. He
saw the force of Baily's reply, admitted it in private,

and left the field. But this is not the point. It

will be seen that Sir D. Brewster charges Baily with

fiction, calumny, and misrepresentation. These were

terms which he did not use during Baily's life, and

Iwhich am as sure as Macaulay ever was of anything

that he would not have dared to use if Baily had been

Iable to answer. But do not regret that the terms

should have been used.

   Those who examine Sir David Brewster's account of

the Flamsteed controversy will find parallels to the

Idefective reasoning and want of precision which shall
I Ipoint out in reference to the case of which treat.
Newton : his Friend: and his Niece.  103

shall take one instance of that looseness of representa

tion, and want of reference to the past, which he is apt

to fall into. He says (Preface, p. xi.), `In 1835 the

scientific world was startled by the publication of Baily's

Life of Flamsteed, a huge volume, deeply affecting the

character of Newton, and, strange to say, printed, and
circulated through the world at the expense of the

Board of Admiralty. It should be remembered that

there were quarters from which much reproach was cast

upon the Admiralty for publishing disparagement of

Newton. The best possible ofiicial answer was given

in the preface; but it should have been in the title-page.

To the words `printed by order- of the Lord's Com-

missioners of the Admiralty ' should have been added,

` on the recommendation of the Board of Visitors of the

Royal Observatory.' And Sir D. Brewster should not

have written this information.  A board of which

the great majority are men of science, each holding one

or another kind of public scientific post under Govern

ment, in a University, or over a scientific society, with

the President of the Royal Society for a chairman,

is a board on the advice of which the Admiralty would

have had a good answer if they had called Newton
a quadruped. The Flamsteed and Newton quarrel was

not the main object of the work, which was a corrected

reprint of Flamsteed's British Catalogue of stars; the

quarrel was an essential part of the history of the

catalogue, and the publication of its history was one
of Flamsteed's posthumous rights. But many of the

remarks which were made imputed to the Admiralty
104 Newton: his Friend : and his Niece.

that they had gone out of their way to make known a

quarrel between Newton and Flamsteed, the greatest

discordance between theory and practice that had ever

been noticed, for no other reason than because that

quarrel was in se matter of interesting scandal to the

scientific world.             .

Of the `huge volume ' a little more than half is taken

up by the catalogue itself; more than three-quarters of
the remainder consist of the actual correspondence, which

no one would wish to be suppressed. So that the

obnoxious part is less than one-eighth of the whole.

Sir D. Brewster might have said that Newton had been

calumniated in a huge work of thirty volumes; for the

article on Flamsteed in the Penny C'yclopazdia contains

an abstract of Baily's case.             _

Next, as to the scientific world being `startled' by

the publication of the volume--an instance of fact

coloured by feeling. The life of Flamsteed was pub

Ilished in (I think) August, 1835: know that a proof

of the title-page was received back from the Admiralty

on July 23 ; and grass did not grow under Baily's heels.

As long before this as November 8, 1833, Baily read a

paper to the Astronomical Society, which was forthwith

printed in their lilonthly Notice, and which gave the

heads of the quarrel in six small octavo pages of small

print, going down into details as far as the malicious

thief, which Flamsteed called Halley. It ends with,

` The correspondence, however, divulges the lamentable

fact that, even amongst men of the most powerful

minds, there is no protection against the infirmities of

human nature.'
          Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.  105

   In the Annual Report of the Society (February, 1836)

the recent publication is alluded to as follows :--` The

various communications which the Society had received
on this subject must have prepared the astronomical
world to expect a new and curious page in the history
of their science. Nor have these reasonable anticipa

tions been disappointed. . . .' Sir D. Brewster was a.
fellow of the Astronomical Society from its commence

ment, and received all its Monthly Notices. He must
have been entirely conquered by the feeling of the

moment when he forgot the twenty-one successive

months during which he, already a biographer of
'
          had talked the matter over,  and heard it talked
 Newton,

over, in every scientific company. And he must have

been culpably willing to take the current feeling of his

mind as evidence of the past, when he did not remember

to consult astronomical records to confirm or correct

what he was going to asseverate about former opinion;

and this after one of the most stinging warnings which

Ia biographer had ever received against what must call
slapdashery of assertion. It was he himself who, in his

`Ifirst `Life of Newton' (p. 243), quoted the celebrated
letter of Newton to Flamsteed, containing,    do not

Ilove . . . to be thought . . . to be trifling away my
time (about mathematical things) when       should be

about the King's business,' as a letter of Flamsteed to

Newton, ` Characteristic of Flamsteed's manner.' It was

he himself who described the annotation, ` Was Mr.

Newton :1 trifler when he read mathematics for a salary

at Cambridge?' as Flamsteed's remark upon his own

letter.
106 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

But perhaps Sir D. Brewster himself was startled,

and may have coloured the world with his own impres

sion: if so, he showed as great a forgetfulness of himself

as of others. February 5, 1834, he writes to Baily:

`If you have not already resolved upon
                   a                              would venture to

                                            iIt,
urge you to prefix life of Flamstead to your edition of the British

Catalogue, and this would afford you an excellent opportunity of

giving an account of the difference between him and Newton.'*

    Sir D. Brewster, then, was one of those who, after
the appearance of the abstract of exposure in 1833-----and
when he must have read that abstract not seven weeks

before he wrote--urged Baily to prefix life of lam
steed to his edition of the British Catalogue, which
had been arranged was to appear. The reason given
by Sir D. Brewster was that such life would afford an
excellent opportunity of giving an account of the differ
ence between him and Newton, about which, at that
                                    a
                                               a

                                                     F

                                                               it

very time, there was strong impression that `deeply
                   a                              it

affected the character of Newton. He instigated Baily
      it
to describe this quarrel, the heads of which he knew
          it is '
perhaps all the details, for they were fully discussed at

Baily's house, where have met Sir D. Brewster---in
                   I                                           a

publication, which he knew was to be paid for by theis

Admiralty. All this well enough as appertaining to

the controversy on Baily's publication; but my affair

with               the representation of the critic,_who has come

forward to break lance with me on the Halifax
                   a
question.                        a

   * For this letter Bailey paid postage of 1s. 3%(1, little thinking
how well would be worth the money before all was done.
Newton : his Friend: and his Niece.  107

    All who read Sir David Brewster's life of Newton

 will see that he is counsel for Newton, not judge of his
 case. In one sense he does not sustain the character:

 he does not pick his documents. He has fairly, and
 unequivocally, abandoned some points on which he
 defended Newton in his life of 1831, on information

 found among the Portsmouth papers. He has, in the

 plainest way, brought forward the papers on religion,
 which have been hitherto suppressed, and which prove
 that Newton was some kind of Unitarian, as was already

 believed by the great majority of those who had looked
into the matter. This admission (Sir D. Brewster him
 self being of Scottish-orthodoxy, and having formerly

defended Newton's English orthodoxy) must have
been a vexation of spirit: the manner in which it was
made must render it impracticable to suspect the maker
of wilful suppression on any material point.

    When two controversialists exchange private corre

spondence on a question on which one afterwards becomes

the public .assailant of the other, it is doubtful how far

the character of privacy protects the writer, if his confi

dential admissions be at variance with his subsequent
public assertions. And the difiiculty is one of degree
the greatest of all difl`iculties. If--to take a case very
different from the real one-- Sir D. Brewster had

privately written to me that he was satisfied Sir I.

Newton had connived at the dishonour of his niece, but

that Newton must be defended; and if thereupon he

had publicly accused me of false statement and false

reasoning for maintaining--supposing one to have done
108 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

Iso--a conclusion which he himself privately held;

should have felt no doubt of my right to set his private

Ideclaration against his public one. And, for myself,

go so far as to say, that even if it were held that in such

Ia case the usual law of correspondence should extend,

would have set that law at defiance. In matters of less

extremity than the case supposed, the way to proceed

Iinvolves various considerations: in that which has

actually occurred intend to produce Sir D. Brewster

Iagainst himself; and to what concerns myself, add

Ithat believe my publication will do much good to Sir

D. Brewster's book. It will do good in this way: it

will show the reader that the biographer meant to be

counsel for Newton. Now the arguments of a pro

fessed advocate, as such, are heard or read without

repugnance: they do not gravitate in proprio loco. But

when the judge on the bench plays the part of counsel,

we feel impatient; and more, we are apt to try to trim

the boat by a reaction of our own. It is my full belief

that Sir D. Brewster's book has been read under mis

conception from its first appearance. He ought to have

`Isaid plainly, will neither wilfully alter a fact nor sup

press a document; but all beyond this is your own

look'out. Newton is to defended, and am to do it.'

  It will be plain to those who read his account of the

Halifax case, that the author, in the usual way, brings
                   is
                     is a

                                _be

                                     II
my arguments into his own court, and proceeds to

judge them. There    certain feint of examining both

sides; and sentence  passed. Now       say that the

writer intended to be counsel for Newton; and knew
Newton: his Friend : and his Niece.                           109

Ithat he intended it. That he had no other character is

clear to those who read his whole book ; say again, so

far as argument is concerned, no right of suppression
being assumed. But he knew that he was under a self
imposed necessity of defending Newton; not of defend
ing him right or wrong, Heaven forbid ! but of finding
out that he did nothing but what was right.

   Sir D. Brewster's work was published before June,

1855. It contains a refutation of the Halifax connection

of the most confident character and triumphant result.

IThere cannot, he says, be a doubt about the matter : as

to myself, violate every principle of reasoning, and

assume as facts what are most positively pronounced to
be pure and obvious misreadings of my authorities.
Now for extracts fi`om Sir D. Brewster's letters to me.

  `I Ihave to thank you, presume,                          `February 21, 1854.

Notes and Queries about Mrs. Barton.  Ifor the remarkable paper in
what to say on that subject.'            am puzzled beyond measure

                                                              `March 14, 1854.

`In the matter of Catherine Barton, whatever view we take of

Newton, think, must be held blameless.                        cannot adopt the
it,

        I

                                       it

                                                           a

                                                      it

                                                  I
marriage theory, because, whatever reason there might be during

Lord Halifax's life to keep  secret, was certainly the duty of

Newton, and of Conduitt, to have protected the memory of their

relative from the suspicious which the concealment of the marriage

has produced.'

is,
            is

                                   I
   That no theory must be adopted except one under
which Newton blameless; and there were suspicions,
though in print Sir D. Brewster declares that am the
first person who has brought any forward.
110 Newton: his Friend : and his Niece.

                                         ` December 28, 1854.

`I fear I shall make a poor story about Mrs. Conduitt. You
Ihave exhausted the subject.
                                    find it distinctly stated by Conduitt

Ithat his wife lived with Sir Isaac twenty years. How, then, could she
have been housekeeper to Lord Halifax'!  think his Lordship's

biographer does not speak the truth.'

At this date, then, Sir David had not arrived at his

ingenious conclusion that the biographer said nothing.

                                         `February 11, 1855.
`I am trying to put together a few pages on Halifax, and the
wife you have given him. It is the most disagreeable portion of
INewton's history. Newton's character is not protected, even if a.
private marriage could be proved.      have come to the conclusion,
Ion grounds which fear will not satisfy you, that Miss Barton

never li't'dd in Halifax's house.'

                                                                                            ` March 13, 1855.

`I have got a distinct opinion from various classes, lawyers,

clergymen, and persons of rank, that Newton's character as a moral

and religious man would have been irretrievably ruined, even in the

London society of that day, if his niece had been living in Lord

Halifax's house.'

IEven as a privately married wife understood. would

Inot give much for the reading of his informants. But

then have not seen the way in which the case was

brought before them.

   ` Every means of defence, therefore, against such an hypothesis becomes

obligatory on me as his biographer.'

   That is, in the plainest words, Sir D. Brewster intends
to be Newton's counsel, be the truth what it may.

  It is right the reader should be reminded that all this

was written, and the book published, before the dis
covery of Newton's letter. Had Sir D. Brewster known
of that letter, he must have treated it as a forgery ; for
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.                      111

Newton's character would have suffered if he had even
Iallowed a private marriage. But whether
                                                        was the

forger, or Mr. Libri, or Christie and Manson, or Thomas

Rodd, or some previous owner of the bit of paper, would

have been a nice question.

Sir D. Brewster had a mind in which the prevailing

impression acted very strongly upon the facts before

him, of which the Athenamm exposed a very striking

instance not long before his death. The current state

of feeling was always in extremes. He wrote to me :

                                                                                            `February 21, 1854.

  I` In writing the first volume of his life, have been led to think
I INewton more human than had formerly believed ; and must con
Ifess that entertain very nearly, if not wholly, the views which you

have published.'

The first clause was the truth, well borne out by the

work ; the second was the exaggeration of the moment,

as will be clear enough to those who know what both

have written. Sir D. Brewster's ` Life of Newton' may

be read with much more profit by those who are aware

of this strong power of colouring.

One of the artifices of counsel which is very openly

Ipractised by the biographer has been also adopted by the
reviewers.  am represented as maintaining, before the

discovery of the letter, that the marriage was proved.

So much the better for my opponent ; it shows that his

advocate's ofiice can be exercised without any permanent

and constantly present sense of by reason of his being
                            it,
                                                     a
able to put belief into his own mind before he attempts

the mind of his reader. He cannot realize state of
112 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

suspended decision. There are minds in which there is

nothing but certainty for or against; minds in which the

bubble is always at one end or other of the level; minds

in which there is no medium between the historic truth

Ifof the ` Iliad' and the non-existence of Troy. The
biographer possesses one of these minds.        not, what

are we to say to the representation of myself as main

Itaining a positive conclusion when had written as
Ifollows :--` As yet can but say that the hypothesis of a

private marriage is to me the most probable of those

between which a choice must be made.' ` And the sup

position of a private- marriage, generally understood

among the friends of the parties, seems to me to make

all the circumstances take an air of likelihood which no

I Iother hypothesis will give them; and this is all my
conclusion.' And  here repeat that, until       saw

Newton's letter, which announces the existence of cir

I Icumstances of family relation, could but treat all

had done, to use my own words again, as the `pro

visional results of unfinished inquiries.'
   The biographer never endeavours to meet the whole

of the circumstantial evidence, and to break the united

force of its parts. It is enough `for him that the point

which he assails at the moment is not conclusive, taken

alone. This, again, is an artifice of counsel:

`Gentlemen of the jury, let me call your attention to

the slightness of the proof against my client. Smith was

seen going upstairs with a pistol: does that prove that

he shot Jones? A loud report was heard, and Smith

was seen descending the stairs without a pistol: how
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.  113

can anyone contend that these circumstances, jointly or
severally, prove anything against my client? He had

not a pistol ! A nice proof that he shot a man ! Jones

was certainly found mortally wounded, and a pistol was
on the floor: but what does that prove? Simply that
a murder or a suicide--mark me, gentlemen, a suicide!
--was committed; nothing whatever as to who did it.

Must my unhappy client be made answerable for the
murder upon such circumstances as these? For it is

really not worth mention that Robinson heard Smith
say he hated Jones. Does a man necessarily shoot

every one he hates?' So says the learned gentleman,

Inot a very adroit one in this case: but do not say

that the biographer has shown any of the art of the

practised barrister; for he does not keep the function
out of sight, and he cannot hide the pro re natd
character of his manufacture of inferential conclusions

into assertions of fact. The joint testimony of inde

pendent circumstances--commonly called circumstantial

evidence, and under that name often treated as indirect
evidence, which may be quite another thing--is handled
by Sir D. Brewster after the manner above described;

and by many others. But when some time has elapsed,
the opponent is often found quite a convert to the con
clusion, fixed in his mind he never knew how or when,
he entirely forgetting that he refused all assent when he
first heard the case. When the bias of opposition sub
sides, the circumstances quietly work their way. The
possibilities which that truth-smothering bias erects into
likelihoods cannot keep their quantity in the mind except

                                                                                                 8
114 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

with an opponent right opposite. Mr. Miiller ran off to
America with the murdered man's hat and watch, leaving
his own hat in the railway carriage. This was nothing,
according to some of the newspapers. We think little

[quantity cut down under bias] about the hat; and as
to the watch, the writer adds, the owner might have

is isdroppedand the finder might [possibilities converted
       it,
under bias into presentable probabilities] have sold to
                        it
Miiller. The murderer was hanged, and cleverness creptit
                                  is it
back into its shell until next time, when will come

out prepared to maintain that the case then to be in

hand totally different from Miiller's, because               the

murdered man's shoes and snuff-box which detect the

criminal, and not the hat and watch.

  It affirmed that Swifi's information makes `quite

clear' that the niece was living with her uncle in
                        9,

                                   is

                                  I
                                        I

                                                         it
Leicester Fields. Oct.  1711 :--` lodge, or shall

lodge, by Leicester Fields.' Oct. 25 :--` sat this

evening with Mrs. Barton, who my near neighbour.'

Nov. 28:--`I am turned out of my lodging by my

landlady, but have taken another lodging hard by inI

Leicester Fields.' If there had been no question and no

evidence about Miss Barton living away from her uncle,
these extracts would have tallied with what we should

have already considered next to certain, namely, that she
lived with her uncle. Even in this case would have
                        it

been hard to explain the absence of all mention of'

Newton--an absence which raises an adverse presump
tion to all who can see clifiiculties on both sides. The

whole amounts to this, that Swift lodged near Leicester
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.  115

Fields, and Mrs. Barton near him. I am not enough of

the partisan of my own view to say that Halifax lived

near Leicester Fields ; that his wife might be near her

uncle, aged sixty-nine, when Swift was in London ; or

that this proximity had been made a condition of the

marriage. But such a thing is far from impossible;

and the absence of all mention of Newton brings it

not far from probability.* This point cannot be got

I* have searched the rate-books for 1711 of the Parish of St

Martin's, which includes St. Martin's Street, on the south side of

Leicester Fields, where Sir Isaac Newton lived. Sir Isaac's name
Ioccurs year after year, but have not been able to find the name of
ILord Halifax.
                have also unsuccessfully searched through the

rate-books of the parish of St. Anne's, Soho, which includes the

north side of Leicester Fields (now known as Leicester Square). It

would seem that if Lord Halifax lived in the immediate neighbour-
hood of Sir Isaac, he must have occupied a furnished house or

lodgings, and was not rated in his own name. The Life of Lord

Halifax, published shortly after his death, gives no indication of the

place of his town house. The rate'books of St. Anne's, Soho,
contain the name of Sir John Newton (Sir Isaac's kinsman) from
1707 to 1718. Sir John Newton's house was on the west side of

King's Square (now known as Soho Square), seven doors southward
from Charles Street. Soho Square was then a very fashionable

square. There was a Rector's Rate in the parish of St. Anne's,
Soho, which, from the claims for over-rating of small houses, appears

to have been a rate of a halfpenny in the pound. Sir John Newton's

house was rated to the Rector at ten shillings, which would corre
spond to a rateable value of £240---a high rent in those days; and
rateable values were then, more than now, below rental values. Pro
bably the Rector's Rate on the larger houses was not closely scruti
nized. Of the other houses in King's Square, Lord Mansell paid
twelve shillings, the Earl of Bradford thirteen and fourpence, and
the Earl of Carlisle, who occupied the largest house in the square, one

pound ten shillings ; Lady Shovell eight and fourpence, Lady Vane
seven and fourpence, and the Earl of Dartmouth six and fourpence.

                                                                  8--2
'116 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

over: to the reader of the journal there is no way out

of it.

  It is firmly maintained that the annuity of £200

a year was the gift of Newton. But the omission of
this gift from Conduitt's list of benefactions to the
family must be accounted for; and for this purpose the
biographer makes historical evidence of what he chooses
to find in Conduitt's mind. The omission, he says, was

made because the annuity was not a benefaction, but a

virtual debt. It was, in the opinion of her husband, a

debt due from Newton to the niece, who `had for twenty

years kept his house.' The annuity--as Sir D. Brewster
himself had found by the Portsmouth papers--was
bought in 1706, when Miss Barton was 26 years
old; take 20 from 26, and there remains 6. That is

to say, little Kate Barton, at six years old, was in
stalled mistress of Newton's apartments in Trinity
College, and responsibilitied with the key of the sugar.

This oversight is the consequence of catching at an

The great house  of the Earl of Leicester (afterwards  occupied by
                 Prince of Wales, and subsequently     by his son
George II. when

Frederick Prince of \Vales), on the north side of Leicester Fields,

was charged three pounds thirteen for the Rector's Rate. Sir Isaac

Newton, in the parish of St. Martin's, paid two pounds ten shillings

Iper half-year for the Poor Rate, but have not been able to discover
any clue to the rateable value of his house. It then fronted on

Leicester Fields ; the block of buildings which now stands between

the house and Leicester Square having been built since. Mr. J. J.

Cartwright, of the Record Ofiice, has given me a reference to a MS.

of the time of Queen Anne in the British Museum (Addit. MSS.
22,267-164), which gives the address of Lord Halifax as `Old

Pallace Yard.' But this may have been only his ofiicial residence.

' A. C. R, 1885.
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.                                     117

argument, without any thought about its consistency,
and with a rigid determination that it shall do. Let us
suppose that Newton had, ten years after, given his
niece this annuity, over and above the equal share of
the personal residue, which she took as one of the next
of kin. The matter would then have stood thus; and
thus it must have stood in the confusion which caused

the mistake. Newton gives his destitute niece an
excellent education, and then receives her into his

house, where she lives for twenty years, giving the
usual attention to domestic affairs. He introduces her

to a friend, who is so captivated by her conversation
in the modern sense of the word--as to leave her a
fortune; he also marries her to a wealthy member of

Parliament, and leaves her-for he was an intentional
intestate--a share in his personal property with seven

other nephews and nieces, for whom he had done com
paratively nothing. Besides this, he buys for her during
his life an annuity of £200 a year on her own life.
This annuity he describes to his own mind as a debt
due to his niece for her care of his house. \Vhat would

her husband have been instead of putting down this
annuity---this payment for looking after her own board
and lodging, the materials of which were free gift,
though cannot be denied that her uncle had bed and
board in his own house--as the most handsome of all
the benefactions, he had silently acquiesced in the descrip
tion and left the annuity out of the list? He would not
have been Conduitt, of whom the little we know marks

him as gentleman fully alive to his wife's obligations
a it
                          if,

                                                                    a
118 Newton : his Friend: and his Niece.

to her uncle. This invention of the debt is as good, in

its way, as the hypothesis about the key of the sugar.

  If Newton did make his niece any special acknowledg

ment for her services in keeping his house, it was an estate
of £4,000 value, which he gave to Miss Conduitt not long

before his death. Unless, which does not appear, there
were an understanding that this was to count for Mrs.

Conduitt's share in the residue, it is likely enough that
the reason of the gift was as above. The biographer of

IHalifax, in the passage have quoted, states that Halifax

cast his eye upon Mrs. C. Barton, to be the superin
tendent of his domestic affairs; but that, as she was

young, beautiful, and gay, those who were given to censure

passed a judgment on her which she no ways merited, since

she was a woman of strict honour and virtue. The

biographer of Newton begins by quoting the passage, and

does not deny that it must have been known to Newton

                                                         it,
and his friends. When he comes to discuss he says:

    `The passage which has given rise to the discussion contains three

distinct propositions:  That Halifax had resolved never to marry
                        3. 1.
                                                      a
2.  That he cast his eye upon Miss Barton to be the superintendent of

his domestic affairs.   That she was woman of strict honour and

virtue.'

    All that in italics above omitted in the summary,
          is            it

and in the discussion       is
                                   is
                        expressly said that `calumny

had never breathed that she was' the `mistress of

Halifax,' but that `the very biographer, whose words
are in every other respect admitted as true, declares she
was woman of strict honour and virtue.' This
    aa

              I

                                                                      a

                                                                                is
omission, which take of course to be unintentional,

another specimen of the want of power to see context
when point can be made by part of passage.
         Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.                                                         119

The biographer of Newton then proceeds as follows:

   (Vol. ii, p. 271)---` When the contents of this will became known

after the death of Halifax, Miss Barton did not escape the censure of

the world [the biographer distinctly says it was before this 3 Halifax

had been dead only a few weeks when he wrote], though she was

regarded by all who knew her as a woman of strict honour and virtue.

[True, by all who knew her; but how could this be, unless she were

married to Halifax  . . During his lordship's life, and when fre
                    'l]                                                                             a
                       .

                                     it

                                             is

                                                                                .
                                                                                     .
quent visitor at the house of Newton, his affection for Miss Barton,

and his delight in her society, never once excited the criticism of his

contemporaries. [No one says so,                       the superintendence of Halifax's

domestic affairs which excited the remarks]                                             . (P. 272) Although
        stated that Miss Barton did not escape from censure, yet calumny,
it

    is

with her many tongues, does not seem to have left upon record the

slightest charge against her character. [Then Mrs. Manley and
Halifax's biographer, and Voltaire, did not speak from or with
tongues of calumny] . (P. 277) In denying the marriage, we do
not admit one of the grounds on which has been maintained. \Ve

deny that Miss Barton ever lived one single night under the roof of

Lord Halifax. His biographer makes no such statement. [Sir D.
Brewster gives the summary, which omits the statement that she
                    .

                                         it

superintended the domestic affairs, and was "censured" for it.] The
first of these propositions [that Halifax resolved never to marry again]
overturns the theory of marriage [of course resolution never to
marry again proves that no marriage followed: young ladies, we
`                                                      a
                                          a                           a

                                                    a
know, do sometimes break their resolutions never to marry; never

gentleman, young or old].
     The second merely proves plan or wish on the part of Halifax

that Miss Barton should superintend his household [true, when the

words implying her accession to the plan are suppressed], wish, too,
                                                                                        a ?]
which was never expressed amid the gossip of contemporary corre
                                                                                             .
spondence [this     do not understand], or in the hearing of any
         if                                                                                      a
            it

                aI

                                   is it
                                    if a
witness. [How, then, came known and recorded                                                      . . (P. 280)

Now the very fact that such respectable parties (as Newton and Con

duitt), so deeply interested in the character of their accomplished

relative, contradicted neither the fact,                                                was fact, nor the
                                                       if
         was rumour,                                       it

                                                                   a
rumour,                                                proof that there was neither fact nor

rumour to contradict. [So,'.then, there had been fact, Newton would
120 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

have contradicted it; that told falsehood Sir D. Brewster does
of

                             ;

                                             is,
                                                               a

                                                                                               '3]
                                                                                                                !

                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                                               ;
not mean this unless, indeed, he thought Newton would have acted

as counsel for his niece] How could any person contradict the cast
an eye-the only act ascribed to Halifax by his biographer'! [True
but what was ascribed to Miss Barton     How could they contradict

the statement, made only in 1853 [for which read 1715, but this was
suppressed], that Miss Barton lived in Montague's house, when no

person in their own lifetime ever made such statement [except

Halifax's biographer, whom Sir D. Brewster knew of, and Mrs.

Manley, whom he did not know of, and as many more as shall be

disinterred, known to neither of us]? How could they express their
indignation at the charge that she was the mistress of Halifax, when

calumny had never(!) breathed that she was, and when the very
biographer, whose words are in every other respect admitted as true,

declares that she was awoman of strict honour and virtue'! [The part
suppressed contains calumny, which Newton or Conduitt might
I
                                      a
have answered]

shall not insult the understanding of my reader by

proving to him that Halifax's biographer says, and

means to say, that Miss Barton lived in the house of

Lord Halifax as housekeeper. Sir D. Brewster, under

cover of his own omission, reduces the whole to the cast

an eye and this                          impossible to treat with gravity.
of

              ;

                          it

                                    is

                                                                       a
The biographer of Halifax, with simplicity which                             I

think exceeds that of ignorance, professes to believe

that, though, as hinted by him, Miss Barton lived in

Halifax's house as superintendent, yet `the noble peer's

complaisance to her proceeded wholly from the great

esteem he had for her wit and most exquisite under

standing, as will appear by what relates to her in his

will at the close of these memoirs.' The words of the

will were so much at variance with this description,

that they must mean more, as applied to lady who had
                                                                          a
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.  121

lived in the house with the testator. The easiest sup

position is that the biographer knew of the marriage.
    The biographer of Newton treats Pittis's expression of

his opinion that Miss Barton was an honest woman as a
declaration of fact. He thinks it very unfair that one
whose words are in every other respect admitted as
true,' should not be credited in that one respect also.
There are five things which he does not see. First, that
the other things are statements of fact, which anyone

might know with certainty. Secondly, that they are

Inot admitted when sufiiciently contradicted ; for instance,

  do not admit that Miss Barton was a widow. T hirdly,

that the statement as to Miss Barton's character, as put
by the biographer, is a matter of opinion, and has not
the force of evidence of fact. Fourthly, that Sir D.
Brewster does not put it rightly ; for what the biographer
says is that she was regarded as an honest woman by
all who knew her; words which have a meaning with

reference to others. Fifthly, that what he does say is
better explained by a private marriage than by any
other supposition; for he says that she lived in the

house of Halifax, that a judgment was passed on her

by those who were given to censure--a tolerably fair
description of the mass of society--but that those who
knew her knew better. No private marriage emerges
from the biographer's words; but when this solution
appears from elsewhere, it is strengthened by those
words. And there is a sixth point, which makes it

strange that he should reproach me with rejecting the

biographer's character, and admitting everything else
122 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.
I Ithat he said.
did not reject the testimony, for believe

in the marriage. Sir D. Brewster did not see that the

Iquestion between him and me was, he for one way of
clearing Catherine Barton,  for another. Halifax's
Ibiographer says she was an honest woman; say so too,
I Iand so does Sir D. Brewster.
                            say it because fully

believe it proved that she was Halifax's wife; Sir D.

Brewster, because he fully believes she was nothing but

the friend of her uncle's old friend in her uncle's house.

Sir D. Brewster, once more confounding facts and

I Iinferences, declares that reject the testimony because

reject the conclusion he draws from it--

  It will be observed that my critic insists on the im

Ipropriety of rejecting--he thinks do this-one part of
Ithe testimony of my own witness, when receive the

rest. The remark is the echo of the rule of the courts,

Ithat neither party is to discredit its own witness.

never could see the sense of this rule, except upon the

implied notion that a suit is a game, with certain rules

of advantage and disadvantage for the players. The

Irule has been to a certain small extent relaxed, believe,

in what is known as the " Common Law Procedure Act ;"

and further relaxation is no doubt on the way. The

truth ought to be got at in every possible mode; the law

is ready enough at its assumptions, and queer ones they

sometimes are; why not assume that both plaintiff and

defendant desire nothing but the truth ? As you please,

however, for the law: in literary discussion no such rule

can be tolerated for a moment. Anybody may lower

any evidence in any proper way; but he must take all
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.  123

 fair consequences; he must allow the general loss of
 credit its proper action upon other points. But he must
 not, as is frequently done in law, letters, and everything

 else, lower credit upon an inference, and then take the
 loss of credit as supporting the inference itself. For
 example, the celebrated bibliographer, Brunet, was in
 clined to admit that the famous treatise De Imitatione

 Christi really was written by Thomas a Kempis (ob.
 1471, set. 91). There is a very old and well-supported
 opinion in favour of Gerson, who died forty-two years

 before him. The brethren of his convent published an

edition of all the works of Thomas (not a) Kempis-
they say all--in the year following his death; it does not
contain the great treatise, though it has its short chapter
De Imitatione vitae Christi-quite another thing--in the
proper place. In spite of these conclusive circum

stances, Brunet calls the edition of inferior value,
because it does not contain the great treatise, in a
manner which shows he means to fortify his opinion of
Kempis's authorship by the smallness of the value of

the collected edition.

   My object in writing is to call attention to the

whole question on the part of those who look up the
obsolete writings of 1706--1750, and of those who

possess private letters of that period, and my digressions

may be suggestive. It is not to be hoped that very
many allusions will be found. In all times persons of

different pursuits are, as a rule, little in connexion with

each other. This is the case in our own day; and
much more in the time of Newton. Even now, though
124 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

the numbers of those specially devoted to one pursuit,
but knowing enough of others to take interest in
discussion, is much larger than it was, and also the
links which connect different branches of learning in the

persons of men given to several, but addicted to none ;

there is anything but fusion of the learned classes. In

the index of Sir David Brewster's Life of Newton, a

work in which much of that gossip is found, which is so
useful in biography, we shall find but very few of the
names known in contemporary literature. Addison,
the friend of Halifax, is there, and Pope; but the pages

referred to confirm my remark. The connexion of
Addison, a great contemporary and another public
servant, with the Life of Newton, in two large octavo
volumes, is just this, that he made an oration in favour
of the Cartesian philosophy at Oxford in 1693, and that

he is the authority for the statement of Halley being an

infidel. If Addison and Newton spoke together at the

house of Halifax, as probably they did, no Boswell was
present. As to Pope, we have his conceit about Newton
which he called an epitaph ; and there is a couplet, in
some verses of Pope found after his death :

` Nature and nature's laws lay hid in night;
 God said, "Let Newton be," and all was light.'

There is also (Brewster, ii., .521) a sensible letter from
Pope on the posthumous edition of the work on

`Ichronology, in which he speaks like a person who had
never seen Newton:  doubt not his life and manners

would make as great discovery of virtue, and goodness,
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.                   125

`and rectitude of heart, as his works have done of pene

tration and the utmost stretch of human knowledge.'

There are in the `Dunciad' significant indications how

completely Pope was unable to bring forward indi

viduals when he spoke of science; on everything else he

satirized things through 1nen--and women : as in

Book IV., line 471, etc., where we should expect a cut at

some few of his day, but we are put off with Hobbes,

Spinoza, and Descartes; also at verse 643, etc., where

on the main point no one is mentioned. We may guess,

then, that there is not much to be expected from the

stores of literature, public or private ; nevertheless, the
little which does exist may be much to the point: those

especially who are in possession of private letters from

Newton or his friends should carefully examine them,

after perusal of the facts brought together in this article.

One letter has clearly remained unread by any writer

prepared to see the force of an allusion, though 130

years from the death of Newton; this may not be the

only one which would throw light upon the subject.

   Up to 1835, when Baily published his Life of F lam

steed, there was no curiosity about this matter. The

statement in Sir D. Brewster's first Life of Newton,

namely, that Halifax was attached to Miss Barton, and

that the causes which prevented their union were un
Iknown, formed,
                 think, the orthodox view of the

matter; nothing further was publicly expressed, though

there was private speculation about the legacies, the

wording of Halifax's will, the insinuations of Voltaire,

Ietc. Mrs. Manley's stories were utterly unknown,
126 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

Isuppose, in the world of science.  am strongly of

Iopinion that good tradition, which died out in its duty,

checked the slander. find that the works of the second

quarter of the last century, which are virulent against

Newton, do not perpetuate any scandal about his niece.
IOf these have preserved two from utter oblivion (Notes
I",and Queries, Series 2, Vol.  p. 301). First, the

case of Robert Brown (1732), in which a strong attack

is made on the Flamsteed committee; and, secondly,

the ` Life of Joe Thompson' (1750), in which Newton

as the asserted plagiarist of lamsteed, princeps
I is,                           IF
Roguorum.
         F
   The Biographia Britannica (1750) revived the
matter, by quotation from Halifax's biographer; and as

late as 1835 there was current amount of concealed
                 A.
doubt and suspicion. In 1851a       examined, at the

request of his surviving sister, all Baily's scientific

correspondence.  great number of letters addressed

to him related to the life of Flamsteed. Now had
                                        it

appeared in the Life that the turning-point of the quarrel

between lamsteed and the committee was the death of

Halifax, Newton's great support. Very shortly afteritF
this event took place, was hinted to lamsteed that
he might get what he wanted for the asking. Of Mr.

Baily's correspondents the great majority say nothing
about the source of Newton's influence with Halifax;

all, believe, who were known to the world as engaged in;
the prosecution of science. And this was to be expected

for these were persons who were accustomed to meet

Mr. Baily, and had opportunities of oral communica--
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece. 127

tions. But there were those who may be called

outsiders, and among their letters there is enough
Iadditional--to what
                      had picked up elsewhere--to

enable me to state that there did exist among thinking

men a small proportion who, some in sorrow and some

in scorn, imputed to Newton that be derived patronage
from the seducer, and out of the dishonour of his niece.

IThe existence of such an opinion was in part the means

of drawing my attention to the subject ; but was much

influenced by another fact Professor Rigaud ascertained

from Baily--that instead of Mrs. C. Barton being the

widow of a Colonel Barton, she was his sister, and ascer

tained it with ease. Here was a correction, which no

one had thought it worth while to investigate, of the

statement of Halifax's biographer :. a statement which it

seems clear was true, so far that the lady passed for a

widow--or under the style of a widow--when she

superintended Halifax's domestic afl'airs. It was thus

made evident to me, that for a long time no attention

had been paid to this question. It had become almost

a rule that . anyone who should engage in serious
research on some one point of past science would find

that the general historians had got both too much and

too little. The period 1825--1840 had been marked in

England by the writings of four men, who set the

example of delving into one thing at a time, and
presenting both the results and a full account of the

sources from which they had been obtained. These

were Stephen Peter Rigaud of Oxford, George Peacock

of Cambridge, Francis Baily of the Stock Exchange, and
128 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

Joshua Milne of the Sun Life Ofhce--two academical and

two commercial. The most marked difference between

their courses of life, as to intellectual labour, lies in the

academicians,having recourse to their public libraries, and
leaving no amount of books worth naming; while the men
of business were obliged to collect libraries of their own,
and did collect libraries of which the sale catalogues are,
in their special subjects, the most remarkable of their
day. Contemporary with the above in the time of his re

J.searches, was another friend of mine, E. Drinkwater

Bethune, whose Lives of Galileo and Kepler, though not
exhibited to the reader in all their research, were founded
upon that special investigation, so far as it could be made
in England, of which the example was so much wanted in
popular works. Various other efforts which could not
be effectively named without some detail of explanation

will help to establish that in the second quarter of the

nineteenth century the examination of special points of

I Iscientific history became epidemic among us. speak of

Britain; but, if it were to my purpose, could prove

that the same thing was in progress on the Continent.
By particular attention to one point, is secured the
power of catching at any incidental information which a
casualty may be fit to afford. Newton's letter had passed
from owner to owner, and from auction to auction, perhaps

for fifty years, possibly for a century. It must have

been shown as a curiosity to many, for such is the
destiny `of manuscripts which are preserved as auto
graphs. But it can hardly have come under the eye of
any who were prepared to see the meaning of the words
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.  129

expressive of family relation between Newton and

Halifax. A person glancing over the letter, if he had
never made any particular inquiry, might think that, if

not some kind of surplusage, the words of relation

referred to well-known intimacy between Newton and
his friends' next of kin ; or, at any rate, that nothing
could be founded upon them. But to anyone who knew

how the existing facts seemed to draw together upon
the supposition of a marriage, and how completely
negative is all our knowledge of even ordinary acquaint
ance between Newton and Halifax's nephews and nieces,
the words of the letter would flash light upon his mind

at a glance.

   It will be very satisfactory, to all who cannot infer

with as positive a mind as the biographer, to feel that
the possibility of Newton having been obliged to
connive at an irregular connexion is put out of the

question. This all will admit: for all will say that
Newton's words prove, that if there were any connection

Iit was a marriage. But do really mean that Newton

was under suspicion of such baseness? We want a

Iword. A long time ago, after a serious illness in my

family, asked the medical man whether my child had
been in danger. `Not in danger,' was the answer,
` but in danger of danger.' Newton was in suspicion of
suspicion--in suspicion of the second order, with alarge
number of those who had examined the evidence, and a

multitude of those who had derived knowledge of it.
That peremptory fellow whom we all know, Don't-tell

Me by name, jumped at once to the conclusion that the

                                                                                                 9
130 Newton: his Friend : and his Niece.

probability of Newton's connivance was precisely that of

the something to connive at.

  It was in Britain the temper of the age, before Baily's

Life of Flamsteed rudely broke in upon the illusion, to

take for granted that Newton was human perfection.

There is a class in this country which has a percential

existence among all that is middle, from nobility down

to handicraft; into both of which it throws its shoots. It

is a respectable class: it can truly be described as so re

spectable, you can't think! It is a useful class ; it is part

of the ballast of our good ship ; and though our middle

ranks furnish a much larger percentage of that which is

ballast and cargo, both, yet no ballast is useless. Who

does not know the smug individual of this species, as he

sees him picking his way through the world? His

highest model is aristocracy; his social life is silver.

forkeryyhis main pursuit is money-grubbery; and his

whole religion is Sunday-prayery. This is the complete
specimen, fit for the Museum; but the characteristics are

variously interfused through an immense mass, often

lost in other and better features, except to a close

                      in every case in which its
`observer. This class

                        is,

                                                                       a

                                                                                                          ;
                                                                                                               `I'

                                                 if
members knew the name of Newton, the one in which

you were safe to be reckoned as in the broad way you

imputed anything wrong to the man who bore that

name at the Mint--a position which was mysteriously

connected with wonderful discoveries in the heavens.

And, so you think that Newton told lie
Where do you hope to go to when you die
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.           131

By help of this class, without which the man of

science could not have put Newton on the pedestal
which had been made for him, it was practicable to

allow what had the clearest appearance of a direct and

deliberate falsehood on Newton's part to stand unex

amined for more than a century. Newton, in his final

conflict with Leibnitz, declared that the decision at the

Royal Society against Leibnitz had been voted by a

`numerous committee of gentlemen of different nations.'

The world was never told of more than six, all British

subjects of English mother-tongue ; no list of the com

mittee was published with the decision. Here was, to

all appearance, if not a falsehood, worse--the evasion of

calling the English, Scotch, etc., different nations in

reference to a dispute between Britain and the Conti
Ifnent.
         the faith in Newton had been anything but a

formula, some would have reasoned thus :--` Newton

could not be false: he says the committee had members
of different nations; let us look at the minute-books of

Ithe Royal Society, and find them out.' But this was
not thought necessary.  had long been puzzled with
Ithis statement of Newton's: though knew him to be

capable of being betrayed by the necessities of his case

into that culpable evasion in which self-love finds

Iexcuse, did not believe that his principles would allow

him directly and wilfully to falsify a fact; or that his

acuteness would allow him to do it on so small a matter

and to so little purpose. It chanced to me, in 1845, to

Ilook at a Life of De Moivre of the rarest character, by
his friend Dr. Matthew Maty, Sec. RS.  never saw

                                       9--2
132 Newton: his Friend: anol his Niece.

Imore than one separate copy; but long afterwards

found it in the Journal Britannique for 1755--2. French

journal, published in England by the ` little black dog,'

Ias Sam Johnson called him--Maty himself. Here

found eleven members named, two of them aliens--De

Moivre himself and Bonet the Prussian minister. And

though they were the only two foreigners, yet De

Moivre was a host: the only one among the rest who

was fit to stand up against him for one moment on a

mathematical question was Halley. On application to

the Royal Society, the facts were verified immediately :

the six who have passed for the whole were those first
appointed; the remaining five were added piecemeal in

the five weeks following the first nomination.
I drew up a few words on this discovery,
Isent them to the Royal Society.                 and
                                  thought       they

would be a charta volans for the Proceedings, etc.
To my very great surprise, they were printed in all

the dignity of the Philosophical Transactions, in

Iwhich no historical paper has ever appeared, that'

know of--certainly none within the century. But the

matter concerned the character of Newton. The little

bit, of two and three-quarter pages, with the facts about

the committee, and some anecdotes--as how, for instance,

Newton said that nothing but his age prevented him

from having another pull at the m00n--looks curious

among the elaborate mathematical and physical papers.

This is so far a mere anecdote: it takes meaning in
connection with what follows.

About a year after the preceding paper was sent, some
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.  133

of those accidents, by which those who are prepared can

snap surmises as well as facts, led me to a surmise that

perhaps the reprints (1722) of the Commercium Epistoli

cum (1712)--as the work containing the reasons and
decisions of the above-named committee is called-had
Inot been quite fairly made.
                              say reprint, not second

edition; for the very title-page was reprinted with the

old date, after the avowedly new matter and a new title

over all, which amounted to the most positive declara

Ition that not a comma was intentionally changed.
Ihad no copy of the first edition, so applied to the

Council of the Royal Society for the.loan of their copy,

Istating why wanted it. The request was instantly
Igranted; and found, on examination, that some altera

tions had been made, of which some were decidedly

unfair in matter, all being of course unjustifiable under

the old date and without notice. The worst among

them was, that whereas the old committee did not say

precisely, in the evidence, when the letter on which the

most depended was forwarded to Leibnitz, a date for

this transmission was foisted into the reprint. It ought

to be said that the notions of the literary word, in that

day, about the sanctity of documents were by no means so

rigid as they are now; so that what, done by one of us,

would be sheer rascality, may be let off with a much
Isofter name.
               drew up an account of the alterations,

and sent it to the Royal Society: to have sent it else

Iwhere would have been to say, in effect, that though

knew the Society would go out of the way to clear the

Ifame of Newton, could not trust them to clear their own
134 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

wrong to Leibnitz. That they had some hand in it was

clear, from the reprint having cuts from the old wood

blocks which were the property of the Society. The

ISociety proved itself worthy of the reflection which

could not venture to cast; it declined to print the
Isecond paper.
                gathered that the Council thought it

would be necessary to submit my paper and the docu

ments to a special committee of examination. The

documents were two printed books, and the question

was, whether certain passages in one book were accurate

reprints of certain passages in the other; and, if not,
Ihow they difi'ered.
                      have no doubt the real reason

was, that in the paper was seen danger of danger to
INewton's character.
                      afterwards saw a published
Ireason, of which was not cognizant at the time, for

thinking that Newton himself was the editor of this

reprint, and the writer of the preface which preceded the
old title. Sir D. Brewster, from the Portsmouth Papers,

I Ifound that was quite right. When made this last

discovery, it crossed my mind for one moment that the
fact was known in the Council of the Royal Society, and

that the refusal to investigate the question was in part

the consequence of disinclination to bring it out. But

Ithis notion took no root; soon felt satisfied that, what

ever unconscious bias might do, there was no reason to

fear a definite intention to suppress a definite fact. And

further, so small and so inexact is the knowledge of the

Ihistory of science among scientific men, that could

easily imagine not one single person on the Council

knew so much as that there had been a reprint, much
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.                       135

less that Newton's active share in the reprint had been

matter of discussion, of afiirmation, and denial.

  I applied for permission to withdraw the paper, hoping

thus to nullify the proceeding, in form at least. But the

laws of the Society prevent the withdrawal of any com

munication which has undergone adjudication ; hence

this little matter must have its little place in the history

of the Society, and its somewhat larger place in mine.
IA copy would have been allowed me if had requested
Iit ; but
           preferred to write another paper, and to

request its insertion in the Philosophical Magazine (June,

1848).
    One testimony to the significance of the variantes is that

of Sir D. Brewster, who holds it wise to 'omit all mention

Iof them. After my paper, which took care he should

have, and with full knowledge of the new work being
reprinted under the old date, he calls it `a new edition,

with notes, a general review of and preface of some
                        it,
length.' He did not even give the true date (1722),
                                     a
but sticks by that of the second title-page (1725). This
   of some consequence; for three years, at Newton's age,it
is
                     a                                a
then made difference in the palliation which years

and infirmity may be made to give. But must be

remembered that persons unused to bibliography are

often not even aware of the distinction between reprint

and new edition.        freely and unreservedly blame the
a
   ;

              aI
Council of the Royal Society--collectively, of course--

for not printing the account of the variations mentioned

above they missed golden opportunity. They might

have shown that the beautiful edition of the Commerci'um
134 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

wrong to Leibnitz. That they had some hand in it was

clear, from the reprint having cuts from the old wood

blocks which were the property of the Society. The

ISociety proved itself worthy of the reflection which

could not venture to cast; it declined to print the
Isecond paper.
                gathered that the Council thought it

would be necessary to submit my paper and the docu

ments to a special committee of examination. The

documents were two printed books, and the question

was, whether certain passages in one book were accurate

reprints of certain passages in the other; and, if not,
Ihow they differed.
                     have no doubt the real reason

was, that in the paper was seen danger of danger to
INewton's character.
                      afterwards saw a published
Ireason, of which was not cognizant at the time, for

thinking that Newton himself was the editor of this

reprint, and the writer of the preface which preceded the

I Iold title. Sir D. Brewster, from the Portsmouth Papers,

found that was quite right. When made this last

discovery, it crossed my mind for one moment that the

fact was known in the Council of the Royal Society, and

that the refusal to investigate the question was in part

Ithe consequence of disinclination to bring it out. But

this notion took no root; soon felt satisfied that, what--

ever unconscious bias might do, there was no reason to

fear a definite intention to suppress a definite fact. And

further, so small and so inexact is the knowledge of the

Ihistory of science among scientific men, that could

easily imagine not one single person on the Council

knew so much as that there had been a reprint, much
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.                          135

less that Newton's active share in the reprint had been

matter of discussion, of afiirmation, and denial.

  I applied for permission to withdraw the paper, hoping

thus to nullify the proceeding, in form at least. But the
laws of the Society prevent the withdrawal of any com
munication which has undergone adjudication ; hence
this little matter must have its little place in the history

Iof the Society, and its somewhat larger place in mine.

A copy would have been allowed me if had requested

Iit ; but preferred to write another: paper, and to

request its insertion in the Philosophical Magazine (June,

1848).
   One testimony to the significance of the variantes is that

of Sir D. Brewster, who holds it wise to 'omit all mention

Iof them. After my paper, which took care he should

have, and with full knowledge of the new work being

reprinted under the old date, he calls it ` a new edition,

with notes, a general review of and preface of some
                           it,
length.' He did not even give the true date (1722),
                                        a
but sticks by that of the second title-page (1725). This
   of some consequence; for three years, at Newton's age,it
is
                                                         a
                        a
then made difference in the palliation which years

and infirmity may be made to give. But must be

remembered that persons unused to bibliography are

often not even aware of the distinction between reprint

and new edition.           freely and unreservedly blame the
a
   ;

             aI
Council of the Royal Society--collectively, of course--

for not printing the account of the variations mentioned

above they missed golden opportunity. They might

have shown that the beautiful edition of the Commercium
136 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

Epistolicum, published in 1856, by Biot and Lefort, at
the expense of the French Government, `avec l'indi
cation des variantes de l'édition de 1722,' would have

recorded that these variantes were first made known by

the Royal Society itself, the body which was most con

cerned in the publication of them, considered as an act
of reparation. The opportunity is lost, and the revela

tions of the Portsmouth Papers and of those of Leibnitz

have left little chance of another. The Royal Society,

in this matter, reminds me much of those old managers

of the impeachment, who, when Warren Hastings, many

and many a year after his acquittal, appeared before a

House of Commons, the members of which rose and

uncovered at his retirement, remained sitting with their

hats on, to show their sullen consistency. As a question

Iof curiosity, asked myself whether Leibnitz ever found

Ias stubborn, an adherent in spite of all that could be
learnt?  could not remember such a thing in real life;

but the optimist of Voltaire's fiction hits the case exactly:

`Eh bien! mon cher Pangloss,' lui'dit Candide, `quand

vous avez été pendu, disséqué, roué de coups, et que

`Jvous avez ramé aux galeres, avez-vous toujours pensé
que tout allait le mieux du monde ?'       e suis toujours

de mon premier sentiment,' répondit Pangloss'; `car enfin

je suis philosophe; il ne me convient pas de me dédire.

Leibnitz ne pouvant pasfavoir tort . . .'

  I have given the preceding detail to show the reader

who can approach the question of Lord Halifax and his
wife, but is not able to enter upon scientific discussion,
       Newton : his Friend: and his Niece.  137

Ithat have long been deep in these matters, and have
been successful in elucidating points of history. It will
Ibe clear that have not been a partizan of Newton, but
I Ithat have assailed his conduct, when saw occasion,
Iwith perfect freedom; and this could make much
I Iclearer if went further into what have written on the
I Idispute with Leibnitz.
Iwhat                  am sure that if had found

       held sufiicient proof that Newton had been
Ia Sir Pandarus of Troy, should not have shrunk from
Iunreserved exposure.
                       detest the fictitious association,

as a matter of course, of moral with intellectual

I Igreatness; and laugh at it into the bargain, as

should at the attempt to prove that all great minds

have long noses. There is but one thing of the kind

which is more mischievous, and that is the tendency to

throw dirt at the morals, or to import damnation into

the destiny of those who differ from the thrower or the
Iimporter in religious belief As to what have to say
Iabout Newton himself, reprint some paragraphs from
Ia review of Sir D. Brewster's Life, which wrote for the
I1V0rth British Review, of August, 1855.
                                          preface them

by a few words from the Times, which had a long

article on the same work about six weeks after mine

was published ; they illustrate the reaction against hero
worship, which is sure to take place. Newton, it was
said, had not the heart of a man; he wanted human

feeling ; he was a coward, etc. (Times, September 21,

1855)
   `Nothing is more difficult than to settle who is the

most illustrious, the most to be admired, in any walk of
138 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

human greatness. Those who would brain us--if they
could but imagine us to have any brains--for hinting
that it may be a question whether Shakspeare be the
first of poets, would perhaps have been Homerites a
century ago. In these disputes there is more than
matter of opinion, or of taste, or of period ; there is also
matter of quantity--question of how much, without any
possibility of bringing the thing to trial by scale. This
element of difiiculty is well illustrated by an exception.
Among imquirers into what our ignorance calls the laws

of nature, an undisputed pro-eminence is given to Isaac
Newton, as well by the popular voice as by the
deliberate suffrage of his peers. The right to this

supremacy is almost demonstrable. It would be diffi

cult to award the palm to the swiftest, except by set
trial, with one starting-place and one goal; nor could

we easily determine the strongest among the strong,

if the weights they lifted were of miscellaneous material
and bulk. But if we saw one of the swiftest among

the runners keep ahead of nearly all his comrades, with
one of the heaviest of the weights upon his shoulders,

we should certainly place him ' above all his rivals,

whether in activity alone, or in strength alone. Though
Achilles were the swifter, and Hercules the stronger, a
good second to both would be placed above either. This
is a statement of Newton's case. We cannot say
whether or not he be the first of mathematicians, though
we should listen` with a feeling of possibility of convic
tion to those who maintain the afiirmative. We cannot

pronounce him superior to all men in the sagacity
Newton : his Friend: and his Niece.                       139

which guides the observer of--we mean rather deducer

from--natural phenomena, though we should be curious
to see what name any six competent jurors would
unanimously return before his. But we know that in

the union of the two powers the world has never seen a
man comparable to him, unless it be one in whose case
remoteness of circumstances creates great difiiculty of

comparison.'

   `Far be it from us to say that if Newton had been

Ccenopolis, a Sicilian Greek, he would have surpassed

Archimedes ; or that if Archimedes had been Professor

Firstrede, of Trinity College, Cambridge, he would have

been below Newton. The Syracusan       among theis,

ancients, the counterpart of the Englishman among thea

                                                      if
moderns. Archimedes                    perhaps the first among the
a

                            is
geometers, and he stands alone in ancient physics. He

gave new`geometvy--the name afterwards applied to the
Infinitesimal Calculus--out of which he or successor

would soon have evolved an infinitesimal calculus,

algebra had been known in the West. He founded the
sciences of statics and hydrostatics, and we cannot

learn that any hint of application of geometry to physics

had previously been given. No Cavalieri, no Fermat,

no Wallis, went before him in geometry there was not
                                       ;:

                                                      is
even chance of contemporary Leibnitz. We cannot
decide between Archimedes and Newton the two form
a
          a
                                    a
class by themselves, into which no third can be

admitted; and the characteristic of that class            the

union, in most unusual quantity, of two kinds of power,

not only distinct, but so distinct that either has often
140 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

been supposed to be injurious to the favourable develop
ment of the other.'

    The scientific fame of Newton, the power which he
established over his contemporaries, and his own general
high character, gave birth to the desirable myth that his
goodness was paralleled only by his intellect. That
unvarying dignity of mind is the necessary concomitant
of great power of thought, is a pleasant creed, but
hardly attainable except by those whose love for their
faith is insured by their capacity for believing what they
like. The hero is all hero, even to those who would
be 10th to pay the compliment of perfect imitation.
Pericles, no doubt, thought very little of Hector dragged
in the dust behind the chariot; and Atticus we can

easily suppose to have found some three-quarter excuse
for Romulus, when he buried his sword in his brother's
body by way of enforcing a retort. The dubious

actions of Newton, certainly less striking than those of
the heroes of antiquity, have found the various grada
tions of suppressors, extenuators, defenders, and
admirers. But we live, not merely in sceptical days,
which doubt of Troy, and will none of Romulus, but in
discriminating days, which insist on the distinction
between intellect and morals. Our generation, with no
lack of idols of its own, has rudely invaded the temples
in which science worships its founders, and we have
before us a biographer who feels that he must abandon
the demigod, and admit the impugners of the man to
argument without one cry of blasphemy. To do him
justice, he is more under the influence of his time than
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.            141

under its fear; but very great is the difference between

the writer of the present volume and that of the shorter

life in .the Family Library in 1831, though, if there be

any truth in metaphysics, they are the same person.
   We here come upon the well-known letter to Mr.

Aston, a young man about to travel, which, as Sir

David says, `throws a strong light on the character and

opinions of its author.' It does indeed, and we greatly

regret that the mode in which that character has been

represented as the perfection of highmindedness compels

us to examine this early exhibition of in connection
                        is
                                it,
with one of later date. Newton advising his young
a

         a if
friend how to act, he should be insulted. Does he

recommend him, as Christian man, to entertain no

thought of revenge, and to fear his own conscience more

than the contempt of others? Or, as rational man,
                        a
                              a
does he dissuade him from the folly of submitting the

decision of his difference to the logic of sword or

pistol? Or, supposing him satisfied by well-known

sophisms that the duel  noble and necessary, does he
;
advise his friend to remember that dishonour  dis
     a it               a

            is                                      is
                                                            it
              is
honour everywhere? He writes as follows :--

`If you be afi'ronted,  better in forraine country to pass

by in silence, and with jest, though with some dishonour, than to

endeavour revenge for in the first case your credit's ne'er the worse

when you return into England, or come into other company that

have not heard of the quarrel]. But, in the second case, you may

beare the marks of the quarrell while you live, you outlive at all.'
                        if
                                          it

This letter has often been printed, in proof of Newton's
Ifsagacity and wisdom.
                        Pepys or Boswell had written

the preceding advice, they would not have been let off
 142 Newton : his Friend: and his Niece.

 very easily. Again, when, many years after, Newton
 wrote, as member for the University in the Parliament
 which dethroned King James, to Dr. Covel, the Vice
 Chancellor, he requests a reasonable decorum in pro

`Iclaiming William and Mary, `because,' says he, hold

 it to be their interest to set the best face upon things,
 after the example of the London divines.' And, again,
 `Those at Cambridge ought not to judge and censure

 their superiors, but to obey and honour them, according
 to the law and the doctrine of passive obedience.' What

 had Newton and passive obedience just been doing with
 King James? These instances, apart from science,
 show us the character of Newton out of science ; he had
 not within himself the source from whence to inculcate

 high and true motives of action upon others; the fear
 of man was before his eyes. But his mind has been
 represented as little short of god-like ; and we are forced
 upon proof of the contrary. Had it been otherwise, had
 his defects been duly admitted, it would have been
 pleasant to turn to his uncompromising philosophic
 writings, and to the manner in which, when occupied
 with the distinction between scientific truth and false

 hood, no meaner distinction ever arose in his mind.
 This would have been, but for his worshippers, our
 chief concern with him. The time will come when his

 social weaknesses are only quoted in proof of the com
`pleteness with which a high feeling may rule the

                                                                                                                                                                                  '

 principal occupation of life, which has a much slighter
 power over the subordinate ones. Strange as it may
 seem, there have been lawyers who have been honest in
Newton .' his Friend: and his Niece.  143

their practice, and otherwise out of it ; there have been

physicians who have shown humanity and kindness,

such as no fee could ever buy, at the bedside of the

patient, and nowhere else.'

   We are of opinion that the moral intellect of Newton-

not his moral intention, but his power of judging
underwent a gradual deterioration from the time when
he settled in London. We see the faint traces of it in
his manner of repudiation of the infinitesimal view of

fluxions, in 17 04. A man of sound judgment as to what

is right does not abandon a view which he has held in
common with a great rival, and this just at a time when
the world is beginning to ask which came first in their
common discovery, without a clear admission of the
abandonment. He does not imply that some have held
that view, and declare against the opinion of those some,
without a distinct statement that he himself had been

one of them; still less does he quietly and secretly alter
what he has previously published, or allowed to be
published, so as to turn the old view into the new one,

and to have the reader to understand that he had never

changed his opinion. The Newton of the mythologists
would have felt to his fingers' ends that such a proceed

ing had a tendency to give false impressions as to the
case, and to throw suspicion on his own motives. This
is a small matter, but it is a commencement of worse.

We come to the C'ommercium Epistolicum, the name
given to the collection of letters, accompanied by notes
and a decision of the question, on the part of a com
mittee of the Royal Society. To this well-known part
144 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

of the history Sir D. Brewster has a very important
addition to make; and he makes it fairly, though we
confess we wish he had given us what they call chapter

and verse. `It is due to historical truth to state that

Newton supplied all the materials for the Commercium
Epistolicum, and that though Keill was its editor, and
the committee of the Royal Society the authors of the

Report, Newton was virtually responsible for its con

tents.' `We cannot easily credit the story of Newton
in love at sixty years of age. In Conduitt's handwriting

is a letter entitled, `Copy of a letter to Lady Norris,

by ,' docketed, in another hand, `A letter from

Sir I. N. to  .' The letter` is amusing. After

informing the lady that her grief for her late husband is

a proof that she has no objection to live with a husband,

he advises her, among other things, that a widow's

dress is not acceptable in company, and that it will
always remind her of her loss: and that the proper
remedy for all these mischiefs is a new husband; the
question being whether ` she should go constantly in the
melancholy dress of a widow, or flourish once more
among the ladies.' Sir D. Brewster seems rather

staggered by this letter; but there is no authority for it

coming from Newton, and surely we may rather suspect
that his friend, Lady Norris, sent him, or perhaps Miss
Barton, a copy of a letter from some coxcomb* of a

   * The original letter, written shortly after 1702, is copied in the

handwriting of Conduitt, who did not become a member of Newton's

family till 1717. Say that Lady Norris sent it to Mrs. Conduitt
(as an old letter which turned up) to amuse her, and that Conduitt

copied it.
          Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.             145

suitor. Newton was always a man of feeling, right or

wrong, and, though perhaps he `would have been

awkward at the expression of he never would have
                it,

                                              a
addressed woman for whom he experienced revival
          it a
of what he once felt for Miss Storey, in such terms as

the young bucks in the Spectator address rich widows.

The letter reminds us much more of Addison's play,

and of the puppy who was drummed away from the

widow by the ghost, than of Newton.'

   To us        has always been matter of regret that

Newton accepted ofi`ice under the Crown. Sir D.

Brewster thinks otherwise. `At the age of fifty, the

high-priest of science found himself the inmate of
                                                     a
                                                                   a
college, and, but for the generous patronage of friend,

he would have died within its walls.' And where should

a  high-priest of science have lived and died? At the

Mint? Very few sacrifices were made to science after

Newton came to London. One year of his Cambridge

life was worth more to his philosophical reputation and

utility than all his long official career.      If,  after having

piloted the country safely through the very difiicult

and, as some thought, impossible, operation on the`
coinage, he had returned to the University with a hand
some pension, and his mind free to make up again to;'

the `litigious lady,' he would, to use his own words,
have-taken another pull at the moon and we suspect

Clairaut would have had to begin at the point from

which Laplace afterwards began. Newton was removed,
the high-priest of science was translated to the temple
of Mammon, at the time when the Differential Calculus

                                                     10
146 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

was, in the hands of Leibnitz and the Bernoullis,
beginning to rise into higher storeys. Had Newton
remained at his post, coining nothing but ideas, the
mathematical sciences might have gained a century of

advance.

   We now approach the end of our task, and, in spite of
our battle with the biographer, we cannot express the

pleasure with which we have read his work. It is very

much superior, new information apart, to the smaller Life
which he published long ago. Homer's heroes are very
dry automatons, so long as they are only godlike men;
but when they get into a quarrel with one another, out
 come all the points on which we like and dislike.
 Newton always right, and all who would say otherwise,

 ex-cathedrally reproved, is a case for ostracism; we are

 tired of hearing Aristides always called the Just. But
 Newton, of whom wrong may be admitted, Newton,
 who must be defended like other men, and who cannot
 always be defended, is a man in whom to feel interest,

 even when we are obliged to dissent from his eulogist.

     As we have said before, it is the defence which pro
 vokes the attack. Newton, with the weak points

 exposed and unprotected, is not and cannot be an object
 of assault; our blow is on the shield which the

 biographers attempt to hold before him.

    All Newton's faults were those of a temperament

  which observers of the human mind know to be in
  capable of alteration, though strong self-control may
  suppress its effects. The jealous, the suspicious nature
  is a part of the man's essence: when it exists at all, it is
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.  147

 no local sore, but a plague in the blood. Think of this
 morbid feeling as the constant attendant of the whole
 life, and then say, putting all Newton's known exhibi
 tions of it at their very worst, how much they will
 amount to, as scattered through twenty years of con
 troversy with his equals, and thirty years of kingly

 power over those who delighted to call themselves his

 inferiors. Newton's period of living fame is longer
 than that of Wellington: it is easy to talk of sixty

 years, but think of the time between 1795 and 1855,

and we form a better image of the duration. In all this

 life, we know of some cases in which the worse nature

 conquered the better : in how many cases did victory
that victory which itself conceals the battle--declare for
the right side? Scott claims this allowance even for
Napoleon ; how much more may it be asked for Newton?
But it can only be asked by a biographer who has done
for the opponents of his hero what he desires that his
readers should do for the hero himself. When once the
necessary admissions are made, so soon as it can be
done on a basis which compromises no truth, and
affords no example, we look on the errors of great men
as straws preserved in the pure amber of their services

to mankind. If we could but know the real history of

a flaw in a diamond, we might be made aware that it
was a necessary result of the combination of circum
stances which determined that the product should be a
diamond, and not a bit of rotten wood. Let a flaw be
a flaw, because it is a flaw; Newton is not the less

Newton, and without the smallest rebellion against

                                                                                                 10-----2
148 Newton : his Friend: and his Niece.

It                                             is--` nobis grat'ul`amw' tale

     is
                                       a

                                          is,
Locke's maxim,Whatever

tantumque extitisse humani generis decus.'

      very much to be wished that the Portsmouth

papers should undergo full examination by more than

one person, and on more than one side of all questions.

Sir D. Brewster has very candidly stated several results

derived from these papers, which oblige him to
surrender several of his old views. Of his fairness on

clear questions have no doubt, as well as of his good
      it

              I
                   I
intent on all. But do not trust him to see the bearing

of incidental remarks on points not immediately belong

ing to the document before him and,               did, should
                                               ;

                                                     iIf
                                                            I

                                                                     A

                                                                                    is
take  as most likely that many casual phrases would

carry different purport to different minds.       full

examination will come in time: the only question

how and when. Dr. Horsley had the first opportunity;

and pretty well known that he advised much sup
      it
         ; is
pression he could not endure the publication of papers
which would prove Newton to be Anti-Athanasian in

his theology. More than one person was afterwards

allowed to inspect the papers; but for long time the
                                               a

head of the Portsmouth family was incapable of atten

tion to business, and his substitutes, with proper feeling

on the matter, declined to take the full power of owner

ship. W'hen this state of things ceased, Sir D. Brewster

was allowed, not merely to examine the papers, but to
examine them at deliberate leisure in his own house.

This was very liberal allowance; and for one, should
                           it,

                                        I,
                                            it
have shrunk from advising                      and hope will never be
Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.  149

conceded a second time. Risks of fire, of transit, of

sudden accident to the sole custodian, etc., are severally

Iformidable and collectively perilous. What should

like to see would be, first, an offer from the Government

to print all that should be recommended for printing by
a competent committee, that is by `a numerous com
mittee of gentlemen of different opinions ;' secondly,
that all the papers should be confided to the care of the
Royal Society, which should name the committee, all
examination taking place at the apartments of the
Society, and the papers being deposited in fireproof

boxes when not actually under inspection ; thirdly, that
all should be copied as a first step, and that all not

judged desirable to be printed should be finally bound
up with the part used as copy for the printer, and pre

served by the Society; fourthly, that, the unprinted part
being properly described and paged, the index of the
printed book should be a very good index to the whole;
fifizhly, that a good-abstract of the unprinted part should
be added to the printed work.

   In all the cases in which two great men of past time
are shown in controversy with each other, the mass of

the world run to the spectacle as to a fight between two
little boys in the street, without any interest in the
right or wrong of the matter, or in the way in which
the truth of the result may help the history of know
ledge. To most of the spectators may be addressed

Ithe reproof of Eliab : ` know thy pride and the naughti

ness of thine heart; for thou art come down that thou

mightest see the battle.' When the Life of Flamsteed
150 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

appeared, the following was the first impression of a
reader in a distant country, whose name must be with

Iheld: ` am sorry to see that the matter seemsto be

taken up as "Newton versus Flamsteed :" as if any good

were to be done, or any pleasure to be derived, by

setting up two eminent characters to be knocked against

one another, for the mere sake of trying how much
damage they will sustain in the collision! It reminds

Ime of Jack Tar's mode of trying the relative goodness
of his own and messmate's watches.'  hope the future

examiners of Newton's papers will not let slip what

ought to be promulgated, merely because it suggests

neither Flamsteed, nor Leibnitz, nor Hooke, nor

\Vhiston, nor anything but Newton's mind and its pro

gress.

IThe friend who wrote the above opinion on the publi
cation of the quarrel was guided,    think, by his

feelings ; and by the feelings of the imagination, not

those of the moral sense. It is not we who knock the

two great men together : it is they who knocked them

selves. And the damage which their characters finally

sustain, if any, is that which they ought to sustain : give

us the truth of the matter and, whatever distortion of

opinion may follow close upon the disclosure, reason

will at last destroy prejudice, and make the whole

occurrence a useful part of the history of the mind. It

may be suspected that the unfortunate disposition to

look on the weak points of the great with delighted
curiosity, which lives in so many minds, is in great

measure the reaction against that determination that
Newton: his Friend} and his Niece.  151

weaknesses, errors, and even crimes shall be suppressed,

unduly extenuated, or defended, which has been so often
evinced by biographers. This would be a long subject
to write on : let biographers be just judges, and it will
perhaps be seen that their readers, the jury, will find
reasons for recommendation to mercy, and will acquit

upon a tenable doubt.

   It may further be noted that, sad as it must be felt to

be, the quarrels of literature and science are very im
portant preservers of biographical details. Sometimes
it may be that a useful individual slips out of the

Ibiographical dictionary altogether, who would have been

duly recorded if he had been engaged in a fight. have

been looking far and wide for some account of Thomas
Street, the author of the celebrated astronomical tables

of 1661, which he called Caroline. He may be a
relative of Sir Thomas Street, his contemporary, whose
fame as a man and a judge, the readers of Macaulay will
remember, caused him to be disowned by his relatives,

Iof whom perhaps the astronomer was one. But

cannot ascertain when he was born or died, except by

presumptive inference from works under his name
appearing in 166l--l681. He was known to Flam
 steed, and Wallis was at one time afraid that he would

be assailed by F lamsteed (Maccles. Correspondence).

 Had there been a quarrel, the points of his biography

would have been remembered. If he disarmed Flam

 steed, by gentle measures, it was to his loss; the meek may
inherit the earth, but the earth does not inherit the meek.

  I cannot believe that the astronomer and the judge
 152 Newton: his Friend`: and his Niece.

 are one and the same person. The pursuits are not
 necessarily incompatible ; and Sir Matthew Hale was so
 busy with scientific treatises during his life, that the

Ifamous Pleas of the Crown, etc., were posthumous. But

    cannot find a single presumption either for the identity

Ior, any special ground, against it.
        may notice a little matter which has never been

mentioned. In 1813 was sold at Sotheby's a library,

 which was announced as that of Newton ; the seller was

a Mrs. Anne Newton. It seems to have excited no

curiosity, and 1400 lots sold for £500. That the
auctioneers thought nothing of the matter is clear from
their mixing up, and indistinguishably, this library of
Newton with that of Tycho Wing, the son of Vincent

Wing, both noted almanack-makers. It is clear from

Idates of the books in the sale catalogue which have

examined, that by far the greater part of the books, of

all kinds, must have belonged to Wing. It also appears

that the purchasers were all booksellers: a sale which
was believed to be of Newton's books would, in 1813,
have drawn the bibliomaniacs together like vultures to

a carcase. It would seem that the auctioneers, bound

to take their client's account of the library, used every
justifiable means of taking care not to hurt their own
literary characters by identifying themselves with the
statement. Nevertheless, there is fair reason to sup
pose that some hundreds of the books had actually
belonged to Newton. From Dr. Stukeley's account it
appears that two or three hundred books which belonged
to the Rev. Barnabas Smith, Newton's stepfather, were
Newton : his Friend: and his Niece.  153

 given by Newton to Dr. Humphrey Newton, of Grantham,
 who had been his amanuensis. This explains how these

 books, Newton's by inheritance and not by use, remained
 in the name of Newton, instead of going with the manu

scripts, etc., to Mrs. Conduitt. It must be added that

many of Newton's own books must have been sold. The
 Portsmouth collection contains some volumes, but not a

library ; and books are about the world with Newton's
signature, known to have been in them before the time

at which forgeries commenced.
    There are two matters connected with Newton

mentioned by Whiston, in what he calls his memoirs of
Dr. Clark, and what others perhaps will call that pre
libation of his own biography, which it pleased him to
print as memoirs of his friend. The first is Newton's
implied agreement with Whiston's opinion that Bentley,

Bishop Hare, and others, being clergymen, were wrong
in entering into controversy about classical literature.
According to Whiston, Newton said of the dispute about
Terence, that they were ` fighting with one another

about a play-book.' But if classical literature is to hold

that place in education which, fortunately, it still holds
in England, clergymen, with whose other duties it does
not clash, are well employed upon distinguishing truth
from falsehood in that field. The other matter is as

follows, in Whiston's words :

   ` A.D. 1727, upon the death of Sir Isaac Newton, Dr. Clarke was
offered by the Court the place he possessed of Master of the Mint,
worth, communibus (mm's, £1,200 to £1,500 a year. Upon this ofl`er
the doctor advised with his friends, and particularly with Mr.
154 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

Emlyn and myself, about accepting or refusing it. We were both

heartily against his acceptance, as what he wanted not, as what was

entirely remote from his profession, and would hinder the success

of his ministry              implied that resignation of cure of souls was not
I

             [it
                  is
contemplated]. . .

   \Vhereupon, after no small consideration, he absolutely refused it.
Nor do give credit to those surmises, as Mr. Conduitt, who
                                ; if
succeeded, was obliged to give the doctor, privately, an annual share
of his profits, or what was equivalent thereto with this only abate
ment, that Mr. Conduitt did actually give £1000 to void place
                                                      a
                                                          a
among the king's writers, which place was freely bestowed on son
of the Doctor's, who could not otherwise be so well provided for,
after himself had refused the former much greater place. . And as
                                                   .

for the Doctor's refusal of the former improper preferment, though
entirely omitted by Dr. Sykes, and almost entirely by Bishop Hoadley

  take to be one of the most glorious actions of his life. . .
I                                                  it,

           it                                            .'

               it ;

                         is
This story seldom mentioned,                       in the Biographie
                             it

                                 is

                                         it

                                               is
Universelle but as Hoadley has alluded to                  there

must be in more than would of necessity be inferred

from Whiston's gossip. This story runs through the

biographies of Clarke, but      not mentioned in those of

Newton. Samuel Clarke, the third--for there are two in

biography before him, not relatives--must have been          is a

very marked character. He died in May, 1729, and

1730 saw the second edition of Whiston's supplement to
the previous accounts of Sykes and Hoadley. This
illustrative of the interest excited by those biographical

works and pamphlets which preceded the day of journalita
obituaries, and may give notion of Pittis's account
of Halifax not being obscure or neglected, but com

manding wide attention and provoking much remark.
   The name of Newton, with reference to his discoveries,

has been brought before the public in my day in two
Newton : ~his Friend: and his Niece.                              155

very remarkable but very different ways: which is the

I Imost important know; which is the most curious

do not know. The first is the great feat of Leverrier

and Adams, the solution of the inverse problem of

gravitation : Newton's problem was, Given the planet, to

find its disturbing effects upon the motion of another

planet, applied chiefly to the action of the Sun upon the

a

                                      is,
Moon; the inverse problem                                         Given the disturbing

effect of planet, to find the planet itself, applied to the

detection of Neptune by its effect upon Uranus. Two
names of first-rate eminence were inscribed on the roll of

astronomers by this unlocked-for success. In the years

preceding, astronomers had rather given over expecting

anything very great in the future: they were inclined

to think that nothing was left except to give the

existing methods and results additional fulness and

accuracy, facility and neatness. Schwabe's discovery
of the periodic character of the solar spots in 1843, and

Hencke's discovery of Astraaa in 1845, were the dawn
of day, the bright sunrise of which was seen in the
discovery of Neptune in 1846. Since that time
is,
    a

                        is
                                      is

                                                               a
astronomy has progressed with speed unknown before;

and no more  heard about the mine having been

worked out.

The second matter  the shower of forged letters

which was poured on the world in 1867, in perfect good

faith, by M. Michel Chasles. Here we have proof--that

    plasmatographic proof, as the Greeks would say

that Pascal discovered gravitation; that Newton and
Newton's mother were in communication with Pascal
 156 Newton: his Friend: and his Niece.

when Newton was a boy; that Louis XIV. and James II.

 (the exile) were much interested in the matter; that

James II. wrote very friendly French letters to Newton,

 who had shortly before voted for his deposition in
 Parliament, which Newton answered in the same
 language; and hundreds of things as good or better.

    The play is not yet played out : for a publication of
the whole is promised, with additional letters and proofs,
 But the promulgator still refuses to say whence he got
the papers, though he seems to have four thousand

letters, or thereabouts. In England it is hardly

 necessary to say, that the whole collection was scouted
from the beginning. Pascal's remark on the cup of
 coffee, clearly made before cofi'ee was known in France,
 and speaking as of a common phenomenon, first put us
 on our guard. But when Ifannah Smith, by first
marriage Newton, by birth Ayscough, appeared as

signing her letters `Miss Anne Ayscough Newton,' all
 was up in England; though a few still thought the matter
.worthy of serious argument. This was perhaps a con
cession to the French, who cannot learn our phrases of
 address. But it was not wanted ; for the bulk of the

 educated French, especially the men of science, turned
 away the moment it was clear that M. Michel Chasles

would not give up his authorities. In vain was it re

 presented that they were all ying themselves with England
 against French science: in vain did the ofiicial journal
 of the forgeries exclaim, ` Hélas! toute ardeur scientifique
est morte parmi nous; tout feu sacré est éteint!'
From the beginning it was believed on this side of the
Newton : his Friend: and his Niece.  157

Channel that it would be so ; but it is clear that a very
small party believed that national feeling would carry
the bulk of the French nation all lengths whatsoever;

that is a very small French party.

   It is much to be wished that the French, for their

own protection, would learn the use of the English

terms of address. A few minutes' study of a few phrases

would serve the purpose. With such a help, their

dramatists would not have introduced Queen Caroline
on the stage, accompanied by Sir Brougham and Sir
Denman, and Miss Anne Ayscough Newton would
have taken some possible form. Many Frenchmen will
hardly believe that no Englishman would confidently
say, at least without deliberate thought--which he

holds to be most absurdly unlikely--such a signature as
the above from Mrs. Barnabas Smith of North Witham,

or such a signature as the following from Laplace,
` M. le Marquis Pierre-Simon Laplace, grand géometre,
qui n'aime pas les prctresf" Thinking of this attempt

Ito upset the history of science by a rocket-battery of

fictitious letters, feel particularly glad that the com
poser had not knowledge enough of the minor life of
Newton and his friends to give some information about

Catherine Barton. A letter signed `Miss Countess

Catherine Bart Halifac ' to one illustrious uncle,

praying him, for his soul's sake, to repair the wrong
he had done to Pascal, would have been very effective,

  " It should be noted that the four misspellings in ` Anne Ascough'

are found in Fontenelle's ` Eloge' of Newton--the biography which a
Frenchman would naturally consult.
158 Newton: lu's Friend: and his Niece.

especially if it had turned up in company with letters

about gravitation from another illustrious uncle, Jean

Bart, showing that Catherine was a Frenchwoman,

and leading to the inference that Newton was a French

man. This seems absurd; but if anyone had amused

himself by supposing forgeries, and had concocted the

most conspicuous half-hundred of those which have
Iactually appeared, adding the one which have just
Isupposed,
            fancy that the additional one might be

taken as just a little more incongruous than a dozen of

the fifty, and that is all ; but not more improbable. The

above story, Jean Bart and all, is not so unlikely as

that Pascal should have Written in his private letters

long passages, word for word, from the writings of
persons who were not born until long after his own
death, and who wrote different styles in a French
which was not of the time of Pascal, and not the least

like his writing.      this matter   to an end. The
                        story will,
  It is time to bring                I hope, extricate

diffusion of the main

evidence of various kinds from the holes in which it lies

hidden.
                                       INDEX.

Addison: his connection with                     Commercium Epistolicum : New
                                                    ton supplied all materials for,
   Newton, 124                                      though Keill was its editor,

Annuity: purchased for Miss                          143

   Barton, by whom, 115, 116                                  Newton proved to be
                                                    the editor of the second edition
BaFilelaymst(eFerda,nc1is0)0:,    his  Life  of     published as a reprint, 134
                                105              Conduitt : marriage to Miss
                                                    Barton, 95-96
     his scientific correspond
                                                             \Vhiston's story of the
ence examined by De Morgan,                         way in which Conduitt obtained
                                                    his place at the Mint, 153
126                                              Conversation: meaning of the
                                                     word in Newton's time, 58-63
     his historical researches                   Counsel: Sir D. Brewster writes
                                                    as counsel for Newton, 107
   and his library, 126-128
Barton (Catherine): short bio                        109

   graphy of, 15-48                              Curll, bookseller and publisher,
             property left to her and                his character, 42, 43

    her daughter, 64, 97, 98, 117                De Moivre: a member of the
                                                    RS. Commercium Epistolicum
Brewster (Sir D.): his account                       Committee, 132
   of the connection between
   Halifax and Miss Barton                       Deterioration of Newton's cha
                                                     racter from the time he settled
examined and criticised,                            in London and received his
                                                    place at the Mint, 143
29, 112
                                                 Drinkwater-Bethune (J. E.) : his
          his views with regard
to endowment of Newton,                              historical researches, 128

145

Charles (M. Michel) accepts the
   forged Pascal MSS., 155

Clarke (Dr. Samuel) refuses
   Mastership of the Mint after
   Newton's death, 153
160 Indea'.

Edleston : occupied Halifax's           Kit-cat Club : Halifax's verses
   room in Trinity College, 9
              his publication of New        on Miss Barton, 47-48
    ton's college accounts, 24
                                        Leibnitz: Newton's declaration
Endowment, Newton's life ren
   dered unfruitful by, 145                 that a committee of different
                                            nations had decided against
Flamsteed underlines the words             Leibnitz, 131-132
    "excellent conversalilm" in quot    Letter-writing : ceremonious
                                           forms used in the time of
   ing Halifax's \Vill, 64                  Queen Anne, 55-56
              death of Halifax, the
                                        Libri (G.): finds letter of Sir I.
   turning-point of the Flam
    steed-Newton quarrel, 126               Newton, 49
Forms of ceremonious civility in        Locke: angry letter from Newton
   the time of Queen Anne, 55
                                            to Locke concerning place
     56                                     seeking, 12

Halifax (Earl of), short biography      Macaulay (Lord): his view of the
                                            connection between Halifax
     of, 8-13                               and Miss Barton, 67-71

            death and will of, 95, 98   Manchester (Dowager Countess
             query, \Vas he a near          of), first wife of Halifax, 10
   neighbour of Sir I. Newton
    when in London'! 114, 115           Manley (Mrs. de la Riviere) : her
               his biographer's state       scandalous Memoirs, 33-35
    ment with regard to Miss
    Barton, 118-121                     Marriage : short history of
Halley appointed to the Master                              law, 81-94
    ship of the Chester Mint, 12
              Addison's statement that  Milmnaerrii?(geoshua) : his researches
    Halley was an infidel, 124              and his library, 127
Han'iot, said to nullify the word
    of God, 91                          Miss, in Queen Anne's time, a
                                            title only given to young girls,
Interest on money in the time of            31-33
    Newton, 56-57
                                        Newton (Sir Isaac): his desire
Johnson (Dr. S.) knocks Osborne             for place, 11
    down with a copy of the                           income of, 13, 23
     Septuagint, 43                                    his letter to Catherine
                                            Barton when she had the
 Kempis (Thomas,not a), Brunet's            small-pox, l9
     opinion concerning the author                      signature of, when
     ship of theDe Imilah'one Christi,      I. Newton and when Isaac
                                             Newton, 51-52
      1 23                                            his gift of an estate
                                             valued at £4,000 to Gath
                                             erine Barton's daughter, 117
                                                    letter to Mr. Aston, a
                                             young man about to travel,
                                             criticised, 141
2 987%5
.`- "d"
- ~` __--»._I'- `  --.-.____
         on            w "J".z                           I",                        ``\Q?                           .1                                          1J1/.q4
                                                          1`0`
s`aa`3`               `H ~~---..._,.r. r,a                                               (K   /'"z,7I7.i`.1."¢A'/)P.»                                                  e»
                                                e
                            t.`.h.m-Q                                                    5``

                                                                `'0'. $5?`

                                                                   (a, ms
           . I)                                                       'f,                                                                               1,}
                    '_                                                                                                                                                         'I
 JNam! / uonv'lnoulo"'1"'?VV`                                            `s
                                                                .\>
                                                                                           '
                                                                                                 '

                                                                                                                   .
                                                                                                                                 "
             'f'5 ,k                                            6`as  I»,                                                          v."                                        .
                                                          "r4s'         :0- {I
                , a;                                                        0»,                                                   (ff--fiaI..'ll`iéfrf             a."
                I'.           |                          32:`                                                                                                   .55`
                                                                                 all)'. "If                                                                                '`
a                             ,(J.l.l`/3:n2f5`..

                                                         Q's?                                                                                a`.\?\N

<--o1                            NIVW                                                                                                   .é`v

     11v 9x009 aav ioar`sns O'L 'HVOEIH                                                                                             `
 . MHNEIH sxooa A8 EDNITIVO sows-ave
                                                                                                                                              /

                        ano sv GHdlNVlS M0138                                                                                                           U'aa

                                                                                                                                                                            `an':
                                                                                                                                                                            :

                                                         MISEHAINH :lO 'VlNHOzlllVD AEHBXEBQ                                                                    ..'.;`.'\'
                                                                      'AH'EDRBQ VI) OZLVé                                                         ,
                                                                                                                                                          >9
                                                                                                                                  ((522- ,. r".i               _.

                                 `I.4a" `51%                                                                                        a`  _  4a,'
                                                                                                                                  .tp
                              a  (x\5 4`                                                                                                       _             '
                                                                                                                                  `is
                                `g              4';                                                                                         Q:
                                                   2'6,                                                                                                   `l1
if.u                                   I0;;                                                           <r9                                            {,1
                          Q"                            4' '
- (19*                                                                                        .sv' '                                         - `.
                      s."
                                                                                                                                           e ` `as,
>`"         r r.y4, .»):`;.*',-,,l`/                           v?  I      `S,                                                       (44.',}' '`-'-;.`r.'_``;.5/:;,"`/      U               "'3                             $I5
                                                                    `7                   O                                                                                      C
           \  -J.._,,                                                 #1.,                                   $9,3                     P" `a,`                                                   I"`a                     `kt;
                                                                                                                                                                                       0 `0
                           1                                                                            ,9`ca'1`                    \ J/ q                                                           `a,
                                    7                                                                                                  `"InI :
                                       1                                         r ;L
                                                                                                                   L
                                          a                                     (`'                                                                                                                        8*"`=2' ,s"

                                            '`a. a,                         "1&1                                                                                                                          Q            \.
                                                                          ~'.~
'                                                                                    "2,'                                                                                                             "$- (zuy

         `.                                                                                 4f,
           `a
                                                                                                    `yo
                     a
                                    I
                      .5                  '                                                                                                                                                                      J`   `A

         Iv";                                       .                                                                                                                                          61..`
                                                                                                                                                                                           ms`
"3:",                                                    .\`1
                                                                                                   `I(2'17,                                                                      BERKELEY use/wuss                        /""I:
   "f1                                         §a
                                                                   ;                                                   347                                                                                                  1dA,'
    0/')-0:                               "q,                               .4
                                                                                   |                                        ,0c,
              Q,'                                                                            '1                                         ,.a

            "fa                                                                                                      7,

                                                                                            a,
                                          s                                . ......fl~'.r: If                                                                                                             \
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            '4
                                                                                    `""v                                                                                   cD55aoH3i=E
                                                                                                        ~`'.
            .144'

                                       .n

                                                                          rI                                                                                                                      ' ./,
                                                                                                   '                                                                                                                  .

                                                                                                                 Q                                                                                a

') \y                                                                                f.                                           r,`                                    l"e?`                                            a},''
   ()                                                                                 r                                                                             éqb
IQ',                                      {)xQ                               '           I'.  .6'                                    0J0                                                     " £12..." Gg/                       Q'r
                                                           (                                                                                                   U`Z"                                        g.`
                                                                                                                                            (9*                                                   7                             s»
                                                                                            .gfg                                                                       "a                                      ''
                                                                                                  7                                        "a                              £2",                                           §A5
                                                                                                                                                            o                                                  v
                                                                                                                               W,'            Q`
                                                                                         9"`'                                                    <53`
            `4:0                                                                                                                                               $38Q
                                                                                                                                     s`63"
            "44'          .a`?

             (i\
            `1.! (154'
                                                                                                                                                                                                                 I
all` "4*                                                           'i'.                                                                                              )4`?                  M`is "3
                                                                                      '                                                                                                                           '-

                                                                             t

                                                                                      I)
                                                                                              a?
    -`~9'8                                (4*)                     "s.`,*17`'`':"1:`;Y'" _                                                                                                        .1,' {5733,31
*9                                            1*

                                                    `2}',

