The story of the Herschels, a family of astronomers. Sir William
Herschel--Sir John Herschel--Caroline Herschel ...

London, T. Nelson and sons, 1886.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015024840418

                                          Public Domain in the United States,
                                          Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-us-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain
                                                          in the United States of America. It may not be in the
                                                          public domain in other countries. Copies are provided
                                                          as a preservation service. Particularly outside of the
                                                          United States, persons receiving copies should make
                                                          appropriate efforts to determine the copyright status
                                                          of the work in their country and use the work accordingly.
                                                          It is possible that current copyright holders, heirs or
                                                          the estate of the authors of individual portions of the
                                                          work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert copyrights
                                                          over these portions. Depending on the nature of subsequent
                                                          use that is made, additional rights may need to be obtained
                                                          independently of anything we can address. The digital
                                                          images and OCR of this work were produced by Google,
                                                          Inc. (indicated by a watermark on each page in the
                                                          PageTurner). Google requests that the images and OCR
                                                          not be re-hosted, redistributed or used commercially.
                                                          The images are provided for educational, scholarly,
                                                          non-commercial purposes.
A 1,001,384
                                                                         `4 '1 - -         \ `-

                                                                                        '        llllglllullmu
                                                                                                        HI
           .Iilllllllllllflllll£l!'!l'!l!?!.l1".*'!'                     x
                                  _
                                                                                 4`

":___fl_'--_.__-___-_....oo~.

llllllll"

F! `~I`l.ll4lflwcomJm ll<l.ll"»m-'n¢u.-n.u~nmlwwgljljum  'u-I.nIp;|o                                                                                                                  :1 lllIllllllllllllfifllllllllllllllI]

                                                         u-                     `v` .'
                                                                      hmuuhu-"m'5n5u-:n"-v.lnl-l-|m---lmQuolmollolmlollomllglml-t-rmozgmp-La`lififl"ifififiififlmm0"i.l-l;--`mmmmmmn
L 9~»                                                                                `
     alliill
    Milan»

                                                                      S TH E GIIF'I` OF                                                                                               IIXKIIXIIIIIIIII

                                                                       . \Qr`me'v`i Kwase"

                                                                                                                                                                                      xx                                      I
                                                                                                                                                                                      [ll
                                                                                                                                                                                                                              .I4I.5\" "l.oDIw--I.I1.

                                                                                                                                                                                                                              I'I-I'II~mI--'`-II~-I_`...I
I                               ~W~14 '
           THE STORY OF THE HERSCHELS;
    v 1":
       THE §TOBY OF THE
              HEBSCHELS;;

                                                                       u.- 0'.,.

                 A FAMILY OF ASTRONOMERS.

                SIR WILLIAM HERSCHEL--SIR JOHN HERSOHEL
                                     CAROLINE HERSCHEL.

                                                                                                " Stars
                                             Numberless, as thou-seest, and how they move;
                                             Each has his place appointed, each his course."

%ffl. MILTON.

Attention Patron:
 This volume is too fragile for any future repair.

 Please handle with great care.
 -UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN LIBRARY CONSERVATION 8; BOOK REPAIR
vb..1
      00

4'0...
        .r`cr

       \uvuo
                   prefatory Iézlote.

'I W"'A) '         ROM the best available sources have

7 a;      l3},Jig  been gathered the following bio
    WEE            graphical particulars of a remark

able family of astronomers--the Herschels.

They will serve to show the young reader

how great          a  pleasure may be found in the

acquisition of knowledge, and how solid a

happiness in quietly pursuing the path of duty.

On the value of biography      it      unnecessary

                                   is

to insist. It now well understood that we
                      is

may learn to make our own lives good and

honest and true, by carefully and diligently

following the example of the good and honest

and true who have gone before us. And cer

tain  it           that the lessons taught by the lives

           is

of the Herschels are such as young readers

will do well to lay to heart.

                      3%13061
               @sntents.

               CHAPTER I.

The study of astronomy a source of intellectual pleasure--By contem

plating the heavens, the mind is led to wonder and adore--A proof

of the existence of a Creator is afforded by creation--"We praise

t"heOerd, e0r  Lord !"--The beauty of Nature--Intellectual curiosity--
               is Heaven's first law"--Value of astronomical study.. 11--18

               CHAPTER` II.

Herschel's parents--The two brothers--A musical family--An invent

ive genius--The brothers in England--Herschel as an organist--

A laborious life--Mechanical ingenuity of William Herschel--

Telescope-making--A Sunday misadventure--Constructing                a

twenty-foot telescope--A domestic picture--Discovery of a new

planet-- Herschel's combined musical and astronomical pursuits--

A thirty-foot telescope--Casting the mirror--An explosion . . 19--33

                              CHAPTER III.

The house at Datchet--Housekeeping details--A devoted sister--Life
       at Datcliet--Herschel's astronomical observations--Testing and
viii CONTENTS.

trying "eye-pleces"-The colossal telescope--Miss Herschel's

accident-- Removed to Slough--Constructing'a forty-foot telescope

-Brother and sister--Heroic seli-denial--Occupations at Slough

--Royal liberality--An astronomer's triumphs--About the nebulae

-Investigation of the sun's constitution--The solar spots, and

their influence--Physical constitution of the moon--Lunar vol

canoes--Arago's explanation--Herschel's study of the planets--

Satellites of Saturn--Discovery of Uranus--And of its six satel

lites--Study of Pigott's comet and the comet of ISM--Description
of the latter--An uneventful life--Herschel's marriage--His

honours--Extracts from his sister's diary--Decaying strength--

Herschel removes to Bath--Last days of an astronomer--Illustra
tion of the ruling passion-~-Death of Sir William Herschel-- His

achievements.............                                            34-68

CHAPTER IV.

Birth and education of Sir John Herschel--Honours at Cambridge

First publication--Continues his scientific studies--His numerous

literary contributions--His devotion to his father's reputation----

The forty-foot telescope--Herschel's observations on the double
and triple stars--On the refraction and polarization of light--

Catalogue of nebulae and star-clusters--Voyage to Cape Town
Letter to Miss Herschel--Study of the southern heavens--Return

to England--Distinctions conferred upon him--His "Familiar
Lectures on Scientific Subjects "--His description of volcanoes and

earthquakes--Continual changes in the configuration of the earth

--Violent earthquakes--Phenomena of volcanic eruptions--In

Mexico--In the island of Sumbawa--Herschel's theory of volcanic

forces-Hischaracter..................                                .. 69--88
                                                                  _

                                     CHAPTER V.

Caroline Herschel's devotion to her brother William--Her grief and
       solitariness at his death-Reflections on the mutability of human
       things--Aunt and nephew--A parsimonious government--Miss
CONTENTS.  [X

  Herschel's gold medal--South on Sir William's discoveries--On

  Miss Herschel's devotion--Her own astronomical discoveries--Her
 life at Hanover--Her wonderful memory--Anecdotes of Sir John

  Herschel--Correspondence between aunt and nephew--The path
' of duty--Sir John's visit to Miss Herschel--Reminiscences of early

  years--A nonogenarian--A Christmas in Hanover--Last days of
  Caroline Herschel--Her death--Her epitaph .. .. .. .. .. .. .. 89--117
 THE STORY OF THE HERSCHELS.

                       CHAPTER I.

          F all the sciences, none would seem to

                  yield a purer intellectual gratifica
                  tion than that of Astronomy. Man
cannot but feel a sense of pleasure, and even
of power, when, through the instruments con
structed by his ingenuity, he finds himself

brought within reach, as it were, of the in

numerable orbs that roll through the domains
of space. He cannot but feel a sense of plea
sure, and even of power, when the telescope
reveals to his gaze not only the worlds that
constitute his own so-called Solar System, but
the suns that light up the borders of the Uni
verse, system upon system, sun upon sun,
covering the unbounded area almost as thickly
  12 THE RELIGIOUS SENTIMENT

  as the daisies cover a meadow in spring. He
  cannot but feel a sense of pleasure, and even of
  power, when he tracks the course of the flashing
  comet, examines into the physical character
  istics of the Sun and Moon, and records the

 various phases of the distant planets. But if

_such be his feeling, it is certainly tempered
 with awe and wonder as he contemplates the

  phenomena of the heavens,---the beauty of the
  stars, the immensity of their orbits, the re
 gularity with which each bright world performs
  its appointed course, the simplicity of the laws
  which govern its motions, and, the mystery

 which attends its far-ofi' existence. It has

  been said that "an undevout astronomer is

 mad ; " and if Astronomy, of all the sciences, be

  the one most calculated to gratify the intellect,

 surely it is the one which should most vividly
 awaken the religious sentiment. Is it possible
  to look upon all those worlds within worlds,

  all those endless groups of mighty suns, all

  those strange and marvellous combinations of
  coloured stars, all those remote nebulous

  clusters,--t0 look upon them in their perfect
  order and government,--t0 consider their in
AND THE cnrnsrmr. wonmms.  13

finite number and astonishing dimensions,--
without acknowledging the fulness of the power
of an everlasting God, who created them, set
them in their appointed places, and still con

trols them? Is it possible to be an astronomer
and an atheist? Is it possible not to see in

their relations to one another and to our own

little planet an Almighty Wisdom as well as an
Almighty Love? Could any "fortuitous con
course of atoms " have strewed the depths of
space with those mighty and beautiful orbs,

and defined for each the exact limits of its

movements? Alas I to human folly and human

vanity everything is possible; and men may
watch the stars in their courses, and delight in
the beauty of Sun and Moon, and perceive all
the wonders of the sunrise and all the glories
of the sunset, without any recognition in their
hearts of Him who made them--of Him in

whom we and they alike live and move and

have our being! Yet it is not the less true

that only the devout and thankful heart can

adequately and thoroughly sympathize with
the love and wisdom and power which are
written in such legible characters on the face
l4 " rs DEUM LAUDAMUS."

of heaven. Astronomy gives up all its trea

sures only to him who enters upon its study

in a reverent spirit. It affords the purest

intellectual gratification only when its pursuits
are undertaken with a humble acknowledg
ment of the littleness of man and the greatness
of God. Half the wonder, half the mystery of
creation is lost, when we fail to recognize the

truth that it is governed by eternal laws

springing from an Almighty Intelligence. Take
the Creator out of creation, and it becomes a

hopeless puzzle--a. dreary problem, incapable

of solution. But we restore to it all its bright
ness, all its beauty, all its charm, when we are
able to lift up our hearts with the Psalmist and
to say: " Praise ye the Lord. Praise ye the
Lord from the heavens; praise him in the

heights. Praise ye him, sun and moon: praise

him, all ye stars of light. Let them praise
the name of the Lord: for his name alone is

excellent: his glory is above the earth and
heaven."

   And it is to be observed that the soul cannot
be satisfied without this religious view of

Nature. The heavens and the earth are as
THE BEAUTY or NATURE.                                    15

nothing to man, if they do not excite his awe

and call forth his thanksgiving. We might

almost suppose that it is for this purpose that

the sea rolls its waves on the shore, and the

violet smiles by the wayside, and the moon
floods the night with its silver radiance. As a

recent writer has observedf" the beauty of Nature
is necessary for the perfection of praise ; with
out it the praise of the Creator would be essen

tially weakened; our hearts must be roused and

excited by what we see. " It may seem extra

ordinary," adds our authority, "but it is the case,

that, though we certainly look at contn'vance or
machinery in Nature with a high admiration,
still, with all its countless and multitudinous

uses, which we acknowledge with gratitude, there
is nothing in it which raises the mind's interest

in nearly the same degree that beauty does. It

is an awakening sight; and one way in which
it acts is by exciting a certain curiosity about

the Deity. In what does God possess char

acter, feelings, relations to us ?--all unanswer
able questions, but the very entertainment of
which is an excitement of the reason, and

" Professor Mozley, "University Sermons," pp. 145, 146.
16 THE DESIRE TO KNOW.

throws us upon the thought of what there is
behind the veil. This curiosity is a strong
part of worship and of praise. To think that
we know everything about God, is to benumb
and deaden worship; but mystical thought
quickens worship, and the beauty of Nature
raises mystical thought. So long as a man is
probing Nature, and in the thick of its causes
and operations, he is too busy about his own
inquiries to receive this impress from her; but
place the picture before him, and he becomes
conscious of a veil and curtain which has the
secrets of a moral existence behind it,---interest

is inspired, curiosity is awakened, and worship
is raised. ` Surely thou art a God that hidest

thyself.' But if God simply hid himself and
nothing more, if we knew nothing, we should

not wish to know more. But the veil suggests
that it is a veil, and that there is something
behind it which it conceals."

    Now, this is the feeling which the study of
Astronomy very certainly awakens. Every day
the astronomer discovers something which
quickens his curiosity to discover more. Every
day he catches new glimpses of the Almighty

       (693)
      "ORDER 1s HEAVEN'S rmsr LAW."  17

Wisdom, which stimulate his desire for a further

revelation. And all he learns, and all he an

ticipates learning, combine to produce in him

an emotion of awe. What grandeur lies before
him in that endless procession of worlds--in

that array of suns and stars extending beyond

the limits of the most powerful telescopic
vision! How marvellous it is! How beau

tiful! Observe the combination of simplicity

with power; note how a great principle of

"law" underlies the apparent intricacy of ec

centric and intersecting orbits. And then the

field of inquiry is inexhaustible. The astro

nomer has no fear of feeling the satiety of an

Alexander, when he lamented that he had no

more worlds to conquer. What Newton said

of himself is true of every astronomer,---he is

but as a child on the. sea-shore, picking up a

shell here and a shell there, but unable to

grasp a full conception of the mighty ocean

that thunders in his ears!

And, therefore, because Astronomy cherishes

the feelings of awe and reverence and praise,

because it inspires a continual yearning after

additional knowledge, because it reveals to us

(5%)  2
it,18 PLEASURES OF ASTRONOMY.

something of the character of God, we conceive

that of all the sciences it affords the purest in
tellectual gratification. Certainly it is one of
the most absorbing. Its attraction seems to

be irresistible. Once an astronomer, always

an astronomer; the stars, we may fancy, will
not relax the spell they lay upon their votary.
He willingly withdraws himself from the din
and gaiety of social life, to shut himself up in
his chamber, and, with the magic tube due to
the genius of a Galileo, survey with ever-new
delight the celestial wonders. So was it with
Tycho Brahé, and Copernicus, and Kepler; so
was as the following pages will show, with
that remarkable family of astronomers--astro

nomers for three generations--the HERSCHELS.
                   CHAPTER II.

      " N the quiet city of Hanover, nearly a

                  century and a half ago, lived a pro
                 fessor of music, by name Isaac Her
schel, a Protestant in religion, though presum
ably of Jewish descent. He had been left an

orphan at the early age of eleven, and his
friends wished him to adopt the vocation of a
landscapagardener; but being passionately fond
of music, and having acquired some skill on
the violin, he left Dresden, his birthplace, in
order to seek his fortune; wandering from
place to place, until at Hanover, in 1731, he
obtained an engagement in the band of the
Guards. Soon afterwards he married; and by
his wife, Anna Ilse Moritzen, had ten children,
four of whom died in infancy. Of the others,
two--a brother and a sister--lived to distinguish
themselves by their intellectual power; and all
20 A vouuo MUSICIAN.

true lovers of science will regard with rever
ence the memories of William and Caroline

Herschel.

   Frederick William Herschel was born on the
15th of November 1738. Like his father, he
displayed an innate musical ability, which was

sedulously cultivated and constantly developed;
while his general mental training was left to
the care of the master of the garrison-school.
Those who are gifted with a love and a capacity

for music sometimes show to little advantage
in other pursuits; but such was not the case
with William Herschel, who progressed so
rapidly in all his studies that the pupil soon
outstripped the teacher. Although, we are

told, four years younger than his brother
Jacob, the two began French together, and

William mastered the language in half the time
occupied by his senior. His leisure time out
of school, when not given up to practice on the
oboe and the violin, was devoted to the acquisi
tion of Latin and arithmetic.

   His father in 1743 was present at the battle
of Dettingen ; and the exposure consequent on
a night spent on the rain-soaked battle-field
THE MUSICAL BROTHERS.  21

  aiilicted him with an asthmatic complaint and
  a partial paralysis of the limbs, which darkened
. for years the musician's peaceful household.
  He himself, however, was greatly cheered by
  the musical proficiency of his two sons, and the
  intellectual refinement of Frederick William.
  " My brothers," says Caroline Herschel, " were

  often introduced as solo performers and assist

 Iants in the orchestra of the court; and re--
 member that I was frequently prevented "--

  she was then a child about five years old----
  " from going to sleep by the lively criticism

  on music on [their] coming from a concert, or
  conversations on philosophical subjects, which

 lasted frequently till morning, in which my
  father was a lively partaker, and assistant of
  my brother William by contriving self-made

  instruments." She adds that she often kept
  herself awake in order to listen to their ani

  mating remarks, feeling inexpressibly happy
  in their happiness,--an indication of that de
  voted and unselfish affection which afterwards
  consecrated her whole life. But, generally,
  their conversation branched out into philoso

  phical subjects; and father and son argued
22 IN EARLY YEARS.

with so much fervour, that the fond mother's

interference became necessary,--the immortal

names of Leibnitz, Newton, and Euler ringing

with a clarion-like peal that boded ill for

the repose of the younger members of the
                                           " that
family.    "But it seems," says Caroline,

         i

on the brothers retiring to their own room,

where they shared the same bed, my brother

William had still a great deal to say; and
frequently it happened that, when he stopped

for an assent or a reply, he found his hearer

Ihad gone to sleep; and suppose it was not

till then that he bethought himself to do the

same. The recollection of these happy scenes

confirms me in the belief that, had my brother
William not then been interrupted in his philo

sophical pursuits, we should have had much

earlier proofs of his inventive genius. My
father," she continues, " was a great admirer

of astronomy, and had some knowledge of that

Iscience; for remember him taking me, on a

clear frosty night, into the street, to make me

acquainted with several of the most beautiful

constellations, after we had been gazing at a

Icomet which was then visible. And well
FAMILY PARTINGS.  23

remember with what delight he used to assist
my brother William in his various contrivances
in the pursuit of his philosophical studies;
among which was a neatly-turned four-inch
globe, upon which the equator and ecliptic were

engraved by my brother."

   In 1755, the tranquil family circle was

broken up--the Hanoverian regiment in whose
band William and Jacob were engaged having
been ordered to England. The parting was
very sorrowful; for the invalid father had
derived much support as well as enjoyment

from the company of his sons. At first, the

English experiences of the young Germans were
somewhat severe. They endured all the pangs
of poverty; pangs endured with heroic com
posure, while William relaxed not a whit in
his devotion to the pursuit of knowledge.
Happily, however, his musical proficiency at
tracted the attention of Lord Durham, who

offered him the appointment of bandmaster to
a militia regiment stationed in the north of

England; In this position he gradually formed

a connection among the wealthier families of
24 THE YOUNG oaoamsr.

Leeds, Pontefract, and Doncaster, where he

taught music, and conducted the public concerts

and oratorios with equal zeal and success. In

1764: he paid a brief but happy visit to his
family, much to the joy of his faithful sister,
Caroline. Returning to England, for which
country he cherished a strong affection, he re
sumed his career of patient industry, and in
1765 was appointed organist at Halifax. He
was now in receipt of an income which secured
him due domestic comforts, and enabled him
to remedy the defects of his early educatiOn.
With the help of a grammar and a dictionary
he mastered Italian. He also studied mathe
matics and the scientific theory of music, losing
no opportunity of adding to his stores of know

ledge.

   In 1766 he obtained the lucrative post of
organist to the Octagon Chapel at Bath. In

creased emoluments, however, brought with
them increased obligations. He was required
to play almost incessantly, either at the oratorios
or in the rooms at the Baths, at the theatre,
and in the public concerts. When his sister
Caroline joined him, in 1772, she found him
A LABORIOUS LIFE.  ~ 25

immersed in his various labours. For the

choir of the Octagon Chapel he composed

anthems, chants, and complete morning and

evening services. A part of every day was

occupied in giving lessons to his numerous

pupils. In truth, be was one of the busiest

men in England; yet in all his arrangements
he was so methodical that he found time for

everything--and time, more particularly, for the
studies in which his soul delighted. His life
furnishes an admirable example of what may
be accomplished by a man with a firm will and
a strong purpose, who sets before himself an
end to be attained, and controls all his efforts
towards its attainment. He toiled so hard as

a musician, because he wanted to be something

more. Every spare moment of the day, and
frequently many hours of the night, he gave
up to the pursuits which were gradually lead
ing him into the path best fitted for his genius.
The study of mathematics proved but a pre
liminary to the study of optics; and an ac
cident made him once for all an astronomer.

   A common two-foot telescope falling into his

hands, revealed to him the wonders of the
26 " mroa m sovsnsum."

heavens. His imagination was inspired by
their contemplation; with ever-increasing en

thusiasm he gazed on the revolving planets, on
the flashing stars; he determined to fathom

more profoundly the constellated depths. A

larger instrument was necessary, and Herschel

wrote to London for it ; but the price demanded

proved far beyond the resources of the sanguine
organist. What should he do? He was not
the man to be beaten back by a difficulty : as
he could not buy a telescope, he resolved to
make one; an instrument eighteen or twenty
feet long, which would reveal to him the phases
of the remotest planets. And straightway the
musician entered on a multitude of ingenious

experiments, so as to discover the particular
metallic alloys that reflected light with the
greatest intensity, the best means of giving the
parabolic figure to the mirrors, the necessary
degree of polish, and other practical details.

In his eager pursuit he enlisted the services of

Ihis loving and intelligent sister. " was much

hindered in my musical practice," she writes,
"by my help being continually wanted in the

Iexecution of the various contrivances ; and
TELESCOPE-MAKING.  27

had to amuse myself by making the tube of
pasteboard for the glasses which were to arrive
from London--for at that time no optician had
settled at Bath. But when all was finished,

no one besides my brother could get a glimpse
of Jupiter or Saturn, for the great length of

the tube would not allow it to be kept in a

straight line. This difficulty, however, was
soon removed, by substituting tin tubes."

    The work went on famously, as might be

expected from so much ardour, perseverance,

and ingenuity. Of a Quaker resident at Bath,
the musician-astronomer purchased a quantity
of patterns, tools, hones, polishers, and unfin
ished mirrors. Every room in the house was

converted into a workshop. In a handsomely

furnished drawing-room might be seen a cabinet
maker constructing a tube and stands of all
descriptions ; while Herschel's brother Alex was
engaged in a bedroom in putting up a gigan
tic turning-machine. Meantime, the claims of

music could not be ignored: there were frequent
rehearsals for the public concerts; lessons to
pupils; the composition of glees and catches,
and the like; the superintendence of the practice
28 mom: nss'rs, wonss' srssn.

of the chapel choir; and the study of sonatas
and concertos for public performance. But all
the leisure that could be made or stolen was
occupied in labours which proved their own
reward. Straight from the concert-platform
rushed the musician to his workshop, and
many a lace ruflie was torn by nails or be
spattered by molten pitch; to say nothing of
the positive danger to which Herschel continu
ally exposed himself by the precipitancy of his
movements. For example: one Saturday even--
ing, when the two brothers returned from a
concert between eleven and twelve o'clock,
William amused himself all the way home with
the idea of being at liberty to spend the next
day, except the few hours' duty at chapel, at
the turning--bench; but recollecting that the
tools wanted sharpening, they ran with them
and a lantern to their landlord's grindstone in
a public yard, where, very naturally, they did
not wish to be seen on a Sunday morning.
But William was soon brought back by his
brother, almost swooning with the loss of one
of his finger-nails.

    This incident took place in the winter of
PATIENCE AND PERSEVERANCE.  29

  I775, at a house situated near Walcot turnpike,
  to which Herschel had removed in the summer

  of the previous year. Here, on _a grass plot
  behind the house, he made active preparations
  for the erection of a twenty-foot telescope. So
  assiduous was his devotion to this work, that

  while he was engaged in polishing the mirror, his
  sister was constantly obliged to feed him by
  putting his victuals into his mouth. Otherwise
  he would have reduced himself to a condition
  of positive emaciation! Once, when finishing
  a seven-foot mirror, he did not take his hands

 from it for sixteen consecutive hours; for in

  these days machinery had not been devised as
  a substitute for manual toil. He was seldom
  unemployed at meals; but at such times em
  ployed himself in contriving or making draw
  ings of whatever occurred to his fertile fancy.
  Usually his sister Caroline read to him while

  he was engaged at the turning-lathe, or polish
  ing mirrors; choosing such books as " Don
  Quixote," the " Arabian Nights," the novels of
  Sterne and Fielding; and tea and supper were
  served without any interruption to the task in

'

  which Herschel was absorbed.
30 A DOMESTIC PICTURE.

In Miss Herschel's charming letters we find

a vivid sketch of the family avocations at this

period :--

" My brother applied himself to perfect his mirrors, erect

inginhis garden astand for his twenty-foot telescope: many

trials were necessary before the required motions for such

an unwieldy machine could be contrived. Many attempts

were made by way of experiment against a mirror before

an intended thirty-foot telescope could be completed, for

which, between whiles (not interrupting the observations
with seven, ten, and twenty-foot, and writing papers for

both the Royal and Bath Philosophical Societies), gauges,

shapes, weights, &0., of the mirror were calculated, and

Itrials of the composition of the metal were made. In

short, saw nothing else and heard nothing else talked

of but about these things when my brothers were together.

Alex was always very alert, assisting when anything new

was going forward; but he wanted perseverance, and never

liked to confine himself at home for many hours together.

And so it happened that my brother William was obliged

to make trial of my abilities in copying for him catalogues,
tables, &c., and sometimes whole papers which were lent
[to] him for his perusal. Among them was one by Mr.
Michel, and a catalogue of Christian Mayer in Latin,

Iwhich kept me employed when my brother was at the
telescope at night. When   found that a hand was

sometimes wanted when any particular measures were to

be made with the lamp micrometer, or a fire to be kept

Iup, or a dish of coffee necessary during a night's long

watching, undertook with pleasure what others might

have thought a hardship."

The astronomer-musician's patient survey
A NEW PLANET.  31

0f the heavens was rewarded, on the 13th of
March 1781, by the discovery of a new
planet, situated on the borders of our Solar

System. In every way this was a discovery

of signal importance. It broke up the tradi

tional conservatism of astronomers, which had

almost refused to regard as possible the exist
ence of any planets beyond the orbit of Saturn,

because for so many years none had revealed
themselves to the watchful gaze. Men's minds
were widened, so to speak, at a bound; their
conceptions strengthened and enlarged ; for the
discovery of Georgium Sidus--as the new
planet was designated by its discoverer, in
honour of George III.---rendered possible and
probable the discovery of other planets, and
thus extended immeasurably the limits of the
Solar System. Herschel, whose reputation as a
musician had hitherto been local, new sprang
into world-wide fame as an astronomer. George

III., who was a true lover of science, and not

disinclined to bestow his patronage on men and
things of Hanoverian origin, summoned him to
his presence; and was so much pleased with his
modest and interesting account of the long
32 nusrcmn AND as'raononaa.

labours which had led to the great result, that,
after a brief interval, he bestowed upon him an
annual pension of three hundred guineas, and
a. residence, first at Clay Hall, and then at

Slough.

   But before this well-deserved good fortune
fell to him, Herschel continued his industrious
career as both musician and astronomer. Dur
ing the concert season, which lasted five or six
months, he had never a night disengaged, but
was conducting oratorios at Bath or Bristol,
arranging for public concerts, attending re

hearsals, and superintending the performances

of his choir. As soon as a lull came, the in
domitable man, assisted by his faithful sister,
returned to his astronomical pursuits. To gain
a fuller and clearer knowledge of the starry
worlds scattered over the vast fields of space,
Herschel from the first had seen that instru
ments of much greater power were necessary
than any hitherto used by astronomers. He
set to work, therefore, on the construction of a
thirty-foot telescope; the metallic mirror of which
must, of course, be of proportionate dimensions.
This huge mirror was to be cast in a mould of
      AN axrnosrou.  33

loam prepared from horse-dung, of which an
immense quantity was to be pounded in a
mortar, and sifted through a fine sieve; anv
arduous and almost endless task, undertaken by
Caroline Herschel and her brother Alex. Then
a furnace was erected in a back-room on the

ground-floor; and every preparation having been
made, a day was set apart for the casting. The
day came, and Herschel and his collaborateurs
looked forward to the consummation of their
hopes. The metal was placed in the furnace;

but, unfortunately, just when it was ready for
pouring in a molten stream into the mould, it

began to leak, and both the Herschels, and the

caster with his men, were compelled to fly from

the apartment, the stone flooring exploding,
and flying about in all directions, as high as
the ceiling. The astronomer, exhausted with
heat and exertion, fell on a heap of brickbats;
exhausted, but not dismayed. The work was
renewed; and a second casting being attempted,
it proved entirely successful, and a very perfect
metal was formed in the mould.

(we)  3
                      CHAPTER 111.

           N August 1782 the Herschels removed

                         I

                 to Datchet. Their new home was "a
                 large neglected place; the house in a
deplorably ruinous condition, the garden and
grounds overgrown with weeds." Nor were
the domestic arrangements more favourable.
For a fortnight the little family were without
a female servant; and an old woman, the gar
dener's wife, showed Miss Herschel the shops,
where the high prices of every article, from
coals to butcher's meat, appalled her. But of
these inconveniences Herschel took no account.
Enough for him that he was released from the
drudgery of teaching, and free thenceforth to
devote himself to the heavens and their wonders.

A man whose thoughts are always with the

stars can hardly be expected to trouble himself
about the price of tallow-candles! Were there
A nnvo'rnn SISTER.  35

not capacious stables in which mirrors of any
size could be ground; and a roomy laundry
capable of easy conversion into a library, with
one door opening on a large lawn, where the
" small twenty-foot" was to take its stand?
Compared with advantages such as these, what
mattered the scarcity of "butcher's meat "?
Herschel laughingly assured his sister that they
could live on eggs and bacon; which, he confi
dently asserted, would cost next to nothing, now
that they were really in the country!

    And so he settled down to a life of quiet

industry at Datchet ; his admirable sister being
formally adopted as his assistant and secretary.
Never had master a more devoted, a more

enthusiastic, or a more intelligent servant!
She shared in all his night-watches, with her
eye constantly on the clock, and the pencil in
her hand; with unerring accuracy she made
all the complex calculations so frequently re
quired; she made three or four copies of every
observation in separate registers, co-ordinating,

classifying, and analyzing them. If the scien

tific world, says Arago,,saw with astonishment
the unexampled rapidity with which Herschel's
36 LIFE AT DATCHET.

works succeeded one another for many years,
they were greatly indebted for this affluence of
production to the affectionate ardour of his sister

Caroline. Her enthusiasm never failed; her in

dustry knew no check ; and her brother's fame

was dearer to her than life.

   In one of her letters she describes with

graphic simplicity the "interior" at Datchet:--

"I Ifound that was to be trained for an assistant

astronomer; and by way of encouragement, a telescope

adapted for `sweeping' (or rapidly surveying a wide
extent of space), consisting of a tube with two glasses,
I Iwas given [to] me.
was to `sweep for comets ;' and
Isee by my journal that began August 22nd, 1782, to
write down and describe all remarkable appearances I
Isaw in my `sweeps.' But it was not till the last two

months of the same year that felt the least encourage

ment to spend the starlit nights on a grass-plot covered

Iwith dew or boar-frost, without a human being near
enough to be within call.  knew too little of the real

heavens to be able to point out every object so as to find

Iit again without losing too much time by consulting the

Atlas. But all these troubles were removed when knew

my brother to be at no great distance, making observations

with his various instruments on double stars, planets, and

Ithe like; and could have his assistance immediately
I Iwhen found a nebula, or cluster of stars, of which in
Itended to give a catalogue.
                              had the comfort to see,"

she continues, "that my brother was satisfied with my

endeavours to assist him when he wanted another person
CONSTANT LABOUR.  37

either to run to the clocks, write down a memorandum,
fetch and carry instruments, or measure the ground with
poles,--of which something of the kind every moment
would occur."

    The conscientious care and assiduous industry
with which Herschel made his measurements of

the diameter of the Georgium Sidus (now called
Uranus), and his interesting observations of other
planets, of double stars with their coloured light,
of cometary and nebulous appearances, were truly

remarkable; as may be seen by the various papers
which he wrote at this time for the Royal Society.

In addition to all this labour, he perfected a

twelve-inch speculum of vast magnifying power
before the spring of 1784 ; and many hours were
spent at the turning-bench, as not a night clear
enough for observing ever passed without the
devising of improvements in the mounting and
motion of the various instruments then in use,

or the test and trial of newly-constructed "eye
pieces," most of which were executed by
Herschel's 'own hands. "Wishing to save his
time, he began to have some work of that kind

done by a watchmaker, who had retired from
business, and lived on Datchet Common; but

In?)
          ,1
38 A COLOSSAL rsnsscorn.

the work was so bad, and the charges [were]
so unreasonable, that he could not be employed.

It was not till some time afterwards, in his

frequent visits to the meetings of the Royal
Society (made in moonlight nights), that he had
an opportunity of looking about for mathe
matical workmen, opticians, and founders. But

the work seldom answered expectation, and it

was kept to be executed with improvements
by Alexander during the few months he spent
with us."

   In July 17 83 Herschel began his observa

tions with his large twenty-foot telescope,
though it was in an unfinished state; and his
sister watched and waited with much appre
hension when she knew him to be elevated

some fifteen feet or more on a. temporary cross

beam instead of a safe gallery. Here it is need

ful to explain, perhaps, that these huge astro
nomical telescopes are not used like ordinary
glasses, to one end of which the observer applies
his eye; the objects towards 'which the tube
is directed being thrown upon a large mirror,

which is attached to it externally at some
MISS neasoHEL's ACCIDENT.        39

distance from the ground. The observer,

therefore, needs to be mounted on an elevated

platform or gallery, from which he can con
veniently inspect the mirror. One night, in a

very high wind, Herschel had scarcely descended

from his station before the whole apparatus came

down; and his sister was in continual appre

hension of some serious accident. One such,

indeed, occurred, and to herself. The evening

of the 31st of December had been cloudy, but

as a few stars shone forth about ten o'clock,

hurried preparations were made for observing.

Herschel, standing at the front of the telescope,

directed his sister to make a certain alteration

in the lateral motion, which was done by

machinery, on which the point of support of

the tube and mirror rested. At each end of

the machine or trough was an iron hook, such

as butchers use for suspending their joints of

meat; and having to run in the dark across

ground covered a foot deep with melting snow,

Miss Herschel fell on one of these hooks, which

entered her right leg above the knee. To her
brother's injunction, " Make haste ! " she could
"Ianswer only by a pitiful cry,  am hooked! "
40 SETTLED AT SLOUGH.

He and the workmen hastened immediately to
her assistance, but they could not disentangle
her without leaving nearly two ounces of her
flesh behind. For some weeks she was an

invalid, and at one time it was feared that
                                                                                                                  '

amputation might be necessary.

    Not satisfied with the magnifying power of
any of the instruments he had hitherto con
structed, Herschel resolved, in 1784, to attempt
a forty-foot telescope. Such a work, however,
was far beyond his limited private resources;
and he did not venture to undertake it until
promised a royal bounty of £2000. Then
he removed from Datchet to Clay Hall, Old
Windsor; and again, in 1786, to Slough,
where he finally settled, and succeeded in erect
ing a commodious and well-equipped observa
tory. "We may confidently assert," says
Arago, " relative to the little house and garden
of Slough, that it is the spot of all the world
where the greatest number of discoveries have
been made. The name of that village will
never perish: science will transmit it religiously

to our latest posterity."
oonsrnuo'rmo A NEW TELESCOPE.  41

   At Slough, as at Datchet, prevailed the most
enthusiastic industry; and the house was soon
as full of well-ordered labour as a. bee-hive.
Smiths were kept constantly at work on dif

ferent parts of the new telescopic leviathan;
and a whole troop of labourers was engaged in
grinding the tools required for shaping and
polishing its mirror. Had not a cloudy or

moonlight night sometimes intervened, Herschel
and his sister must have died of sheer ex
haustion, for they toiled with unremitting
ardour both day and night. With the morning
came the workpeople, of whom no fewer than
between thirty and forty were at work for
upwards of three months together: some em
ployed in felling and rooting out trees, some dig
ging and preparing the ground for the brick
layers, who were laying the foundation for the
telescope. Then there were the carpenter and
his men; and, meanwhile, the smith was con

verting a wash-house into a forge, and manufac
turing complete sets of tools for his own share

of the labour. In short, the place was at one

time a complete workshop for the manufacture
of optical instruments; and it was a pleasure
42 srs'raa AND BROTHER.

to enter it for the purpose of observing the
fervour of the great astronomer, and the reve

rent attention given to his orders.

   It is impossible not to refer here to the

sisterly devotion of Caroline Herschel, who was
in every respect worthy of her noble-minded,
tender-hearted, and enthusiastic brother.

    She stood beside him to the last, sharing his

labours, brightening his life. In the days,

says her biographer, when Herschel gave up a
lucrative career that he might dedicate all his

energies to astronomical pursuits, it was through

her care and thriftiness that he was spared
from the unrest of pecuniary anxieties. As
she had been his helper and assistant during
his career as a popular musician, so she became
his helper and assistant when he gave him
self up, like the Ohaldeans of old, to the study

of the stars. By dint of a resolute will and a

love that shrank from no sacrifice or exertion,
she acquired such a knowledge of mathematics
and calculations, mysterious as these generally
seem to the feminine mind, that she was able
to formulate with exactness the result of her

brother's researches. She never failed to be
naaom SELF-DENIAL.  43

his willing fellow-labourer in the workshop;

she helped him to grind and polish his mirrors;
she stood beside his telescope, in order to record

his observations, during the dark and bitter

mid-winter nights, when I the very ink was

frozen in the bottle. It may be said, without

exaggeration, that she kept him alive by her

care: thinking nothing of herself, she lived

for him, and him alone. She loved him, she

believed in him, she aided him with all her

heart and all her strength. Her mental powers

were very-considerable; and undoubtedly she

might have attained to eminence on her own

account, for she herself discovered no fewer

than eight comets.  But she shunned self

glorification ; she desired to live in her brother's

shadow; she worked for him, never for her

self; and in her elevated character no feature

more strongly demands our admiration than her

heroic though unconscious self-denial. Happy

the man who has such a sister ; happy the sis

ter whose brother is worthy of so much devo

tion! It is pleasant to know that William

Herschel deserved the love so lavishly poured

out at his feet ; that great as were his achieve
44 wow: AT BLOUGH.

ments in science, lofty and broad as was his
genius, they were fully sustained and ennobled
by the beauty and worth of his inner life.
Who can contemplate their twofold career in
all its singleness of purpose, its purity, its un
selfishness, its sublime disregard of worldly
pleasures, without emotion? The lessons told
by such a life are worth all the moral treatises

ever written.
    To Miss Herschel's diary we again refer, for

a glimpse of the occupations of her brother and
herself at Slough in the first two years of their
residence. These two years, to use an apt
expression of her own, were spent in a. perfect
chaos of business. The garden and workrooms
swarmed with labourers and workmen--smiths

and carpenters speeding to and fro between the
forge and the forty-foot machinery; and so in
cessant was the vigilance of Herschel, that not
a screw-bolt in the whole apparatus was fixed

Iexcept under his eye. " have seen him,"

writes his sister, "lying stretched many an
hour in the burning sun, across the top beam,
whilst the iron-work for the various motions
[of the great telescope] was being fixed." At
PECUNIARY RESOURCES.                                                 45

one time no fewer than twenty-four men, in

relays of twelve each, were engaged in grinding

and polishing day and night; and Herschel

never left them, taking his food without allow

ing himself time to sit down to table.

"In August 1787," writes the diarist, "an additional

man-servant was engaged, who would he wanted at the

it,
                 it

                                                                is,
handles of the motions of the forty-foot,"---that                    to raise

or lower or move from side to side, as might be re

quired,--" for which the mirror in the beginning of July

was so far finished as to be used for occasional observa

tions on trial. Such a person was also necessary for

showing the telescopes to the curious strangers, as by

their numerous visits my brother and myself had for

J.some time past been much incommoded. In consequence

of an application made through Sir Banks to the king,

my brother had in August second sum of £2000 granted
a
                       a
for completing the forty-foot, and £200 yearly for the

expense of repairs; such as ropes, painting, &c., and the

keep and clothing of the men who attended at night. A

salary of £50 year was also settled on me, as an assist

ant to my brother. A great uneasiness was by this

means removed from my mind; for though had generally
                          I

                                    a
(and especially during the last busy six years) been al
most the keeper of my brother's purse, with charge to

provide for my personal wants, only annexing in my

accounts the memorandum For Car.' to the sums so laid`

out. When cast up, they hardly amounted to seven or

eight pounds per year since the time we had left Bath.

Nothing but bankruptcy had all the while been running

through my silly head, when looking at the sums of my

weekly accounts, and knowing they could be but trifling
46 Hsnscnnt's DISCOVERXES.

Iin comparison with what had been and had yet to be
paid in town.     will only add, that from this time the

utmost activity prevailed to forward the completion of

the forty-foot."

   In recognition of his scientific triumphs, the
honorary degree of LL.D was conferred upon
Herschel, in 1786, by the University of

Oxford. They were triumphs that well merited
such a recognition. He had already made some
important observations on the nature of double
stars, on the dimensions of the telescopic

planets, and had begun his famous investiga
tions into the composition of the nebulae,--
those clusters of stars and nebulous matter

which had previously proved such a problem to
astronomers. The remarkable phenomenon of
a periodical change of intensity in certain stars,
which wax and wane in radiance like a revolv

ing light, had also excited his attention
Further, he had entered upon the experiments
which ultimately showed that the Sun posi
tively moves; that in this, as in other respects,
the magnificent orb of day must be ranged
among the stars; that the apparently inextri
cable irregularities of numerous sidereal proper
ABOUT THE NEBULE.  47

motions arise in great part from the displace
ment of the Solar System; that, in short, the
point of space toward which Earth and its sister
planets are annually advancing, is situated in
the constellation of Hercules.

   "Let us," says a French writer, "to these

immortal labours add the ingenious ideas that
we owe to Herschel on the nebulae, on the con

stitution of the Milky Way, on the Universe as

a whole,----idea.s which almost by themselves
constitute the actual history of the formation of
the worlds,--and we cannot but have a deep

reverence for that powerful genius that scarcely
ever erred, notwithstanding the ardour of its
imagination. ' '

    The ordinary spectator, looking upon the
face of the heavens through a telescope, had,
prior to Herschel's time, felt his curiosity
excited by the appearance here and there of
filmy patches, vague in structure and irregular
in shape, which, from their resemblance to
clouds, received the name of mbuloe. What

these were, no astronomer had succeeded in de

fining. It was left for Herschel, with his rare

powers of patient and discriminating observa
48 THE sun's CONSTITUTION.

tion, assisted by the more powerful instruments

which his ingenuity succeeded in constructing,

to discern in them innumerable groups of

worlds, in various stages of formation! A new

light was thrown upon the history of the

Universe. Man was able to assist, as it were,

at the process of creation, and to watch the

development of a mass of incoherent matter

into a perfect star. This alone was a discovery

which might well have immortalised the name

of Herschel.

But we owe to him the elements of our

knowledge of the Sun's physical constitution.

He swept aside the erroneous theories and con

jectures which had previously prevailed, and

guided the astronomical inquirer into the right

path. He convinced himself, by long and
patient researches, that the luminous envelope
of the great " orb of day " was neither a liquid
nor an elastic fluid; that it was in certain

respects analogous to the clouds which wreathe

our mountain-summits and fertilize our plains;

that it floated in the solar atmosphere. Thence

he came to the conclusion that the Sun has two

atmospheres,  endowed          with  motions  quite  in~

               .I:~'-...--,~s
                  THE SOLAR SPOTS.  49

dependent of each other. An elastic fluid, now
known as the photosphere, is in course of con

tinual formation on the dark rugged surface of

the solar mass; and rising, on account of its

specific lightness, it forms the pores in the

stratum of reflecting clouds; then, combining

with other gases, it produces the irregularities

or furrows in the luminous cloud--region. When

the ascending currents are powerful, they create

those appearances which astronomeis designate

the nuclei, the penumbrw, the faculoe.
    Such was Herschel's explanation of the mode

of formation of the solar spots; and allowing it

to be well-founded, we must expect to find---

what
a                 indeed, the case--that the Sun does
             is,
not always and regularly pour forth equal quan

tities of light and heat. It true that Her
                      is
                                is
schel's hypothesis has been modified by later

astronomers; but his     the credit of having

directed them into the right course of inquiry

and observation.

    The physical constitution of the Moon was
   subject which also engaged the attention of
our indefatigable enthusiast. As early as 1780

        (593)
                      4
~50              LUNAR vowanons.

he attempted                                               \

                 the measurement of the lunar

mountains, and came to the conclusion that

few of them exceeded 2600 feet in height.

Later research, however, has proved these figures

to be inadequate. Next he addressed himself

to a. study of the lunar volcanoes, three of

which he declared to be in a state of ignition;

two of them apparently on the decline, the

third still active. He was so convinced of the

reality of the phenomenon, that on the 20th of

April 1787 he wrote :--"The volcano burns
with greater violence than it did last night."

The real diameter of the volcanic light he esti

mated at 16,400 feet. Its intensity he de

scribed as superior to that of the nucleus of a

comet then flashing across our system. The
objects situated near the crater were fully illu

minated by the glare of its burning matter.

   It may seem strange that, after observations

so exact and minute, few astronomers now ad

mit the existence of active volcanoes in the

Moon. The reasons for their incredulity are
thus stated :--
                 Y

The various parts of the Moon do not all

reflect with the same intensity. Here, that
ARAGo's EXPLANATION.`  51

intensity may be dependent on the form ; else
where, on the nature of the materials. Those

persons who have examined the lunar orb with
telescopes, know how very considerable the dif
ference arising from these two causes may be,--

with how much keener and stronger a radiance

one point of the Moon will sometimes shine
than those around it. Well, it would seem to

be obvious that the ratio of intensity between
the brilliant parts and the faint parts must
always be the same, whatever the origin of the

illuminating light. In that portion of the

lunar sphere which receives the glow and glory
of the sun, we know that some points exist,
the brightness of which is extraordinary com--
pared with the feeble flickering gleam of those
around them. And these same points, when

seen in the dim reflection of the Earth, will

still predominate in intensity over the neigh

bouring regions. In this way Arago and others

explain the observations of Herschel, without
admitting the existence of active volcanoes in
the Moon. That volcanoes there are, is a fami

liar fact; but they would seem to have exhausted
their activity in long-past ages. The lunar sur
52 STUDYING THE PLANETS.

face is now a dreary waste of rugged lava and
ashes, covered with the matter ejected from
craters once in a state of furious eruption.
The Moon,in fact, is a world which has burned it
self out. How strange the thought that in a far
back period the inhabitants of Earth, had Earth
then been inhabited, might have seen the glare
of countless volcanoes diffused, lurid and threat
ening, over the face of their satellite! How
strange the thought that the once active fires
should all have died away, and the Moon have
thus been prepared for the better reception and
reflection of the solar radiance in order to illu
minate the nights of Earth!

    The planets, needless to say, were the objects
of Herschel's assiduous attention. Mercury was
the one which least interested him ; but he
ascertained the perfect circularity of its disc.
With respect to Venus, he endeavoured to deter
mine the time of its rotation from 1777. We
owe to him the discovery of the true shape of

the " red planet Mars,"--that, like the Earth, it

is an oblate spheroid, or flattened at the poles.
After Piazzi, Olbers, and Harding had disco

vered the small planets, Ceres, Pallas, Juno,
JUPITER AND SATURN.  53

and Vesta, he applied himself to the measure

ment of their angular diameters. His researches

led him to the conclusion that these four new
bodies could not properly be ranked with the
planets, and he proposed to call them Asteroids

--a name now generally adopted. Since Her

schel's time, the number of these minor planets
known to astronomers has increased to upwards
of one hundred.

    With respect to Jupiter, our astronomerarrived
at some important facts in connection with the
duration of its rotation. He also made numer

ous observations on the intensities and com

parative magnitudes of its satellites.
    We come next in order to Saturn, the gloomy

planet which the ancient astrologers regarded
with so much dislike. Here, too, we find

traces of Herschel's labours. Not only has he
enlarged our knowledge of its equatorial com
pression, of its physical constitution, and of the
rotation of its luminous belt or ring, but he
added two to the number of its satellites.
Five only of these were known at the close
of the seventeenth century; of which Cussiric

discovered four, and Huygens one. It was
54 DISCOVERY OF URANUS.

,universally believed that the subject was ex

hausted.

But, on the 28th of August 1780, Herschel's

colossal tube revealed to his delighted gaze a
satellite nearer to the Satumian ring than

those previously observed. And a few days

later, on the 17th of September, a seventh and

last satellite crossed his field of vision. It was

situated between the former and the ring ; that
                                                                                                                                              I
            the nearest to of the seven.
is,
   But the most remarkable of Herschel's achieve
  itments was the discovery of the planet Uranus,

        isand the detection of its satellites.

                             it
                                   it

                                                            aa

                                               it
On the 13th of March 1781, between ten

and eleven o'clock at night, the great astro

nomer was engaged in examining the small

stars near H in the constellation Gemini, with

a seven-foot telescope, bearing                               magnifying

power of two hundred and twenty-seven times.

It appeared to him that one of these stars was

of an unusual diameter; and he came to the

conclusion, therefore, that was a comet. It

was under this denomination that was dis

cussed at the meeting of the Royal Society.
But the researches of Herschel at later period
       THE FOBTY--FOOT TELESCOPE.            55

showed that the orbit of the new body was

circular, and accordingly it was elevated to the

rank of a planet. As already stated, Herschel
       in compliment to George III., the
named  if

          it it,
                                         it
Georgium Sidus; in this copying the example
,of Galileo with his "Medicaean stars." After

wards, astronomers christened Herschel, and

subsequently Uranus, in conformity with the

mythological nomenclature of the other planets.

The immense distance of Uranus from our

Earth, its small angular diameter, and the feeble

ness of its light, seemed to preclude the hope

that,  were attended by satellites of the

same dimensions in proportion to its own mag

nitude as those of the satellites of Jupiter and
Saturn in proportion to their magnitude, they

could be descried by any human observer. The

patient, persevering, reverent temper of Her

schel took no account, however, of any dis

couraging or unpropitious circumstances. What

he did was to substitute for telescopes of the

ordinary construction the new and gigantic

forty-foot tube already described; and thus,

with unremitting vigilance and intense zeal, he

arrived at the discovery (between January    4,
56 Plcorr's COMET.

1787, and February 28, 1794) of the six
satellites of Uranus ; in other words, he revealed
to man the completeness of a new system,--a

system which will always be identified with

his name.

    Those singular meteors, the comets, which
flash through heaven with long trails of light,

and of old astonished the nations as if they

were harbingers of some overwhelming cala
mity, were also the frequent subjects of our
astronomer's investigations. He brought some
of his fine and powerful instruments to bear on
a comet discovered by Mr. Pigott in 1807, and
closely and carefully investigated its physical
constitution.

    The nucleus, or head, was circular and well
determined, and evidently shone by its own
light. Very small stars seemed to grow pale,
" to hide their diminished heads," when seen

through its coma or tail. It is true, however,

that this faintness may have been only appa--
rent, and due to the circumstance of the stars
being projected on a luminous background.

Such was Herschel's explanation. A gaseous
              COMET or 1811.                        57

medium, capable of absorbing sufficient solar
radiance to efl'ace the light of some "lesser
stars," appeared to him to possess in each
stratum a sensible quantity of matter. Hence

it would cause a real diminution of the light

transmitted, though nothing would indicate the
existence of such a cause?"

   Herschel examined the beautiful comet of
1811 with equal accuracy. " Large telescopes

showed him, in the midst of the gaseous head,

a rather reddish body of planetary appearance,

which bore strong magnifying powers, and

showed no sign of phase (that             of change of
                         it

                                     is,
aspect, as in the case of the Moon). Hence

Herschel concluded that     was self-luminous.

Yet, if we reflect that the planetary body under

consideration was not second in diameter, the
                  a

absence of    phase," says Arago, " does not
   a
           a
appear demonstrative argument."

The same writer adds :--

    " The light of the head had bluish-green tint. Wasa
this real tint, or did the central reddish body, only
a
through contrast, make the surrounding vapour appear
to be coloured? Herschel did not examine the question
from this point of view.

   " This conclusion disputed by many astronomers.
              is
58 THE COMET DESCRIBED.

I " The head of the comet appeared to be enveloped at a.
certain distance, on the side towards the Sun, by a bril
liant narrow zone, embracing about a semicircle, and of a
yellowish colour. From the two.extremities of the semi
circle arOSe, towards the region away from the Sun, two
long luminous streaks which limited the tail. Between
the brilliant circular semi-ring and the head, the cometary
substance appeared to be dark, of great rarity, and very

diaphanous.

   " The luminous self-ring floated: one day it seemed to

be suspended in the diaphanous atmosphere by which the

head of the comet was surrounded, at a distance of 322,000
English miles from the nucleus.

   " This distance was not constant. The matter of the

semi-annular envelope seemed even to be precipitated by
slow degrees through the diaphanous atmosphere; finally,
it reached the nucleus ; the earlier appearances vanished;
the comet was reduced to a globular nebula.

   "During its period of dissolution, the ring appeared

sometimes to have several branches.

   "The luminous shreds of the tail apparently underwent
rapid, frequent, and considerable variations of length.
Herschel discerned symptoms of a rotatory movement
both in the comet and its tail; a movement which carried

unequal shreds from the centre towards the border, and
the border towards the centre. On examining at inter
vals the same region of the tail--the border, for example
--sensible changes of length must have been perceptible;
which, however, had no reality in them. Herschel thought
that both the comet of 1811 and that of 1807 were self
luminous. The second comet of 1811 appeared to him to

shine only by borrowed light. It must be acknowledged

that these conjectures did not rest on anything demon~
strative.
s TRANQUIL LIFE.       59

   "In attentively comparing the comet of 1807 with

the beautiful comet of 1811, relative. to the changes of
distance from the Sun, and the modifications resulting
thence, Herschel put it beyond doubt that these modi
fications have something individual in them,--something

relative to a special state of the nebulous matter. On

one celestial body the changes of distance produce an

enormous effect, on another the modifications are insig

nificant."

    We have reproduced these observations by
a distinguished French astronomer, in order to

show the reader what was the nature, and how

great was the importance, of Herschel's labours,
and in how remarkable and comprehensive a.

manner he conducted his survey of the celestial

phenomena. We now return to our brief nar

rative of his life.

Such a life, absorbed in tranquil and inces

sant studies, presents no curious, romantic, or

surprising incidents.  It was the life of a

reverent, patient, gentle, and devoted man of

genius, who dedicated himself to the task of
making known the " wondrous works of God "

to his fellow-men, and who in all his social

and domestic relations was without blot or

stain.

   In 1788 he married the widow of John Pitt,
60 nonorms FOR HERSCHEL.

Esq., with whom he received a considerable
fortune, and thus for the remainder of his life

he was enabled to give himself up to his
favourite pursuits unembarrassed by pecuniary
anxieties. His marriage was in every respect
a happy one, and effectually secured his domestic
peace. By his wife he had an only son,---the

late Sir John Herschel,--who worthily main
tained the scientific dignity of his name.

   It is said, by the highest of all authority,

that a prophet is not honoured in his own
country. But our astronomer was not without
the reward of his work, even in his lifetime.

The University of Oxford conferred upon him
the illustrious honorary degree of D.O.L. In
1816 he received the Guelphic order of knight
hood; and in 1820 he was chosen the first

president of the Astronomical Society.
    From his sister's diary we gather a few par

ticulars illustrative of his mode of life.
    On the 4th of October 1806 she writes:--

  "My brother came from Brighton. The same night

two parties from the castle [Windsor] came to see the
comet, and during the whole month my brother had not
an evening to himself. As he was then in the midst of
polishing the forty-foot mirror, rest became absolutely
           MISS HERSCHEL'S DIARY.            61

necessary after a day spent in that most laborious work:
and it has ever been my opinion, that on the 14th of
October his nerves received a. shock of which he never

got the better afterwards; for on that day (in particular)
he had hardly dismissed his troop of men, when visitors
assembled, and from the time it was dark till past mid

night he was on the grass-plot, surrounded by between
fifty and sixty persons, without having had time for put
ting on proper clothing, or for the least nourishment pass
ing his lips.

  I"February 6th, 1807.--When came to Slough to assist
Imy brother in polishing the forty-foot mirror, found my

nephew* very ill with an inflammatory sore throat and

fever.

    "February 9tk.--Still very ill; and my brother obliged

to go on with the polishing of the great mirror, as every

Iarrangement had been made for that purpose--Hem.

believe my brother had reasons for choosing the cold
season for this laborious work, the exertion of which

alone must put any man into a fever, if he were ever so

strong.

"February 10th._--From this day my nephew's health

kept on mending.
     " February 19th.--My nephew mending, but my brother

Inot well.                                   was not

    "February 26th.--My brother so ill that
Iallowed to see him, and till March 8th his life was de

spaired of ; and by March 10th was permitted to see him,
but only for two or three minutes, as he was not allowed
           '
to speak.                  _

"March 22nd.--He (Sir William) went for the first
time into his library, but could only remain for a few

moments."

           * Afterwards Sir John Herschel.
62 DECAYING srssscrn.

    From this dangerous attack Sir William ro
covered, but thenceforth it was clear to his

friends that his strength gradually decreased,

though not his enthusiasm or his industry. He
persevered in his life-long labours with all his
old intellectual force. What failed him was

neither his tender afi'ections nor his mental

powers ; but his body refused to answer all the

demands made upon it by the resolute will,--

the sword was slowly but surely wearing out

the scabbard. Under the date of April 2,
1819, we meet with an ominous entry in his
loving and faithful sister's diary :--

    " My brother left Slough, accompanied by Lady

Herschel, for Bath, he being very unwell ; and the constant
complaint of giddiness in the head so much increased,
that they were obliged to be four nights on the read both
going and coming. The last moments before he stepped
into the carriage were spent in walking with me through
his library and workrooms, pointing with anxious looks

Ito every shelf and drawer, desiring me to examine all, and

to make memorandums of them as well as could. He

Iwas hardly able to support himself ; and his spirits were

so low, that found difficulty in commanding my voice so
far as to give him the assurance he should find on his

I I Ireturn that my time had not been misspent.

    "When was left alone, found that had no easy
task to perform, for there were packets of writings to be
examined which had not been looked at for the last forty
                      A PRECIOUS HEIRLOOM.              63

Iyears. But did not pass a single day without working
Iin the library as long as could read a letter without
Icandlelight, and taking with me papers to copy, which

employed me for best part of the night; and thus was

enabled to give my brother a clear account of what had
been done at his return. But (May 1) he returned home
much worse than he went, and for several days hardly

noticed my handiwork."

    To this same year of decay and decline (1 81 9)
belongs a small slip of yellow paper, inscribed

with the following lines in a tremulous and feeble

handwriting, which is jealously preserved by the

illustrious astronomer's descendants :------

I" LINA,----There is a great comet.  want you to assist
Ifme. Come to dine, and spend the day here.
                                              you can

Icome soon after one o'clock, we shall have time to prepare
maps and telescopes.  saw its situation last night,---it

has a long tail.

     "July b, 1819."

Then follows :--

"I keep this as a relic ! Every line now traced by the

hand of my dear brother becomes  a treasure to me.
                                       " C. HERSCHEL."

    We know of nothing more touching in literary
history than this noble, self-sacrificing, gener--
ous affection of the sister towards her eminent

brother. Such instances of absolute self-denial

and all-absorbing love elevate our opinion of
64 MISS HERscHEL's DIARY.

human nature generally, and prove that some

thing of the Divine image lingers in it stilL

    Herschel was now bordering upon the ripe

old age of eighty, and it is no wonder that,

after a life of incessant study, his strength

should daily diminish. In 1822 it became

painfully evident to his attached relatives
and friends that the end was not far off; and

on the 25th of August he passed away to his
rest. We owe an account of his last days to
his sister, but for whose pious care, indeed, very
little of his private life would have been known,
and Herschel could have been judged only from
the recorded results of his immense labours. '

    "May 20th.---The summer proved very hot; my
brother's feeble nerves were very much afl'ected, and
there being in general much company, added to the dif
ficulty of choosing the most airy rooms for his retire

ment.

   I"July 8th.--I had a dawn of hope that my brother

might regain once more a little strength, for have a
memorandum in my almanac of his walking with a firmer
step than usual above three or four times the distance

Ifrom the dwelling-house to the library, in order to gather

and eat raspberries, in his garden, with me. But never
saw the like again.

   I" The latter end of July was seized by a bilious fever,
Iand could for several days only rise for a few hours to
                    mar nus.  65

Igo to my brother about the time he was used to see me.

But one day was entirely confined to my bed, which
alarmed Lady Herschel and the family on my brother's
account. Miss Baldwin [a niece of Lady Herschel] called

Iand found me in despair about my own confused affairs,

which never had had time to bring into any order. The

Inext day she brought my nephew to me, who promised

to fulfil all my wishes which should have expressed on
paper; he begged me not to exert myself, for his father's
sake, of whom he believed it would be the immediate death

if anything should happen to me."

Afterwards she wrote :--

  I"Of my dear nephew's advice could not avail myself,
Ifor knew that at that time he had weighty concerns on his
mind. And, besides, my whole life almost has passed away

in the delusion that, next to my eldest brother, none but

Dietrich was capable of giving me advice where to leave

my few relics, consisting of a few books and my sweeper

       is,

                I
[that  the seven-foot telescope with which she was ac

customed to sweep the heavens for comets]. And for the

last twenty years kept to the resolution of never open

ing my lips to my dear brother William about worldly

concerns, let me be ever so much at a loss for knowing

right from wrong."

    Miss Herschel proceeds to note that on the
afternoons of the 11th, 12th, 13th, and 14th of
August, she, "as usual," spent some hours with
her brother.

    On the 15th she hastened to the accustomed
place, where she generally found him, with the

        (593)
                    5
66 run RULING PASSION.

newspaper which she was to read aloud for his

amusement. But, instead, she found assembled

there several of his nearest friends, who informed

her that her aged brother had been compelled

to return to his room. She lost no time in

seeking him. He was attended by Lady Her

schel and his housekeeper, who were adminis

tering everything which was likely to keep up

his failing strength.

Miss Herschel observed that he was much

irritated, with the irritation natural to old age

and extreme bodily feebleness, at his inability

to grant a. friend's request for some token of

remembrance for his father. No sooner did

he see Miss Herschel, the loving companion and

fellow-worker of so many years, than he char

acteristically employed her to fetch one of his

last papers, and a plate (or map) of the forty
foot telescope. "But, for the universe," says

IMiss Herschel, " could not have looked twice
Iat what had snatched from the shelf; and
when he faintly asked if the breaking up of the

Milky Way" was in      said, "Yes," and he
                       iIt,

                                                                       it
 ' The Via Lactea, or " Milky Way," had long been supposed to consist

of a. nebulous, vague, luminous matter, but Herschel showed that WM
really made up of stars and systems of stars
DEATH or HEBSCHEL.      67

Ilooked content.    cannot help remembering
Ithis circumstance; it was the last time was

sent to the library on such an occasion. That

the anxious care for his papers and workrooms

never ended but with his life, was proved by

his frequent whispered inquiries if they were

Ilocked and the key safe; of which took care

to assure him that they were, and the key in

Lady Herschel's hands.

After struggling for some thirty minutes

against his rapidly increasing weakness, the

great astronomer, bowed by his burden of years

and labours, was forced to retire to his bed,

with little hope that he would ever rise from

it again. For ten days and nights his wife

and sister watched by his side in painful sus

pense, until, on the 25th of August, the end

came. Peacefully closed a life which had

passed in a peace and quietness not often

vouchsafed to man.

   Herschel, says a brother astronomer, will
never cease to occupy an eminent place in the
small group of our contemporary men of genius,
while his name will descend to the most dis
68 AN ASTRONOMER'S ACHIEVEMENTS.

tant posterity. The variety and the magni
ficence of his labours vie with their extent.

The more they are studied, the more they are

admired. For it is with great men as it is
with great movements in the Arts and in

national history,--we cannot understand them
without observing them from different points
of view.

    What a brilliant roll of achievementsv is re
called to the mind by the name of William
Herschel! The discovery of Uranus, and of its
satellites; of the fifth and sixth satellites of
Saturn; of the many spots at the poles of
Mars ; of the rotation of Saturn's ring; of the
belts of Saturn; of the rotation of Jupiter's
satellites; of the daily period of Saturn and
Venus; and of the motions of binary sidereal
systems,---added to his investigations into

nebulae, the Milky Way, and double, triple, and
multiple stars ;--all this we owe to his patient,
his persevering, his daring genius! He may

almost be styled the Father of Modern Astro

nomy.
                     CHAPTER IV.

           " now propose to furnish a brief
                sketch of the life of Sir John
                Frederick William Herschel, the

only son of Sir William, and not less illustri
ous as a man of science.

   He was born at Slough, in the year 1792.

Evincing considerable talents at a very early
age, he received a careful private education
under Mr. Rogers, a Scottish mathematician of
distinguished merit; and afterwards was sent
to St. John's College, Cambridge, always fam
ous as a nursery of mathematical and scien
tific prodigies! Here he pursued his studies
with remarkable success, suffering no obstacles
to daunt him, and wasting no opportunities of
improvement. His fellow-collegians regarded
him as one who would add to the high repute
of the college, and rejoiced at the brilliant ease
70 a rouse mmunrcmx.

with which he passed every examination In

1813 he took his degree of BA, and consum

mated a long series of successes by becoming
" senior wrangler," and "Smith's prizeman;"
these being the two highest distinctions to
which a Cambridge scholar can attain

   In the same year, when he was hardly
twenty-one, he published a work entitled, "A

Collection of Examples of the Application of
the Calculus to Finite Differences." To our

young readers such a title will convey no
meaning; and we refer to it here only to illus

trate the industry and careful thought of the
young student, which had rendered possible

such a result.

    Returning to Slough, he continued his
studies in mathematics, chemistry, and natural
philosophy, and in various publications exhib
ited that faculty of observation and analyze
tion, that intelligence and scrupulousness in
collecting facts, and that boldness in deducing

new inferences from them, which were charac
teristic of his illustrious father. The subjects
he took up were so abstruse, that we could not
hope to make our readers understand what he
                           SCIENTIFIC LABOURS.

accomplished, or how far he excelled his prede
cessors in his grasp and comprehension of them.

For instance: if we tell them that in 1820 he

wrote a paper " On the Theory and Summation
of Series ; " communicated to the Cambridge
Philosophical Society his discovery that the
two kinds of rotatory polarization in rock crys
tal were related to the plagihedral faces of that
mineral; and issued an able treatise " On Cer
tain Remarkable Instances of Deviation from
Newton's Tints in the Polarized Tints of Uniaxal
Crystals,"--they will gain no very distinct idea
of the significance or value of these researches.

Again: it will not be very intelligible to them to
be informed that, in 1822, he communicated to
the ROyal Society of Edinburgh a paper "On
the Absorption of Light by Coloured Media,"

in which he enunciated a new method of mea
suring the dispersion of transparent bodies by
stopping the green, yellow, and most refran
gible red rays, and thus rendering visible the
rays situated rigorously at the end of the spec
trum. But they will understand that these
results could have been attained only by the
most assiduous industry and the most unflinch
72 FILIAL AFFECTION.

ing perseverance. And it is on account of this

industry and this perseverance that we recom

mend Herschel as an example to our readers.

They may not make the same progress in

science, or achieve the same reputation It is

not necessary they should. Humble work is

not less honourable, if it be done conscientiously,
and with a sincere desire to do the best .that it

is in our power to do.
    An interesting feature in the younger Her

schel's character was his loving care for his

father's fame. He was ever most anxious that
the full measure of his services to science should

be recognized and appreciated. Thus, in 1823,

he writes to his aunt :--

"I have been long threatening to send you a long

letter, but have always been prevented by circumstances

and want of leisure from executing my intention. The

truth  iIs,have been so much occupied with astronomy
           I
` of late, that have had little time for anything else--the

reduction of those double stars, and the necessity has
                      I it
put me under of looking over the journals, reviews, &c.,

for information on what has already been done, and in

many cases of re-casting up my father's measures,

swallows up great deal of time and labour. But have
a
                 a
the satisfaction of being able to state that our results in

most instances confirm and establish my father's views

in remarkable manner. These inquiries have taken
THE muons TELESCOPE.                      73

me off the republication of his printed papers for the

I Ipresent.
    " think shall be adding more to his fame by pursu
ing and verifying his observations than by reprinting

Ithem. But have by no means abandoned the idea.
IMeanwhile, am not sorry to hear they are about to be

translated into German .... ..I hope this season to com

mence a. series of observations with the twenty-foot

Ireflector, which is now in fine order. The forty-foot is no

longer capable of being used, but shall sufi'er it to stand

as a monument."

In reference to this famous telescope, we may

digress to state that its remains have been care

fully preserved.

The metal tube of the instrument, carrying

at one end the recently cleaned mirror of four

feet ten inches in diameter, has been placed

horizontally in the meridian line, on solid piles

of masonry, in the midst of the circle where
                            A
the apparatus     used  in                it was
                             manoeuvring

formerly placed. On the 1st of January 1840,
Sir John Herschel, his wife, their seven chil

dren, and some old family servants, assembled

at Slough. Exactly atv noon the party walked
several times in procession round the instru

ment ; they then entered the gigantic tube,

seated themselves on benches previously pre--
74 STELLAR OBSERVATIONS.

pared, and chanted a requiem with English
words composed by Sir John Herschel himself.

Then issuing from the tube, they ranged them

selves around  it,  while its opening was her

metically sealed.

   In March 1821, the younger Herschel, in

conjunction with Sir James South, undertook

a  series of observations on the distances and

positions of three hundred and eighty double

and triple stars, by means of two splendid achro

matic telescopes of five and seven focal length.

These were continued during 1822 and 1823,

and have proved great service to astronomers.a of

   Having pursued with much zeal the study of

optics, and experimented largely and carefully

on the double refraction and polarization of

light, he compiled treatise on the subject for

the "Encyclopaedia Metropolitana." It has been
translated into French by M Quetelet; and both

foreign and English men of science have been

accustomed to regard       it  as indicating new
                                     a

point of departure in the important branch of

science to which   it      devoted.

                       is

   Astronomy, however, became for him, as for
HERSCHEL'S mscovnarss.  75

his father, the great pursuit of his laborious
life; and having constructed telescopes of sin

gular magnitude and power, he entered upon

a study of the Sidereal World. In 1825 he

commenced a careful re-examination 0f the

numerous nebulae and starry clusters which had
been discovered by his father, and described in
the "Philosophical Transactions," fixing their
positions and investigating their aspects. He
devoted eight years to this wwgnum opus,

completing it in 1832. The catalogue which

he then contributed to the "Philosophical
Transactions " includes 2306 nebulae and star

clusters, of which 525 were discovered by him
self. While engaged in this difficult task,
Herschel discovered between three and four
thousand double stars, which he described in

the Memoirs of the Astronomical Society. His
observations were made with an excellent New

tonian telescope, twenty feet in focal length,
and eighteen and a half inches in aperture;

and having obtained, to use his own expression,

_" a sufficient mastery over the instrument," the

idea. occurred to him of making it available. for

a survey of the southern heavens. Accordingly,
76 VOYAGE TO CAPE TOWN.

he left England on the 13th of November 1833,

and arrived at Cape Town on the 16th of

January 1834. Five days later he wrote to

his aunt as follows :-- I

" Here we are safely landed and comfortably housed at

the far end of Africa, and having secured the landing and

final storage of all the telescopes and other matters, as far
I Ias can see, without the slightest injury, lose no time
M--*in reporting to you our good success so far.
                                                     and

Ithe children are, thank God, quite well ; though, for fear

you should think her too good a sailor, ought to add

that she continued sea-sick, at intervals, during the whole

passage. We were nine weeks and two days at sea,

during which period we experienced only one day of con

trary wind. We had a brisk breeze `right aft' all the

way from the Bay of Biscay (which we never entered) to
the `calm latitudes;' that is to say, to the space about

five or six degrees broad near the equator, where the
trade-winds cease, and where it is no unusual thing for a

ship to lie becalmed for a month or six weeks, frying

under a vertical sun. Such, however, was not our fate.

We were detained only three or four days by the calms

usual in that zone, but never quite still, or driven out of
our course; and immediately on crossing ` the line' got a.

good breeze (the south-east trade-wind), which carried us
round Trinidad; then exchanged it for a north-west wind,

which, with the exception of one day`s squall from the

south-east, carried us straight into Table Bay. On the

night of the 14th we were told to prepare to see the Table

Mountain. Next morning (MR, we had not seen land

before since leaving England), at dawn, the welcome word

" Herschel married a Miss Stewart in February 1826.
                RESIDENCE AT THE CAPE.  77

`land' was heard; and there stood this magnificent hill,

with all its attendant mountain-range down to the farthest
point Of South Africa, full in view, with a clear blue

ghost-like outline; and that night we cast anchor within

the Bay. Next morning early we landed, under escort of
Dr. Stewart, M
                   's brother, and you may imagine the

Imeeting. We took up our quarters at a. most comfortable

lodging-house (Miss Robe's), and proceeded, without
loss of time, to unship the instruments. This was no

trifling operation, as they filled (with the rest of our lug
gage) fifteen large boats; and, owing to the difficulty of

getting them up from the hold of the ship, required

several days to complete the landing. During the whole

time (and indeed up to this moment) not a single south
east gale, the summer torment of this harbour, has

occurred. This is a thing almost unheard of here, and

has indeed been most fortunate, since otherwise it is not

at all unlikely that some of the boats, laden as they were

to the water's edge, might have been lost, and the whole

business crippled.

    "For the last two or three days we have been looking

at houses, and have all but agreed for one--a most beauti--
ful place within four or five miles out of town, called ` The

Grove.' In point of situation it is a. perfect paradise, in

rich and magnificent mountain-scenery, and sheltered from

Iall winds, even the fierce south-caster, by thick surround
ing woods.  must reserve for my next all description of

the gorgeous display of flowers which adorns this splendid

country, as well as of the astonishing brilliancy of the

constellations, which the calm, clear nights show off to

great advantage."

Mr. Herschel settled at F eldhausen, about

1&2 feet above the sea, and in long. 22" 4:6'
78 RETURN TO ENGLAND.

9".11 E, and lat. 33° 58' 26".59 S. Here

he entered upon his great series of observations
of the southern heavens, which he continued

with unwearied ardour for a period of four
years. The results were afterwards published,
at the cost of the Duke of Northumberland, in

a work entitled "Results of Astronomical Ob

servations made in 1834--35--36--37--38, at

the Cape of Good Hope." In this superb work,
which placed its author on an equality with the
most brilliant and illustrious astronomers, he

defined and described 4015 of the nebula and
star-groups in the southern hemisphere, and
2995 of the double stars; besides entering into a
a. variety of valuable particulars relative to
Halley's comet, the solar spots, the satellites of
Saturn, and the measurement of the apparent
magnitude of stars.

    On his return to England (in 1838) the astro
nomer received a noble welcome. Honours

poured in upon him. The Gold Medal of the
Astronomical Society was conferred upon him

for a second time. William IV. had previously
distinguished him with the Hanoverian order
of K.H. ; but, on the coronation of Queen
              LITERARY LABOURS.              79

Victoria, he received a baronetcy; and in 1839

the University of Oxford made him a D. C.L.

Continuing his career of scientific industry,

he issued, in 1 8419, his important and very valu
able treatise entitled " Outlines of Astronomy."

In 1845, he was appointed President of the

British Association; and in 1848, of the Royal

Astronomical Society. To his other honours

was added that of Chevalier of the Prussian
order, " Pour la Mérite," founded by Frederick

the Great, and bestowed at all times with a

discrimination which renders it a deeply-coveted

distinction.  Of the academics and leading

scientific institutions of the Continent and the

United States, he was also an honorary or cor

responding member.

Besides his works on meteorology and physical

geography, he published, in 1867, an admirable
little volume--" Familiar Lectures on Scientific

Subjects." In this he showed that he could

write with as much ease and intelligibility for

the general public as for the higher order of
scientific inquirers. His style in this valuable

manual of information has a charm of its own,

and entices the reader into the consideration of
80 PHYSICAL acnncrns.

subjects apparently abstruse. He is carried on
from page to page without any great mental
effort, and-finds himself rapidly mastering difii
culties which he had been accustomed to regard

as insuperable.

   Let us take the first lecture on "Volcanoes
and Earthquakes," and obtain a glimpse of Her
schel's mode of treatment. He refers to the
greater and more permanent agencies which affect
the configuration of our planet. Everywhere, he

says, and along every coast-line, we see the sea

warring against the land, and overcoming it;

wearing it and eating it down, and battering it

to pieces ; grinding those pieces to powder;

carrying that powder away, and spreading it out

over its own bottom, by the continued effect of
the tides and currents. What a scene of con
tinual activity is` presented by the chalk-clifl's
of Old England ! How they are worn, and
broken up, and fantastically sculptured by the
influence of winds and waters! Precipices cut
down to the sea-beach, constantly hammered
by the waves, and constantly crumbling; the
beach itself made of the fiints outstanding after
the softer chalk has been ground down and
               WASTE EVERYWHERE.     81

washed away ; themselves grinding one an

other under the same ceaseless discipline--first

rounded into pebbles, then worn into sand, and

then carried further and further down the slope, -

to be replaced by fresh ones from the same

source. Here the likeness of an old Gothic

cathedral, with lofty arch, and shapely pinnacle ;

there the similitude of a mass of medieval forti

fications, with crumbling battlements and shat

tered towers!                     .

The same thing, the same waste and wear,

is going on everywhere, round every coast.

The rivers contribute their share to the great
work of change. Look at the sand-banks at

the mouth of the Thames. What are they,
says Sir John Herschel, but the materials of

our island carried out to sea by the stream?

The Ganges carries away from the soil of India,

and delivers into the sea, twice as much solid

substance weekly as is contained in the Great

Pyramid of Egypt. The Irawaddy sweeps off
from Burmah sixty-two cubic feet of earth 'in

every second of time, on an average. Sometimes

a vast amount of earthy materials is transferred

from one locality to another by river agency,

(598)          6
82 vonoano AND EARTHQUAKE.

as is the case in the deltas of the Nile and the

Mississippi.

    These changes operate silently, continuously,
and unperceived by the ordinary observer; but
Nature does not limit herself always and every

where to such peaceful agencies. At times, and

in certain places, she acts with startling abrupt
ness and extraordinary violence. Let the vol

cano and the earthquake attest the immensity
of her power. Let the earthquake tell how,
within the memory of man, the whole coast
line of Chili, for 100 miles about Valparaiso,
with the mighty chain of the Andes, was hoisted
at one blow, and in a single night (November
19, 1822), from two to seven feet above its
former level, leaving the beach below the old
low-water mark high and dry. One of the
Andean peaks upheaved on this occasion was
the colossal mass of Aconcagua, which overlooks
Valparaiso, and measures nearly 24,000 feet in
height. On the same occasion, at least 10,000
square miles of country were estimated as

having been upheaved; and the upheaval was
not confined to the land, but extended far away
to sea,--which was proved by the soundings ofl'
VOLOANIC PHENOMENA.  83

Valparaiso and along the coast having been

found considerably shallower than they were

before the shock.

   In the year 1819, in an earthquake in

India, in the district of Cutch, bordering on the
Indus, a tract of country more than fifty miles

long and sixteen miles broad was suddenly raised
ten feet above its former level. The raised
portion still stands'up above the unraised, like

a long perpendicular rampart, known by the
name of Ullah Bund, or God's Wall.

   With a similar fertility of illustration, Her

schel sets before us the phenomena of volcanic

eruptions and their extraordinary effects.

   In a district of Mexico, between the two

streams of the Cintimba and the San Pedro, on

the 28th of September 1789, a whole tract of
ground, from three to four miles in extent,
surged up like a foam-bubble, or the swell of
a wave, to a height of upwards of 500 feet.

Flames, lurid and crackling, broke forth over a
surface of more than half a square league; and

the earth, as if softened by heat, was seen to

rise and sink like the rolling tide. Vast chasms
84 MOUNT TOMBORO.

opened in the earth, into which the two rivers
poured their waters headlong; reappearing after
wards at no great distance from a cluster of
ho'rm'tos, or small volcanic cones, which sprang
out of the mighty mud-torrent that gradually
covered the entire plain. Wonderful and awful

as were these phenomena, they were surpassed by
the sudden opening of a chasm which vomited
forth fire, and red-hot stories and ashes, until
they accumulated in a range of six large moun

Jtain masses,--one of which, now known as the

volcano of orullo, attains an altitude of 1690

feet above the ancient level.

   In like manner Sir John proceeds to describe
an eruption of Mount Tomboro, in the island of

Sumbawa, the influence of which was felt to a
distance of 1 000 miles from its centre, in strange
tremulous motions of the earth, and in the clash
and clang of loud explosions. He says that he

had seen it computed that the quantity of ashes

and lava ejected in the course`of this tremendous
eruption would have formed three mountains of
the size of Mont Blanc.

    As to the nature of the forces which operate
to produce this astounding result, Herschel puts
nsnscnan's THEORY.  85

forward a theory of singular simplicity and

directness.

    " The origin," he says, " of such an enormous
power thus occasionally exerting itself, will
no doubt seem very marvellous--little short,
indeed, of miraculous intervention; but the

mystery, after all, is not quite so great as at

first it seems. We are permitted to look a
little way into the'se great secrets of Nature;

not far enough, indeed, to clear up every diffi
culty, but quite enough to penetrate us with
admiration of that wonderful system of counter
balances and compensations, that adjustment
of causes and consequences, by which, through
out all nature, evils are made to work their

own cure, life to spring out of death, and
renovation to tread in the steps and efface the
vestiges of decay." And he finds the clew to
the secret, the key of the whole matter, in the

earth's vast central heat. This it is which pro

duces the convulsions that change the terrestrial
configuration, and fill the minds of men with

fear and awe. Conceive of "a sea of fire, on

which we are all floating, land and sea,"--a
boiling, seething, incandescent reservoir in the
86 WHY EARTHQUAKES occua.

centre of our planet; and the solution of the

problem will seem to you not difficult. Such
a sea would necessarily roll its liquid matter to
and fro; and the removal of ever so small a

portion from one point to another on the earth's
surface would tend to disturb the equilibrium
of the floating mass; just as, when a ship is

launched into the river, the water it displaces
is carried to the opposite bank with greater or

less violence, according to the amount of dis--

placement.

   It is impossible, adds Herschel, but that this

increase of pressure in some places and relief
in others must be very unequal in their bear
ings. So that at some point or another our
planet's floating crust must be brought into a

state of strain, and if there be a weak or a
soft part a crack will at last take place. This

is exactly what happened in the earthquake
which originated the Allah Bund, or God's
Wall, in Cutch.

    Volcanic eruptions are easily explicable on
this principle,--the volcano being simply a vent
for the passage of heated and molten matter,
which the elevating pressure of the liquid
FACTS AND CONCLUSIONS.  87

below tends to eject. It is a well-known fact

that volcanoes and earthquake-centres are nearly
all situated on the borders or in the immediate

neighbourhood of seas and oceans; and the
reason would seem to be, that at such positions
the accumulation of transported matter would
necessarily attain its maximum, to whatever

cause it might be due. Then again, as Her

schel points out, the eruption of scoriae and
lava from the mouths of volcanoes, the result

of the upward movement of the fiery liquid
below, compensates in some degree for the
downward transfer of material by detritus and
alluvial deposits. Hence it may be inferred
that, on the whole, the quantity of solid matter

above the ocean-level probably remains nearly

always at the same amount.

   It is with this ease and lucidity that

Sir John deals with scientific subjects .of the

greatest importance,--his genius resembling
the elephant's trunk, which can balance a

straw or rend an oak. In private life he

displayed a simplicity of manner in harmony
with the general unassumingness of his charac
` 88 am JOHN nEascHEL's CHARACI`EB.

ter. In his books as in society, in society as

in his books, he was the same,----that
;                                                                       free

                                                 a
                                                                   is,
from all ostentation, free from self-pride, free

from the arrogance of superior knowledge, and

as ready to unbend himself to a child as to

discourse with men of science.

His career was a tranquil and a prosperous

one, and, apart from the record of his discoveries

and his honours, presents nothing of interest.

He was peculiarly happy in his domestic rela

tions and in the wide circle of friends attracted

by the mingled charm of his intellect and

manners. A devout Christian, man of gener

osity and culture, a philosopher of great breadth

of view and infinite patience of research,--we

can place few better or brighter examples before

our English youth than Sir John Herschel.
      CHAPTER V.

_ '.  could not conclude our notice of
      this remarkable family without some
I_    further allusion to its not least re

markable member--Caroline Lucretia. Herschel.

To her varied accomplishments, her astrono

mical researches, and, above all, to her un

wearied and unselfish devotion to her brother

William, we have already made frequent allu--
sion. She seemed to live for him and in him,

to live for his fame and prosperity; and she

poured out at his feet the treasures of an in

exhaustible affection. To assist him in his

labours, at whatever sacrifice, was her sole

object in life; and she was certainly more

careful for his reputation than was he himself.

During his declining years she was his prin
cipal stay and support, and she was in daily

attendance to note down or to calculate the
if,90 A LONELY OLD AGE.

results of his observations. His death was a

severe blow to her; but, with characteristic
courage, she retired to Hanover, gave herself
up to scientific pursuits, and in comparative

solitude spent her later years.

   Her biographer writes :--

    "When all was over, her only desire seems to have
been to hurry away. Hardly was her brother laid in his
grave than she collected the few things she cared to keep,
and left for ever the country where she had spent fifty
years of her life, living and toiling for him and him only.

If I` should leave ofi' making memorandums of such
Ievents as affect or are interesting to me, should feel like
Iwhat am,--namely, a person that has nothing more to

do in this world.' Mournful words! doubly mournful,
when we know that the writer had nearly half an ordi
nary lifetime still between her and that grave which she
made haste to prepare, in the hope that her course was
nearly run. Who can think of her, at the age of seventy

two, heart-broken and desolate, going back to the home
of her youth in the fond expectation of finding consola
tion, without a pang of sympathetic pity? She found
everything changed."

    That, indeed, is to all of us the greatest

grief, when we return to the home of our youth.

It is as during the years of our absence, we

had expected everything to stand as still as in

the palace of the Sleeping Beauty while the
charm rested upon it. We are fain to see the
      " AFTER LONG YEARS."                            91

trees in their young greenness as when they

sheltered our childhood, to find the hedgerows

blooming with the same violets, to hear the

mill-stream murmuring with the same music.

Time furrows our brows with wrinkles, and

streaks our hair with silver; our hearts grow

colder; our minds lose their elasticity and

freshness; our friends pass away from our side.

But still we think to ourselves that in the old

scenes all things are as they were. We say

to ourselves: The bird sings as of old in the

elm-trees at the garden-foot ; the rose-bush
blossoms as of old against our favourite win

dow.

      " The varying year with blade and sheaf

            Clothes and re-clothes the happy plains;
        Here rests the sap within the leaf,

           Here stays the blood along the veins.
        Faint shadows, vapours lightly curled,

          Faint murmurs from the meadows come,
        Like hints and echoes of the world

           To spirits folded in the womb."

   But we regain the old familiar places, and,

alas! we find that change has been as busy
with them as with us. The signs of decay
are upon the trees; the brook has ceased to

flow; the rose-bush has withered to the
92 EVERYTHING CHANGED.

ground. There are trees as green and streams

as musical and flowers as sweet as in our

youth ; but they are not the streams or flowers

or trees which delighted us, and to us they can

never be as dear. But a worse alteration has

taken place than any visible in the face of

nature. We discover that we have lost the

old habits, the old capacity of enjoyment; and

we soon discover that it was the sympathies,

the hopes, the aspirations of youth which, after

all, lent to these early scenes their rare and

irrecoverable attraction.

And thus it was that Miss Herschel found

everything changed.        A life of fifty years

spent in a certain routine and upon certain

objects, had unfitted her to tread in the old

paths. It soon became clear to her that all

her ideas and feelings had been shaped and

influenced in a totally different path. More

bitter still, we are told, she came to know that

in her great sorrow and inextinguishable love

she was all alone. And bitterest of all was the

feeling that, in losing her brother she had lost

the glory of her life, the source of her intel

lectual enjdyment. "You don't know," she
AUNT AND NEPHEW.                                                           93

wrote to a friend, " the blank of life after

having lived within the radiance of genius."
Yet to live in this blankness, and to do the best

it,she could with became the work of Caroline

    aLucretia Herschel at the age of threescore years

and ten,--an age when most of us have already

put off our cares and anxieties, but when she

began to enter on new life, with new habits,

new duties, and new associations;

Her interest in astronomical pursuits never

slackened, and she watched with eagerness the

labours and successes of her nephew. The
respect paid to her in society as " woman of
I

              is
                         a

                                            !)

                        I
                                                           a
                                                  it a
                                                               is
                                                                        a
science" was not unwelcome, though she affected

to make light of it. "You must give me leave,"

she wrote to Sir John, "to send you any publica

tions you can think of, without mentioning any

thing about paying for them. For                                         necessary

should every now and then lay out little of

my spare cash in that, for the sake of support

ing the reputation of being       learned lady;

(there for you for am not only looked
at for such one, but even stared at here in

Hanover!" It was with unafi`ected modesty

she deprecated the honorary membership of the
94 SISTERLY LOVE.

Irish Academy, conferred on one who, she said,
had not for many years discovered even a
comet ; yet she was by no means insensible to
the distinction. Every man of scientific emi
nence who visited Hanover visited this aged
lady; and her presence in the theatre, even in
her latest years, was a constant source of attrac
tion. Such was the simple fmgality of her
habits, that she experienced an actual difficulty
in disposing of her income. She afiirmed that

the largest sum she could spend upon herself
was £50 a year ; and the annual pension of
£100, left by her brother, she refused, or else
devoted the quarterly or half-yearly payment
to the purchase of some handsome present for
her nephew or niece.

     Such was Caroline Lucretia Herschel; and as

such she was a remarkable proof that the rarest
womanly gifts of affectionate forethought and
loving devotion may exist in combination with
intellectual strength and scientific enthusiasm.

    Of the force, keenness, and permanency of
her sisterly love, an illustration of a pathetic
character occurs in a letter which she addressed
to her nephew, February 27, 1823 :--
                   A PARSIMONIOUS GOVERNMENT.

  "I Iam grown much thinner than was six months ago ;
Iwhen look at my hands, they put me so in mind of
Iwhat your dear father's were, when saw them tremble

under my eyes, as we latterly played at backgammon
together."

   It has long been the reproach of England

that she treats, or rather that her Government

treats, her men of science, her artists, and her

litterateurs with a disgraceful parsimony. It

would appear from the following letter that Sir
William Herschel was inadequately rewarded,
and that his sister felt this keenly :--

  I"There can be no harm," she says, "in telling my own

dear nephew that never felt satisfied with the support
your father received towards his undertakings, and far
less with the ungracious manner in which it was granted.
For the last sum came with a message that more must

Inever be asked for. (Oh ! how degraded felt, even for
Imyself, whenever thought of it !) And after all it came

too late, and was not sufficient ; for if expenses had been

out of question, there would not have been so much time,
and labour, and expense, for twenty-four men were at
times by turns, day and night, at work, wasted on the
first mirror, which had come out too light in the casting

I(Alex more than once would have destroyed it secretly,

if had not persuaded him against it); and without two

mirrors, you know, such an instrument cannot be always
ready for observing.

   "But what grieved me most was that to the last your

poor father was struggling above his strength against
96 MISS EEEsonEL's GOLD MEDAL.

difiiculties which he well knew might have been removed

if it had not been attended with too much expense. The

Ilast time the mirror was obliged to be taken from the

polisher on account of some obstacle, heard him say
(in his usual manner of thinking aloud on such occasions),

` It is impossible to make the machine act as required

Iwithout a room three times as large as this.'
    " must say a few words of apology for the good King

(George III.), and ascribe the close bargains which were

made between him and my brother to the shabby, mean
spirited advisers who were undoubtedly consulted on such
occasions; but they are dead and gone, and no more of
them."

   In February 1828, the great services which

this high-souled woman had rendered to astro~
nomical science were fitly rewarded by the
presentation to her of the Royal Astronomical
Society's gold medal,----the greatest honour which

an astronomer can receive.

    Mr. South, himself an astronomer of deserved
repute, was charged with the duty of presenting
the medal; and in the course of his address he
dwelt on the labours of her brother, and the
share she had had in them.

    Sir William's first catalogue of new nebulae
and clusters of stars, he said, amounting in
number to one thousand, was compiled with

observations made from a twenty-foot reflector
       sourn 0N sm wrLLmM's msoovnmns.  97

in the years 1783, 1784, and 1785. By the

same instrument he was enabled to discover

the positions of a second thousand of these

distant worlds in 1785 to 1788 ; while the

places of five hundred others were registered

on the celestial map between 1788 and 1802.

What, we may ask, were the discoveries of
Columbus compared with these? He revealed

to Europe the existence of only a. single conti

nent; Herschel unfolded to man the mysteries

of the depths of the heavens.

But, continued Mr. South, when we have

thus enumerated the results obtained in the

course of "sweeps" with this instrument,

and taken into consideration the extent

and variety of the other observations which
were at the same time in progress, a most

important part yet remains untold. Who
participated in his toils? Who braved with

him all the experiences of inclement weather?

Who shared, and consoled him in, his priva

tions? A woman. And who was she? His

sister. Miss Herschel it was who by night
acted as his amanuensis; she it was whose pen

conveyed to paper his observations as they

(sea)  7
98 JOHN HERsonEL's LABOURS.

issued from his lips ; she it was who noted the

various aspects and phenomena of the objects

observed; she it was who, after spending the

still night beside the wonder-exhibiting instru

ment, carried the rough, blurred manuscripts to

her cottage at daybreak, and by the morning

produced a clean copy and register of the night's

achievements; she it was who planned the
labour of each succeeding night; she it was

who reduced into exact form every calculation;

she it was who arranged the whole in system
atic order; and she it was who largely assisted

her illustrious brother to obtain his imperish

able renown.                 -

Miss Herschel's claims to the gratitude of

men of science, and to the admiration of all

who can appreciate the beauty of self--sacrifice,

did not end here. She was herself an'astrono

mer, and an original observer. At times her

brother was enabled to dispense with her
attendance. You would suppose that such

leisure nights she would gladly give up to
rest. Not she. Her brother might, at some

unforeseen moment, require her aid, and con

sequently she preferred to be close at hand.
MISS nsnscrrsn's mscovnnnas.  99

A seven--foot telescope planted on the lawn

helped to while away the hours of waiting;
and it was to the occupation of these hours
that science owed the discovery of the comet
of 1786, of the comet of 1788, of the comet
of 1791, of the comet of 1793, and of that of
179 5, now connected with the name of Encke.
Many, also, of the nebulae contained in Sir
William Herschel's catalogues were detected by

her keen and accurate gaze during these nights
of lonely observation. Indeed, as South re
marked, when looking at the joint-labours of
these two enthusiasts, we scarcely know
whether the warmer praise should be given to
the intellectual might of the brother or the
ardent industry of the sister.

   In 1797, continued her eulogist, she pre

sented to the Royal Society a catalogue of 560

stars, taken from Flamsteed's observations, the

exact positions of which had not been previ

ously defined.
    Soon after the death of him to whom she had

given up so much of her life, her best energies,
and her ripest faculties, she returned to Han
over,--unwilling, however, to relinquish the
100 A conesxrumronr LETTER.

astronomical researches which had been so pure

and permanent a source of pleasure.  She

undertook and completed the laborious "reduc

tion" or registration of the places of 2500
nebulae, down to the 1st of January 1800;

thus presenting in one view the results of all

the observations Sir William Herschel had

made upon those wonderful bodies, and trium

phantly bringing to a close half a century of

scientific toil.

    We return to Miss Herschel's biography, in

order to gather up a few particulars of her last

years, and to exhibit some of the tenderer

features of her character.

    On the occasion of her nephew's marriage,
in 1829, she wrote to him in the following

terms :--

    " MY DEAREST NEPHEW,----I have spent four days in

vain endeavours to gain composure enough to give you

Ian idea of the joyful sensation your letter of February

5th has caused me. But can at this present moment
find no words which would better express my happiness
than those which escaped in exclamation from my lips,
according to Simeon (see St. Luke ii. 29), `Lord, now
lettest thou thy servant depart in peace.'

   "I have now some hopes of passing the few remainder
AN OCTOGENARIAN'S nnmonr.                           101

Iof my days in as much comfort as the separation from

the land where spent the greatest portion of my life,

and from all those which are most dear to me, can admit.

IFor, from the description given me of the dear young

lady of your choice, am confident my dear nephew's

Ifuture happiness is now established.
    " beg you will give my love to your dear lady, and

best regards to all your new connections where they are

Idue, in the best terms you can think of, for am at
Ipresent too unwell for writing all could wish to say.

  "I have suffered much during this severe winter, and
have not been able to leave my habitation above three or

four times for the last three months; and feel, moreover,

much fatigued by sitting eight times within the last ten

days to Professor Tiedemann for having my picture taken

I I----which he did at my apartment, and now he has taken it
home to finish.  must conclude, for wish to say a few
words to your dear mother. It is now between eleven

Iand twelve, and perhaps you are at this very moment

receiving the blessing of Dr. Jennings; in which most

fervently join by saying, ` God bless you both !"'

   Though eighty--three years old, Miss Her
schel retained all her old powers of memory;
and in a letter to her new niece, Lady Herschel,
written in 1833, she narrated some amusing
reminiscences of her nephew's early childhood.

   He was only in his sixth year, she said,
when she was separated for a while from the

family circle. But this did not hinder "John"

and her from remaining the most affectionate
102 . YOUNG EXPERIMENTALISTS.

friends, and many a half or whole holiday he

spent with her, devoting it to chemical experi
ments, in which all kinds of boxes, tops of tea~

canisters, pepper-cruets, tea-cups, and the like,
served for the necessary vessels, and the sand
tub furnished the matter to be analysed. Miss
Herschel's task was to prevent the introduction
of water, which would have produced havoc on
her carpet. For his first notion of building,

"John" was indebted .to the affection of his

aunt, who, on his second or third birthday,
lifted him in the trenches to lay the south
corner-stone of the building which was added
to Sir William's original house at Slough. On
further reflection, she felt convinced that this
incident occurred in the second year of her
nephew's age, for she remembered being obliged

to use "a deal of coaxing" to make him part

with the money he was to lay on the corner

stone.

    About the same time, when she was sitting
near him one day, listening to his prattle, her
attention was drawn to his repeated and for
midable hammering. On investigating into its
object, she found that it was the continuation
AN ACTIVE coanasrounanr.  103

of the labour of many days, during which he
had undermined the ground about the corner of

the house, had entirely removed the corner

stone, and was zealously toiling to overthrow
the next! His aunt gave the alarm, and old
John Wiltshire, a favourite xcarpenter, ran to
the spot, exclaiming, " Heaven bless the boy!

if he is not going to pull the house down !"

   In 1834, Sir John, as already stated, made
a voyage to the Cape of Good Hope, in order

to undertake a series of observations of the
southern heavens. His aunt had now reached

the ripe old age of eighty-four, an age attained

by few,--and when attained, bringing with it
in almost every case a painful diminution of

physical energy, and a corresponding decline in
mental force. But such was not the case with

this remarkable woman. She still continued
an active correspondence with her nephew, and
manifested the liveliest interest in all his move

ments. It is astonishing to mark the vivacity

and clearness of the letters she wrote at this

advanced period of her life. Thus, on the 1st

of May 1834, she writes to Sir John :--
104 MISS Hnascnnn's LETTERS.

    "Both yourself and my dear niece urged me to write

Ioften, and to write always twice; but, alas ! could not
Iovercome the reluctance felt of [at] telling you that it

is over with me for getting up at eight or nine o'clock,
dressing myself, eating my dinner alone without an

appetite, falling asleep over a novel (I am obliged to lay
down to recover the {fatigue of the morning's exertions),

Iawaking with nothing but the prospect of the trouble of

getting into bed, where very seldom get above two
               It is enough to make a parson swear !
                                                         To
              add, found full employment for the        few
hours'

I Ithis
sleep.                                                       ',
must
Imoments, when could rouse myself from a melancholy

lethargy, to spend in looking over my store of astrono

mical and other memorandums of upwards of fifty years'

collecting."

Later in the year she writes :--

"I know not how to thank you sufficiently for the

cheering account you give of the climate agreeing so well

with you and all who are so dear to me, and that you

find all about you so agreeable and comfortable; .... ..so

Ithat have nothing left to wish for but a continuation of
Ithe same, and that may only live to see the handwriting
Iof your dear Caroline, though have my doubts about
lasting till then, for the thermometer standing 80° and

90° for upwards of two months, day and night, in my
Irooms (to which am mostly confined), has made great
Ihavoc in my brittle constitution.  beg you will look to

it that she learns to make her figures as you find them in

your father's MSS., such as he taught me to make. The

daughter of a. mathematician must write plain figures.
I"My little grand-nephew making alliance with your
workmen shows that he is taking after his papa.         see

you now in idea, running about in petticoats among your
UNEVENTFUL LIVES.            105

father's carpenters, working with little tools of your own;

and John Wiltshire (one of Pitt's men, whom you may
perhaps remember) crying out, ` Dang the boy, if he can't
driveinanailaswellaslcan!'

   "I thank you for the astronomical portion of your
Iletter, and for your promise of future accounts of un

common objects. It is not clusters of stars want you to

discover in the body of the Scorpion [the astronomical
sign, so called], or thereabout, for that does not answer

my expectation, remembering having once heard your

father, after a long, awful silence, exclaim, `Hier ist
wahrhaftig ein loch ein Himmel!' [Here, indeed, is a

great gap in Heaven and, as said before, stopping
afterwards at the same spot, but leaving unsatisfied."
l],

        I

                         it

   These extracts may seem trivial to some of
our readers, but they are not so, rightly con
sidered. They illustrate the wonderful mental
vivacity of their venerable writer, and in this
respect are useful; but still more useful in
showing how cheerfully she bore the burden of
her years, and with what intellectual serenity
she looked forward to her end.

    We own that the lives of the Herschels are

what the world would call uneventful. The

discovery of new planet, or of the orbit of
star, seems less romantic to the vulgar taste
than the slaughter of ten thousand men on

field of battle. It will seem to the unthinking
a
                                                                    aa
106 THE PATII or DUTY.

that the victorious general or the daring sea
man, the leader of a forlorn hope, or the captain
who goes down with his sinking ship, afi'ords
an example worthier of imitation than the
patient, watchful, enthusiastic astronomer or

his devoted sister. His, they will say, was a.
noble life. Be it so; but every life is noble

which is spent in the path of duty. Do what
comes to your hand to do with all honesty and

completeness, and you will make your life noble.

Subdue your passions, master your evil thoughts,
observe the laws of temperance and purity, be
truthful, be firm, be honest, and keep ever
before you the law of Christ as the law of your
daily work, and you will make your life noble.
We cannot all be great commanders or daring
captains, we cannot all be distinguished men of
science; but we can all be righteously-living

men, endeavouring to raise others by our ex

ample, and it is a higher aim to live purely

than to live successfully. We cannot all com
mand the success,' just as we do not all enjoy
the intellectual powers, of a Herschel ; but we

can emulate the industry and perseverance of
the astronomer, we can copy the devoted afi'ec
            A GRAND-AUNT.     107

tion and self-denial of his sister. The sorriest

mistake of which men can be guilty,--yet it is

a mistake which has clouded many lives,--is to

suppose that duty is less imperative in its

claims on the humble and unknown than on

men raised or born to eminent position. Let

it be understood and remembered that each one

of us can rise to a standard of true heroism,

by cultivating the graces of the Christian char

acter, and doing the work which God has

appointed.                 '

   Sir John Herschel returned to England in

1838, and in July of the same year he and

his little son paid a visit to Miss Herschel.

It is characteristic that her intense anxiety as

to the proper treatment of her little grand

nephew--his sleep, his food, his playthings--

greatly disturbed her peace. "I rather suffered

him," she writes, "to hunger, than would let

Ihim eat anything hurtful ; indeed, would not

let him eat anything at all unless his papa was
present." Her biographer remarks, that great
as was her joy to see once more almost the

only living being upon whom she poured some
108 AN amusme INTERVIEW.

of that wealth of affection with which her
heart never ceased to overflow, yet it was on

the disappointments and shortcomings of those
few days, those precious days, that she chiefly
dwelt; and the abrupt termination of her
nephew's visit filled her with the deepest

sorrow. With the generous, but, as it proved,

mistaken intention of sparing her feelings, her
nephew left without informing her beforehand
of the exact time of his departure, simply bid
ding her good-night prior to his return to his

in. Great was her distress when she found

that he and his son had quitted Hanover at
four o'clock on the following morning.

   Her introduction to her grand--nephew, as
described by his father, Sir John, was ex
ceedingly quaint :--

" Now, let me tell you how things fell out. Dr. Gros

kopfi' took Willie with him to Aunty, but without saying
who he was. Says she, ` What little boy is that ?' Says
he, `The son of a friend of mine. Ask him his name.'

However, Willie would not tell his name. `Where do
you come from, little fellow 7' ` From the Cape of Good
Hope,' says Willie. ` What is that he says 7' ` He says
he comes from the Cape of Good Hope.' ` Ay ! and who
is he? What is his name
                         His name Herschel.'
`
                                         `                                     He says he

                                              is 'I'

                                                                   `

                                                           i'

                                                                           ` is
Yes,' says Willie. What that he says
      some annmrsonucas.                                                                                                      109

comes from the Cape of Good Hope.' ` Ay ! and who is

he? What is his name  His name    Herschel.'
`

   if

           'I'
                         l

                       it

                                                         'I'
                                                                          ;`

                                       I is
                                                                                                                           `
Yes,' says Willie, `William James Herschel.' Ach,

mein Gott das nicht moglich; ist dieser kleines nefi'eu's

sohn  And so all came out and when came to her

all was understood, and we sat down and talked as quietly

as we had parted but yesterday."

In a letter which she wrote to Lady Her

schel in 1838, we find some reminiscences of

her early years. She says that when, at the

age of twenty-two, she first visited England,
there was no kind of ornamental needle-work,

knitting, plaiting hair, stringing beads and

bugles, and the like, of which she did not make

samples by way of mastering the art. As she

was the only girl, and consequently the Cinder~

ella, of the family, she could not find time,

however, for much self-improvement. She was

not, for instance, skilled musician, but she
      a

                            it

                                        is
was able to play the second violin part of an

overture or easy quartette. And             worth

notice that the Herschels were something more

than astronomers only. Both Sir William and

his son, great as they were in their special

department of science, took care to cultivate

their minds generally; were mathematicians,
110 A LESSON FOR YOUNG mums.

chemists, geologists, and men of letters. And
here is a lesson for our younger readers. The
mind should always be diverted towards one

particular object; it should be the aim of every

body to attain towards supreme excellence, if

possible, in some one pursuit. On the other

hand, he should gather knowledge, more or less,
in every field, so as to avoid narrowness of
view and poverty of idea Versatility does
not necessarily mean superficiality ; we may
know much of many things, and more of one

thing. A man who is only a botanist, shuts

himself out from all the truest and deepest

pleasures of knowledge. It may be very clever

for a violinist to play on a single string; but

he must play on all, if he would bring out the

hill harmonics of his instrument, and do justice
to its extraordinary powers.

    Miss Herschel's enjoyment of life, which,
when not carried to an excess, is a Christian
duty, continued to the very last. When she
was in her ninetieth year, she rose as usual
every day, dressed, ate, drank, rested on her
sofa, read and conversed with her numerous
' AN OLD Lsnv's ANECDOTES.  111

visitors ; still taking an interest in science and
literature, even in public affairs, and still occu

pying herself with all that concerned the ever
growing reputation of her nephew. Of course,

she could not escape the infirmities of old age,
but by cheerfulness and patience she did her

best to alleviate them. In recalling incidents

of her early life, she frequently gave evidence

of her good-humoured contentment. In 1840,
writing to her niece, she refers to an incident
which occurred in the early part of the forty
foot telescope's existence, when "God save the
King" was sung in it by her brother and his

guests, who rose from the dinner-table for the
purpose, and entered the tube in procession.

She adds that among the company were two

Misses Stows, one of whom was a famous piano

forte player; some of the Griesbachs (well
known musicians), who accompanied on the
oboe, or any instrument, they could get hold
of ; and herself, who was one of the nim

blest and foremost to get in and out of the

Itube. " But now," she adds, "lack-a--day!

can hardly cross the room without help. But
what of that? Dorcas, in the Beggar's Opera,
112         AN OLD LADY's ANECDOTES.

says, `One cannot eat one's cake and have it
too ! ' "

   She relates, in the same letter, a curious

anecdote of the old and celebrated tube. Before

the optical apparatus was finished, many visi

tors took a pleasure in walking through it,--

among the rest, on one occasion, King George

III. and the Archbishop of Canterbury. The

latter following the king, and finding it difficult

to proceed, his majesty turned and gave him
Ihis hand, saying, " Come, my Lord Bishop;
                                        "
will  show  you  the  way  to  heaven
                                       !

Then, with that astonishing memory of hers,

which kept its greenness until the very last,

she notes that this occurred on August 17,

1787, when the King and Queen, the Duke of

York, and some of the princesses were of the

company.

   From another letter we take a lively little
picture of a Christmas in Hanover :--

    She had been told that keeping Christmas

in the German sense was coming to be very
general in England; but her shrewd, practical

turn of mind induced her to hope that the
       CHRISTMAS IN HANOVER.  113

English would never go " such lengths in fool

ery." At Hanover, she wrote, the tradespeople

had been for many weeks in full employ,

framing and mounting the embroideries of the

ladies and girls of all classes; of all classes,
for not a folly or extravagancy existed among
the great but it was imitated by the little.

The shops were beautifully lighted up by gas,
and the last three days before Christmas all
that could tempt or attract was exhibited in
the market-places in booths lighted up in the
evening, whither everybody hastened to gaze
and to spend their money. Cooks and house
maids presented one another with knitted bags
and purses ; the cobbler's daughter embroidered
"neck--cushions" for her friend the butcher's

daughter. These were made up by the uphol
sterer at great expense, lined with white satin ;

the upper part, on which the back rested, being
wrought with gold, silver, and pearls.

But we must no longer delay the reader by

our gossip. Enough has been said to illustrate

the character of a remarkable woman, and of

those features of it--her cheerfulness, her pa

(5981  8
114 A NOBLE CHARACTER.

tience, her industry, her devoted affection, her
unselfishness--which all of us may be the
better for studying and imitating. Our limits
compel us to draw our simple narrative to a
close, and we must pass over the delight with

which she received and read Sir John Her

schel's great work, "Cape Observations,"--a
noble monument of the perseverance and stren
uous labour of genius; but of twofold interest

to her, because it not only testified to the

eminent qualities of her nephew, but brought
to a noble conclusion the vast undertaking of

that nephew's father and her own beloved
brother--the survey of the nebulous heavens.

   A letter written by her friend Miss Becks

dorfi', on the 6th of January 1848, describes
Caroline Hersehel's last days :--

    " Her decided objection to having her bed placed in a
warmer room had brought on a cold and cough; and so

firm was her determination to preserve her old customs,

Iand not to yield to increasing infirmities, that when, upon

her doctor's positive orders, had a bed made up in her
room, before she came to sit in it one day, it was not till
two o'clock in the night that Betty could persuade her to

Ilie down in it. Upon going to her the next morning,

had the satisfaction, however, of finding her perfectly
reconciled to the arrangement} she now felt the comfort
            MISS HERSCHEL'S DEATH.  115

of being undisturbed, and she has kept to her bed ever

since. Her mental and bodily strength is gradually

declining. But a few days ago she was ready for a joke.

When Mrs. Clarke told her that General Halkett sent his

love,`a.nd ` hoped she would soon be so well again that he

might come and give her a kiss, as he had done on her
birthday,' she looked only archly at her, and said, `Tell
I Ithe general that have not tasted anything since liked
Iso well.'
            have just left her, and upon my asking her

Ito give me a message for her nephew, she said, `Tell

them am good for nothing,' and went to sleep again."

   On the 9th of January 1848 she breathed
her last, passing away with a Christian's tran
quillity.*

    Her body was followed to the grave by
many of her relatives and friends, the royal
carriages forming part of the funeral procession.
The coffin was adorned with garlands of laurel
and cypress and palm branches, sent by the
Crown-Princess from Herrnhausen; and the ser
vice was conducted in that same garrison-church
in which, nearly a century before, she had been
christened, and afterwards confirmed. And, as

proving her love and fidelity to the last, in

   " The particulars recorded in the foregoing pages are chiefly taken
from Mrs. John Herschel's very interesting "Memoir and Correspon
dence of Caroline Herschel."
116             LOVE TO THE LAST.

her coflin were placed, by her express desire,

"a lock of her beloved brother's hair, and an

old, almost obliterated almanac that had been

used by her father."

    May our readers be induced, by their perusal

of these pages, to emulate the Herschels--

brother, sister, nephew--in all the bright and
lovely qualities that ennoble life ; in their fixity

of purpose, their elevation of thought, their
purity of character, their self-denial, their in
dustry, their hopefulness, and their faith!

sche[lT'shetomfobll.owiIntgbeingsincsri:pti"onHieisr  engraved   on Miss Her
                                                      ruhet die  irdische Hiille

von CAROLINA HERSCHEL, Geboren zu Hannover den

16ten Marz 1750, Gestorben den 9ten Januar 1848."
But, for the convenience of our young readers, we give it

in English :--

              HEBE BEETS THE EABTHLY CASE OF

                  CAROLINE HERSCHEL.

               BORN AT HANOVER, MARCH 16, 1750.
                      ` DIED JANUARY 9, 1848.

    " The eyes of her now glorified were, while here below,
directed towards the starry heavens. Her own discov
eries of comets, and her share in the immortal labours of
her brother, William Herschel, bear witness of this to
succeeding ages.
THE EPITAPH.  117

    " The Royal Irish Academy of Dublin, and the Royal

Astronomical Society of London, enrolled her name

among their members.

   "At the age of 97 years 10 months, she fell asleep in

calm rest, and in the full possession of her faculties;
following into a better life her father, Isaac Herschel, who
lived to the age of 60 years, 2 months, 17 days, and has
lain buried not far off since the 29th of March 1767."

    This epitaph was mainly written by Miss Herschel
herself, and the allusion to her brother is characteristial
TALES OF ADVENTUR4YEY` AND ENTERPRISE.

BeyonW"dTilhdtesheoLfaTkHheiimbeRate.lgaiyoAnass.BoofoAkCefnSottrroarBlyoAyofsrf.icTar,Ba" vye&JlOc.HaNndWGiAtEhdDvDe9 InEtE,unrgAeruatvhinionrgtsho.ef
     Post 8vo, cloth extra. Price 35. 6d.
     Tohf reCaenaTdraa. ppAersB.ookAfoSrtoBroyyso.f
The                                                                 Travel and Adventure in                        thWe iWthild1s1
                                                                      By ACHILLES DAUNT.
          Engravings. Post 8vo, cloth extra. Price 35. 6d.

Ralph's Year in Russia. A Story of Travel and Adventure in Eastern
        Europe. A Book for Boys. By ROBERT RICHARDSON, Author of

         "Almost a Hero," &c'. W'ith 12 Engravings. Post 8vo, cloth.
The MPericaedo35w. s6dF. amily; or, Fireside Stories of Adventure and Enter

        prise. By M. A. PAULL, Author of "Tim's Troubles," &c. With
Frank\9VEiPtnhogwr2a4dveiInllrughssot. rranti.oPnosstBf8ryvoom], .  clSoAthNDeSx, traA.uthPorirceof35".L6ifde. in
                                                                    Drawings by the Author and                     St. Kilda."
     Post 8vo, cloth extra. Price 25. 6d.                                                                          by F. A. F.

In  the Forest; or, Pictures of Life and                            Scenery in the Wilds                           of Canada.
       By Mrs. TRAILL, Author of "The                               Canadian Crusoes,"                             &c. With
          numerous Illustrations. Foolscap 8vo. Price 25.

Wrecked on a Reef ; or, Twenty Months on the Auckland Isles. A

         True Story of Shipwreck, Adventure, and Suffering. With 40 Illus

The FatornardteiosEntns,t.etrhpPreoissetJu8invnog,Pleculr,ostuhaitnedxotfrat\h.VeildPPrircAaeniimr3isae. ls;6.d.or,WTiathlesnuomf AedrovuesntuErne
     gravings. Post 8vo, cloth. Price 25. 6d.
                     the Hunter and the Trapper in Many
SceneSstorwieisthof  Adventures with Wild Animals. \Vith numerous                                                  Lands.
     ings. Post 8vo, cloth. Price 25. 6d.
                                                                                                                   Engrav

RoundIdathPefelWfieor.rld.By  A Story of Travel compiled                   from the Narrative of
                              D. MURRAY SMITH. With                        36 Engravings. Post
     8vo, cloth. Price 2s.

Home Amid the Snow ; or, \Varm Hearts in Cold Regions. By_Cap
        tain CHARLES Ens, R.N. With 28 Engravings. Royal 181110, cloth.

Dr. KParnicee,_rst.he6d.Arctic Hero. A Narrative of his Adventures and Ex
        plorations in the Polar Regions. By M. JONES. NVith 35 Engrav

         mgs. Post 8vo, cloth. Price 25.
The Castaways. A Story of Adventure in the \Vilds of Borneo. By
         Captain MAYNE REID. \Vith 26 Engravings. Post 8vo, cloth extra.

     Price 35. 6d.
     AAudtvheorntoufr"esTheoLfi_ttMlearCkaptaWini,"llis&.c.         By Mrs. GEORGE Comes,
The                                                                 With 45 Engravings. Royal

     18mo, cloth. Price 1s. 6d.
The Young Crusoe. By Mrs. HOFLAND.
                                                                           With 14 Engravings.
          Royal 18m0, cloth. Price 15. 6d.
The Children on the Plains. A Story of Travel and Adventure in
     the Great       "PrTahireieJsewoifshNoTrwthinsA,m" e&rcic.a.      By  Mrs. SARAH S.                           BAKER,
     Author of                                                      With   16 Illustrations.                         Royal
     18mo, cloth. Price rs. 6d.

T. NELSOJV AND SONS, LONDOJV, EDINBURGH, AND NEIV YORK
TALES WITH USEFUL MORALS.

JTuhbeileGoPAYernoreiuTctynaHhegleea.H25lHof.lo;ui6rlBsld,ytoe."hret,&hoeYc"no.TuHhtneohPgrnoee..s'stHMB8riyvnslol.o;t,hGecPolRloraHE,tchoEeTnNer.EuxL,stMikrtAares.ui.ntHhGPooGRrrmioEcedeEo.N"f2"aE5n..TdA6hPded.oSos.tGtotrrh8eyevyof,RoHcriolgouthtshhtee..
Ada. and Gerty ; or, Hand in Hand Heav'enward. A Tale. By LOUISA
         M.    GRAY. \Vith Frontispiece.          Post 8vo, cloth    extra.                               Price
Nelly's       Teachers and what They                                 Tale                              for the                                          35. 6d.
                                                   Learned. A                                                                                          Young.
Look MBayAtTKTthHAeETWEBST,rHigOAhRutNthEoS.ridoePf.ri"ceLAit3tsTl.ea6ledS.ufnobretahme s.Y"ounPgo.st
          Price 25.  6dW. inning;                                                                      By JOANNA H.

Waiting and                                                                                            8vo, cloth extra.

                                          `.      Cast  upon  the \Vaters and                                                                          Found

                                      or, Bread
      after Many Days. With 4 Illustrations Printed in Colours. Post
      8vo, cloth extra. Price 25. 6d.

INSTRUCTIVE BOOKS FOR THE YOUNG.

                       One Shilling each.

The Babes in the Basket; or, Daph and her Charge. By the Author
      of "Timid Lucy," &c. With Coloured Frontispiece and numerous
The BEansgrkaevtingos.f FlRoowyael r1s8;moo.r, Piety and Truth Triumphant. Illus
      trated. Royal r8mo.
Little Crosses; or, "Let Patience have her Perfect Work." \Vith
      Coloured Frontispiece. Royal 18mo.
Godliness with Contentment is Great Gain.                                                                 Wi_th Coloured`
          Frontispiece.  GRoirylasl;  18mo.                                                            By SOPHY \Vm
                                                  and   Patie' nce.
The Harrington                         or, Faith          Royal
       THROP. With       Coloured Frontispiece.         Author   o1f8m" oC. opsley                                                                          -
lt'S  His Way, and       other Stories. By the                                                                                                                  ,'
                                                                                                                                                       Annals,
KHiotptye's&aOncd.nK;2n5WiotEritt,nihTnghrgCaeovliNonHugeorseue.sddeleFRtshr--ooanytTtahiJsalepcxik8emcOeoB.n.ueiltR.MooyWsaslit1hR8omCsooe.l.oureBdy
                                                                                                                                                       Frontis. pie. ce

                                                                                                                                                       the Rev. P
          B.  PIOmWpEuR.lseWs;ithoCr,olPoruinrecdipleFro:n1tiSsapfieecreG. uidReoytahlan18mFeoe. li_ng.
                                                                                                                                                       \Vi_th
Laura's
         Coloured Frontispiece. Royal 18m0.
Martha's Home, and how the Sunshine Came                                                               into It.                                        Wi_th

M" aOtutYrgoCL'orsfoFarla"dovHui'tVnshrugielenlsPda.rrggaFerywryReorMhon.tMyiisicsasihplisBoisey1naci8aoaemrrnitoCeaa.slnei.rn"dryg3yH0mB\eVEoaainnxtvgh',sreaaCWnvnoi.idnl"dogouoswrt.ehA.derSRFWStorotoyorintyarhitleisIsClIpl.8uoiem_sloctBorueay.rteaitdvh_needFA3rou0oftnhEttohlnsre
        piece and 16 Engravings. R0 "21118mo.
Walks and Talks with Gran papa. By Mrs. Gamma                                                                                                          Comes.
      With numerous Engravings. Royal 18mo.

Life and Travel in Tartary, Thibet, and China. Being a Narra
      tive of the Abbe Huc's Travels in the             Far East. By M. JONES.
      With Coloured F rontispiece and numerous           Engravings. Royal 18mo.

T. NELSON AND SONS, LONDOIV, EDINBURGH, AND NEIV YORIC.
.oeu` .Q.0m. .

