Life of Charles Darwin. By G. T. Bettany.

Bettany, G. T. (George Thomas), 1850-1891.
London : W. Scott, 1887.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/mdp.39015064563367

                                          Public Domain in the United States,
                                          Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-us-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain
                                                          in the United States of America. It may not be in the
                                                          public domain in other countries. Copies are provided
                                                          as a preservation service. Particularly outside of the
                                                          United States, persons receiving copies should make
                                                          appropriate efforts to determine the copyright status
                                                          of the work in their country and use the work accordingly.
                                                          It is possible that current copyright holders, heirs or
                                                          the estate of the authors of individual portions of the
                                                          work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert copyrights
                                                          over these portions. Depending on the nature of subsequent
                                                          use that is made, additional rights may need to be obtained
                                                          independently of anything we can address. The digital
                                                          images and OCR of this work were produced by Google,
                                                          Inc. (indicated by a watermark on each page in the
                                                          PageTurner). Google requests that the images and OCR
                                                          not be re-hosted, redistributed or used commercially.
                                                          The images are provided for educational, scholarly,
                                                          non-commercial purposes.
QH

 5)
                "(Breat Writers."

                                                              EDITED BY

PROFESSOR ERIC S. ROBERTSON, M.A.,

                   LIFE OF DARWIN.
                                                                     OF

CHARLES DARWIN



                                                              BY

                G. T. BETTANY

                       LONDON  ROW

          WALTER SCOTT

24 WARWICK LANE, PATERNOSTER

1887
CONTENTS.

                              CHAPTER I.

Darwin's ancestry ; his       grandfather,        D"rT. hEeraBsomtaunsicDGaarwrdienn, ,"a
       successful physician,  and author of
"The Temple of Nature," &c. ; his father, Robert Waring
Darwin, also a successful physician ; his maternal grand
father, Josiah Wedgwood, the celebrated potter ; his
mother's education and training ; Charles Robert Darwin,
born at Shrewsbury, Feb. 12, 1809 ; Mrs. Darwin dies in

July, 1817 ; her eldest son, Erasmus, friend of the
Carlyles ; Charles Darwin's education by Mr. Case, and at
Shrewsbury Grammar School ; his character as a boy ; is
sent to Edinburgh University in 1825
                                                  .

                              CHAPTER II.

Darwin a member of the Plinian Society, of Edinburgh ; makes
natural history excursions ; his first scientific paper read
March, 27, 1827 ; friendship with Dr. Grant ; Jameson's
lectures on zoology ; Darwin enters Christ's College, Cam
bridge, in 1828 ; his friendship with Prof. Henslow ; his
account of Henslow ; Darwin at this time specially an
entomologist ; his excursions with Henslow ; takes B.A.
degree in 1831, M.A. in 1837 ; voyage of Beagle proposed,
and Darwin appointed as naturalist ; theBeagle sails on Dec.
2178,321,83D1 a;rwDianrwaint 'sTenleetrtieffres,  to Henslow published 1835 ;
                                                   Cape de Verde Islands, St.
Paul's Rocks, Bahia, Rio de Janeiro (April) ; excursions
into interior and amusing adventures ; his experiences and
horror of slavery ; at Monte Video, July ; Maldonado,
                  CONTENTS.

                                                                                         PAGE

Rio Negro ; visit to Tierra del Fuego, Dec. 1832-Jan.
1833 ; rencontre with General Rosas ; many extinct
animals discovered; Buenos Ayres, Sept. 1833; excur
sion to Santa Fe; Port Desire, Dec. 1833; Port St.
Julian, Jan. 1834 ; Valparaiso, July 1834; expeditions
to the Andes, Santiago, &c. ; Chiloe, Nov. 1834 ; the
Chonos Archipelago, Dec. 1834 ; Valdivia, Feb. 1835 ;
an earthquake experience ; expedition across the Cordillera
in March, 1835 ; voyage across the Pacific commenced in
September ; the Galapagos Archipelago and its interesting
animals ; Tahiti, Nov. 1835 , Darwin's opinion of
English products, and of the influence of Christian mis
sionaries; New Zealand, Dec. 1835;   Port Jackson,
1836 ; Tasmania, Feb. ; the Keeling  Islands, April                         Jan.

                                                                            ; the

homeward journey ; Falmouth reached, Oct. 2, 1836 ;
Capt. Fitzroy's opinion of Darwin ; Darwin's first impres
sion of savages
                                                                                         22

                  CHAPTER III.

Darwin elected F.G.S. ; Lyell's high opinion of him ; secre
                           theSoScoiectiye,ty;Feeble. cte1d838F-.4R1.S; .,
tary of   the Geological                                                    reads
numerous    papers before
                                                                             Jan.
24, 1839; marries his cousin, Miss Wedgwood, early in
1839; "Journal of Researches," published 1839, highly
praised in Quarterly Review ; publication of zoology of the
Beagle (1839-43); extraordinary animals described therein;
other results of                    C; opralalntRseedfsesc"ribpeudblisbhyedHo18o4k2er;.
and Berkeley ;    wthoerkvooynage"

Darwin's new theory at once accepted ; subsequent views
of Semper, Dana, and Murray ; second and third parts of
Geology of Beagle ("Volcanic Islands" and "South
America ") ; other geological papers ; Darwin settles at
Down House, near Beckenham, 1842 ; appears at Oxford
meeting of British Association, 1847 ; contributes
chapter on Geology to Herschel's manual of Scientific
Enquiry ; publishes great works on recent and fossil
cirripedia, 185 1-4 ; receives Royal Medal of Royal
Society, 1853, and Wollaston Medal of Geological Society,

1S59      .                                                                              51

                               CHAPTER IV.

Confusion in description of species ; labours of Professors Owen
      and Huxley ; Darwin's ideas on the origin of species germi
                                     CONTENTS.                                                 7

1837-42   ; drew up a sketch,           1842 ; enlarged               it in 1844 ,
previous   speculations on the          subject ; views               of Erasmus
Darwin, Geoffroy St. Hilaire, and Lamarck ; Darwin's
opinion of Lamarck ; influence of Lyell ; influence of
South   "AmVeesrticigaens                                    Malthus  on Popula
tion ;                     experience   ;"  reads            Herbert  Spencer and
                           of Creation
                                            ; Mr.
evolution ; Lyell's letters ; Sir Joseph Hooker on species ;
Mr. A. R. Wallace communicates his views to Darwin ;
Lyell and Hooker persuade Darwin to publish his views
together with those of Wallace ; introductory letter by
Lyell and Hooker to Linnean
Darwin's and Wallace's papers,              Society,                  JuI,ne185380,;  1858;
                                            read July
                                                                                      Sir J.
Hooker announces his adhesion to Darwin's views, 1859 .
                                                                                               64

                                     CHAPTER V.
Analysis of the " Origin of Species," published Nov. 1859 ;

       special notes of Darwin's personal experiences ; remark
able growth of morphology and embryology since its
                                                                      ocfri"ticOisrmigsin,o"f
publication ; opposition to the new                          views ;
leading journals and reviews ; second                        edition

called for in six weeks; third, in March 1861 ; historical
sketch of progress of opinion prefixed ; alterations in
successive editions ; sixth edition, 1872 ; foreign transla
tions
                                                                                               79

                                     CHAPTER VI.

Darwin's physical appearance, habits, distinguished visitors ;
      his kindliness ; attachment of friends ; his family ; he
reads important            bothtean"icaFlertpilaispaetrison
Society ; publishes                                          before the Linnean
                                                               of Orchids," 1862 ;
analysis of the book                 ; ; "DMarowvienmernetcseivaensd
                                                                      Copley Medal of
iRnogyaPllanStosc,"iet1y8, 6518;64"  Variation of Animals             Habits of Climb
                                                                       and Plants under
Domestication," 1868 ; the hypothesis of pangenesis not

favourably received                                                                            103

                          CHAPTER VII.

"The Descent of Man," 187 1 ; Darwin's varied use of personal
    experiences ; his views on the differences between men and
    women ; his views on happiness and its promotion in man

   kind ; reception of the "Descent of Man"; Punch,
   the Quarterlies, The Saturday Review . . . .113
8 CONTENTS.

                  CHAPTER VIII.

"Expression of the Emotions," 1872; Darwin's methods of
studying the question ; his personal experiences ; studies
of children ; reminiscences of South American travel ;
studies of monkeys ; his wide study of novels ; his in
fluence on mental science
                                                                                                   126

                  CHAPTER IX.

"Insectivorous Plants," 1875;      ho"w  Darwin was led to     study
      them ; analysis of the book        Effects of Cross and   Self-
                                   ;
F"eTrthielisDatififoenre,"nt187F6or;mcsomopf eFtiltoivweergse,r"m1in8a7t7io;n "anTdhegroPwowther;
of Movement in Plants," 1880
                                                                                                   136

                  CHAPTER X.

Honours bestowed on Darwin ; his reception at Cambridge in
                  by Richmond      oaf ndvisiCtsolltioer;DaHrwaienck;el's"
1877 ; portraits  descriptions                                              and
De Candolle's
                                                                            The
Formation of Vegetable Mould by Earthworms," 1 88 1 ;
the long series of experiments on which it was based ;
obligations of archaeologists to worms ; gradual exhaus
tion in 1882 ; his death on April 19, 1882 . . .
                                                                                                   146

                             CHAPTER XI.

Darwin buried in Westminster Abbey, April 26, 1882 ; quota
      tion from The Times ; subscriptions to Darwin memorial ;
      large number of subscriptions from Sweden ; statue exe
      cuted by Mr. Boehm, placed in Museum of Natural
      History, South Kensington, unveiled by Prince of Wales,
      June 9, 1885 ; remainder of fund handed to Royal Society

       to promote biological research ; The Saturday Review on
      Darwin ; his geniality and humour ; his influence on
      others ; his lack of prejudice ; extracts from his letters ;
      letter on experiments on living animals ; Darwin as an
       experimenter ; his attitude towards Christianity and revela
      tion ; his literary style ; his imagination ; Prof. Huxley on
      Darwin ; Dr. Masters on his influence on horticulture ;
      Messrs. Sully and Winchell on his philosophy ; conclusion 154

INDEX                                                                                              171
                   NOTE.

 J ARWIN revealed himself so largely in his books,

 I that a vivid picture of much of his life can be ex

tracted from them. Thus it has been found possible to
combine much biographical interest with sketches of his

Imost important works. Like other biographers of Darwin,

  am much indebted to Mr. Woodall's valuable memoir,
contributed to the Transactions of the Shropshire Archaeo
logical Society. But original authorities have been con
sulted throughout, and the first editions of Darwin's

Ibooks quoted, unless the contrary is explicitly stated.
am greatly obliged to Messrs. F. Darwin and G. J.

Romanes for kindly permitting me to quote from Mr.

Darwin's letters to Mr. Romanes. I must also express

my thanks to my friends, Mr. Romanes and Prof. D'Arcy
W. Thompson, for doing me the great service of looking
 over the proof-sheets of this book.
LIFE OF DARWIN.

               CHAPTER L

   F ever a man's ancestors transmitted to him ability

T to succeed in a particular field, Charles Darwin's
Ifdid. ever early surroundings were calculated to call
out inherited ability, Charles Darwin's were. If ever a

man grew up when a ferment of thought was disturbing

old convictions in the domain of knowledge for which he
Ifwas i dapted, Charles Darwin did.
                                     ever a man was

fitted by worldly position to undertake unbiassed and

long-continued investigations, Charles Darwin was such a

man. And he indisputably found realms waiting for a
Yetconqueror.
               Darwin's achievements far transcend

his advantages of ancestry, surroundings, previous sug

gestion, position. He stands magnificently conspicuous

as a genius of rare simplicity of soul, of unwearied

patience of observation, of striking fertility and ingenuity

of method, of unflinching devotion to and belief in the

efficacy of truth. He revolutionised not merely half-a-

dozen sciences, but the whole current of thinking men's

mental life.

   The Darwins were originally a Lincolnshire family of

some position, and being royalists suffered heavy losses
12 LIFE OF

under the Commonwealth. The third William Darwin

(born 1655), whose mother was a daughter of Erasmus
Earle, serjeant-at-law,1 married the heiress of Robert

Waring, of Wilsford, Notts, who also inherited the manor

of Elston, near Newark, in that county, which still

remains in the family. Robert Darwin, second son of

this William Darwin, succeeded to the Elston estate, and

was described by Stukeley, the antiquary, as " a person of

curiosity," an expression conveying high commendation.

His eldest son, Robert Waring Darwin, studied botany
closely, and published a "Principia Botanica," which

reached a third edition ; but his youngest son, Erasmus,

born 1 73 1, was destined to become the first really famous
man of the family.

Erasmus Darwin's personal characteristics, his medical

talents, and his poetic writings were such as to over

shadow, for his own generation, his scientific merit. We

have not space here to describe his career and his works,

which has been so well done by his grandson, and by-
Ernst Krause ("Erasmus Darwin," 1879). Horace

Walpole regarded his description of creation in "The

Botanic Garden" (part canto lines 103-114) as the
most sublime passage in any language he knew and.
                      :                       1,          it :
                                                             is
                       it                             p.
IfThe Edinburgh Review    is i.,("vol.  ii.,  1803, 501) says of his
                                        his   fame be destined in any
" Temple of Nature"

thing to outlive the fluctuating fashion of the day,             on

his merit as poet that            likely to rest and his reveries.
1                                             ;

            is
                  a
    This "the Erasmus Earle who forms the subject of A Lawyer's

Love Letters," in The National Review, February, 1887. Letters
of his are also printed in the Tenth Report of the Historical MSS.

Commission.
DARWIN.                                                                                                13

in science have probably no other chance of being saved
from oblivion but by having been ' married to immortal
verse.' "

The present age regards it as next to impossible to

write science in poetry ; although few have succeeded

better in the attempt than Erasmus Darwin. It is

singular that he should have partially anticipated his

illustrious grandson's theories, but without supporting

them by experimental proof or by deep scientific know

ledge. Suffice it to say now, that 'Erasmus contemplated

to a great extent the same domain of science as Charles

Darwin, having also a mechanical turn ; and was educated

at Edinburgh and Cambridge. His observations on Pro

vidence in 1754, when only twenty-three, in commenting

on his father's death, are very interesting to compare
with his grandson's attitude : " That there exists a superior

Ens Entium, which formed these wonderful creatures, is
a mathematical demonstration. That He influences things

by a particular providence is not so evident. The pro

bability, according to my notion, is against
:                                                                                                      since

           is
                                    a

                                            it
                                                     is

                                                                                                    .

                                                                            a it,
general laws seem sufficient for that end. . . The light

of Nature affords us not single argument for future

state this the only one, that  possible with God,

since He who made us out of nothing can surely re-create

us; and that He will do this we humbly hope." He

published an ode against atheism, with which he has

strangely enough often been charged, beginning--

" Dull atheist, could giddy dancea
   a
      Of atoms lawless hurl'd

   Construct so wonderful, so wise,

      So harmonised world ?"
14 LIFE OF

and his moral standpoint is shown by the declaration that

" the sacred maxims of the author of Christianity, ' Do

as you would be done by,' and ' Love your neighbour as

yourself,' include all our duties of benevolence and

morality ; and if sincerely obeyed by all nations, would

a thousandfold multiply the present happiness of man

kind" ("Temple of Nature," 1803, p. 124). His prin
cipal poetical writings were "The Botanic Garden," in
two parts ; Part I. containing " The Economy of Vege
tation," first published in 1790; and Part II., "The

Loves of the Plants," in 1788, before the first part had

appeared. "The Temple of Nature, or the Origin of

Society," was published after his   death, in   1803. His
chief prose works are " Zoonomia,  or the Laws   of Organic

Life," in two volumes, 1794-6, the second volume being
exclusively medical ; and " Phytologia, or the Philosophy
of Agriculture and Gardening," 1800. All these books
are in quarto, with plates. His views on species are

referred to on pages 66 and 67.
   Robert Waring Darwin, third son of Erasmus by his

first wife, Mary Howard, was born in 1766. As a boy he

was brought much into association with the Wedgwoods

of Stoke, Josiah Wedgwood being one of Erasmus
Darwin's most intimate friends. In 1779 Robert, already

destined to be a doctor, stayed at Etruria for some time,

sharing with Wedgwood's children in Warltire's private

chemical   instruction ;  and Josiah Wedgwood wrote at
this time  : " The boys     drink in knowledge like water,

with great avidity." Before he was twenty Robert Darwin

had taken his medical degree with distinction at Edin

burgh, where he had the advantage of the lectures oi
DARWIN.                                          15

Black, Cullen, and Gregory, and had also studied at

Leyden, and travelled in Germany. In 1786 his father

set him up in practice at Shrewsbury, leaving him with

twenty pounds, which was afterwards supplemented by a

similar sum from his uncle, John Darwin, Rector of
Elston. On this slender capital he contrived to establish

himself, in spite of severe competition; and his burly

form and countenance, as he sat in his invariable yellow

chaise, became well known to every man, woman, and

child around Shrewsbury for many miles. Before long,
no one thought of sending to Birmingham for a con

sultant, and Dr. Darwin was for many years the leading

Shropshire physician, and accumulated an abundant

fortune.

   According to his son Charles, Robert Darwin " did not

inherit any aptitude for poetry or mechanics, nor did he

Ipossess, as think, a scientific mind. He published, in

vol. lxxvi. of the ' Philosophical Transactions,' a paper

on Ocular Spectra, which Wheatstone told me was a

remarkable production for the period ; but I believe that

he was largely aided in writing it by his father. He was
Ielected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1788.
                                                 cannot

tell why my father's mind did not appear to me fitted for

advancing science, for he was fond of theorising, and was

incomparably the most acute observer whom I ever knew.

But his powers in this direction were exercised almost

wholly in the practice of medicine and in the observation
of human character. He intuitively recognised the dis

position or character, and even read the thoughts, of those

with whom he came into contact, with extraordinary
astuteness. This skill partly accounts for his great
                        LIFE OF

success as a physician, for it impressed his patients with

belief in him ; and my father used to say that the art of

gaining confidence was the chief element in a doctor's

worldly success."
    Sensitive, sociable, a good talker, high-spirited and

somewhat irascible, a man who admitted no one to his

friendship whom he could not thoroughly respect, the
friend of the poor, prescribing gratuitously to all who
were needy, pre-eminent for sympathy, which for a time
made him hate his profession for the constant suffering

it brought before his eyes --such was Charles Darwin's

father. Miss Meteyard, in her " Group of Englishmen,"
1 87 1, gives a vivid picture of the old doctor, his acknow
ledged supremacy in Shrewsbury, his untiring activity and
ubiquity, his great dinner parties, his liberal and rather
unpopular opinions, tolerated for the sake of his success
in curing his patients. His face, powerful, unimpassioned,
mild, and thoughtful, was always the same as he rolled
through the streets and lanes, for he sat "as though
carved in stone." His love of children was marked.
" He would address them in his small, high-pitched

falsetto voice, and if their answers pleased him he would

reply ; and occasionally, lifting them on to a chair or table,
he would measure their heads with his broad hand, as

though reading character, and mentally prognosticating
 their future fate."

    The successful doctor bought a piece of land near the
 Holyhead road, and built on it a large square house, of
 plain architecture, which from its charming position, a
 hundred feet above the Severn, received the name of
                       DARWIN.                                              17

" The Mount." 1 Having thus provided the nest, in 1 796

he brought home his wife, Susannah Wedgwood, eldest

daughter of the celebrated potter, to whom he was

married at Marylebone Church on April 18th.

The character and education of Charles Darwin's

mother is a matter of considerable interest, notwithstand

ing that her death when he was only eight years old cut

short her opportunities of influencing him. She was born

at Burslem in January, 1765, and a year after her father
                       " fine,                              "
describes  her as a             sprightly            lass      she became   his
                                                           :

best-beloved child. She was partly educated in London,

under the eye of her father's partner, the accomplished

Thomas Bentley, in whose heart she won as tender a place

as in her father's. Later she continued her education at

home with her brothers, under good tuition. Many

visits were exchanged between the Darwins and the

1 " The house is seen," says Mr. Woodall, " from the line imme

diately beyond the low tower of St. George's Church. Visitors who

make a pilgrimage there, after crossing the Welsh Bridge, follow the

main street until St. George's Church is passed, and the continuous

line of houses ceases. The next carriage drive, on the right, cutting
in two a lofty side-walk, is the entrance to The Mount. A short

street of new houses, near St. George's Church, has been called
' Darwin Street ; ' as yet the only public recognition in the town of
the greatest of Salopians. A memorial of a more private character

has been placed in the Unitarian Chapel, in the form of a tablet
                       oifn"scTrihpteioOn ri:g--in'  To the memory
bearing the following                                of Species," born  of  Charles
Robert Darwin, author                                                   in  Shrews

bury, February 12th, 1809. In early life a member and constant
worshipper in this church. Died April 19th, 1882.' Mrs. Darwin,

we believe, was not strict in her adhesion to the communion in

which she had been brought up, but often attended St. Chad's
18 LIFE OF

Wedgwoods, and old Erasmus Darwin became very fond
of Miss Wedgwood. By the time of her marriage she
was matured by much intercourse with notable people, as
well as by extensive reading, and from her experience of
London society and varied travel in England was well
fitted to shine as the county doctor's wife. From her
father, who died in 1795, she had doubtless inherited, in

addition to a handsome fortune, many valuable faculties,
and probably she transmitted more of them to her son
Charles than she herself manifested. Josiah Wedgwood,
over whose career it would be delightful to linger, is well
described by Miss Meteyard in words which might be
precisely applied to Charles Darwin, as " patient, stedfast,
humble, simple, unconscious of half his own greatness,
and yet by this very simplicity, patience, and stedfastness
displaying the high quality of his moral and intellectual
characteristics, even whilst insuring that each step was in

the right direction, and firmly planted." A truly experi

mental genius in artistic manufacture, Wedgwood fore
shadowed a far greater experimental genius in science.

   Before her famous son was born, however, Mrs.
Darwin's health had begun to fail, and in 1807 she wrote
to a friend: "Every one seems young but me." Her

second son (four daughters having preceded him) was
born at The Mount on February 12, 1809, and christened
" Charles Robert," at St. Chad's Church, Shrewsbury, on
November 1 7th following. No doubt her declining health
emphasised her attachment to home pursuits, to quiet
reading, to the luxuriant garden, and to her numerous

domestic pets. The beauty, variety, and tameness of The

Mount pigeons was well known in the town and far
DARWIN.  19

beyond. Mr. Woodall states that one of Darwin's school

fellows, the Rev. W. A. Leighton, remembers him pluck

ing a plant and recalling one of his mother's elementary
lessons in botany. Too soon however the mother was
taken from The Mount; she died in July, 1817, when

Charles was between eight and nine years old.
   The eldest son of Dr. Robert Darwin, on whom the

grandfather's name of Erasmus had been bestowed, is
notable as the intimate friend of the Carlyles. " He had

something of original and sarcastically ingenious in him,"
says Carlyle, in his "Reminiscences," "one of the sin-
cerest, naturally truest, and most modest of men. . . . E.

Darwin it was who named the late Whewell, seeing him
sit, all ear (not all assent), at some of my lectures, ' The

Harmonious Blacksmith.' My dear one had a great

favour for this honest Darwin always ; many a road to
shops, and the like, he drove her in his cab, in those
early days when even the charge of omnibuses was a
consideration, and his sparse utterances, sardonic often,

were a great amusement to her. ' A perfect gentleman,'

she at once discerned him to be, and of sound worth and
kindliness, in the most unaffected form." He died in

1881, aged 77, leaving no memorial to the public of his
undoubtedly great abilities. Like his younger brother,
he was a member of Christ's College, Cambridge, where
he graduated M.B., in 1828.

    Early in 18 17, the closing year of his mother's life,

Charles Darwin was placed at school with the Rev.
George Case, minister of the Shrewsbury Unitarian
church, to which the Darwins were attached, in this
resembling the Wedgwoods. At midsummer, 1818, how
20 LIFE OF

ever, the boy entered Shrewsbury Grammar School, then
under Samuel Butler, afterwards Bishop of Lichfield.
Classics, as ever, formed the staple of the instruction there
afforded, and proved but little to the future naturalist's
taste. Unfortunately for the repute of English schools,
Charles Darwin was little benefited by his schooling;
and Euclid, then an extra subject, constituted, to his
mind, the only bit of real education Shrewsbury school
gave him. Seventy years later, the study of mother
earth and her teeming productions, which Darwin made
so attractive, is still but scantily represented in the in
struction afforded by our great schools.

   Thus out of sympathy with the prevalent studies, the
youth showed no fondness for his schoolfellows' sports.
He was reserved, frequently lost in thought, and fond of
long solitary rambles, according to one schoolfellow, the
Rev. W. A. Leighton ; another, the Rev. John Yardley,
Vicar of St. Chad's, Shrewsbury, remembers him as
cheerful, good-tempered, and communicative. One of
the recorded incidents of his boyish days is a fall from
the old Shrewsbury wall, while walking in a "brown
study." Even at this early period he was fond of col
lecting objects which many schoolboys delight in, such
as shells and minerals, seals, franks, and coins ; and the
mechanical aptitude derived from both the Darwins and
the Wedgwoods was manifested by keen interest in
mechanism. One especially remembered youthful treat
was when his uncle Josiah Wedgwood explained to
him the principle of the vernier. No doubt the pigeons,
the exotics, the shrubs and flowers of his father's grounds
impressed themselves indelibly on the boy's mind and
DARWIN.  21

unconsciously prepared him for his future. Schooldays
were for him fortunately not protracted, for in 1825, at

the age of sixteen, he went to Edinburgh University,

where his father and grandfather had likewise studied,
with the idea of devoting himself to medicine. The

youth of sixteen was well equipped with the results of

long thinking and observing rather than with book-

learning, and was prepared to play an independent part
without noise and show, assimilating that which com

mended itself to his mind, and rejecting that which

found no appropriate soil in him, in a manner character
istic of genuine originality.
                       CHAPTER II.

WHEN Charles Darwin went to Edinburgh, the
            university was not in one of its palmiest
periods. The medical professors failed to attract him
to their profession, and two years of Edinburgh satisfied
him that medicine should not absorb him. With natural
history the case was different. Its attractiveness for
Darwin increased. He found congenial companionship
in the Edinburgh Plinian Society, and Mr. W. F.
Ainsworth relates (in Tlie Athentzum, May 13, 1882)
that Darwin and himself made frequent excursions on the
shores of the Firth of Forth in pursuit of objects of
natural history, sometimes visiting the coasts of Fifeshire,
and sometimes the islands off the coast. On one occa
sion, accompanied by Dr. Greville, the botanist, they
went to the Isle of May, and were both exceedingly
amused at the effect produced upon the eminent author
of the Scottish Cryptogamic Flora by the screeching of the
kittiwakes and other water-fowl. He had actually to lie
down on the greensward to enjoy his prolonged cachin-
nation. On another occasion the young naturalists were
benighted on Inch Keith, but found refuge in the light

house.

    Darwin was now not merely a collector and exploring
LIFE OF DARWIN.  23

naturalist, but he observed biological facts of importance.

On the 27th of March, 1827, he made a communication
to the Plinian Society on the ova, or rather larvae, of the

Flustra or sea-mat, a member of the class Polyzoa, forming
a continuous mat-like colony of thousands of organisms

leading a joint-stock existence. He announced that he
had discovered in these larvae organs of locomotion, then

so seldom, now so frequently, known to exist on such

bodies. At the same time, he made known that the

small black body which until that time had been
mistaken for the young state of a species of seaweed,
was in reality the egg of Pontobdella murkata, a sort of
sea-leech. On the 3rd of April following, the discoverer
exhibited specimens of the latter creature with eggs and

young.

   In making these researches, Darwin was no doubt

stimulated and aided by the teaching of Dr. Grant,
afterwards Professor of Natural History at Univer

sity College, London, who was then at Edinburgh,
making discoveries in the structure of sponges. Pro

fessor Jameson, too, who was then forming his splendid
museum of natural history, cannot fail to have influenced

Darwin somewhat; and we find that the first lecture

doef athlinegcowncitlhudin"gThpeortPiohniloosof pJahmy esoofn'sZozooloolgoyg,i"calhacdourtshee,
suggestive title of " The Origin of the Species of Animals."

Thus we must acknowledge that already at Edinburgh
Darwin was fairly started in the paths of zoological

inquiry, and the northern university must be admitted
to share with Cambridge, the distinction of being the
foster-parent of this giant- child.
24 LIFE OF

Medicine being distasteful, Edinburgh had no other

distinctive charms to offer to young Darwin, and he was

entered at Christ's College, Cambridge, early in 1828,

with the idea of his becoming a clergyman of the Church

of England. It might have been thought that there was

scant stimulus for a biological student in the Cambridge

of that period ; but although the old literary and mathe

matical studies were still the only paths to a degree, there

were men of original force and genius at work preparing

the ground for a coming revolution. Sedgwick was

teaching geology with the fire of a prophet, and Henslow

as a botanist was showing that lessons of enthralling inte

rest were to be learned from the humblest flower. Henslow

especially attracted young Darwin, who never forgot his

old teacher. In the preface to the journal of his voyage

in the Beagle he returns his most sincere thanks to

IProfessor Henslow, " who," he says, " when was an un

dergraduate at Cambridge, was one chief means of giving

me a taste for natural history ; who, during my absence,

Itook charge of the collections sent home, and by his

correspondence directed my endeavours --and who,

since my return, has constantly rendered me every

assistance which the kindest friend could offer."

No better idea of Darwin's Cambridge days can be

given than that which is derived from reading his

account of Professor Henslow, contributed to the Rev.

L. Jenyns's "Memoirs" of that accomplished man. There

can be no doubt, also, that in thus pourtraying the

character of another, he was at the same time, as Mr.
              " unconsciously giving most accurate
Romanes puts  it,
                                                         a

description of his own."
              DARWIN.                                                           25

  I" went to Cambridge," wrote Darwin, " early in the

year 1828, and soon became acquainted, through some

of my brother entomologists,1 with Professor Henslow,

for all who cared for any branch of natural history

were equally encouraged by him. Nothing could be

more simple, cordial, and unpretending than the en

couragement which he afforded to all young naturalists.

I soon became intimate with him, for he had a remark

able power of making the young feel completely at

ease with him ; though we were all awe-struck with
                                      Before I saw him
the amount of his knowledge.
I heard one young man sum up his attainments by
Isimply saying that he knew everything. When reflect

how immediately we felt at perfect ease with a man

Iolder and in every way so immensely our superior,

think it was as much owing to the transparent sincerity

of his character, as to his kindness of heart, and,

   1 This  tshtaattemgeenotlogybywaDsarDwainrwind'isspo"sesfirstof loMver."  Grant Allen's
                                                                             (p. 36). He
assertion

reckoned himself an entomologist when he went to Cambridge, and

certainly Mr. Ainsworth's statement shows that he was a naturalist
in a wide sense while at Edinburgh. C. V. Riley, the well-known

American entomologist, says (Proceedings   of      the "                     Biological
                                                                               have the
Society of Washington, U.S., vol.          p.     70)
           a                        1882,                                    I

                           i.,

                                   a
authority of my late associate editor of The American Entomolo

gist, Benjamin Dann Walsh, who was class-mate of Darwin's at

Cambridge, that the latter's love of natural history was chiefly

manifested, while there, in fine collection of insects." Indeed, he

was one of the original members of the Entomological Society of

London, founded in 1833, and showed an active interest in its affairs
throughout life, being elected a member of its council in 1838. As

early as January 4, 1836, memoir based on insects sent home by
           a

Darwin from Chiloe, was read before the Society by Charles

Babington, now Professor of Botany at Cambridge.
26 LIFE OF .

 perhaps, even still more to a highly remarkable absence
 in him of all self-consciousness. One perceived at once
 that he never thought of his own varied knowledge or
 clear intellect, but solely on the subject in hand.
Another charm, which must have struck every one, was
that his manner to old and distinguished persons and to
the youngest student was exactly the same : to all he

showed the most winning courtesy. He would receive

with interest the most trifling observation in any branch
of natural history, and however absurd a blunder one
might make, he pointed it out so clearly and kindly, that
one left him in no way disheartened, but only determined

to be more accurate the next time. In short, no man

could be better formed to win the entire confidence of
the young, and to encourage them in their pursuits.

    " His lectures on botany were universally popular,

and as clear as daylight. So popular were they, that
several of the older members of the university attended
successive courses. Once every week he kept open
house in the evening, and all who cared for natural

history attended these parties, which, by thus favouring
intercommunication, did the same good in Cambridge,
in a very pleasant manner, as the scientific societies do

in London. At these parties many of the most distin

Iguished members of the university occasionally attended;

and when only a few were present, have listened to the
great men of those days conversing on all sorts of sub
jects, with the most varied and brilliant powers. This
was no small advantage to some of the younger men, as
it stimulated their mental activity and ambition. Two
or three times in each session he took excursions with
               DARWIN.            27

his botanical class, either a long walk to the habitat of

some rare plant, or in a barge down the river to the fens,

or in coaches to some more distant place, as to Gamlin-

gay, to see the wild lily-of-the-valley, and to catch on

the heath the rare natter-jack. These excursions have

left a delightful impression on my mind. He was, on
such occasions, in as good spirits as a boy, and laughed

as heartily as a boy at the misadventures of those who

chased the splendid swallow-tail butterflies across the

broken and treacherous fens. He used to pause every

now and then and lecture on some plant or other object ;
and something he could tell us on every insect, shell, or

fossil collected, for he had attended to every branch of

natural history. After our day's work we used to dine

at some inn or house, and most jovial we then were. I

believe all who joined these excursions will agree with

me that they have left an enduring impression of delight

on our minds.
I"As time passed on at Cambridge
                                  became very

intimate with Professor Henslow, and his kindness was

unbounded ; he continually asked me to his house, and

allowed me to accompany him in his walks. He talked

on all subjects, including his deep sense of religion, and
I Iwas entirely open.
               owe more than can express to

this excellent man. His kindness was steady. When

Captain Fitzroy offered to give up part of his own cabin
to any naturalist who would join the expedition in H.M.S.

Beagle, Professor Henslow recommended me as one

who knew very little, but who, he thought, would work.

I was strongly attached to natural history, and this
Iattachment owed in large part to him. During the
28 LIFE OF

five years' voyage he regularly corresponded with me,

and guided my efforts ; he received, opened, and took
care of all the specimens sent home in many large boxes;

Ibut firmly believe that, during these five years, it never

once crossed his mind that he was acting towards me

with unusual and generous kindness.
I" During the years when
                          associated so much with
IProfessor Henslow never once saw his temper even

ruffled. He never took an ill-natured view of any one's

character, though very far from blind to the foibles of

others. It always struck me that his mind could not be

even touched by any paltry feeling of vanity, envy, or
jealousy. With all this equability of temper and re
markable benevolence, there was no insipidity of cha

racter. A man must have been blind not to have

perceived that beneath this placid exterior there was a

vigorous and determined will. When principle came

into play no power on earth could have turned him one

hair's breadth. . . .

  I" In intellect, as far as could judge, accurate powers

of observation, sound sense, and cautious judgment

seemed predominant. Nothing seemed to give him so

much enjoyment as drawing conclusions from minute ob

servations. But his admirable memoir on the geology of

Anglesea shows his capacity for extended observations and

broad views. Reflecting over his character with gratitude
and reverence, his moral attributes rise, as they should
do in the highest character, in pre-eminence over his

intellect."

   The young man's modesty is conspicuous in the above
narrative. He does not see how his own transparent
                  DARWIN.                                   29

candour, his desire to learn, his respect for those who

were already masters of science, won upon the great

men with whom he came in contact. It was by no
means as " one who knew very little " that Henslow
recommended Darwin to Captain Fitzroy, but as "a

young man of promising ability, extremely fond of
geology, and indeed all branches of natural history."
" In consequence," says Fitzroy, " an offer was made to

Mr. Darwin to be my guest on board, which he accepted

conditionally. Permission was obtained for his embar

kation, and an order given by the Admiralty that he

should be borne on the ship's books for provisions. The

conditions asked by Mr. Darwin were, that he should be

at liberty to leave the Beagle and retire from the ex

pedition when he thought proper, and that he should

pay a fair share  of the expenses of  my  table."   degree  in
   Darwin had     taken an ordinary   or
                                          " poll "

1 83 1, and was admitted a Master of Arts in 1837. In the

interval he had become truly a Master of Science, which

at that time was adequately recognised by no university in
the British dominions. The memorable voyage of the

Beagle, a little barque of 242 tons, was at first delayed
by heavy gales which twice drove her back ; but she

finally sailed from Devonport on December 27, 1831.
The object of the expedition was to complete the

survey of Patagonia and Tierra del Fuego, to survey the
shores of Chili, Peru, and some Pacific Islands, and to

carry a chain of chronometrical measurements round the

world.

Professor Henslow's interest in his young pupil's

progress is shown by the fact that in 1835 (December 1)
80 LIFE OF

he printed some extracts from his letters, for distribution

among the members of the Cambridge Philosophical

Society, in consequence of the notice excited by some

geological observations they contained, which had been

read before the society on the 16th of November previous.

The following points having a personal reference to

the traveller may be quoted. On August 15, 1832,

Darwin wrote from Monte Video, " I might collect a far

greater number of specimens of invertebrate animals if

II took up less time over each : but have come to the

conclusion that two animals with their original colour

and shape noted down will be more valuable to natura

lists than six with only dates and place." Here we see the

accuracy which was the source of much of his after-

success. On November 24, 1832, he writes from

Ithe same place, " As for one little toad, hope it may

be new, that it may be christened ' Diabolicus.' Milton

must allude to this very individual, when he talks of
' squat like a toad.' " In
Falkland Island, he says,   March, 1834,  writing from East
                                          of the east coast
                            " The whole

of the southern part of South America has been elevated

from the ocean since a period during which mussels have

not lost their blue colour." Describing his examination

of the central peaks of the Andes in Chili, he says,
"I IApril 18, 1835,
                    cannot tell you how much

enjoyed some of these views ; it is worth coming from

England, once to feel such intense delight. At an

elevation of from ten to twelve thousand feet, there

is a transparency in the air, and a confusion of distances,

and a sort of stillness, which give the sensation of being

in another world."
DARWIN.  31

    Coming now to Darwin's Journal as first published in
 1839, forming the third volume of Fitzroy's narrative,

 the 7 th of January, 1832, on which the Peak of

 Teneriffe was seen suddenly illumined, while the lower

 parts were veiled in fleecy clouds, is noted as "the first
 of many delightful days never to be forgotten." On the

 1 6th the Cape de Verde Islands were reached, and their
 volcanic geology was carefully explored. Darwin was
 already equipped with the first volume of Lyell's famous

 "Principles of Geology," published in 1830, the second
 following in 1832; and in the second edition of his

journal, published in 1845, he acknowledges with grateful

pleasure " that the chief part of whatever scientific merit
this journal and the other works of the author may

 possess, has been derived from studying the well-known

and admirable 'Principles of Geology.' " He was already
noting the diffusion of minute organisms and impalpable

 dust by winds,1 and was much surprised to find in some

 dust collected on a vessel 300 miles from land particles
of stone more than a thousandth of an inch square.
After this, he remarks, one need not be surprised at the
diffusion of the far lighter and smaller sporules of crypto-

gamous plants.
    The volcanic island of St. Paul in the open Atlantic

was touched at on February 16th, and it afforded the

young naturalist a text for destroying the pretty ideas

   1 Mr. Grant Allen (" Darwin," p. 42) states that Darwin observed

'sixty-seven distinct organic forms in the fine dust which fell on deck.

It was Ehrenberg who determined these organisms in dust sent to

him by Darwin, and four out of five of the packets of dust sent to
 Ehrenberg were given to Darwin by Lyell (Darwin's Journal,
 second edition, p. 5).
32 LIFE OF

as to stately palms and birds taking possession of newly-
formed oceanic land; at any rate, here were only two
species of sea birds, no plants, and the fauna was com
pleted by a number of insects and spiders of no very
exalted habits. Fernando Noronha was passed on
February 20th, and at last the South American conti

nent was reached.

   On February 29th, at Bahia, Darwin describes his first
day in a Brazilian forest, in a passage which is of special
interest. "The day has passed delightfully. Delight itself,
however, is a weak term to express the feelings of a
naturalist who, for the first time, has wandered by him
self in a Brazilian forest. The elegance of the grasses,
the novelty of the parasitical plants, the beauty of the
flowers, the glossy green of the foliage, but, above all,
the general luxuriance of the vegetation, filled me with

admiration. A most paradoxical mixture of sound and

silence pervades the shady parts of the wood. The noise
from the insects is so loud that it may be heard even in

a vessel anchored several hundred yards from the shore ;
yet within the recesses of the forest a universal silence

appears to reign. To a person fond of natural history,

such a day as this brings with it a deeper pleasure than

he can ever hope to experience again."

   Arriving at Rio de Janeiro early in April, Darwin made

several excursions into the interior during the following
three months. On these expeditions it was rarely indeed
that decent accommodation could be procured at the
inns. " On first arriving," he says, " it was our custom
to unsaddle the horses and give them their Indian corn ;
then, with a low bow, to ask the senhor to do us thq
                    DARWIN.  83

favour to give us something to eat. 'Anything you choose,

sir,' was his usual answer. For the few first times, vainly

I thanked Providence for having guided us to so good a

man. The conversation proceeding, the case universally
became deplorable. ' Any fish can you do us the favour
of giving?' 'Oh, no, sir!' 'Any soup?' 'No, sir!' 'Any

bread?' 'Oh, no, sir!' 'Any dried meat?' 'Oh, no, sir!'

If we were lucky, by waiting a couple of hours, we ob
tained fowls, rice, and farinha. It not unfrequently

happened that we were obliged to kill, with stones, the

poultry for our own supper. When, thoroughly exhausted

by fatigue and hunger, we timorously hinted that we

should be glad of our meal, the pompous and (though

Iftrue) most unsatisfactory answer was, ' It will be ready
when it is ready!'  we had dared to remonstrate any

further, we should have been told to proceed on our

journey, as being too impertinent. The hosts are most

ungracious and disagreeable in their manners ; their

houses and their persons are often filthily dirty; the

want of the accommodation of forks, knives, and spoons

Iis common ; and am sure no cottage or hovel in England

could be found in a state so utterly destitute of every

comfort."

When we add to these discomforts on land the

fact that the young traveller was a constant sufferer
from sea-sickness and nausea, which became chronic,

it becomes more surprising that he should not have with
drawn early from his adventurous course. But his energy

and resolution were equal to any drafts upon them,
and the delights of the study of nature outweighed all

physical discomforts. Admiral J. Lort Stokes in a letter

                    3
34 LIFE OF

to The Times, after the death of his old friend and com

rade in the Beagle, described how after perhaps an

Ihour's work he would say, " Old fellow, must take the

horizontal for it." Then he would stretch himself on one

side of the table, and obtain a brief relief from discom

fort, after which he would resume work.

Some remarks which Darwin makes upon slavery in

South America are very forcible, and also illustrate his own

sympathetic nature. Here is one incident which struck

him more than any story of cruelty, as showing the

degradation of slavery. " I was crossing a ferry with a

negro, who was uncommonly stupid. In endeavouring

to make him understand, I talked loud, and made signs,
in doing which I passed my hand near his face. He, I
suppose, thought I was in a passion, and was going to

strike him ; for instantly, with a frightened look and half-

Ishut eyes, he dropped his hands. shall never forget my

feelings of surprise, disgust, and shame, at seeing a great

powerful man afraid even to ward off a blow, directed,

as he thought, at his face. This man had been trained

to a degradation lower than the slavery of the most help

less animal."

In one of the numerous additions to the second

Iissue of the Journal in

eloquently from his heart
                1845,  Darwin speaks thus
                       the 19th of August
               : " On

[1836], we finally left the shores of Brazil.  thank God
I shall never again visit a slave-country. To this day, if
I hear a distant scream, it recalls with painful vividness
my feelings when, passing a house near Pernambuco, I

heard the most pitiable moans, and could not but suspect

that some poor slave was being tortured, yet knew that I
      DAR WIN.                                      35

Iwas as powerless as a child, even to remonstrate.  sus

pected that these moans were from a tortured slave, for

I was told that this was the case in another instance.

Near Rio de Janeiro I lived opposite to an old lady, who
Ikept screws to crush the fingers of her female slaves.

have stayed in a house where a young household mulatto,

daily and hourly, was reviled, beaten, and persecuted
Ienough to break the spirit of the lowest animal.
                                                   have

seen a little boy, six or seven years old, struck thrice with

Ia horse-whip (before could interfere) on his naked head,
Ifor having handed me a glass of water not quite clean ;

... Isaw his father tremble at a mere glance from his master's
eye.  will not even allude to the many heart-
sickening atrocities which I authentically heard of ; nor
Iwould have mentioned the above revolting details, had
I not met with several people, so blinded by the consti

tutional gaiety of the negro, as to speak of slavery as a

tolerable evil. . . . Those who look tenderly at the slave

owner, and with a cold heart at the slave, never seem to

put themselves into the position of the latter. What a

cheerless prospect, with not even a hope of change !

Picture to yourself the chance, ever hanging over you,

of your wife and your little children -- those objects which
nature urges even the slave to call his own --being torn

from you, and sold like beasts to the first bidder \ And

these deeds are done and palliated by men who profess

to love their neighbours as themselves, who believe in

God, and pray that His will be done on earth!"

Such burning expressions are not yet superfluous, and

it is wholesome to recall to a generation which scarcely

realises the past miseries of slavery, and is too apt to
30 LIFE OF

rest content with what has been accomplished in diminish

ing the sufferings of slaves, white and black, the impression

produced on a scientific man by what he saw. It is well,

too, that it should be brought forcibly home to English

men that Darwin's heart was no less sympathetic than

his intelligence was far-seeing, and that the testimony of

friends of late years to his moral grandeur is corroborated

by the personal records of his years of travel.

The variety and interest of the observations made

during his stay at Rio, when tropical nature was still

a fresh and unexplored page to the young observer, are

wonderful. Cabbage palms, liana creepers, luxuriant

fern leaves -- roads, bridges, and soil--planarian worms,

frogs which climbed perpendicular sheets of glass, the

light of fireflies, brilliant butterflies, fights between

spiders and wasps, the victories of ants over difficulties,

the habits of monkeys, the little Brazilian boys prac
tising knife-throwing -- all these came in turn under his

watchful eyes and are vividly described.

   In July, 1832, Monte Video was reached, and the

Beagle was occupied in surveying the extreme southern
and eastern coasts of America, south of La Plata, during

the succeeding two years. During ten weeks at

Maldonado an entertaining excursion to the River

Polanco was made, and many a humorous remark
                                         " The greater num
appears in the Journal relating to  it.

ber of the inhabitants [of European descent] had an
indistinct idea that England, London, and North

America were different names for the same place; but

the better-informed well knew that London and North

America were separate countries close together, and that
DARWIN.  37

England was a large town in London ! " " Washing my

face in the morning caused much speculation at the

village of Las Minas ; a superior tradesman closely

cross-questioned me about so singular a practice."
Among these rich descendants of Europeans Darwin felt

as if he were among the inhabitants of Central Africa ;

so low can the proud superior race descend, that the

distance between it and the negro appeared small indeed.

The remarkable absence of trees in the country could
not fail to provoke comment; but it is on the old-

fashioned basis, and the young student does not get

beyond the conclusion " that herbaceous plants, instead
of trees, were created to occupy that wide area, which,

within a period not very remote, has been raised above
the waters of the sea." This appears in the first edition ;

but in 1845 these words were expunged, and the author
says significantly "we must look to some other and

unknown cause."

   At Maldonado within the distance of a morning's
walk no fewer than eighty species of birds were collected,
most of them exceedingly beautiful. Darwin's observa
tions on the molothri (representatives of our cuckoos),

the tyrant fly-catchers, and the carrion-feeding hawks are

most attractive reading. Rio Negro, much further
south, was next visited, and the fauna of a salt lake
examined. The adaptation of creatures to live in and
near brine struck him as wonderful. "Well may we
affirm," says he, "that every part of the world is
habitable ! Whether lakes of brine, or those subterranean
ones, hidden beneath volcanic mountains --warm mineral
springs -- the wide expanse and depths of the ocean -- the
38 LIFE OF

upper regions of the atmosphere, and even the surface of
perpetual snow -- all support organic beings." Here he

found reason to believe that all the great plains which he

was surveying had been raised above the sea level in a

modern geological period.

   Our naturalist started by land for Bahia Blanca and

Buenos Ayres on August n, 1833, and we have the

Irecord : " This was the first night which had ever passed

under the open sky,'with the gear of the recado for my

bed. There is high enjoyment in the independence of the

Gaucho's life, to be able at any moment to pull up your
horse, and say, ' Here we will pass the night.' The

deathlike stillness of the plain, the dogs keeping watch,

the gipsy group of Gauchos making their beds round the

fire, have left in my mind a strongly-marked picture of

this first night, which will not soon be forgotten." After

an interesting rencontre with General Rosas, Bahia Blanca

was reached, and at Punta Alta were found many of the

fossil bones which Owen subsequently described, this

point being a perfect catacomb, as Darwin terms
a                                                                                       for
                    a

                         It

                                                                    aa
                                                                                   it,
monsters of extinct races. The remains of nine great

kinds of quadrupeds chiefly allied to the sloths were

found embedded on the beach within space of about

two hundred yards square; and these were associated

with shells of molluscs of still existing species. Here

was indeed remarkable fact to germinate in the great

naturalist's mind.         bore full  fruit  at     later date. An
 important theory   then current,     that   large  animals require

luxuriant vegetation, was overthrown at the same time,

for there was every reason to believe that the sterility of

the surrounding country was no new thing. The South
DARWIN.  89

American ostrich and many other animals here afforded
material for important observations.

    On the way to Buenos Ayres, the rugged Sierra de la
Ventana, a white quartz mountain, was ascended.

Buenos Ayres was reached on September 20, 1833, and
no time was lost in arranging for an expedition to Santa

T6, nearly 300 miles up the Parana. On October 3,

Santa Fe" was entered, and near it many more remains
of large extinct mammals were found. The remains of a
horse, in a similar fossil condition, greatly astonished
our explorer, for it seemed indeed surprising that in
South America a native horse should have co-existed

with giant extinct forms, and should itself have become
extinct, to be succeeded in modern times by the count
less herds descended from the few horses introduced by

the Spanish colonists. These and other strange facts in
the distribution of mammalian animals in America led

Darwin to make some pregnant comments. The enor

mous number of large bones embedded in the estuary
deposits became continually more evident, until he came
to the conclusion that the whole area of the Pampas was

one wide sepulchre.
    Unfortunately ill-health compelled the explorer to

return, and on October 1 2th he started for Buenos Ayres
in a small vessel. During this journey he had an
opportunity of examining the shifting and variable
islands of the muddy Parana, on which the jaguar
thrives. Arrived at Las Conchas, a revolution had
 broken out, and Darwin was detained to a certain
 extent under surveillance ; but by the influence of

 General Rosas' name, he was allowed to pass the
40 LIFE OF

sentinels, leaving his guide and horses behind, and
ultimately reached Buenos Ayres in safety. After a fort
night's delay, Monte Video was once more made for.
Here it appeared that the Beagle would remain some
time longer, so the restless inquirer started on another

expedition, this time up the Uruguay and Rio Negro.
One of the halts was at the house of a very large landed
proprietor. A friend of the proprietor's, a runaway

captain from Buenos Ayres, was very anxious to have
the traveller's opinion on the beauty of the Buenos
Ayres ladies, and on receiving satisfactory assurances,
voluntarily gave up his bed to the stranger ! During
this journey amazing quantities of huge thistles were met
with, the cardoon being as high as a horse's back, while

the Pampas thistle rose above the rider's head. To

leave the road for a yard was out of the question.
Incidentally the writer describes fully the horsemanship of
the Gauchos, and gives a vivid picture of the state of
society in the towns.

   During this journey, too, a peculiar breed of small
cattle, called niata, was observed, but full details
were not given till the second edition of the Journal
appeared. This breed is strangely at a disadvantage in
droughts, compared with ordinary cattle ; their lower jaws
project beyond the upper, and their lips do not join,
rendering them unable to browse on twigs. " This strikes
me," says Darwin, "as a good illustration of how little
we are able to judge from the ordinary habits of life, on

what circumstances, occurring only at long intervals, the
rarity or extinction of a species may be determined."
By the time this appeared, however, in 1845, the author
had embarked on his great investigation.
DARWIN.  41

   Th# Rio Plata was quitted on December 6, 1833,
and sail was made for Port Desire, on the coast of
Patagonia. One evening, ten miles from the Bay of San
Bias, myriads of butterflies filled the air, so that the
seamen cried out that it was snowing butterflies. The
flight seemed to be voluntary. On another occasion

many beetles were found alive and swimming, seventeen
miles from the nearest land. But these instances were

insignificant compared with the alighting of a large
grasshopper on the Beagle, when to windward of the

Cape de Verde Islands, and when the nearest land, in a

direction not opposed to the prevailing trade wind, was
370 miles distant. Marvellous appearances of spiders
far from land were also noted. One day when the ship
was sixty miles from land vast numbers of a small gossa
mer spider arrived. Its habits in fact were aeronautic ; it

would send forth a small thread, and suddenly letting go

its hold, would sail away horizontally.

   The Beagle arrived at Port Desire on December 23,
1833, but Patagonia afforded less of interest to the
zoologist than the northern countries. The next halt

was made at Port St. Julian, no miles further south, on

January 9, 1834. Here the evidences of the modern
elevation of Patagonia were powerfully reinforced, and
further, from the nature of the animal remains arose the

conviction that "existing animals have a close relation
in form with extinct species," another of the germinal
facts which bore fruit in the " Origin of Species." Darwin

was led to speculate on the causes which could have

extinguished so many great species, and he remarks most
suggestively : " One is tempted to believe in such simple
42 LIFE OF

relations as variation of climate and food, or intro

duction of enemies, or the increased numbers of other
species, as the cause of the succession of races." But
he does not yet go farther. He ends his reflections by

observing : " All that at present can be said with certainty

is that, as with the individual, so with the species, the

hour of life has run its course, and is spent."

   In the second edition of the Journal the philosopher
showed signs of considerable advance (pp. 1 74-5). The
effect of changed conditions is further developed. The

checks to indefinite multiplication are insisted on, while

the tendency of every species to increase geometrically

is clearly pointed out. In the place of the former con
cluding sentence we find the following : " To admit that

species generally become rare before they become

extinct-- to feel no surprise at the comparative rarity of

one species with another, and yet to call in some extra

ordinary agent and to marvel greatly when a species

ceases to exist, appears to me much the same as to admit

that sickness in the individual is the prelude to death --
to feel no surprise at sickness -- but when the sick man

dies, to wonder, and to believe that he died through

violence."

   The continental regions of South America did not
supply the sole food for the reflections of the young
naturalist during this period. An intervening visit had

been paid, in December, 1832, and January, 1833, to

Tierra del Fuego, and the natives were most carefully

observed.   He was greatly struck by their low condition ;

" one can   hardly make oneself believe they are fellow

creatures, and inhabitants of the same world." Yet
DARWIN.  43

these abject people have been infinitely raised since that
period by missionaries, and Darwin, hearing of this

success, which he termed wonderful, sent a donation

to the South American Missionary Society.

   The Falkland Islands were explored both in 1833

and 1834, and the Straits of Magellan were carefully
examined, and many valuable geological facts recorded.

The southern portion of the continent was at last
quitted for Chili, Valparaiso being reached on July 23,

1834. After Tierra del Fuego this was a delightful
change, and here Darwin found an old schoolfellow and
friend, Mr. Richard Corfield, who entertained him

hospitably during his stay in Chili. Various expeditions
to the Andes, to Santiago, to gold mines and copper
mines, supplied abundant objects of curiosity and science,

as well as varied visions of beauty; but the fatigues

 undergone had to be paid for by a month's illness at
 Valparaiso, during which Mr. Corfield's kindness was

 unremitting.
     The large island of Chiloe was visited in November,

 and its climate even in summer proved wretched, re
 minding one of some parts of the Hebrides, a week

 without torrents of rain being wonderful. Castro, the

 almost deserted Spanish capital, could not furnish, even
 among hundreds of inhabitants, a pound of sugar or an
 ordinary knife. No one possessed either a watch or a

  clock, and the church bell was rung by guess by an old
 man who was supposed to have the best notion of time.

    In December the rugged Chonos Archipelago, still

  further south, was explored. Here a storm worthy of

 Tierra del Fuego was experienced. " White, massive
44 LIFE OF

clouds were piled up against a dark blue sky, and across

them black, ragged sheets of vapour were rapidly driven.

The successive mountain ranges appeared like dim

shadows; and the setting sun cast on the woodland a

yellow gleam, much like that produced by the flame of

spirits of wine on a man's countenance. The water was

white with the flying spray; and the wind lulled and

roared again through the rigging. It was a most

ominous, sublime scene." While near Tres Montes the
year 1835 was ushered in, as Darwin says, " with the
ceremonies proper to it in these regions. She lays out

no false hopes ; a heavy N.W. gale, with steady rain,

bespeaks the rising year. Thank God, we are not destined

here to see the end of but hope then to be in the
      a                                                             heaven --
                        it,
Pacific, where blue sky tells one there                       is
                                                                 a

a  something beyond the sky above our heads."

   Valdivia being reached in February, the Beagle party
were witnesses of severe earthquake. Darwin was on
                a

shore, lying down in the wood to rest. The effect pro

duced upon him  by the motion he experienced was very
                was no difficulty in standing upright, but
marked " There
   :

the motion made me almost giddy.
                   a                        was something
                        a

                                         a

                                       It
like the movement of vessel in little cross ripple, or

still more like that felt by person skating over thin ice,

which bends under the weight of his body. A bad earth

quake at once destroys the oldest associations the
                                                                    ;
world, the very emblem of all that solid, has moved
                   a                                                       in
                                        aa

                                             is

                                                           ;
beneath our feet like crust over fluid one second of

time has conveyed to the mind     strange idea of in

security, which hours of reflection would never have

.created." By the same earthquake every house
DARWIN.  45

Concepcion (afterwards visited) was thrown down, and a
most impressive sight met the travellers.

  Arriving at Valparaiso again on March n, 1835, after

only an interval of two days the indefatigable explorer

started to cross the Cordillera by the seldom traversed
Portillo pass. Here geological observations were abun
dant. The roar of the mountain torrents spoke elo

quently to the geologist. " The thousands and thousands

of stones, which, striking against each other, make the
one dull uniform sound, are all hurrying in one direction.

It is like thinking of time, when the minute that now

glides past is irrecoverable. So it is with these stones ;
the ocean is their eternity, and each note of that wild
music tells of one other step towards their destiny." Who

can fail to discern in such a passage the poetic instinct

which Erasmus Darwin more fully manifested ?
   Mendozawas reached on March 27th, and on the 29th

the return journey by the northern or Uspallata pass was
commenced. On the 10th of April Santiago was again
arrived at, and Mr. Caldcleugh most hospitably welcomed

the traveller, delighted with his expedition. " Never,"

Ihe says, "did more deeply enjoy an equal space of

time." Various excursions in Northern Chili and Peru
followed. Little was seen of Peru, owing to the troubled

state of public affairs, and there was very little regret
when the Beagle started early in September on her

journey across the Pacific.
   The Galapagos Islands, with their two thousand

volcanic craters, their apparently leafless bushes and

wretched weeds, their peculiar animals, so unsuspicious,
of man that they did not move when stones were thrown, 1
40 LIFE OF

were extremely interesting to the naturalist, and gave rise
to numerous observations and suggestions in later works.
The huge tortoises slowly carrying their great bodies

about, appeared like strange antediluvian animals. The

hideous large water-lizard (Amblyrhynchus), swimming
with perfect ease, and capable of an hour's immersion in
sea-water; and the land lizard of the same genus, so
numerous that at James Island it was hardly possible to
find a spot free from their burrows, the roofs of which con
stantly give way under the pedestrian, were equally strange
denizens of this group of islands, where reptiles replace
herbivorous mammals. With regard to the last-mentioned
species we find a remark indicating the persistence of a

belief in special creation up to this date. " It would
appear as if this species had been created in the centre

of the Archipelago, and thence had been dispersed only

to a certain distance."

   During the years intervening between the first and
second editions of the Journal, reflection intensified
Darwin's perception of the singularity of the Galapagos
fauna. " Considering the small size of these islands," he
says, "we feel the more astonished at the number of

their aboriginal beings, and at their confined range.
Seeing every height crowned with its crater, and the
boundaries of most of the lava streams still distinct, we

are led to believe that within a period geologically recent
the unbroken sea was here spread out. Hence, both in
space and time, we seem to be brought somewhat nearer
to that great fact -- that mystery of mysteries -- the first
appearance of new beings on this earth." And he after
wards says, " One is astonished at the amount of creative
DARWIN.  47

force, if such an expression may be used, displayed on

these small, barren, and rocky islands ; and still more so
at its diverse yet analogous action in points so near each
other."

    The long voyage to Tahiti, 3,200 miles, begun on
October 20, 1835, ending on November 15th, was suc
ceeded by a most enjoyable stay. Darwin was as de
lighted as any traveller with the charms of the island
and the islanders. His testimony to the quality of
English products is worth noticing, if only as a piece of
natural patriotism. He acknowledges that Tahitian pine
apples are of excellent flavour, perhaps better than those
cultivated in England, and this he believes to be the

highest compliment which can be paid to a fruit, or

indeed to anything else. He found reason to speak
well of the influence of the Christian missionaries on the
natives, and of the conscientiousness of the latter, in

opposition to Kotzebue's narrative.

    On December 19th New Zealand was sighted. Our
traveller's observations here are of much value, as relating

to a late period before civilised government was effectively

established. At Waimate he was delighted with the effects
produced by the religious teacher. " The lesson of the

missionary is the enchanter's wand," and he rejoiced as

an Englishman at what his countrymen had effected.
The remarkable absence of land mammals, the late
enormous increase of the imported Norway rat, the
dock spreading far and wide, its seeds having been sold
as tobacco seeds by a rascally Englishman, the huge
Kauri pines, were all full of import to the inquiring

mind ; but New Zealand proved on the whole less
43 LlP OP

attractive, as seen by Darwin, than most other countries

he had visited. December 30th saw the Beagle on
the way to Sydney, and Port Jackson was reached on
January 12,1 836. An interesting excursion to the Blue

Mountains and to Bathurst showed many aspects of

colonial life, as well as the strange duckbill or platypus

in its native haunts. Tasmania, with which island

Darwin was greatly pleased, was visited in February. In

April the Keeling Islands furnished much of the material

for the future book on coral reefs, the essence of which

    however, included in the Journal. Mauritius, Cape
Town, St. Helena, Ascension, Bahia, Pernambuco, Cape
is,
                                            is

                                                                     2,
Verde, and the Azores were the successive stages of the

homeward journey, and on October 1836, anchor was

cast at Falmouth, where the naturalist, equipped for his

life work, was landed.

The high opinion Captain Fitzroy formed of Darwin

during this long voyage  shown by many passages in

his own narrative, and by many other references. He

paid him the marked compliment of naming no fewer

than three important geographical localities after him,

namely, Mount Darwin and Darwin Sound (Tierra del
Fuego), and Port Darwin in North Australia, thus con

necting his name for future generations with two lands

whose inhabitants were subjects of Darwin's unceasing

interest and investigation throughout life, and served in

no small degree to elucidate the history and rise of man

kind in Darwin's mind and for world's instruction.
                         a
                                                  a

                                                                      ;
Fitzroy complimented his friend markedly when himself

receiving the medal of the Royal Geographical Society
and in one of his papers, speaking of him as zealous
DARWIN.                                                   40

volunteer in the cause of science, observed that his perse

verance might be estimated from the fact that he never

ceased to be a martyr to sea-sickness ; while his interest

in science and his public spirit were evident from his

having presented his valuable collections to the public.

   The concluding pages of the Journal are both eloquent
and instructive. Everywhere there had been fascinating

visions, and attractive problems remained unsolved.

Was it not significant of future studies that the contrast

between barbarian and civilised man should have been
so impressed upon the future author of " The Descent of

Man "? He writes thus on this subject, " Of individual

objects, perhaps no one is more certain to create aston

ishment than the first sight in his native haunt of a real

barbarian, of man in his lowest and most savage state.

One's mind hurries back over past centuries, and then

asks, could our progenitors have been such as these?

Men, whose very signs and expressions are less intelli

gible to us than those of the domesticated animals ; men,

who do not possess the instinct of those animals, nor yet

appear to boast of human reason, or at least of arts con-     

Isequent on that reason.  do not believe it is possible

to describe or paint the difference between savage and

civilised man. It is the difference between a wild and

tame animal : and part of the interest in beholding a

savage, is the same which would lead every one to

desire to see the lion in his desert, the tiger tearing his

prey in the jungle, the rhinoceros on the wide plain, or

the hippopotamus wallowing in the mud of some African

river."

   We have dwelt thus at length upon the history of this

                          4
50 LIFE OF DARWIN.

eventful voyage, not only because it filled an important
space in Darwin's life, but also because it undoubtedly
gave rise to the thoughts and speculations which impelled
him to devote his life to the study of problems of evolu

tion. It has been shown to some extent, how he saw,

without pre-arrangement, just those phenomena which
could stimulate his mind, already fit, to its highest flights.
We have seen, too, how universal was Darwin's interest
in nature, and how sympathetic a heart went with his

scientific insight. He had yet to show how masterly was

his patience, to work for yet twenty years, in order that
he might not by premature publication of a crude theory
risk defeat and throw science backward rather than for

ward. This long patient work was to be the triumph of

his genius.
               CHAPTER III.

ON his return home, Darwin speedily placed himself
           in communication with the leaders of scientific

progress, and, in consequence of the valuable results of

his voyage, he soon found himself in a most advantageous

position. On November 20, 1836, he was elected a
Fellow of the Geological Society, and before the end

of the year he had sent the manuscript of one of his

Iearly papers  to Lyell, who writes to him (December 26,
               have read your paper with the greatest
1836) : "

pleasure. . . . What a splendid field you have to write

upon." He strongly advised the young man not to

accept any official scientific place, but to devote himself

to his own line of work. But Darwin was overpersuaded,

and became a member of the Council of the Geological

Society in the following February, and secretary in
February, 1838. This office he held with success for
three years. Lyell referred in considerable detail to the

young traveller's views in his presidential address to the

Society in 1837.
   Darwin's geological papers soon became numerous.

In 1837 he discussed in succession the recent elevation
          LIFE OF

of the coast of Chili, the deposits containing extinct

mammalia in the neighbourhood of the Plata, the areas

of elevation and subsidence in the Pacific and Indian

Oceans, as deduced from the study of coral formations,

and the formation of mould (the precursor of a work he

issued more than forty years later). Papers on the con
nection of certain volcanic phenomena, and on the

formation of mountain chains, and other geological notes

on South America, were read in 1838 ; the interesting
Parallel Roads of Glen Roy, in Scotland, which he

believed to be of marine origin, were described in 1839;

the erratic (glacial) boulders of South America, in 1841 ;

and coral reefs in 1842: a full record, one would imagine,
of busy years, occupied also with secretarial work. Lyell,

"Iwriting to Sir John Herschel (May 24, 1837), says:

am very full of Darwin's new theory of coral islands, and

Ihave urged Whewell to make him read it at our next
meeting.  must give up my volcanic crater theory for

ever, though it costs me a pang at first." In March,

1838, Lyell describes the reception of the paper on
volcanic phenomena at the Geological Society. " He
opened upon De la Beche, Phillips, and others, his whole
battery of the earthquakes and volcanoes of the Andes j
and argued that spaces of a thousand miles long were

simultaneously subject to earthquakes and volcanic erup
tions, and that the elevation of the Pampas, Patagonia,

&c, all depended upon a common cause." In fit

acknowledgment of such services to science, he was,

elected a Fellow of the Royal Society on January 24,

1839.

   Early in 1839 Darwin married his cousin, Emma^
                             DARWIN.

Wedgwood, daughter of his uncle Josiah Wedgwood :
a union which, though consanguineous, proved in the

highest degree congenial and fortunate. In succeeding

years a numerous family of sons and daughters surrounded

the happy parents. After considerable delays by the

Admiralty, though it had long been ready, the Journal
appeared, in 1839, as the third volume of Fitzroy's
" Voyages of The Adventure and Beagle." The Quarterly

Review (lxv.    224")  said   that   there  could be   no two opinions
of its merits.         We    find   ample   materials  for deep think

ing ; we have the vivid description that fills the mind's

eye with brighter pictures than painter can present, and

the charm arising from the freshness of heart which is

thrown over these virgin pages of a strong intellectual
man, and an acute and deep observer." Its merits,

however, were somewhat slow to become known to the

general public, owing to the original expensive form of

publication ; and it was not till 1845, when the second and

enlarged edition appeared as "The Journal of Researches,"

that the popular ear was gained. Later, under the title,

" A Naturalist's Voyage Round the World," the book has

become very widely known and appreciated.
   The publication of " The Zoology of the Voyage of

The Beagle" commenced in 1838, under Darwin's super

intendence, gave a fuller view of the acquisitions to

natural history which had been made than had previously

been possible. The Treasury, acting on the representa

tions of the presidents of the Linnean, Zoological, and

Geological Societies, as well as of the naturalist himself,

in 1837 made a grant of ^1000 towards the expenses of
publication of these memoirs. Owen's description of the
64 LIFE OF

fossil mammalia, completed in 1840 ; G. Waterhouse's
of the living mammalia, in 1839; Gould's of the birds,
in 184 1 ; L. Jenyns's of the fish, in 1842 ; and Thomas

Bell's of the reptiles, in 1 843 -- all in quarto, with

beautiful plates, were a solid testimony to a splendid
success. Darwin furnished an introduction to each part,
and the portions of the text referring to the habits and
ranges of the living animals. Three species of mastodon
and the gigantic megatherium were the only extinct mam
malia known from South America previous to Darwin's

voyage. To these were now added the Mylodon Darwinii,
a giant sloth; the scelidotherium, a somewhat smaller

form ; the great camel-like, yet odd-toed, macrauchenia;
and the toxodon, as large as a hippopotamus, yet having

a strange resemblance to the little rodents. All these

belonged to geological deposits not far anterior to the
present age. The collections of living vertebrates were
less profoundly interesting, but the number of new
species was large ; and the habits and localities being
recorded by so good an observer, gave them additional

value.

   The fossil mammals were given by the generous traveller
to the London College of Surgeons, the mammals and
birds to the Zoological Society, the reptiles to the British
Museum, and the fishes to the Cambridge Philosophical
Society. Nor was this all. The collections of insects,
shells, and crustacea were described by many able
specialists in scientific publications. The flowering
plants were described by Hooker, and the non-flowering
by Berkeley ; and, altogether, no expedition ever yielded
a more solid result to the scientific naturalist, while fur
               DARWIN.                                 55

nishing a delightful narrative to the general reader, and

laying the foundation for generalisations of surpassing

importance to all thinking minds.

  It was evident to many geologists that the greatest

value would attach to the full record of the geological

observations made by the gifted young secretary of the

Geological Society. A year after the publication of the

Journal the first portion of these observations, dealing
with coral reefs, was almost ready, but the continued ill-

health  itofaptpheearaedu,thournddeerlatyheedtittlheeofpu"bTlihceatiSotnructtiullre18a4n2d.
When

Distribution of Coral Reefs," its success was immediate

and complete.

Ever since their first description by voyagers, marvel

had been expressed at the strange and beautiful pheno

mena presented by coral islands. Coral, as being built

up by the tireless labours of innumerable so-called

"insects,'' or "worms," had become associated with
romantic ideas. It really consists of the internal skeletons

of coral-polyps, allied to the sea anemone. Captain Basil
Hall, in his " Voyage to Loo Choo," looking with the

eyes of one ignorant of zoology, had credited the building
of coral reefs to all kinds of creatures which lived on and

near the coral after it had been made; and his erroneous

views had been amplified and developed by James
Montgomery, in his "Pelican Island," into the most

fantastically incorrect description that ever versifier

penned. Sad to relate, his lines were often quoted, as

if correct, by scientific men in pre-Darwinian times.

Nothing gives clearer evidence of the power of mind

which Darwin had already attained when voyaging round
50 LIFE OF

the world than the originality of his views on coral reefs.
The lagoon islands, or atolls, he describes as " vast rings
of coral rock, often many leagues in diameter, here and
there surmounted by a low verdant island, with dazzling

white shores, bathed on the outside by the foaming
breakers of the ocean ; and, on the inside, surrounding
a calm expanse of water which, from reflection, is of a
bright, but pale, green colour." Keeling atoll, outside
which, at less than a mile and a half distance, no bottom

was found with a line 7,200 feet in length, having been
fully described, and an account given of all other known

atoll systems, the peculiarities of the great barrier reef of

North-east Australia, and that of New Caledonia, were
recounted. Off the latter, no bottom was found, at two

ships' length from the reef, with a line 900 feet long.
With these were linked the smaller reefs of Tahiti and

others, where considerable islands are more or less com

pletely surrounded by them. Next, the fringing or shore
reefs, at first sight only a variety of barrier reefs, were
clearly distinguished from them by the absence of an
interior deep-water channel, and their not growing up

from an immense, but from a moderate depth of

water.

   The remarkable fact was pointed out by Darwin that
all coral islands are within a little more than 30 degrees of
the Equator, but that, at the same time, they are absent
over certain larger areas within the tropical seas. There
are none on the West Coast of South America, nor on the

West Coast of Africa. In this portion of his work we

have another significant sentence bearing on the struggle

for existence. In discussing the apparently capricious
DARWIN.  C7

distribution of coral reefs, he remarks that " the study of
the terrestrial and better-known half of the world must

convince every one that no station capable of supporting
life is lost -- nay more, that there is a struggle for each
station between the different orders of nature." He

describes the large fishes and the trepangs (holothurice)
preying upon the coral-polyps, and shows how complex
are the conditions which determine the formation of
reefs on any shore. Perhaps no part of his work is
more important than that in which he collects the
evidence proving how rapidly coral masses grow, and that
they for the most part cannot flourish in a greater depth
of water than fifteen fathoms.

   Reasoning upon the facts observed by himself and others
Darwin now proceeded to upset the received theory that
atolls were based upon submarine volcanic craters, and to
substitute for it the view that there has been a prolonged
and gradual subsidence of the areas upon which the atolls
are based, and a corresponding upward growth of the reef-
building corals. Thus fringing-reefs in time become
barrier-reefs ; and barrier-reefs, when they encircle islands,
are converted into atolls, or lagoon islands, as soon as the
last pinnacle of land sinks beneath the surface of the

ocean. The whole matter is summed up thus : "A magni

ficent and harmonious picture of the movements which the
crust of the earth has within a late period undergone is
presented to us. We see vast areas rising, with volcanic
matter every now and then bursting forth through the
vents or fissures with which they are traversed. We see
other wide spaces slowly sinking without any volcanic
outbursts ; and we may feel sure that this sinking must
08 LIFE OF

have been immense in amount as well as in area, thus to

have buried over the broad face of the ocean every one of

these mountains above which atolls now stand like monu

ments, marking the place of their former existence."
" No more admirable example of scientific method was
ever given to the world," says Professor A. Geikie, " and
even if he had written nothing else, this treatise alone

would have placed Darwin in the very front of investi
gators of nature."

   After thirty-two years' interval, a second edition of

" Coral Reefs " appeared, in a cheaper form, in 1874. It

is rare indeed for a scientific treatise to attain at once and

maintain so long a position of such undisputed authority.

The eminent German naturalist, Semper, in 1863, criti

cised the general theory in consequence of his own

careful examination of the Pelew Islands; but Darwin

easily answered him by pointing to the cumulative evi

dence in favour of his own views. The only really

important work on the subject, after Darwin's, was that

of Professor J. D.  Dana, the eminent   American   naturalist
                    " Corals and Coral  Islands,"  published
and geologist, on

in 1872. Darwin, in the preface to his second edition,
candidly acknowledged that he had not previously laid

sufficient weight on the mean temperature of the sea in

determining the distribution of coral reefs ; but this did
not touch his main conception. In fact, he maintained

his ground undisturbed, and at the same time admired

greatly Dana's book, which was the result of personal

examination of more coral formations than perhaps any

one man had ever studied, and which accepted Darwin's

fundamental proposition, that lagoon islands or atolls
DARWIN.  C9

and barrier-reefs have been formed during periods of

subsidence.1

    No such strikingly original theory is propounded in the

second part of "The Geology of the Beagle" dealing

chiefly with volcanic islands. St. Jago, in the Cape de
Verde Islands; Fernando Noronha, Terceira, Tahiti,
Mauritius, St. Paul's, Ascension, St. Helena, and the

Galapagos are in turn more or less fully described,

according to the opportunities the explorer had possessed.

To some extent, as in the succeeding part, Darwin adapts

his views on mountain elevation too closely to those enun
ciated by Elie de Beaumont. The third part of the
geology of the Beagle, entitled " Geological Observations
on South America," was not published till 1846. Even
this did not exhaust the contributions to geology made

from the Beagle voyage, for it did not include the papers

on the " Connection of certain Volcanic Phenomena in
South America" (1838) ; on the " Distribution of Erratic
Boulders" (1841); on the "Fine Dust which falls on

   1 Mr. John Murray's views, derived from the experience acquired in
the voyage of the Challenger, and published in 1880, tend to modify
Darwin's conclusions to some extent. Mr. Murray says that it is
now shown that many submarine mountains exist, which are usually
volcanic, and which, being built upon by various forms of shell-
bearing animals, could be raised to such a level that ordinary corals
could build upon them. He concludes that probably all atolls are
seated on submarine volcanoes, and thus it is not necessary to sup
pose such extensive and long-continued subsidences as Darwin sug
gested. This view is also in harmony with Dana's views of the great

antiquity and permanence of the great ocean basin. See "The

Structure and Origin of Reefs and Islands." By John Murray;
Proc. Roy. Soc, Edin., x. 505-18 (abstract) j also Nature, xxii.

351-5-
60 LIFE OF

Vessels"   (1845) ;  and on the " Geology of the Falkland
Islands "            A second edition of the two latter parts
           (1846).   of the Beagle " was published in one
of " The   Geology

volume in 1876.
   Meanwhile, after spending a few years of his early

married life in London, during which he was often in ill-

health, Darwin fixed his residence in 1842 at Down House,
near Beckenham, Kent. The little village of Down, three

or four miles from the Orpington railway station, was near

enough to London for convenient access, yet greatly

secluded and thoroughly rural. The traveller's roving

days were over, and his infirmity of health prevented him

from undertaking very fatiguing journeys. After the

cessation of his active work for the Geological Society,

Darwin's chief public appearance was when he spoke at

the Oxford meeting of the British Association, in 1847,

when, strange to say, Ruskin was secretary of the Geo

logical Section.

   At Down then, situated some 400 feet above the sea
level on a plateau of chalk, interrupted by wavy hollows

with beech woods on the slopes, about forty years of

Darwin's life were passed. Down House, one of the

square red brick mansions of the last century, to which

have been since added a gable-fronted wing on one side

and a more squarely-built wing and pillared portico on

the other, is shut in and almost hidden from the roadway

by a high wall and belt of trees. On the south side a

walled garden opens into a quiet meadow, bounded by

underwood, through which is seen a delightful view of the

narrow valley beyond, towards Westerham.

One of the most admirable chapters of the well-known
                               DARWIN.       61

"Manual of Scientific Enquiry," published in 1849, for the

use of the navy and travellers generally, and edited by Sir

John Herschel, was Darwin's, on Geology. The explorer
is here taught to make the most of his opportunities

upon the soundest principles. The habits which the

author had himself formed are inculcated upon the

observer --copious collecting, accurate recording, much

thinking. Nothing is omitted. Number-labels which

can be read upside down must have a stop to indicate

the right way up ; every specimen should be ticketed on

the day of collection ; diagrams of     all   kinds should be
made, as nearly as possible, to scale.       Acquire the habit
                                         "

of always  wsiethek."ing"  an  explanation of every geological
                               one can expect to solve the many
point met                  No

difficulties which will be encountered, and which for a

long time will remain to perplex geologists ; but a ray of

light will occasionally be his reward, and the reward is

ample." Truly an ample reward awaited the observer

who could thus speak of the value of "a ray of light ;"

he certainly did, to use the concluding words of the essay,
" enjoy the high satisfaction of contributing to the per

fection of the history of this wonderful world."

Meanwhile Darwin had been carrying on a great re

search on the very peculiar order of Crustacea, termed

Cirripedia, better known as barnacles and acorn shells.

He had originally only intended to describe a single

abnormal member of the group, from South America,

but was led, for the sake of comparison, to examine

the internal parts of as many as possible. The British

Museum collection was freely opened to him, and

as the importance of studying the anatomy of many
G2 LIFE OF

specimens became evident, the splendid collections of
Messrs. Stutchbury, Cuming, and others were placed at

his disposal, and he was permitted to open and to dissect

unique specimens of great value. In fact, almost every
naturalist of note who had any knowledge of the subject
freely aided him, and the result was a masterly series of

finely illustrated volumes ; two on the living Cirripedia,
issued by the Ray Society in 1851 and 1854; and two
on the fossil Cirripedia of Great Britain, by the Paheonto-
graphical Society, published in the same years. There is
evidence in these volumes that careful observations on
the growth of these creatures had been made as far

back as the visit to the Galapagos Islands in 1835. In

many respects these works are as masterly as any the
author ever wrote. Considering the previous obscurity
of the subject, the difficulties attending the research,
the almost entire lack at that time of any general micro
scopical knowledge of tissues, and especially of those
of embryos, Darwin's success is marvellous. The details
are too technical for statement here, but any one with a

zoological training, who studies the strange complication
of the reproductive systems, and the remarkable trans
formations which the young undergo, as told in these
volumes, will appreciate more than ever the breadth and
the solidity of the basis of patiently acquired knowledge
which Charles Darwin had accumulated while his " Origin
of Species " was taking shape.

   At the anniversary meeting of the Royal Society in

November, 1853, a royal medal was presented to the

author of "Coral Reefs" and the "Memoir on the
Cirripedia," the president, the Earl of Rosse, eulogizing
DARWIN.  G3

the former as one of the most important contributions to

modern geology, and the latter as containing new facts
and conclusions of first-rate interest. Finally, this chap

ter of Darwin's life may be closed with the tardy award
of the Wollaston medal to him by the Geological Society,
in February, 1859, when Professor John Phillips spoke
of him as combining the rarest acquirements as a
naturalist, with the qualifications of a first-class geologist,

and as having by his admirable monograph on the fossil

Cirripedia added much to a reputation already raised to

the highest rank.
   Yet even such a reputation could not secure fair treat

ment and impartial judgment for the coming book, the

subject of which might be supposed to require supreme
gifts of the very kind Darwin possessed.
                        CHAPTER IV.

IF no other record of Darwin's twenty-two years (1837-
        59) of life and thought after his return to England
remained than the papers and books he published during
that period, we should find enough to place him on a
level with the most gifted biologists and geologists of his
age. But all that time he was occupied with thoughts,
researches, and experiments, of which the world at large
perceived no fruits. Few persons suspected that a
tremendous revolution in scientific thought was in
preparation at the quiet country home at Down. New
species of animals and plants were being described by
naturalists at an alarming rate. The bulk of knowledge
of specific characters and the necessity of specialisation
bade fair to make every species-monger a dry and
narrow pedant ; and the pedants quarrelled about the
characters and limits of their species.

   In the later years of this period some rays of improve
ment shone out. To end the reign of Owen's misleading
types and imaginary archetypes, there arose a wielder of
two potent words, "morphology" and "biology," the
sciences of form and of life, who showed that differences
of adult form grew out of likeness and simplicity in the
LIFE OF DARWIN.                       C3

young ; and that the life of plants and animals was one

science, their study one discipline. What Huxley had

begun to proclaim from the housetop, Darwin was

meditating in secret ; and much more. Let us see how

he states the case in the famous modest opening of the
" Origin of Species "(1859): "When on board H. M. S.

Beagle, as naturalist, I was much struck with certain facts

in the distribution of the inhabitants of South America,

and in the geological relations of the present to the past

inhabitants of that continent. These facts seemed to
me to throw some light on the origin of species --that

mystery of mysteries, as it has been called by one of our

greatest philosophers. On my return home, it occurred

to me, in 1837, that something might perhaps be made

out on this question by patiently accumulating and re

flecting on all sorts of facts which could possibly have

Iany bearing on it. After five years' work allowed

myself to speculate on the subject, and drew up some

Ishort notes ; these enlarged in 1 844 into a sketch of

the conclusions, which then seemed to me probable :
Ifrom that period to the present day
I Ipursued the same object.           have steadily

   hope that may be excused
for entering on these personal details, as I give them to
Ishow that have not been hasty in coming to a decision."
We learn also, independently, from the " Expression of

the Emotions" (p. 19), that Darwin as early as 1838 was
inclined to believe in the principle of evolution, or the

derivation of species from other and lower forms.

   It is somewhat difficult to decide precisely what

Darwin owed to his predecessors who believed in the

mutability of species and doubted their separate creation ;

5
G6 LIFE OF

this is partly owing to his exceeding modesty. He was
over-ready to acknowledge the value to himself of other
people's ideas, and he under-estimated the strength of the

illumination which his own mind threw upon those ideas,

transforming them from guesses into probable hypotheses,
confirming them by his vast and varied knowledge, and
building a superstructure where they had laid but an

uncertain foundation. The question was in the air;

guessing replies of great interest were made by a few
who doubted the received belief; but they were not

satisfying answers and they did not effect a revolution.
Goethe in Germany, Erasmus Darwin in England,1 and

1 It is worth while to reproduce here a few sentences from

Erasmus Darwin's "Zoonomia," showing how acutely he guessed

in the direction of evolution.

"When we revolve in our minds, first, the great changes which

we see naturally produced in animals after their nativity. . . .

Secondly, when we think over the great changes introduced into

various animals by artificial or accidental cultivation. . . . Thirdly,

when we enumerate the great changes produced in the species of
animals before their nativity. . . . Fourthly, when we revolve in

our minds the great similarity of structure which obtains in all the

warm-blooded animals. . . . Fifthly, from their first rudiment or

primordium to the termination of their lives, all animals undergo per

petual transformations.which are in part produced by their own exer

...tions ; . . . and many of these acquired forms or propensities are
transmitted to their posterity.  A great want of one part of the

animal world has consisted in the desire of the exclusive possession
of the female ; and these have acquired weapons to combat each other

for this purpose. . . . The final cause of this contest amongst the

males seems to be that the strongest and most active animal should

propagate the species, which should thence become improved. An

other great want consists in the means of procuring food, which has

diversified the forms of all species of animals. . . . All which seem

to have been gradually produced during many generations by the
                             DARWIN.                                67

Geoffroy Saint Hilaire in France, came independently to
similar conclusions as to the mutability of species ; and
Lamarck followed with several well-known works in

1801-15, in which he upholds the doctrine that all species,
including man, are descended from other species. As
Darwin says, Lamarck first did the eminent service of
arousing attention to the probability of all change in the

organic, as well as in the inorganic world, being the result

of law, and not of miraculous interposition. He saw
the difficulty of distinguishing between species and
varieties, the almost perfect gradation of form in some
groups, and the great similarity of domestic breeds of
animals to such species. He believed that some degree
of change was produced by the physical conditions of
life, the intercrossing of species, and by habits causing
increased use or disuse of parts. Indeed he thought
very many remarkable adaptations, such as that of the
neck of the giraffe for browsing on trees, were the effect
of habit. But he attributed, perhaps, more to a law of
progressive development impressed on all forms of life,

perpetual endeavour of the creatures to supply the want of food,

and to have been delivered to their posterity with constant improve

ment of them for the purpose required. .  . The third great want

among animals is that of security, which seems much to have

diversified the forms of their bodies and the colour of them. . . .

The contrivances for the purposes of security extend even to vege

...tables. . . . Would it be too bold to imagine that in the great
length of time since the earth began to exist           all warm-blooded

animals have arisen from one living filament, which the Great First

Cause endued with animality ; . . . possessing the faculty of con

tinuing to improve by its own inherent activity, and of delivering

down those    i"mprovements  by  generation    to  its  posterity,  world
without end
             1
C8 LIFE OF

which thus would all in time gradually cease to be lowly,
                                                  or
their place being taken by new forms continually

" spontaneously " generated.

It does not appear that Lamarck would by any means

have sufficed to convince Darwin, judging from his

references to him in his Journal and the "Origin."
Here is the passage in which in the second edition of his

Journal he refers to the blindness of the Brazilian
Tucutuco, or Ctenomys, a rodent or gnawing mammal
with the habits of a mole : " Considering the strictly

subterranean habits of the Tucutuco, the blindness, though

so common, cannot be a very serious evil ; yet it appears

strange that any animal should possess an organ fre

quently subject to be injured. Lamarck would have

been delighted with this fact had he known it when

speculating (probably with more truth than usual with

him) on the gradually acquired blindness of the Aspalax,
a gnawer living underground, and of the Proteus, a

reptile living in dark caverns filled with water, in both of

which animals the eye is in an almost rudimentary state,

and is covered with a tendinous membrane and skin. . . .

IIn the Tucutuco, which, believe, never comes to the

surface of the ground, the eye is rather larger (than in
the mole), but often rendered blind and useless, though

without apparently causing any inconvenience to the

animal : no doubt Lamarck would have said that the

Tucutuco is now passing into the state of the Aspalax

and Proteus." Many years afterwards in the "Origin
of Species " Darwin referred to the " erroneous views and

grounds of opinion of Lamarck."

No doubt some impulse to Darwin's views in this
DARWIN.  69

direction would be due to his intercourse with Dr. Grant

at Edinburgh, whose celebrated paper on the fresh-water
sponge concludes with a declaration of his belief that

species are descended from other species, and that they be
come improved in the course of modification. But previous
to the occurrences of his voyage, we can find no stronger

influence tending to make Darwin an evolutionist, than

Lyell's " Principles of Geology," which, by showing con
stant and gradual change as the law of the world's history
now as in past periods, gave emphasis and point to all
observations of change and succession in the living world.
Indeed, in June, 1836, before Darwin's voyage was over,

ILyell writes to Sir John Herschel : " In regard to the

origination of new species, am very glad to find that
you think it probable that it may be carried on through

Ithe intervention of intermediate causes. left this rather

to be inferred, not thinking itworth while to offend a certain
class of persons by embodying in words what would only
be a speculation. But the German critics have attacked
me vigorously, saying, that by the impugning of the doc
trine of spontaneous generation, and substituting nothing

Iin its place, have left them nothing but the direct and

 miraculous intervention of the First Cause, as often as a

Inew species is introduced, and hence have overthrown

 my own doctrine of revolutions carried on by a regular

Isystem of secondary causes. . . . When first came to

the notion, which I never saw expressed elsewhere, though
 I have no doubt it had all been thought out before, of a

 succession of extinction of species, and creation of new

 ones going on perpetually now, and through an indefinite
period of the past, and to continue for ages to come, all
70 LIFE OF

in accommodation to the changes which must con

tinue in the inanimate and habitable earth, the idea

struck me as the grandest which I had ever conceived,

so far as regards the attributes of the Presiding

Mind."

   In a succeeding paragraph, Lyell very remarkably fore
shadows Darwin's " natural selection '' and " struggle for
existence." He speaks of a species being rendered more

prolific in order to perpetuate its existence; "but this

would perhaps make it press too hard upon other species

at other times. Now if it be an insect it may be made

in one of its transformations to resemble a dead stick, or

a leaf, or a lichen, or a stone, so as to be somewhat less

easily found by its enemies ; or if this would make it too

strong, an occasional variety of the species may have this

advantage conferred on it ; or if this would be still too

much, one sex of a certain variety. Probably there is

scarcely a dash of colour on the wing or body of which the
choice would be quite arbitrary, or which might not affect its
duration for thousands ofyears." The significance of the

last sentence is immense, and when we reflect that this

bold but cautious thinker was in constant intercourse

with Darwin, we can readily comprehend why the second

edition    of the Journal  was so     enthusiastically dedicated
to Lyell.    On page 48 1            Origin of Species," Darwin
                           of the "

acknowledges that the belief that species were immutable

productions was almost unavoidable, as long as the history

of the world was thought to be of short duration : which

affords another proof how profoundly Lyell's views on the

long duration of the past history of the globe, and its
modification by the slow operation of existing causes, in
DARWIN.  71

fluenced Darwin, and led him to comprehend how species

might be modified.
    We see Darwin, then, possessed of the idea that species

are mutable, informed as to past and recent changes in
the animal, plant, and physical world, seeking for causes
which should suffice to produce modification of species
by a continuous law. The next step in his progress was
attention to domestic animals and cultivated plants. As
he wrote in 1864 to Haeckel, one of his most brilliant

followers: "In South America three classes of facts were

 brought strongly before my mind. Firstly, the manner
 in which closely-allied species replace species in going
 southward. Secondly, the close affinity of the species
 inhabiting the islands near South America to those proper
 to the continent. This struck me profoundly, especially
 the difference of the species in the adjoining islets in the
 Galapagos Archipelago. Thirdly, the relation of the

 living Edentata and Rodentia to the extinct species.

 I shall never forget my astonishment when I dug out a

 gigantic piece of armour like that of the living armadillo.
    "Having reflected much on the foregoing facts, it

 seemed to me probable that allied species were descended

 Ifrom a common ancestor. But during several years

  could not conceive how each form could have been modi

  fied so as to become admirably adapted to its place in

 nature. I began, therefore, to study domesticated ani

  mals and cultivated plants,1 and after a time perceived

   1 In this study Darwin came into communication, as early as 1839,
with the Hon. and Rev. W. Herbert, afterwards Dean of Manchester,

and received from him a personal account of his experiments on

hybrids. It was Herbert who, as early as 1822, in the fourth
72 LIFE OF

that man's power of selecting and breeding from certain
individuals was the most powerful of all means in the
production of new races. Having attended to the habits
of animals, and their relations to the surrounding con

Iditions, was able to realise the severe struggle for

existence to which all organisms are subjected ; and my
geological observations had allowed me to appreciate, to
a certain extent, the duration of past geological periods.

IWith my mind thus prepared, fortunately happened to

read Malthus's ' Essay on Population ; ' and the idea of

natural selection through the struggle for existence at

once occurred to me. Of all the subordinate points in

Ithe theory, the last which understood was the cause of

the tendency in the descendants from a common pro
genitor to diverge in character." 1

   Malthus taught the inevitable tendency of all animal
life to increase beyond the means of subsistence, and

expounded the checks which begin to act when popula
tion increases too rapidly. But his book had lain un

fruitful to naturalists since 1798, until Darwin read
                                                  is
volume of the " Horticultural Transactions," and in his work ona

the .Amaryllidaceae, 1837, declared that horticultural experiments        it,

have established, beyond the possibility of refutation, that botanical

species are only "a higher and more permanent class of varieties."

He extended the same view to animals, and believed that single

species of each genus were originally created in highly plastic

condition, and that these have produced, chiefly by intercrossing,

but also by variation, all our existing species.
   'The
English   first portion  oHOfa.etchSkisechl'simmipd"ot'Hrstiasnt"ot rDyloectottfreirnCereaotqifuonot,D"eeds1cf8er7not6m;  the
         translation of                                                                                                    the
second                                                                                                                    and
         portion from

Darwinism," having been re-written by Darwin from the German

text.
    DARWIN.                                                      78

and with his special knowledge evolved from it the

brilliant idea of the preservation of better-equipped races

in the struggle for life, or, as Herbert Spencer put the

survival of the fittest. At one bound the gloomy revela
tions of misery which the " Essay on Population " con
                        ;
                                                            it,
tained, were exchanged for the bright view of perpetual

progress and improvement as being necessitated and

brought about by the very struggle which ensued upon

the natural increase of animal and plant life. Instead

of struggle and pain, producing starvation and extinction

merely, struggle and pain were seen as the conditions of

development and improvement the death of the lower,

the life of the higher.is

   It less profitable here to attempt to sketch the history

of ideas of evolution in general, because that history

as now revealed by research, and as detailed by many

writers, was not the path along which Darwin travelled.

Indeed, many of these ideas were not disinterred, and

certainly were not brought to Darwin's notice till after

the publication of the  "Origin of   Species." True he
read Robert Chambers's   " Vestiges  of Creation," which,

with its "powerful and brilliant style," although displaying

in its earlier editions "little accurate knowledge and           a

great want of scientific caution," Darwin acknowledges to

have done excellent service in calling attention to the

subject, in removing prejudice, and in preparing the

ground for the reception of analogous views. Herbert

Spencer, in his Essay on the Development Hypothesis,

first published in The Leader in March, 1852, and

republished in his "Essays" (first series, 1858), argued
that species have been modified owing to change of cir
74 LIFE OF

cumstances, basing his argument upon the analogy of

domestic animals and plants, the changes which the

embryos of many species undergo, and the difficulty of

distinguishing species and varieties.

But we need not here dwell on the works of these

thinkers, important as they are to the general history of

evolutionary thought, because Darwin's speculations had

taken form long before, and he could be but slightly

indebted to them. Far in advance of them he was at

work collecting and testing the facts which alone could

win general support for his views, and experimenting

incessantly with the same object in view. Lyell and

Hooker were in his confidence, and in Lyell's letters

we meet with references such as the following, dated

November 13, 1854: "You probably know about this

(the remarkable orchid, Catasetum), which will figure
in C. Darwin's book on 'Species,' with many other

'ugly facts,' as Hooker, clinging like me to the ortho

dox faith, calls these and other abnormal vagaries,"

showing at the same time how completely Darwin was

the leader, while his friends, advanced as they were,

hung back.      Again (Lyell to   Hooker,  July 25, 1856):
" Whether   Darwin persuades
                                 you and   me to renounce

Iour faith in species (when geological epochs are con

sidered) or not, foresee that many will go over to the
indefinite modifiability doctrine."

Further light is thrown on the progress of ideas on

species by Sir Joseph Hooker's admirably written Intro
ductory Essay to the "Flora Novae Zelandiae," dated

November, 1853, in which he discusses among other

questions, "The Limits of Species; their Dispersion and
                  DARWIN.           75

Variation." While still adhering on the whole to the

origin of species from single parents, or from one pair,

and the permanence of specific characters, he insists

that species vary more, and are more widely distributed,

than is generally admitted, and that their distribution has

been brought about by natural causes. In this essay he

makes the following statements : " Mr. Darwin not only

directed my earliest studies in the subjects of the distri

bution and variation of species, but has discussed with

Ime all the arguments, and drawn my attention to many

of the facts which have endeavoured to illustrate in this
Iessay.  know of no other way in which I can acknow

Iledge the extent of my obligation to him, than by adding
that  should never have taken up the subject in its
present form but for the advantages I have derived from

his friendship and encouragement."

Appropriately enough, it was through Lyell and

Hooker that the new theory was introduced to the public,

and it was owing to them that Darwin did not

obliterate his own claims to priority, and give them

over to Alfred Russel Wallace, who had indepen

dently come to similar conclusions. The letter, dated

June 30, 1858, in which the announcement was con

veyed to the Linnean Society, deserves quotation, as

being the authoritative and accurate record of the cir

cumstances which launched the "Origin of Species"

upon the world :

   "The accompanying papers, which we have the

honour of communicating to the Linnean Society, and
which all relate to the same subject, viz., 1 The Laws
70 LIFE OF

which affect the Production of Varieties, Races, and
Species,' contain the results of the investigations of two
indefatigable naturalists, Mr. Charles Darwin and Mr.

Alfred Wallace.
   "These gentlemen having, independently and unknown

to one another, conceived the same very ingenious theory

to account for the appearance and perpetuation of

varieties and of specific forms on our planet, may both
fairly claim the merit of being original thinkers in this
important line of inquiry ; but neither of them having
published his views, though Mr. Darwin has been re
peatedly urged by us to do so, and both authors having
now unreservedly placed their papers in our hands, we
think it would best promote the interests of science that
a selection from them should be laid before the Linnean

Society.

   "Taken in the order of their dates, they consist
of--

  "i. Extracts from a MS. work on species, by Mr. Darwin,

which was sketched in 1839, and copied in 1844, when
the copy was read by Dr. Hooker, and its contents after
wards communicated to Sir Charles Lyell. The first

part is devoted to 'The Variation of Organic Beings
under Domestication and in their Natural State'; and
the second chapter of that part, from which we propose

to read to the Society the extracts referred to, is headed,

'On the Variation of Organic Beings in a State of
Nature : on the Natural Means of Selection ; on the
Comparison of Domestic Races and true Species.'

   " 2. An abstract of a private letter addressed to Professor
Asa Gray, of Boston, U.S., in October, 1857, by Mr.
                             DARWIN.

Darwin, in which he repeats his views, and which shows

that these remained unaltered from 1839 to 1857.

   "3. An essay by Mr. Wallace, entitled ' On the Tendency

of Varieties to depart indefinitely from the Original

Type.' This was written at Ternate in February, 1858,
for the perusal of his friend and correspondent, Mr.

Darwin, and sent to him with the expressed wish that it

should be forwarded to Sir Charles Lyell, if Mr. Darwin

thought it sufficiently novel and interesting. So highly

did Mr. Darwin appreciate the value of the views therein

set forth, that he proposed, in a letter to Sir Charles

Lyell, to obtain Mr. Wallace's consent to allow the essay
to be published as soon as possible. Of this step we
highly approved, provided Mr. Darwin did not withhold

from the public, as he was strongly inclined to do (in
favour of Mr. Wallace) the memoir which he had him
self written on the same subject, and which, as before
stated, one of us had perused in 1844, and the contents

of which we had both of us been privy to for many
years. On representing this to Mr. Darwin, he gave us
permission to make what use we thought proper of his

memoir, &c. ; and in adopting our present course, of
presenting it to the Linnean Society, we have explained
to him that we are not solely considering the relative
claims to priority of himself and his friend, but the
interests of science generally; for we feel it to be

desirable that views founded on a wide deduction from
facts, and matured by years of reflection, should consti

tute at once a goal from which others may start, and

that, while the scientific world is waiting for the appear
ance of Mr. Darwin's complete work, some of the
78 LIFE OF DARWIN.

leading results of his labours, as well as those of his able
correspondent, should together be laid before the public."

In these papers, read on July i, 1858, Darwin's

share amounts to little more than six pages, yet within

this space he describes the geometrical rate of increase of

animals, the checks that occur, the effects of changed con

ditions, the natural selection of the better equipped forms

resulting from the struggle for existence, and the influence

of sexual selection. Wallace insists on essentially the same

view, which he calls that of progression and continued
             " This progression, by minute steps, in
divergence.

various directions, but always checked and balanced by

the necessary conditions, subject to which alone existence

.can be preserved, may, it is believed, be followed out so

as to agree with all the phenomena presented by organ

ised beings, their extinction and succession in past ageSj
and all the extraordinary modifications of form, instinct,

and habits which they exhibit." Those who read

Wallace's original essay can best appreciate the extra

ordinary simplicity and nobility of character which

inclined the elder naturalist, who had so long held the

same views, to step aside in favour of the younger man,

who from different researches was led to such similar

conclusions. It may here be added that Hooker, in the
Introductory Essay to the " Flora Tasmania;," dated

November 4, 1859, before the publication of the "Origin

of Species," but after seeing much of it in manuscript,

accepted and advocated the view that species are

derivative and mutable, and developed it as regards the

geographical distribution of plants.
CHAPTER V.

                     great work "On the Origin of Species

DARWbyINm'eSans of Natural Selection, or the Preser

vation of Favoured Races in the Struggle for Life," was

published in November, 1859.  It begins with the

simplest narrative of the events leading to its publication,
and an apology for the imperfection of " this abstract."

The author is well aware, he says, that on most points he

deals with, facts can be adduced which often apparently

lead to conclusions directly opposite to his own. He

states clearly the important truth that a mere belief in

the origin of species by descent from other species is

unsatisfactory until it can be shown how species can have

been modified so as to acquire their present remarkable

perfection of structure and coadaptation. Consequently

cases of observed modification of species are of the

highest value, and precedence is given to the variation of

animals and plants in a state of domestication.

The individuals belonging to the same variety of any

of our long-cultivated animals or plants differ much more

from each other than the individuals of any one species

or variety in a state of nature. Darwin explains this by
80 LIFE OF

the changed conditions of their life, excess or changed
quality of food, climate, changed habits, &cy^Thus man
has effected remarkable changes in many species by

consciously or unconsciously selecting particular qualities
in the animals or plants kept for use or beauty. Domestic
productions seem in fact to have become plastic in man's
hands, and the inheritance of acquired qualities by off

spring is reckoned on as almost certain. The breeds of

cattle, poultry, dogs, and pigeons, are striking examples.
   Darwin, as he tells us, kept every breed of domestic

pigeons he could purchase or obtain, in order to study

their variations. In this he was himself reverting to the
associations of childhood, when the beauty, variety, and
tameness of The Mount pigeons at Shrewsbury were well

known.
   We can imagine the astonishment with which the

" eminent fanciers " and members of the London Pigeon
Clubs, whose acquaintance the great naturalist cul
tivated, received the simplicity, yet depth, of his
inquiries, as he came among them day after day, uti
lising all their lore, and yet continually asking what they
neither knew nor suspected the drift of. He began
his study with a prepossession against the idea of the
immense diversity of modern pigeons having originated

from one common stock. Yet if such modification has

taken place in any creature, pigeons may furnish an
example, for they have been kept and bred for thousands
of years, being recorded in Egypt about 3000 B.C., and
Pliny relates that their pedigree and race could be
reckoned by the Romans of his time. " We cannot
suppose that all the breeds were suddenly produced as
             DARWIN.  Bl

perfect and as useful as we now see them ; indeed, in

several cases we know that this has not been their

history.     The key is man's power of accumulative

selection ; nature gives successive variations ; man adds

them up in certain directions useful to him." This is an

undoubted fact, to which breeders and fanciers give far

more emphatic testimony even than Darwin. As Lord
Somerville said, speaking of what breeders have done

for sheep, " It would seem as if they had chalked upon

a wall a form perfect in itself, and then had given it

existence."

   Side by side with conscious selection goes unconscious.
Two breeders, breeding from similar stock, aiming at the

same end, will get different results. Aiming at a par
ticular result, they find that with it is associated some
other of which they had not dreamed. Thus through

long ages our cultivated vegetables and flowers have

been produced, by always selecting the best variety, and
sowing its seeds. The fact which Darwin notes, that our

cultivated plants and domestic breeds date from so
ancient a time that we know really nothing of their
origin, has an important bearing on the great antiquity of
man, then scarcely imagined, now generally accepted;
seeing that all domestic development depends on a vari
ability in living creatures, which man can not produce,

but can only work upon.
   That variation of species occurs in a state of nature

Darwin proves not only by recorded facts, but by a con
sideration of the chaotic condition of species-description,

owing to the differences between authors as to what are
species and what are varieties, one observer describing a

             6
82 LIFE OF

dozen species where another reckons only one. If such

divergence of opinion is possible between good observers,
it is evident that there is no sufficiently clear rule

                                     although for centuries
for deciding what a speciesI it
Ifnaturalists have laboured to establish them.is,
                                            it             species

vary continually, and become modified, then this diffi

culty explained.
       is

             ?

                  is
But what there in nature to answer to the breeder's

selection Here comes in Darwin's remarkable applica

tion and amplification of Malthus's principle of population.
" Nothing                            " than to
truth of the   is easier," he says,              admit in  words the
                 universal struggle   for life,  or more
                                                           difficult --

at least have found so-- than constantly to bear this
       I

conclusion in mind. Yet unless                   be thoroughly en

grained in the mind, am convinced that the whole

economy of nature, with every fact on distribution, rarity,

abundance, extinction, and variation will be dimly seen

or quite misunderstood. We behold the face of nature

bright with gladness we often see superabundance of
;
                                ;
food we do not see, or we forget, that the birds which

are idly singing round us mostly live on insects or seeds,

and are thus constantly destroying life or we forget how
                                                ;;
largely these songsters, or their eggs, or their nestlings are
destroyed by birds and beasts of prey we do not always

bear in mind, that though food may be now superabun

dant,  it      not so at all seasons of each recurring year."
           is

The proofs given of the enormous rate at which animals

and plants tend to increase in numbers are very striking   ;

even the elephant, the slowest breeder of all animals,

would increase from one pair to fifteen millions in the

fifth century, no check existed.
                   if
DARWIN.                                                        83

Thus every animal and plant may be said to struggle

for existence with those with which it competes for space,

food, light, air. The numbers are kept down by heavy

destruction at various periods of life. Take the case of

seedling plants. Darwin had a piece of ground three feet

long and two feet wide dug and cleared, so that no grown

plants existed to check the growth of seedlings of native

plants as they came up. He counted and marked all

that came up, and out of 357 no fewer than 295 were
destroyed, chiefly by slugs and insects. So in a little plot

of long-mown turf, allowed to grow freely, out of twenty

species nine perished in the struggle. Many further per

sonal observations of the author are given : such as that

the winter of 1854-5 destroyed four-fifths of the birds in
his own grounds ; that he has sometimes failed to get a

single seed from wheat or other plants in his garden.

On the estate of a relative in Staffordshire the changes

consequent on planting several hundred acres with Scotch

fir were remarkable. In twenty-five years twelve species

of conspicuous plants, and six different insectivorous birds

had become settled and flourishing inhabitants in the

plantations. The characteristic of the philosopher, who

sees in the unconsidered trifles of others the material for

his choicest discoveries, is well exemplified in his mode of

observing the results of enclosure near Farnham, in Surrey.

Here a multitude of self-sown firs sprang up in the en

closures, and Darwin went to examine into the cause of

tshoemestrdainsgtaenpt hcelunmompse. non".     Not  a fir was  in sight except
                                            But on   looking   closely between
Ithe stems of the heath, found a multitude of seedlings

.and little trees, which had been perpetually browsed down
84 LIFE OF

by the cattle. In one square yard, at a point some hun

Idred yards distant from one of the old clumps, counted

thirty-two little trees ; and one of them, judging from the
rings of growth, had during twenty-six years tried to
raise its head above the stems of the heath, and had

failed."
   The interdependence of animal upon animal, of animal

upon plant, of plant upon animal, is enforced in many
ways by Darwin. For instance, the visits of humble-bees
are of special importance to the welfare of red clover 
humble-bees are largely destroyed by field-mice ; cats
largely destroy field-mice near villages, and so favour
humble-bees, and secondarily red clover. Every para
graph of the chapter on the struggle for existence is full
of suggestion, and subversive of old imaginings. But
Darwin's knowledge is to him slight, his ignorance pro
found. Yet, he says, notwithstanding our ignorance,
" we may console ourselves with the full belief that the
war of nature is not incessant, that no fear is felt, that

death is generally prompt, and that the vigorous, the
healthy, and the happy survive and multiply."

   The great chapter on Natural Selection, or the preser
vation of favourable and the rejection of injurious varia
tions, is crowded with striking passages. One of these
vividly contrasts man's selection with nature's. " Man
can act only on external and visible characters : nature
cares nothing for appearances, except in so far as they
may be useful to any being. She can act on every in
ternal organ, on every shade of constitutional difference,
on the whole machinery of life. Man selects only for his
own good ; nature only for that of the being she tends .
                         DARWIN.  86

Every selected character is fully exercised by her ; and

the being is placed under well-suited conditions of life.

. . . Under nature, the slightest difference of structure or

constitution may well turn the nicely-balanced scale in

the struggle for life, and so be preserved. How fleeting
are the wishes and efforts of man ! how short his time !

and consequently how poor will his products be, com

pared with those accumulated by nature during whole

geological periods. Can we wonder, then, that nature's

productions should be far 'truer' in character than man's

productions ; that they should be infinitely better adapted

to the most complex conditions of life, and should plainly

bear the stamp offar higher workmanship ? " The words

in italics certainly are a good answer to those who think

Darwin had any tendency to depreciate the marvels of

nature by bringing them under the law of natural selec

tion. But we shall gain further light on this subject later

on.

   The main argument may be summed up thus :|if vari

ations beneficial to any creature occur, which cannot be

doubted, the individuals in whom they occur will have

the best chance of surviving and transmitting their quali

ties to their offspring. This natural selection will tend to

produce divergence of character among offspring, and to

intensify differences until they equal those between species

or even genera. The same tendency to improvement

brings about the decay and ultimate extinction of many

lower and unimproved forms of life.

   One of the best examples of Darwin's style is in the

"Ipassage comparing all members of the same class of
beings to a great tree.  believe this simile largely
8G LIFE OF

speaks the truth. The green and budding twigs may
represent existing species ; and those produced during
each former year may represent the long succession of
extinct species. At each period of growth all the growing
twigs have tried to branch out on all sides, and to overtop
and kill the surrounding twigs and branches, in the same
manner as species and groups of species have tried to
overmaster other species in the great battle for life. The
limbs divided into great branches, and these into lesser
and lesser branches, were themselves once, when the tree
was small, budding twigs ; and this connexion of the
former and present buds by ramifying branches may well
represent the classification of all extinct and living species
in groups subordinate to groups. Of the many twigs
which flourished when the tree was a mere bush, only two
or three, now grown into great branches, yet survive and
bearall the other branches ; so with the species which lived
during long-past geological periods, very few now have
living and modified descendants. From the first growth
of the tree many a limb and branch has decayed and
dropped off ; and these lost branches of various sizes
may represent those whole orders, families, and genera
which have now no living representatives, and which
are known to us only from having been found in
a fossil state. As we here and there see a thin straggling
branch springing from a fork low down in a tree, and
which by some chance has been favoured and is still
alive on its summit, so we occasionally see an animal
like the Ornithorhynchus or Lepidosiren, which in some
small degree connects by its affinities two large branches
of life, and which has apparently been saved from
DARWIN.  87

fatal competition by having inhabited a protected

station. As buds give rise by growth to fresh buds, and
these, if vigorous, branch out and overtop on all sides

Imany a feebler branch, so by generation believe it has

been with the great Tree of Life, which fills with its dead
and broken branches the crust of the earth, and covers

 the surface with its ever-branching and beautiful ramifica-
 tions. 11

v What may be the laws controlling or producing varia

tion Darwin candidly tells us he does not know. Some

 authors, he says, believe it to be as much the function

of the reproductive system to produce individual diffe
 rences, or very slight deviations of structure, as to make
thechild like its parents. But we certainly do not know
 the precise effect of any change of conditions, or what
 changes may be entailed in other parts of an organism by
 given changes in one part.1

    Why, if species are continually being modified, do we

 not see multitudes of transitional forms around us ? How

 can the elaborate structure and special habits of a bat
 have been formed by the modification of some animal
 of entirely different habits ? How can the marvellous
 perfections of the human eye or that of one of the

 higher animals be supposed to have arisen through

 natural selection ? These questions Darwin answers

 with powerful effect ; but for the details we must refer

 the reader to the book itself. Incidentally he refers to
 objections urged against the view that every detail of

   1 Mr. Romanes, in his paper on " Physiological Selection "

 (Journal of the Linnean Society, Zoology, xix. 337-411), has
 entered upon a most important discussion of this question.
88 LIFE OF

structure has been produced for the good of its possessor.

He says plainly that if structures have been created for

beauty in the eyes of man, or for mere variety, that is

fatal to his theory. Yet he admits that many structures
are of no direct use to their possessors ; but they have
been inherited from ancestors to whom they were of use,
or they have arisen as correlated changes or in dependence

on some other cause, where use and benefit have been

primary.

   In dealing with Instinct, we see Darwin personally

studying ants and bees in their social habits. The idea
of ants making slaves is to him " odious," which we can

well understand after his references to slavery in South
America. For three years, during June and July, he
watched for many hours several ants' nests in Surrey and

Sussex to see whether the slaves ever left the nest. One

day he witnessed a migration of ants from one nest to
another, the masters carefully carrying their slaves in

their jaws. Again, he saw a party attempting to carry

off slaves, succeeding, however, only in carrying their

corpses off for food to the nest. Darwin then dug up

a small group of pupa; of the slave species from another

nest, and put them down near the place of combat.    They
were eagerly seized and carried off by the tyrants,  " who

perhaps fancied that, after all, they had been victorious

in their late combat." At the same time the slave-owners

were able to distinguish instantly the pupae of another

species, showing much terror at sight of them ; yet they

ultimately took heart, and carried them off.

   The cell-making instinct of the hive-bee, " the most

wonderful of all known instincts," as Darwin terms wasit,
            DARWIN.                                                                       89

closely studied. The comb, " so beautifully adapted toa                                   is it,
its end," he enthusiastically admired. Yet he finds
                                                     ;
gradation among bees, and can imagine a method by

which this beautiful construction has been gradually

developed. His ideas were tested by setting bees to
work on a solid piece of wax between two combs. The
detailed account of these experiments is most instructive.

It is quite charming to mentally follow the patient experi

menter covering the edges of a single cell or the extreme
margin of a growing comb with a thin layer of vermilion
wax, and soon proving that many bees work in succession
at a single cell by the rapid diffusion of the vermilion

colouring as delicately as a painter could have done
atoms of the coloured wax being removed and worked

into the growing cells all round.1 "It was really curious,"

Darwin says, " to note in cases of difficulty, as when two
pieces of comb met at an angle, how often the bees would
entirely pull down and rebuild in different ways the same

cell, sometimes recurring to shape which they had at
first rejected." Here surely he was watching evolution in

that slow, gradual process which appears to be the rule.
   The castes of neuter ants, constituting as they did

" by far the most serious special difficulty " Darwin had

encountered, were similarly studied but, as expected,

gradations were found connecting them, although the
extremes differ markedly in shape and size. The case

     The1  full text of a large part  of   D"arOwriing'isn  oorfigSinpaelciecsha"pftoerr   on
Instinct,  which was omitted from                                                         the
                                      the

sake of condensation, published in Mr. Romanes' Mental Evolu
            is

                                                                      ''

tion in Animals," 1883, whUhalso contains many other observations

by Darwin.
00 LIFE OF

most interesting, because these castes could only be

developed if the variations which produced them were

profitable to the community; "for no amount of exercise,

or habit, or volition, in the utterly sterile members of a
community could possibly have affected the structure or

instincts of the fertile members, which alone leave descen

dants." This fact Darwin considers to be demonstrative
against Lamarck's doctrine. At the same time, he admits

that instincts are not always perfect, and are liable to

make mistakes ; and that no instinct has been produced

for the exclusive good of other animals, but that each

animal takes advantage of the instincts of others. It is

to him " far more satisfactory to look at such instincts as

the young cuckoo ejecting its foster-brothers, ants making

slaves, the larvas of ichneumonidae feeding within the live

bodies of caterpillars, not as specially endowed or created

instincts, but as small consequences of one general law,

leading to the advancement of all organic beings, namely,

multiply, vary, let the strongest live and the weakest

die." And here Darwin strikes one of his truest and

most helpful notes. It is far more satisfactory to con

template the rapine and war of nature as incidents which

aid in working out a grand progress than as multitudinous

cruelties, working no good, and in past ages of unknown

length merely preluding the struggle and rapine through
Ifwhich man works out his rise or fall.
                                         we agonise that

we and our descendants may rise, life is worth living.
   We cannot follow in detail the profoundly suggestive

chapters on Hybridism, on the Imperfection of the

Geological Record, on the Geological Succession of

Organic Beings, on the Geographical Distribution, and
DARWIN.  01

on the Mutual Affinity of Plants and Animals. The
first of these is one of the most difficult portions of the
subject, and yet remains as a stumbling-block of science
by its apparently inexplicable phenomena. The author
throws on the past history of life on the earth the
glamour of a fairy record, as he contemplates the infinite
number of generations, which the mind cannot grasp,
which must have succeeded one another in the long roll
of years, the limited extent to which at any time fossil
remains have been preserved, the immense amount of
destruction of such records which has taken place ; and
hence argues most powerfully how improbable it is that

the transitional stages from species to species should have
been handed down and also (another rare chance) have
been laid open to us. The great array of facts about

extinct animals and plants is shown to be consistent with,

and to be largely explained by, descent with modification,
and to be incomprehensible on any other view. The
eccentric contrasts and parallelisms displayed in the
geographical distribution of plants and animals, the
striking effects of barriers such as mountains, deserts,
and seas, the phenomena of dispersion of living creatures,
the indications of old glacial periods in the present distri
bution of Alpine plants, the strange distribution of fresh
water animals and plants, the specialities of oceanic
islands, and many other subjects of a like kind, are
dealt with, all being turned to advantage, and shown

to give strong support to Darwin's view.

    Classification and classifiers are all made to bear testi
mony in the same direction. Morphology, which, in the
hands of Huxley, Haeckel, Gegenbaur, Ray Lankester,
92 LIFE OF

and Balfour has, since the first issue of the " Origin of

Species," grown into a coherent science, based on em

bryology, was even then seen by Darwin to yield evidence
for his views. Examining very young animals, he found
that in very distinct races of dogs and horses the young

had by no means acquired their adult differences. He

compared pigeons of extremely various breeds twelve
hours after being hatched, and found their differences
incomparably less than in the full-grown birds. How

immensely morphological science has progressed since

Darwin directed investigation into this profitable line

would need a separate treatise to show ; but it is not too

much to say that embryology alone, without other evi
dence, would now suffice to prove the doctrine of descent

with adaptive modification.
   Rudimentary organs, again, strange appearances, like

the presence of teeth in unborn whales and in the front
of the upper jaws of unborn calves, the rudimentary wings

of many insects, the rudimentary stamens or pistils of

many flowers, are all swept into the Darwinian net.

" Nothing can be plainer than that wings are formed for

flight ; yet in how many insects do we see wings so re
duced in size as to be utterly incapable of flight, and not
rarely lying under wing-cases, firmly soldered together ? "

These phenomena are all explicable if descent with

modification is true.
   Approaching the close of his work, the author expressed

his doubts of being able to convert naturalists of long
standing to his views ; but based his main hopes on
young and rising men approaching these questions with
out prejudices. He put some puzzling questions, however,
DARWIN.  93

to those who might oppose him. Did they really believe
that at innumerable periods in the earth's history certain

atoms had been commanded suddenly to flash into living
tissues ? Were animals and plants created as eggs or

seed or as full grown ? At each act of creation was one
individual or were many produced ? For himself, he

came to the conclusion that all organic beings had de

scended from some one primordial form into which life

was first breathed.

    On this view Darwin predicted that a great increase
of interest in many departments of natural history would
arise. " When we no longer look at an organic being as
a savage looks at a ship, as at something wholly beyond
his comprehension ; when we regard every production
of nature as one which has had a history ; when we

contemplate every complex structure and instinct as the
summing up of many contrivances, each useful to the
possessor, nearly in the same way as when we look at
any great mechanical invention as the summing up of the

labour, the experience, the reason, and even the blunders

of numerous workmen ; when we thus view each organic

Ibeing, how far more interesting-- speak from experi

ence --will the study of natural history become. . . .

The whole history of the world, as at present known,
although of a length quite incomprehensible to us, will
hereafter be recognized as a mere fragment of time com

pared with the ages which have elapsed since the first
creature, the progenitor of innumerable extinct and living
descendants, was created. . . . We may look forward
with some confidence to a secure future of equally inap

preciable length. And as natural selection works solely
94 LIFE OF

by and for the good of each being, all corporeal and

mental endowments will tend to progress towards per

fection." The concluding sentence of the " Origin of

Species" has become one of our classical quotations.
" There is grandeur in this view of life, with its several

powers, having been originally breathed into a few forms

or into one ; and that, whilst this planet has gone cycling

on according to the fixed law of gravity, from so simple a

beginning endless forms most beautiful and most wonder

ful have been, and are being, evolved."

   This is not the place to give a history of the criticisms
and discussions which arose in regard to " The Origin

of Species," especially as Darwin himself took no public

part in them, except by the alterations made in successive
editions. As indicating the tone of prominent critical

organs, we may note that The Athenaum (November 19,

acknowledges there  is something poetical in  the
                    become a man, what may    not
  " a monkey has
If1859)

theory.

a man become?" Neither book, author, nor subject
being ordinary, " the work deserves attention." The

Edinburgh Review considered that the author left the

question very nearly where he found it. Failing to find

original observations adequate even to give a colour to

the hypothesis, the reviewer sought to find flaws in the
author's mode of reasoning, and concluded that " we are

called upon to accept a hypothesis on the plea of want

of knowledge." Defective information, vagueness, and

incompleteness are charged upon the man whom we now
delight to honour ; " intellectual husks," we are told, are

all that he offers. Professor Huxley, who lectured at the

Royal Institution, on February 10, i860, on " Species and
                                 DARWIN.                      95

Races and their Origin," and brought forward Darwin's

investigations as exemplifying that application of science to

which England     owes           her greatness, was  told that it more
truly paralleled                                     to which a neigh
                  " the           abuse of science

bouring nation --some seventy years since -- owed its tem

porary degradation." And the professor was accused of

audaciously seeking to blind his audience. Samuel Wilber-

force, then Bishop of            Oxford, was       equally denunciatory in
The Quarterly. He                                  this flimsy speculation"
                                 hopes that "
will be completely put down. " It is a dishonouring view

of nature. . . . Under such influences," says the courtly

bishop, "a man soon goes back to the marvelling stare of

childhood at the centaurs and hippogriffs of fancy ; or, if he

is of a philosophic turn, he comes, like Oken, to write a

scheme of creation under a ' sort of inspiration,' but it is

the frenzied inspiration of the inhaler of mephitic gas.
The whole world of nature is laid for such a man under

a fantastic law of glamour, and he becomes capable of

believing anything ; and he is able, with a continually

growing neglect of all the facts around him, with equal

confidence and equal delusion, to look back to any past

and to look on to any future." 1

The Saturday Review was much more moderate, by no

means sharing the anxiety of those who regarded evolu

tionary theories as hostile to Christianity. The author is said

   "The   re"aOderrigiwn ilol f  thus be able to   judge for  himself how far
Darwin's                         Species" gained,             very first outset,
                                                   "from the

universal respect and a fair hearing," as Mr. Grant Allen, with
singular forgetfulness, states ("Darwin," p. 112). The violence
of the attacks made upon Darwin by the majority of religious and

orthodox journals is well known.
96 LIFE OF

to have encountered the difficulties of his theory " with

admirable skill and ability," and though The Saturday
remained unconvinced of his general argument, yet it

acknowledged itself "persuaded that natural selection
must henceforward be admitted as the chief mode by
which the structure of organised beings is modified in a
state of nature ; " and thought it very possible that,
through its agency, considerable groups of nearly
allied species might have been derived from a single

progenitor : but there Tlie Saturday stopped, believing
in limits to this power.

   The second edition of "The Origin of Species," which

appeared in January, i860, only six weeks after the first,
contained but few alterations ; the third, in March, 1861,
had received extensive additions and corrections. The
most important of these discussed the so-called tendency
of organisation to advance, and explained the present co

existence of high and lowly organised forms. A valuable

historical sketch of the modern progress of opinion on
the subject, from Lamarck's time, was prefixed to the

book. It was further enlarged in subsequent editions, as

evidences accumulated that various thinkers had inde

pendently adopted the evolution theory, or the more
special one of natural selection. Notable instances
of anticipation were those of Dr. Wells, who, in a
paper read before the Royal Society in 1813, but not
published till 18 18, had expressed the opinion that all
animals tend to vary ; that agriculturists improve breeds

by selection ; and that what they do by art " seems to be

done with equal efficacy, though more slowly, by nature,

in the formation of varieties of mankind." He then
                 DARWIN.  07

goes on to exemplify the survival of the fittest, though in

other words. Mr. Patrick Matthew, in 1831, published
a work on " Naval Timber and Arboriculture," in which

he expressed, in scattered passages, a view nearly re

sembling Darwin's.

   The fourth edition of "The Origin," in 1866, was

longer, by fifty pages, than its predecessor. Among

the additions may be mentioned a fuller treatment

of the argument from embryology, which was made

stronger by later investigations. The fifth edition (1869)
was comparatively little increased in bulk, though altered

in many details. In particular it contained a somewhat

important change relating to the extent of the influence
of natural selection. This is also referred to in " The

Descent of Man" (first edition, vol. i. pp. 152-3), where the
author says he had not formerly considered sufficiently the

existence of many structures which appeared to be neither

beneficial nor injurious, and had attributed too much to

Inatural selection. " was not able," he says, " to annul

the influence of my former belief, then widely prevalent,

that each species had been purposely created ; and this

led to my tacitly assuming that every detail of structure,

...excepting rudiments, was of some special, though unrecog
nised, service.  If I have erred in giving to natural
Iselection great power, which am far from admitting,

or in having exaggerated its power, which is in itself

I Iprobable, have, at least, as hope, done good service

in aiding to overthrow the dogma of separate creations."

The sixth edition (1872), in smaller type, was con

siderably revised and altered, and remains permanent.

A glossary of scientific terms was added by Mr. W. S.

                 7
98 LIFE OF

Dallas. A new chapter was inserted after the sixth, and
entitled " Miscellaneous Objections to the Theory of
Natural Selection." It was partly derived from modified

portions of chapter iv. of former editions, but the latter

and larger part was new, and relates chiefly to the

supposed incompetency of natural selection to account

for the very early stages of useful structures. Numerous

cases, such as the development of the giraffe's neck,
the baleen of the whale, the mammary glands, &c, are

admirably discussed. Causes preventing the acquisition,

through natural selection, of useful structures in many

cases are dealt with, and reasons given for disbelieving in

great and sudden modifications. In the concluding

chapter Darwin further admits that he had formerly

underrated the frequency and importance of use and

disuse of parts, of the direct action of external conditions,
and of variations which seem to us, in our ignorance, to
arise spontaneously. He alludes to misrepresentations

of his views, and calls attention to the fact that, in the

first edition, at the close of the introduction, he stated

his conviction that natural selection had been the main,

but not the exclusive means of modification. " This has

been of no avail. Great is the power of steady mis

representation ; but the history of science shows that,
fortunately, this power does not long endure." This is

Darwin's almost sole allusion in his works to the persistence

with which views not his had been attributed to him, or he

had been calumniated for views he did hold. But in his
Iown lifetime --nay,   years -- he witnessed a

sufficiently satisfying formerly spoke to very
within fifteen

revolution. "

many naturalists on the subject of evolution, and never
DARWIN.  99

once met with any sympathetic agreement. It is probable

that some did then believe in evolution, but they were
either silent or expressed themselves so ambiguously,
that it was not easy to understand their meaning. Now
things are wholly changed, and almost every naturalist

admits the great principle of evolution " (" Origin," sixth
edition, p. 424). At present the sale of the book in this
country approaches forty thousand copies. Its sale in

America has been very large; and numerous transla

tions into German, French, Italian, Russian, Dutch, and

Swedish, and even into Japanese and Hindustani, have

been largely sold. It must always be one of the most

valued of all English classics.
                        CHAPTER VI.

WE have already gathered much concerning Dar
            win's mental and moral fibre in our survey of his
works. Let us make some further acquaintance with his
personality as known to his friends, w Outwardly he ap
peared a man of powerful physique, standing six feet
high, with prominent forehead and over-arching brow,
and keen, deep-set eyes in which resolute strength and
piercing insight were indicated. Apart from his persistent
infirmity, he was actively disposed, as indeed is evident
from the laborious journeys he undertook during his
travels. Field sports, including hunting, were among the
recreations of his more active years. But through all his
work or recreation the imperious conditions necessitated
by his infirmity of stomach had to be considered, and
nothing but the most rigorous care could possibly have
enabled him to achieve what he did. On many days he
could not work at all, and on many others two or three
hours were his limit. And what but his own system, his
own orderliness and perseverance could have accom

plished his task ? In preparing his books he had a

special set of shelves for each, standing on or near his
writing-table, one shelf for each chapter. The maxim,
        LIFE OF DARWIN.                                101

" Early to bed, and early to rise," was his essentially, and

regularity kept all balanced. Rising at six, he took a

cold plunge bath, breakfasted simply, and took a first
                        often at eight. "
Iwalk,beginning work                         Later in  "thhee
        quote from Mr.   Woodall's pleasant
day,"                                          pages,

generally walked again, often in his own grounds, but

sometimes further afield, and then generally by quiet

footpaths rather than frequented roads. The walks at

one time were varied by rides along the lanes on a

favourite black cob, but some years before his death his

four-footed friend fell, and died by the roadside, and

from that day the habit of riding was given up. Part of

the evening was devoted to his family and his friends,

who delighted to gather round him to enjoy the charm

of his bright intelligence, and his unrivalled stores of

knowledge. To Down, occasionally, came distinguished

men from many lands ; and there in later years would

sometimes be found the younger generation of scientific

students, looking up to the great naturalist with the

reverence of disciples, who had experienced his singular

modesty, his patient readiness to listen to all opinions,

and the winning grace with which he informed their

ignorance and corrected their mistakes. In the midst

of all the delights of home and the demands of study,

Darwin kept an open mind for public affairs. He united

the earnest politician with the patient student : a rare

combination, which supplies another proof of his largeness

of heart and sympathy with his fellow men. In the

village of Down he was liked by everybody, old and

young, and in his own household the same servants
lived year after year under his roof. One of them,
102 LIFE OF

Margaret Evans, who assisted in nursing him in his last
illness, had come to Down nearly forty years before,
from Shrewsbury, where her uncle and aunt were in
Dr. Darwin's service."

   At Down the family in time numbered nine children,
two, however, not surviving childhood; one died in
1842, another in 1858. His five sons have already
attained distinction or positions of influence. The
eldest, William Erasmus, became a banker in South

ampton ; the second, George, was second Wrangler and
Smith's Prizeman at Cambridge in 1868, became a Fellow
of Trinity, and is now Plumian Professor of Astronomy at
his university, having early gained the Fellowship of the
Royal Society for his original papers bearing on the
evolution of the universe and the solar system, and many
other subjects of high mathematical and philosophical

interest. His third son, Francis, gained first-class
honours in the Cambridge Natural Science Tripos in
1870, and is likewise a Fellow of the Royal Society, in
recognition of his original botanical investigations. The
fourth, Leonard, an officer in the Royal Engineers, has
done valuable astronomical work. The fifth, Horace, has

devoted himself to mechanical science, and has largely
aided in developing the Cambridge Scientific Instrument

Company.
   The great thinker, fulfilling his duties as head of a

family with singular success, charged with the burden of
new thoughts and observations, slowly perfecting his life
work, had neither time nor inclination for controversy.

He set himself to publish facts, which by their accumula

tion tended to clench his arguments. Soon after the
                                    DARWIN.  103

" Origin of Species " he had in course of publication

several important botanical papers, on the two forms of

flower in the Primrose genus (1862), and in the genus

Linum (flax), 1863, on the forms of Loosestrife, 1864, all

published in the Linnean Society's Journal.
   In 1862 he brought out his first botanical book, the

"Fertilisation of Orchids," more fully entitled, "On the

various Contrivances by which Orchids are Fertilised by

Insects." These most singular flowers had long attracted

great attention owing to their peculiar shapes and often

their great beauty, while their marked deviation from

typical forms of flowers perplexed botanists extremely.

The celebrated Robert Brown, in a well-known paper in

the Linnean Society's Transactions, 1833, expressed the

belief that insects are necessary for the fructification of

most orchids ; and as far back as 1 793, Christian Sprengel

(in " The Newly Discovered Secret of Nature ") gave
an excellent account of the action of the several parts in

the genus Orchis, having discovered that insects were

necessary to remove the pollen masses. But the rationale

of the process was not fully known until Darwin revealed

and illuminated                     by the light of natural selection.
it,
                it
                      is

                                it
He had, in the " Origin of Species," given reasons for the

belief that  an almost universal law of nature that the

higher organic beings require an occasional cross with

another individual. He here emphasised that doctrine

by     series of proofs from        a  peculiar and otherwise
    a

inexplicable order of plants, and showed that the arrange

ments by which orchids are fertilised have for their main

object the fertilisation of the flowers with pollen brought

by
                            a
insects from distinct plant.
104 LIFE OF

In the group to which our common orchids belong,

remarkable adaptations for securing that the pollen

masses brought from another flower solely through the

visits of insects shall  reach their  sapyrsecDisaerwdine,sti"namtiiognh,t
were brought to light.
                          " A poet,"

imagine that whilst the pollinia were borne through

the air from flower to flower, adhering to an insect's

body, they voluntarily and eagerly placed themselves

in that exact position in which alone they could hope

to gain their wish and perpetuate their race." As he

had examined all the British genera, Darwin's con
clusions were indubitable. He had patiently watched

for hours on the grass to notice insects' visits, had

counted the fertilised flowers on many spikes, the

fertilised spikes on many plants, had dissected and

redissected the flowers till he saw how the fertilisation

must absolutely be effected ; and utilising the enthusiasm

of orchid growers, had excited them to do the same, till

his storehouse of facts was full.

On examining the exotic forms of orchids, which are

so conspicuous in our conservatories, still more striking

facts presented themselves. In the great group of the

Vandeae, relative position of parts, friction, viscidity,

elastic and hygrometric movements were all found to be

nicely related to one end --the aid of insects in fertili
sation. Without their aid not a plant in the various

species of twenty-nine genera which Darwin examined
would set a seed. In the majority of cases insects with

draw the pollen masses only when retreating from the

flower, and, continuing their flower visits, effect a union

between two flowers, generally on distinct plants. In
DARWIN.  106

many cases the pollen masses slowly change their position
while adhering to the insects, and so assume a proper
direction for striking the stigma of another flower, and

the insects during this interval will almost certainly have

flown from one plant to another.
   The family to which Catasetum belongs furnished the

most remarkable examples. This plant possesses a

special sensitiveness in certain parts, and when definite
points of the flower are touched by an insect the pollen
masses are shot forth like an arrow, the point being blunt
and adhesive. The insect, disturbed by so sharp a blow,
or having eaten its fill, flies sooner or later to a female
plant, and whilst standing in the same position as before,
the pollen-bearing end of the arrow is inserted into the
stigmatic cavity, and a mass of pollen is left on its viscid
surface. The strange structures of Cypripedium, or the
Lady's Slipper, were then analysed, and the mode of fer
tilisation by small bees was discovered. The whole
structure of orchids, as modified to secure insects' visits

and cross fertilisation, was now expounded, and the

benefits shown by cases where insects' visits were pre
vented, and no seed was set. The number of seeds in a
capsule was reckoned, and thence it was found that the
progeny of a single plant of the common orchis would

suffice to cover the globe in the fourth generation. A

single plant of another orchid might bear seventy-four
millions of seeds: surely an ample provision for a
struggle for existence, and selection and survival of the
fittest. But, as Darwin remarks, profuse expenditure is
nothing unusual in nature, and it appears to be more
profitable for a plant to yield a few cross-fertilised than

many self-fertilised seeds.
106 LIFE OF

Darwin impresses forcibly on his readers the endless

diversity of structures, and the prodigality of resources dis

played for gaining the same end, the fertilisation of one

Iflower by pollen from another plant. " The more study
Inature," he says, "the more become impressed with

ever-increasing force that the contrivances and beautiful

adaptations slowly acquired through each part occasionally

varying in a slight degree . . . transcend in an incom

parable manner the contrivances and adaptations which

the most    fertile imagination   of man    could invent."
                                 hardly an  exaggeration to
Finally he  concludes : " It is

say that nature tells us, in the most emphatic manner,
that she abhors perpetual self-fertilisation " ; and thus was

announced a new doctrine in botany. A second much-

improved edition of this book appeared in 1877.

   In 1864, in presenting the Copley medal of the Royal
Society to the author of the " Origin of Species," Major-

General Sabine, the President, entered into a full de

scription of the merits of his works, " stamped through

out with the impress of the closest attention to minute

details and accuracy of observation, combined with large

powers of generalisation." The award, while highly eulo
gising the " Origin,"
                       was not however      based upon butit,
on the more recent     botanical writings.
                                               " The Fertilisa

tion of Orchids" was described as perhaps the most

masterly treatise on any branch of vegetable physiology

that had ever appeared; and the fact was justly empha

sised that all Darwin's botanical discoveries had been

obtained by the study of some of the most familiar and

conspicuous of our native plants, and some of the best-

known and easily-procured cultivated exotics.
                       DARWIN.  107

    In 1865 appeared another work from the Darwinian

treasury, but in this case it was at first restricted to the

Journal of the Linnean Society (vol. ix.), and was not
made generally available till the second edition was pub

lished separately in 1875. "The Movements and Habits
of Climbing Plants" described in the first place the

twining of the hop plant, studied by night and day con

tinuously, in a well-warmed room, to which the author

was confined by illness. Again and again were different

species of plants watched, and the periods in which their

shoots revolved noted. The clematises, tropaeolums,

solanums, gloriosa lilies among leaf-climbing plants ; the

bignonias, cobaeas, bryonies, vines, passion flowers, and

other tendril-bearing plants ; the ivy, and other root

and hook climbers were carefully studied ; and botanists

for the first time realised fully the advantages which

climbing plants possess in the struggle for existence.

The climbing faculty depends on a sensitiveness to con

tact with any firm support, and a most interesting series

of modifications has probably, as Darwin suggests, led to

the present development of climbing organs, by the spon

taneous movement of young shoots and other organs,

and by unequal growth.

   In concluding, the author made some most profoundly

suggestive remarks, which went far to revolutionise our
                       " It has often been vaguely
conception of plants.

asserted that plants are distinguished from animals by not

having the power of movement. It should rather be

said that plants acquire and display this power only when

it is of some advantage to them ; this being of compara

tively rare occurrence, as they are affixed to the ground,
108 LIFE OF

and food is brought to them by the air and rain. We

see how high in the scale of organisation a plant may

rise, when we look at one of the more perfect tendril-

bearers. It first places its tendrils ready for action, as a
Ifpolypus places its tentacula.
                                 the tendril be displaced,

it is acted on by the force of gravity, and rights itself. It

is acted on by the light, and bends towards or from               it,

or disregards       which ever may be most advantageous.
                    it,
                                          a
                                                           it it
During several days the tendrils, or internodes, or both,
spontaneously revolve with steady motion. The tendril

strikes some object, and quickly curls round and firmly

grasps it. In the course of some hours contracts into

  spire, dragging up the stem, and forming an excellenta

spring. All movements now cease. By growth the

tissues soon become wonderfully strong and durable. The

tendril has done its work, and has done in an admirable

manner."

   The labour of revising the successive editions of the
" Origin of Species," together with prolonged ill-health,
delayed the fulfilment of the promise given in that work,

that the facts upon which was based should be pubit

lished. It was not till 1868 that the first instalment,

" The Variation of Animals and Plants under Domesti

cation," was given to the world, in two large volumes,
with numerous illustrations. The author's design was to
discuss in second work the variability of organic beings
in state of nature, and the conversion of varieties into
   a
                 a

species, the struggle for existence and the operation of

natural selection, and the principal objections to the
theory, including questions of instinct and hybridisation.

In third work was intended to test the principle of
   a
                         it
DARWIN.  109

natural selection by the extent to which it explains the
geological succession of organic beings, their distribution

in past and present times, and their mutual affinities and
homologies. The two latter works were never completed,
in consequence of ill-health, and the labour involved in
dealing with objections to and new facts in support of the

" Origin," and of the other works which at various times
it became important to complete. But many portions of
these subjects were admirably dealt with by disciples. In
some cases Darwin's views led to the rapid growth of a

new science, such as that of comparative embryology, and

it would not have been possible for him to cope with and
interpret the multitude of new and astonishing facts dis
covered, which changed the face of organic nature as

viewed by biologists. By doing each day the work which

seemed most necessary, and which he could best do,
Darwin managed, in spite of his infirmity of constitution,
to complete a larger body of original work, both in ex
periment and in thought, together with a greater quantity
of bibliographical study and collation of observed facts,

than any Englishman perhaps has ever done.

   The valuable book on "Variation" records and
systematises a vast number of facts respecting all our
principal domestic animals and cultivated plants. It
gives evidence of wide reading, as well as great diligence
in writing letters of inquiry to all living authorities who
could give accurate information. Very many visits were

paid to zoological gardens, breeders' establishments,
nursery grounds, &c. ; and the preparation of skulls,
skins, &&, was a frequent occurrence in the Darwinian

laboratory. To take the case of rabbits alone, which
110 LIFE OF

occupied but a fraction of the time devoted to pigeons :
over twenty works are quoted for historical facts, skele
tons of various rabbits were prepared and exhaustively
compared, the effects of use and disuse of parts traced,
most careful measurements are given, and a list of the

modifications which domestic rabbits have undergone,
with the probable causes, concludes the chapter. As to
pigeons, no pigeon-fancier ought to be without the book,
for never assuredly was a sporting topic treated by so
great a thinker and so admirably. The numerous experi
ments in crossing different breeds, and the results ob
tained, make this one of the most instructive books for

all breeders. It would seem desirable that this portion

of the book should be issued in a separate form. Again,
when we turn to the sections on plants we see how in
defatigable Darwin was, for he tells us that he cultivated
fifty-four varieties of gooseberries alone, and compared
them throughout in flower and fruit.

   The chapters on Inheritance, and on Reversion to
ancestral characters, or atavism, are profoundly sugges
tive. What can be more wonderful, the author asks,

than that some trifling peculiarity should be transmitted
through a long course of development, and ultimately
reappear in the offspring when mature or even when old ?
Nevertheless, the real subject of surprise is not that a
character should be inherited, but that any should ever
fail to be inherited. Gradually leading up to the impor
tant hypothesis with which the work closes, he observes

that to adequately explain the numerous characters that
reappear after intervals of one or more generations, we
must believe that a vast number of characters, capable
DARWIN.  Ill

of evolution, lie hidden in every organic being. "The

fertilised germ of one of the higher animals, subjected
as it is to so vast a series of changes from the germinal
cell to old age -- incessantly agitated by what Quatrefages
well calls the tourbillon vital--is perhaps the most

wonderful object in nature. It is probable that hardly a

change of any kind affects either parent, without some
mark being left on the germ. But on the doctrine of
reversion the germ becomes a far more marvellous
object, for, besides the visible changes to which it is
subjected, we must believe that it is crowded with
invisible characters, proper to both sexes, to both the
right and left side of the body, and to a long line of male
and female ancestors separated by hundreds or even
thousands of generations from the present time; and
these characters, like those written on paper with invisible

ink, all lie ready to be evolved under certain known or
unknown conditions."

   Through a further discussion of many deeply interesting
facts about the intercrossing of breeds and species, and
about the causes of variability, we pass to the hypothesis
of pangenesis, which, briefly stated, supposes that the
cells or units of the body are perpetually throwing off
minute granules or gemmules, which accumulate in the
reproductive system, and may, instead of developing in
the next generation, be transmitted in a dormant state
through more than one generation and then be developed.
Combination in various degrees between these gemmules
is supposed to influence their appearance or non-appear
ance in the offspring at various stages.

   This hypothesis certainly gives a picture of a possible
112 LIFE OF DARWIN.

mode of accounting for many peculiarities shown by

living organisms. Although not generally accepted, it

has certainly not been disproved. Mr. Grant Allen's

opinion that it is Darwin's "one conspicuous failure,"
and that it is " crude and essentially unphilosophic,"

must be discounted by his known devotion to Mr.
IfHerbert Spencer's philosophy.
                                    Darwin had been a

specialist in modern physiology, he might, perhaps, have

expressed his hypothesis in a more persuasive form ; but

Weismann's germ plasma theory is the only alternative

one hitherto suggested in place of  it.
                     CHAPTER VII.

LTHOUGH the descent of man from animal an
        cestors was directly implied in the "Origin of
Species," Darwin hesitated at the time of its publication

to declare his views fully, believing that he would only thus
augment and concentrate the prejudice with which his

theory would be met. He had for many years held the

views he afterwards expressed ; but it was not until he had
by his other works raised up a strong body of scientific
opinion in favour of his great generalisation, that he fully

presented his views on man to the public. The " Descent
of Man " was studied as a special case of the application
of his general principles, a test all the more severe because
several classes of argument were necessarily cut off, such
as the nature of the affinities which connect together
whole groups of organisms, their geographical distribu

tion, and their geological succession. But adopting the
high antiquity of man as demonstrated, he considered in
detail the evidence as to man's descent from some pre
existing form, the manner of his development, and the
value of the differences between the so-called races of

man. No originality is claimed for the theory or for
the facts advanced ; but it may safely be affirmed that

                                                     8
114 LIFE OF

the master's acuteness, his moderation, his candour, and
his desire to state facts which tell against him, are as

conspicuous in the " Descent of Man " as in any of his

works.

   The " Descent of Man," which was published in 187 1
in two volumes, with numerous illustrations, began, after
a short introduction, with a suggestive series of questions,

which to the evolutionist suffice to decide the question
as to man's origin. As the answers to these questions
are obvious, Darwin first concentrated his inquiry upon
two points on which disputes must necessarily occur,
namely, the traces which man shows, in his bodily struc
ture, of descent from some lower form, and the mental
powers of man as compared with those of lower animals.
The facts of our bodily structure are inexplicable on any
other view than our community of descent with the
quadrumana, unless structure is but a snare to delude our

reason. It is only our natural prejudice, says Darwin,

and that arrogance which made our fathers declare that
they were descended from demigods, which leads us to
demur to this conclusion.

    The comparison of the mental powers of animals with
those of man, proving, as Darwin contends, that they there
in also show traces of community of descent, was certain
to provoke much more debate, for the term "instinct"
and the use made of it by naturalists and psychologists
as signifying untaught, unlearnt ability, largely tended
to obscure the question, and to create prejudices against
believing that instincts could be built up by inherited
experience, that instincts were really not absolute and
fixed, but relative and variable, and that all instincts
DARWIN.  lie

were not perfect or perfectly useful. The working out
of the evolution theory as applied to animal minds, the
study of the first beginnings of nerve action, and the
analysis of instinct, all due largely to Darwin's prominent

disciple, Romanes, together with the immensely fuller
knowledge of molecular physics, of protoplasm, and of
brain function, acquired in the years since Darwin wrote,

have sufficed to place these questions on a much more

secure basis. But the collection of facts made by him,

and the suggestive remarks he everywhere makes, render

his book of permanent value. His sympathy is obvious
in such passages as this : " Every one has heard of the dog
suffering under vivisection who licked the hand of the
operator ; this man, unless he had a heart of stone, must
have felt remorse to the last hour of his life;" the

"terrible" superstitions of the past, such as human
sacrifices, trial by ordeal, &c, show us, he says, " what an
indefinite debt of gratitude we owe to the improvement

of our reason, to science, and our accumulated know

ledge." We see the fruit of Darwin's repeated visits to
the Zoological Gardens, especially in his study of the
habits and mental powers of monkeys. We gain a
definition from him of imagination, by which faculty
man " unites, independently of the will, former images and
ideas, and thus creates brilliant and novel results. . . .
The value of the products of our imagination depends of
course on the number, accuracy, and clearness of our
impressions ; on our judgment and taste in selecting or
rejecting the involuntary combinations, and to a certain
extent on our power of voluntarily combining them."
As to religion, he says, "There is no evidence that man
116 LIFE OF

was aboriginally endowed with the ennobling belief in the

existence of an omnipotent God." On the contrary,

evidence proves that there are and have been numerous

races without gods and without words to express the

idea. The question, he says, is "wholly distinct from

that higher one, whether there exists a Creator and

Ruler of the universe ; and this has been answered in the

affirmative by the highest intellects that have ever lived."
The fact of races existing without a belief in a god is

shown to be compatible with the origin of religious

ideas from attempts to explain external phenomena and

man's own existence, by attributing to other objects and

agencies a similar spirit to that which his consciousness

testifies to in himself

Man's social qualities, as well as those of animals,

Darwin regards as having been developed for the

g"etnheeraml egaonosdbyofwhthiceh  community,     which he   defines  as
                                    the greatest  possible  number
                                                                      of

individuals can be reared in full vigour and health,

with all their faculties perfect, under the conditions to

which they are exposed." This may be regarded as

a more satisfactory expression of the idea underlying
the phrase, " the greatest happiness of the greatest

number." Sympathy for animals he notes as one of the

later acquisitions of mankind, and remarks that he found

the very idea of humanity a novelty to the Gauchos of
the Pampas. " The highest stage in moral culture at

which we can arrive is when we recognise that we ought

to control our thoughts. . . . Whatever makes any bad

action familiar to the mind, renders its performance so

much the easier" -- a significant expression for those
DARWIN.  117

who would compare the teachings of Darwinism with
those of Christianity. Finally, he concludes that the
difference in mind between man and the higher animals

is one of degree, not of kind. "At what age does the

new-born infant possess the power of abstraction, or

become self-conscious and reflect on its own existence?

We cannot answer ; nor can we answer in regard to the
ascending organic scale." Yet that man's mental and
moral faculties may have been gradually evolved " ought

not to be denied, when we daily see their development
in every infant ; and when we may trace a perfect grada

tion from the mind of an utter idiot, lower than that of

the lowest animal, to the mind of a Newton."
   The action of natural selection on the variations known

to occur in man, is next shown to be sufficient to account
for his rise from a lowly condition. Perhaps it is in dis
cussing the development of the intellectual and moral

faculties that Darwin is least successful; more know
ledge of psychology than he possessed is demanded for

this discussion. He gives up the problem of the first
advance of savages towards civilisation as "at present
much too difficult to be solved." He, however,

vigorously contests the idea that man was at first

civilised and afterwards degenerated ; and expresses the

opinion that the " highest form of religion -- the grand idea
of God hating sin and loving righteousness -- was un

known during primeval times." Finally, after discussing
the steps in the genealogy of man, he comes to the con
clusion that from the old-world monkeys, at a remote
period, proceeded man, "the wonder and glory of the
universe." The early progenitors of man he believes to
118 LIFE OF

have been covered with hair, both sexes having had
beards; their ears were pointed and capable of move
ment ; their bodies were provided with a tail, and the
foot was probably prehensile. Our primitive ancestors
lived chiefly in trees in some warm forest-clad land, and
the males were provided with formidable weapons in the
shape of great canine teeth.

   "Thus," says Darwin, "we have given to man a pedi
gree of prodigious length, but not, it may be said, of noble
quality. The world, it has been often remarked, appears
as if it had long been preparing for the advent of man ;
and this, in one sense, is strictly true, for he owes his

birth to a long line of progenitors. If any single link in

this chain had never existed, man would not have been

exactly what he now is. Unless we wilfully close our
eyes, we may, with our present knowledge, approximately
recognize our parentage; nor need we feel ashamed of
it. The most humble organism is something much
higher than the inorganic dust under our feet ; and no
one with an unbiassed mind can study any living crea
ture, however humble, without being struck with enthu
siasm at its marvellous structure and properties."

   In considering the formation and perpetuation of the

races of mankind, Darwin was again and again baffled.
He could not decide that any of the physical differences
between the races are of direct and special service to
him, thus giving opportunity to natural selection to work.
Hence he was led to study in detail the effects of sexual
selection, especially as applicable to man. The greater
part of " The Descent of Man " is occupied with tracing
out what may be called the history of courtship in man
                   DARWIN.      119

and animals. The great variety of interesting subjects

dealt with cannot be detailed here. We must only notice

a few points about mankind which are of special import

ance.

Darwin concludes that man's predominance over woman

in size, strength, courage, pugnacity, and even energy was
acquired in primeval times, and that these advantages

have been subsequently augmented chiefly through the

contests between men for women. Even man's intellec

tual vigour and inventiveness are probably due to natural

selection, combined with inherited effects of habit,

for the most able men will have succeeded best in

defending and providing for their wives and offspring.

Beards, beardlessness, voice, beauty are all related to

sexual charm, and have been selectively developed. Early

man, less licentious, not practising infanticide, was in

several respects better calculated to carry out sexual

selection than he is now ; and thus we find the various
races of men fully differentiated at the earliest date of

historic records.

Incidentally Darwin gives us his views on the mental

differences between man and woman. Woman is more

tender and less selfish than man, whose ambition " passes

too easily into selfishness," which latter qualities "seem to

be his natural and unfortunate birthright." Woman's

powers of intuition, of rapid perception, and perhaps of
imitation, are more strongly marked than in man. Yet the
chief pre-eminence of man he considers to consist in

attaining  greater success in   paantiyengciev,en&cli.ne"tIhnanordweormtahna,t
by reason   of greater energy,

woman should reach the same standard as man, she
120 LIFE OF

 ought, when nearly adult, to be trained to energy and
 perseverance, and to have her reason and imagination
 exercised to the highest point, and then she would prob
 ably transmit these qualities chiefly to her adult daugh
ters." Here we have a plan of women's higher education
 according to the great evolutionist, although he does not
assert that it is the essential and desirable one; but
given a certain object, here is the best method of

securing it. "The whole body of women, however,

could not be thus raised, unless during many generations
the women who excelled in the above robust virtues
were married, and produced offspring in larger numbers
than other women."

    The doctrine that man is descended from some less
highly organised form, Darwin asserts in his concluding

chapter, rests on grounds which will never be shaken--

namely, the similar structure and course of development
of embryos of the higher animals, and vast numbers of
facts of structure and constitution, rudimental structures,
and abnormal reversions. The mental powers of the
higher animals graduate into those of man. Language,
and the use of tools, made man dominant. The brain

then immensely developed, and morality sprang from the
social instinct. Comparing and approving certain actions
and disapproving others, remembering and looking back,
he became conscientious and imaginative. Sympathy,
arising in the desire to give aid to one's fellows, was
strengthened by praise and blame, and conduces to

happiness. "As happiness is an essential part of the

general good, the greatest happiness principle indirectly
serves as a nearly safe standard of right and wrong. . . .
        DARWIN.  121

But with the less civilised nations reason often errs, and

many bad customs and base superstitions come within

the same scope, and consequently are esteemed as high

virtues and their breach as heavy crimes."
   The belief in God, the author says, is not innate or in

tuitive in man, but only arises after long culture. As

to the bearing of the evolution theory on the immortality

of the soul, Darwin thinks few people will find cause for

anxiety in the impossibility of determining at what period

in the  ascending scale man became an immortal being.
        birth, both of the species and of the individual,
" The

are equally parts of that grand sequence of events, which

our minds refuse to accept as the result of blind chance.

The understanding revolts at such a conclusion."

   The bearing of the Darwinian doctrine on some im

portant practical questions for society leads to the remark

that, while man scans with scrupulous care the pedigree

of his animals, when he comes to his own marriage he

rarely or never takes any such care. Perhaps Darwin

was somewhat in error here ; and, also, he seems to have

underrated the unconscious tendency to act according to

natural law, which has no doubt influenced mankind

largely. He lays down the principle that both sexes
ought to refrain from marriage if markedly inferior in

body or mind, or if they cannot avoid abject poverty

for their children. When the laws of inheritance are

thoroughly known, he says, we shall not hear ignorant

members of our legislature rejecting with scorn a plan

for ascertaining, by an easy method, whether or not con

sanguineous marriages are injurious to man. But Darwin

is by no means in favour of any restriction on man's
122 LIFE OF

natural rate of increase ; for it is the greatest means of
preventing indolence from causing the race to become
stagnant or to degenerate. Only, there should be open
competition for all men ; and the most able should not

be prevented by laws or customs from succeeding best
and rearing the largest number of offspring.

   In summing up on the entire subject, Darwin expresses

himself with more than his wonted vigour and point.
On the one hand, he endeavours to disarm opposition by
quoting heroic monkeys as contrasted with degraded
barbarians; on the other hand, he welcomes the eleva
tion of man so far above his barbarous ancestors. Finally,
he takes his stand upon truth, as against likes and dis

Ilikes. "The astonishment which felt on first seeing

a party of Fuegians on a wild and broken shore will
never be forgotten by me, for the reflection at once
rushed into my mind -- such were our ancestors. These
men were absolutely naked and bedaubed with paint;
their long hair was tangled, their mouths frothed with
excitement, and their expression was wild, startled, and
distrustful. They possessed hardly any arts, and, like
wild animals, lived on what they could catch. They had
no government, and were merciless to every one not of
their own small tribe. He who has seen a savage in

his native land will not feel much shame, if forced to

acknowledge that the blood of some more humble

Icreature flows in his veins. For my own part, would

as soon be descended from that heroic little monkey, who
braved his dreaded enemy in order to save the life of his

keeper ; or from that old baboon, who, descending from
the mountains, carried away in triumph his young comrade
DARWIN.                     128

from a crowd of astonished dogs --as from a savage who

delights to torture his enemies, offers up bloody sacrifices,

practises infanticide without remorse, treats his wives like

slaves, knows no decency, and is haunted by the grossest

superstitions.
   " Man may be excused for feeling some pride at having

risen, though not through his own exertions, to the very
summit of the organic scale ; and the fact of his having
thus risen, instead of having been aboriginally placed
there, may give him hopes for a still higher destiny in the
distant future. But we are not here concerned with

hopes or fears, only with the truth as far as our reason
Iallows us to discover it.
                            have given the evidence to

the best of my ability ; and we must acknowledge, as it

seems to me, that man, with all his noble qualities, with

sympathy which feels for the most debased, with benevo

lence which extends not only to other men, but to the

humblest living creature, with his god-like intellect which

has penetrated into the movements and constitution of

the solar system --with all these exalted powers -- Man
still bears in his bodily frame the indelible stamp of his

lowly origin."

   The reception accorded to " The Descent of Man "
was more excited than that of "The Origin of Species."

The first large edition was quickly exhausted, and dis

cussion or ridicule of the book was the fashionable re

creation. Mr. Punch, week after week, reflected passing

opinion. One of his Darwinian ballads on our ancestors

is worth quoting from : --
                     " They slept in a wood,

                              Or wherever they could,
124 LIFE OF

                For they didn't know how to make beds ;
                              They hadn't got huts,
                              They dined upon nuts,

                Which they cracked upon each other's heads.
                              They hadn't much scope
                              For a comb, brush, or soap,

                Or towels, or kettle, or fire ;
                              They had no coats nor capes,
                           For ne'er did these apes

                  Invent what they didn't require.

                                      . 

                              From these though descended,
                              Our manners are mended,
                  Though still we can grin and backbite ;
                              We cut up each other,
                                 Be he friend or brother,
                And tails are the fashion -- at night.
                              This origination
                              Is all speculation --
                 We gamble in various shapes ;
                              So Mr. Darwin
                              May speculate in
                 Our ancestors having been apes."

    The Athenceum was unbelieving, but not denunciatory.
The Edinburgh Review declared the doctrine of natural

selection hopelessly inadequate to explain the phenomena
of man's body ; although its truth and falsehood had no
necessary connection with the general theory of evolution :
some law as yet unknown being looked for. Darwin's
attempt to explain the evolution of mind and the moral
sense is regarded as failing in every point. "Never,
perhaps, in the history of philosophy, have such wide
generalisations been derived from such a small basis
of fact." The Quarterly Review now acknowledged that
DARWIN.  126

"the survival of the fittest" was a truth which readily

presented itself to any one considering the subject, and
that to Darwin was due the credit of having first brought
it forward and demonstrated its truth, and asserted that

the destruction of the least fit was recognised thousands
of years ago. But, in regard to the descent of man, it
fastens specially upon the author's theory of mental

and moral evolution, and declares that he has utterly

failed. The Saturday Review, however, admitted the high
antiquity of man, and the nearness of his bodily structure

to the apes, and went much further. In discussing the

evolution of morals, the author's unexampled grasp of
facts, with his power of correlation, according to The
Saturday, seen at its highest, in an exquisite chain of
philosophical deduction. The mode in which, at a remote
period, the races of mankind became differentiated,
declared to be the weak point in the argument.
         is,
                                        is
                    CHAPTER VIII.

" r I "HE Expression of the Emotions in Man and
   X Animals " followed " The Descent of Man " in

1872. The motive which suggested it was the desire to
explain the complexities of expression on evolution
principles. But the study of emotional expression had
evidently engaged Darwin's attention at least from the
time when the Fuegians and the Gauchos had vividly
roused his imaginative faculties ; and his direct observa
tions commenced as early as 1838, when he was already
inclined to believe in evolution, and were continued at
intervals ever after. The third edition of Sir Charles
Bell's "Anatomy of Expression," published in 1844,
while greatly admired by him, was unsatisfactory in
being throughout based on the conviction that species
came into existence in their present condition ; and not
withstanding that Bain and Herbert Spencer had made
considerable advances in a treatment of the subject based

on physiology, an exhaustive book was wanted, which
should throw on Expression the new and interesting light
of Darwinism.

    What was Darwin's method? Observation, cleverly
LIFE OF DARWIN.  127

devised appeal to nature ; observation over a wide field
as to the varied races of man still existing, utilising the
aid of travellers and residents in many lands ; observation
of domestic animals in familiar and in untried circum

stances ; observation of infants, especially his own, from
a very early age ; observation of the insane, who are

liable to the strongest passions, and give them uncontrolled

vent. It was in 1867 that Darwin circulated his group

of questions designed to ascertain the mode of expressing
every emotion, and their physical concomitants in every
possible race. Sculpture, paintings, and engravings,
afforded little evidence, because beauty is their main
object, and " strongly contracted facial muscles destroy

beauty." Information was specially sought as to natives
who had had little communication with Europeans, and

in whom imitation might not have destroyed ancestral

and original expression.
   The result was to develop three principles which

appeared, in combination, to account for most of the
expressions and gestures involuntarily used by man and
animals. The first was that of serviceable associated

habits : certain complex actions being somehow service
able in particular states of mind, to gratify and relieve

certain sensations, desires, &c, whenever the same state

of feeling is repeated, there is a tendency to the same
movements or actions, though they may not then be of
the least use. The second principle, that of antithesis,
is the converse of the last; when an opposite state of

mind is induced, there is an involuntary tendency to
directly opposite movements, though of no use. The
third principle, that of the direct action of the nervous
128 LIFE OF

system, is independent of the will and of habit ; nerve
force being generated in excess by strong emotions.

   In discussing all these principles we discover how every

thought and every circumstance of the great naturalist

Iseem to have been utilised in his life work. " have

noticed that persons in describing a horrid sight, often
shut their eyes momentarily and firmly, or shake their

heads as if not to see, or to drive away, something dis

Iagreeable ; and have caught myself, when thinking in

the dark of a horrid spectacle, closing my eyes firmly."

I" noticed a young lady earnestly trying to recollect a

painter's name, and she first looked to one corner of the
ceiling, and then to the opposite corner, arching the one
eyebrow on that side, although of course there was

Inothing to be seen there." " Many years ago laid a

small wager with a dozen young men that they would not

sneeze if they took snuff, although they all declared that

they invariably did so ; accordingly they all took a pinch,
but from wishing much to succeed, not one sneezed,
though their eyes watered, and all, without exception,

Ihad to pay me the wager." " put my face close to the

thick glass-plate in front of a puff-adder in the Zoological
Gardens, with the firm determination of not starting back
if the snake struck at me ; but as soon as the blow was

Istruck, my resolution went for nothing, and jumped a

yard or two backwards with astonishing rapidity. My

will and reason were powerless against the imagination

Iof a danger which had never been experienced." "

observed that though my infants started at sudden

sounds, when under a fortnight old, they certainly did

Inot always wink their eyes, and believe never did so.
DARWIN.                                          129

The start of an older infant apparently represents a vague
Icatching hold of something to prevent falling.
                                                 shook

a pasteboard box close before the eyes of one of my

Iinfants, when 114 days old, and it did not in the least

wink ; but when put a few comfits into the box, holding

it in the same position as before, and rattled them, the

child blinked its eyes violently every time, and started a

little." The behaviour of dogs and horses under many

circumstances was watched. Cats and monkeys were most

carefully scrutinised. At all moments Darwin seized

upon and recorded the passing emotion and its associated

Imovements. " remember once seeing a boy who had

just shot his first snipe on the wing, and his hands

trembled to such a degree from delight, that he could
not for some time reload his gun ; " an instance of an

emotional movement being disadvantageous.

Some of Darwin's descriptions of emotional outbursts

are among the best portions of his writing ; as when he

speaks of a mother whose infant has been intentionally
injured, " how she starts up with threatening aspect, how

her eyes sparkle and her face reddens, how her bosom

heaves, nostrils dilate, and heart beats." In describing
a mourner when quiescent, he says : " The sufferer sits

motionless, or gently rocks to and fro; the circulation

becomes languid; respiration is almost forgotten, and

deep sighs are drawn. All this reacts on the brain, and

prostration soon follows with collapsed muscles and

dulled eyes."
   One of the most striking features of this book is the

evidence it affords of Darwin's acuteness and persistence
in observation during his travels, and of the excellence of

9
13 ) LIFE OF

Ihis memory. " remember that my mules and dogs,

brought from a lower and warmer country, after spending
a night on the bleak Cordillera, had the hair all over
their bodies as erect as under the greatest terror." He

noted that Jemmy Button, the Fuegian, blushed when he
was quizzed about the care which he took in polishing
his shoes, and in otherwise adorning himself; and this
fact long after is fitted into the theory of blushing.
Guanacoes in South America, when not intending to

bite, but merely to spit their offensive saliva from a
distance at an intruder, yet retract their ears as a sign of
their anger; and Darwin found the hides of several
which he shot in Patagonia, deeply scored by teeth marks,

in consequence of their battles with each other. A party

of natives in Tierra del Fuego endeavoured to explain
that their friend, the captain of a sealing vessel, was out
of spirits, by pulling down their cheeks with both hands,
so as to make their faces as long as possible ; and the fact
is treasured till it comes in to illustrate the lengthening

of features under depression. As if he foreknew that he

should want the fact forty years later, he inquired of
Jemmy Button whether kissing was practised by his

"Ipeople, and learnt that it was unknown to them.

remember," he says, "being struck whilst travelling in
parts of South America, which were dangerous from the

presence of Indians, how incessantly --yet as it appeared,
unconsciously -- the half-wild Gauchos closely scanned

the whole horizon." "In Tierra del Fuego, a native

Itouched with his finger some cold preserved meat which
    was eating at our bivouac, and plainly showed utter

Idisgust at its softness ; whilst felt utter disgust at my
DARWIN.                      181

food being touched by a naked savage, though his hands
did not appear dirty." And this illustrates the primary

meaning of disgust--anything offensive to the taste.
   In later years his own children, and his domestic pets,

were incessantly watched, and suitable experiments were
devised to bring out the real nature of their expressions.
The period at which tears are formed and crying begins,
the shape of the mouth in crying, the contraction of the
muscles in shouting, the effects of steady gazing at objects,
the various stages of smiling, the effects of shyness, shame,
and fear, are all set before us, as thus observed. For

Iinstance, " asked one of my boys to shout as loudly as

he possibly could, and as soon as he began he firmly

contracted his orbicular muscles (surrounding the eyes).

I observed this repeatedly, and on asking him why he
Ihad every time so firmly closed his eyes, found that he

was quite unaware of the fact : he had acted instinctively
or unconsciously." Some of his early observations were
afterwards published by Darwin in Mind, vol. ii., under

the title of " A Biographical Sketch of an Infant."

   Here is a carefully-worded and very suggestive experiment
on animals : " Many years ago, in the Zoological Gardens,

I placed a looking-glass on the floor before two young

orangs, who, as far as it was known, had never before
seen one. At first they gazed at their own images with

the most steady surprise, and often changed their point

of view. They then approached close, and protruded

their lips towards the image, as if to kiss in exactly

the same manner as they had previously done towards
each other when first placed, few days before, in the
same room. They next made all sorts of grimaces, and
a
                        it,
132 LIFE OF

put themselves in various attitudes before the mirror j
they pressed and rubbed the surface; they placed their
hands at different distances behind it ; looked behind it ;

and finally seemed almost frightened, started a little,

became cross, and refused to look any longer." So
monkeys were tested with a dressed doll, a live turtle,

and stuffed snakes, &c.
   The mode and purpose of erection of the hair, feathers,

and dermal appendages of animals were the subject of

much careful inquiry. Chimpanzees, monkeys, baboons,
and many other creatures, were tested in the Zoological

Gardens. A stuffed snake taken into the monkey-house

caused several species to bristle. When Darwin showed

the same to a peccary, the hair rose in a wonderful

manner along its back. A cassowary erected its feathers

at sight of an ant-eater.

    Every unexpected occurrence was pressed into service.
Witness the following anecdote : " One day my horse
was much frightened at a drilling machine, covered by a

tarpaulin and lying on an open field. He raised his

head so high that his neck became almost perpendicular;
and this he did from habit, for the machine lay on a slope
below, and could not have been seen with more distinct

ness through the raising of the head ; nor if any sound

had proceeded from it could the sound have been more

distinctly heard. His eyes and ears were directed intently

Iforwards ; and could feel through the saddle the palpi

tations of his heart. With red, dilated nostrils, he snorted

violently, and whirling round, would have dashed off at

Ifull speed had not prevented him."

     We see, too, in this book the results of Darwin's
DARWIN.  188

extensive reading. The novelists are laid considerably
under contribution, their power of describing expressive
signs of emotion being particularly appreciated. Dickens,
Walter Scott, Mrs. Oliphant, and Mrs. Gaskell are
among the novelists quoted ; while the author of Job,
Homer, Virgil, Seneca, Shakespeare, Lessing, Sir Joshua
Reynolds, and many other deceased writers, illustrate
the subject. The living authorities -- scientific men,
travellers, doctors -- referred to for facts are exceedingly
numerous, including Sir James Paget, Professor Huxley,

Mr. Herbert Spencer, Sir J. Crichton Browne, Sir Samuel

Baker, Sir Joseph Lister, Professors Cope and Asa Gray,
and many others.

   One of the most interesting chapters in the book is

that dealing with blushing. It is shown to depend on

self-attention, excited almost exclusively by the opinion

of others. " Every one feels blame more acutely than

praise. Now, whenever we know, or suppose, that others

are depreciating our personal appearance, our attention

is strongly drawn towards ourselves, more especially to
our faces." This excites the nerve centres receiving
sensory nerve for the face, and in turn relaxes the blood

capillaries, and fills them with blood. " We can under

stand why the young are much more affected than the

old, and women more than men, and why the opposite

sexes especially excite each others' blushes. It becomes

obvious why personal remarks should be particularly
liable to cause blushing, and why the most powerful of

all the causes is shyness ; for shyness relates to the
presence and opinion of others, and the shy are always

more or less self-conscious."
104 LIFE OF

    One great result made clear by Darwin is that the
muscles of expression have not been created or developed
for the sake of expression only, and that every true or
inherited movement of expression had some natural or

independent origin. All the chief expressions are proved

to be essentially the same throughout the world, which is
an additional argument for man being descended from
one stock. We cannot refrain from admiring the tone
of the pages which close the book, describing as they do
the probable expressions of our early ancestors, their
utility, the value of differences of physiognomy, and the
desirability or otherwise of repressing signs of emotion.

The subject, says the author, " deserves still further atten

tion, especially from any able physiologist;" and so simply
ends a volume of surpassing human interest, a text-book
for novelists and students of human nature, a landmark

in man's progress in obedience to the behest " Know

thyself."

   To fully measure the merit of one so far elevated

above ordinary men is almost impossible ; rather is it
desirable to recognise the undeniable greatness of a great

man, and learn all that is possible from him. An un
doubted authority in mental science, however, has given

a judgment on Darwin's services to that science, which it

is right to quote : " To ourselves it almost seems one of
the most wonderful of the many wonderful aspects of Mr.
Darwin's varied work that by the sheer force of some
exalted kind of common-sense, unassisted by any special

acquaintance with psychological method, he should have
been able to strike, as it were, straight down upon some
of the most important truths which have ever been
DARWIN.  100

brought to light in the region of mental science."1 These
truths are specified as the influence of natural selection in
the formation of instinct, in the " Origin of Species ; "
the evolution of mind and of morals, in the " Descent
of Man," considered by the late Professor Clifford as
containing the simplest and clearest and most profound
philosophy that was ever written on the subject; and
the evolution of expression in the book described in
this chapter. Thus, says Mr. Romanes, in respect both
of instincts and intelligence, the science of comparative
psychology may be said to owe its foundation to Darwin.

  1 G. J. Romanes, in " Charles Darwin," memorial notices reprinted

from Nature.
                    CHAPTER IX.

INpe1n8,75"  appeared another great  work   from   the master's
             Insectivorous Plants,"  which    was   destined to

place in a yet more striking light the many-sidedness and

fertility of his mind. As usual Darwin tells us that this
"Iwork dated from many years back. " During the summer
of 1860," he says,  was surprised by finding how large

a number of insects were caught by the leaves of the

Icommon sun-dew {Drosera rotundifolid) on a heath in
Sussex.      had heard that insects were thus caught, but
Iknew nothing further on the subject.
                                            gathered by

chance a dozen plants, bearing fifty-six fully expanded

leaves, and on thirty-one of these dead insects or remnants

of them adhered." Here was the germ of something, the

discoverer scarcely knew what. It was evident to him

that the little sun-dew was excellently adapted for catch

ing insects, and that the number of them thus slaughtered

annually must be enormous. What bearing might this

have upon the problem of the struggle for existence ?

  A masterly series of experiments was forthwith set on

foot, with the result of proving that sun-dews and a

number of other plants obtain the bulk of their nourish
LIFE OF DARWIN.  187

ment by catching, killing, and digesting insects. They
may be called truly carnivorous plants. What an un
expected reversal this was of the order of things hitherto

believed to prevail universally. Animals live on other
animals or on plants. Here were plants living on

animals, and keeping down their number. Moreover,
without a nervous system, the action of the parts of a
sun-dew leaf was proved to be as apparently purposive as
the combined action of the limbs of an animal. Without

a stomach, the sun-dew poured forth a digestive fluid as
effective in extracting and fitting the nutritious matter of
the insect for its own purposes as that of an animal.
Without sensory nerve-endings, there was a percipient
power in the sun-dew which recognised instinctively and
at once the non-nutritious nature of various objects, and

which responded to the most delicate chemical stimuli

and to the minutest weights.

    We cannot describe the little sun-dew better than in

Darwin's own words : " It bears from two or three to

five or six leaves, generally extended more or less hori
zontally, but sometimes standing vertically upwards. The
leaves are commonly a little broader than long. The
whole upper surface is covered with gland-bearing fila

Iments, or tentacles as shall call them from their manner

of acting. The glands were counted on thirty-one leaves,
but many of these were of unusually large size, and the

average number was 192; the greatest number being
 260, and the least 130. The glands are each surrounded
by large drops of extremely viscid secretion, which,
glittering in the sun, have given rise to the plant's poetical
name of the sun-dew."
138 LIFE OF

This secretion, when excited by nutritious matter,

becomes distinctly acid, and contains a digestive ferment

allied to the pepsin of the human stomach. So excited,

it is found capable of dissolving boiled white of egg,

muscle, fibrin, cartilage, gelatine, curd of milk, and many

other substances. Further, various substances that

animal gastric juice is unable to digest are not acted upon

by the secretion of the sun-dew. These include all

horny matter, starch, fat, and oil. It is not however

prejudiced in favour of animal matter. The sun-dew can

absorb nutriment from living seeds of plants, injuring or

killing them, of course, in the process, while pollen and

fresh green leaves yield to its influence.

   The action of salts of ammonia and other chemicals

was even more wonderful. " It is an astonishing fact

that so inconceivably minute a quantity as the one twenty-

millionth of a grain of phosphate of ammonia should

induce some change in a gland of Drosera sufficient to

cause a motor impulse to be sent down the whole length

of the tentacle; this impulse exciting movement often
Ithrough an angle of above 1800.
                                      know not whether

to be most astonished at this fact, or that the pressure of

a minute bit of hair, weighing only ystthj of a grain,

and largely supported by the dense secretion, should

quickly cause conspicuous movement."

These are but specimens of a multitude of profoundly

interesting facts brought out in this exhaustive investiga
Iftion.
         this single research were his only title to fame

Darwin's name must rank high as an experimenter of rare

ingenuity and success. But he concludes his summary
of results by the utterly modest remark, " We see how
DARWIN.  139

little has been made out in comparison with what remains

unexplained and unknown."
   The facts relating to Venus' fly-trap {Dionceamusripuld)

and other members of the order to which the sun-dew

belongs were better known, but Darwin elicited new
truths by his ingenious and varied experiments. The
rapidity with which the two lobes of the leaf of dionaea

close together when anything touches the tiny spikes
which stand up vertically from the upper surface of the

lobes, is astonishing, and any insect which causes the

closure is almost certain to be caught. Digestion is
accomplished in the case of the dionaea by a separate
agency, consisting of a large number of minute reddish
glands covering the surface of the lobes. These secrete a
digestive fluid when stimulated by the contact of any
nitrogenous matter, and of course this takes place when

any insect is caught. In fact, essentially the same process

of digestion and absorption takes place as in the sun-dew.
The insect is held firmly for days, until its juices have

been absorbed, and then the leaf slowly reopens,
not being able to close again for many subsequent

days.

   It is interesting to note the extreme caution with which

the great naturalist speculates upon the mode by which
the varied members of the sun-dew order became modified

from an ordinary plant-form to such a remarkable degree.
The details are too special for quotation here. He
suggests, but he does not in the slightest degree dog

matise. For many years to come Darwin's suggestions
and comments must be the pregnant soil out of which
fruitful research will spring, and his caution will remain
140 LIFE OF

the model, to depart from which will but sow hindrances
in the path of scientific progress.

   The order to which the butterwort and the bladderworts
belong also afforded valuable results. The leaf of the

butterwort bears glandular hairs, and its margins curve
inwards when excited by contact of various bodies,
especially living insects, and, at the same time, these are
caught in the viscid secretion of the glands, and their
juices absorbed by the plant. The bladderworts are
even more remarkably constructed, for they have a
portion of their leaves developed into subaqueous
bladders, with a narrow entrance beneath, defended by
a complex valve, which facilitates the entrance of water
insects or crustaceans, but prevents their exit. The whole
interior of the bladder is lined with transparent four-

branched protoplasmic hairs, but nevertheless the bladder-

wort is unlike the preceding plants in having no power of
digesting its prey, however long it may remain in cap
tivity. Yet there is no doubt that the imprisoned

creatures do decay in their watery cell, and that the hairs
just described absorb the products of their decay.

   Such is a brief account of Darwin's work on " Insec
tivorous Plants." With his characteristic expressions he

acknowledges the valuable aid given him by Professor
Burdon-Sanderson, and by his son, Mr. Francis Darwin.
The former was enabled to give the first brief account of
the process of digestion in these plants, as observed by
Darwin, in a lecture before the Royal Institution, in
June, 1874, and Dr. (now Sir Joseph) Hooker called
general public notice to the subject of Carnivorous
Plants in his lecture before the British Association at
DARWIN.         141

Belfast in the same year: so that a thoroughly awakened
attention was given to this new work from Darwin's pen.
The public and the scientific world learnt to appreciate

yet more keenly his varied talent, his long patience, his
reserve of power ; and thence dated very definitely a
general appreciation of the fundamental unity of the

animal and plant kingdoms, seeing that the salient
faculties of digestion, of purposive locomotion, of rapid
communication and consentaneous action were no longer
restricted to animals, but were possessed in a high

degree by plants also. Eager followers soon brought
forward further proofs of unity of functions in the two
kingdoms, and of reciprocal combinations between them,
and now no one in the slightest degree acquainted with
modern biology doubts that life is at bottom one phe
nomenon, shared equally and manifested in essentially
the same modes by the living substance of plant and
animal alike.

   Following "Insectivorous Plants" came "The Effects
of Cross and Self-Fertilisation in the Vegetable King

dom," in 1876. Darwin had led the way in the study of
this subject by his book on Orchids, and his lead had
been excellently followed by Hildebrand, Hermann
Miiller, Sir John Lubbock, and others. The path having
been indicated, it had appeared comparatively easy for

botanists to follow it up. But there yet remained a region
of experimental inquiry which it required Darwin's
patience and ingenuity to master and to expound con
clusively. Although it might be practically granted that

natural selection developed a process because advantage

was gained by was possible to demonstrate that
it,
            it
142 LIFE OF

flowers cross-fertilised bear more and larger seeds,
which produce healthier offspring than those fertilised

from their own pollen ? This Darwin set himself ex
haustively to do. For more than a dozen years after

his book on orchids appeared, unwearied experiments
on plants were progressing, and nature was being ques
tioned acutely, untiringly. Competitive germination was
carried on. The two classes of seeds were placed on
damp sand in a warm room. As often as a pair germi
nated at the same time, they were planted on opposite
sides of the same pot, with a partition between. Besides
these pairs of competitors, others were planted in beds,
so that the descendants of the crossed and self-ferti
lised flowers might compete. The resulting seeds
were carefully compared, and their produce again com
pared. Species were selected from widely distinct
families, inhabiting various countries. From a large
number of plants, when insects were quite excluded by
a thin net covering the plant, few or no seeds were pro
duced. The extent of transport of pollen by insects was
unveiled, and the relation between the structure, odour,
and conspicuousness of flowers, the visits of insects, and

the advantages of cross-fertilisation was shown. "We
certainly," says Darwin, " owe the beauty and odour of

our flowers, and the storage of a large supply of honey,
to the existence of insects." The multitude of facts

gathered about insects could only have been discovered
and rightly appreciated by one who was a true entomolo
gist as well as a botanist.

   In the last chapter of the book the author discusses
with remarkable power the causes of the phenomena he
                                   DARWIN.            148

has discovered. He believes that the favourable effects
of crossing are due to the parents having been subjected

to diverse conditions ; but what the precise benefit  orit is,
                                                            it
how can operate so as to render the offspring more

healthy and vigorous, he cannot discern. "And so is,"
a
he observes, "with many other facts, which are so obscure
        it
that we stand in awe before the mystery of life." So
                                ais. The man who probably understood nature better

than any man who has ever lived, who had not only asked

her multitudinous questions, but to whom very many

answers had been undoubtedly vouchsafed in response

to his persevering, humble, diligent, acute questioning,

acknowledges that he knows little; that much remains

    mystery. But from all we know of him, from his
books, his letters, his friends, his was the joy of soul
                                               a
in sympathy with the master power of the universe. He
                                                    It
marched continually on the confines of the unknown,

and to him was granted the felicity of largely extending

the boundaries of the known.

   Again, in 1877, new work proceeded from Darwin's
pen, " The Different Forms of Flowers in Plants of the

same Species," dedicated to Professor Asa Gray.

gathered up the contents of numerous papers read before

the Linnean Society, with later additions, and showed

conclusively how many plants possess distinctive forms

of flowers in the same species, adapted to, and in some

cases absolutely necessitating, reciprocal fertilisation

through the visits of insects. It gave evidence of all

the well-known Darwinian characteristics of long-con

tinued labour, thought, and experiment.     1

   In 1880 "The Power of Movement in Plants" was ex
144 LIFE OF

emplified in a fresh volume, in which the veteran was mate
rially assisted by his son, Mr. Francis Darwin. Its object
was to describe and connect together several large classes
of movements, common to almost all plants. The sur
prising fact was established, that all the parts or organs
of plants, whilst they continue to grow, are continually

revolving, or circumnutating as Darwin called it. This

movement commences even before the young seedling

has broken through the ground. The combination of
this with the effects of gravity and light explains countless
phenomena in the life of plants. The tip of the rootlet
is thus enabled to penetrate the ground, and it is proved
to be more sensitive than the most delicate tendril. Move
ment goes on through all stages of life. Every growing
shoot of a great tree is continually describing small ellipses;
the tip of every rootlet endeavours to do the same. The
changes of position of leaves and of climbing plants, and
the sleep of leaves are all brought under this great principle
of circumnutation. It is impossible in reading the book

not to be struck with the great resemblance between the
movements of plants and many of the actions performed

unconsciously by the lower animals. " With plants an as

tonishingly small stimulus suffices, and, even with allied
plants, one maybe highly sensitive to the slightest continued
pressure, and another highly sensitive to a slight momentary
touch. The habit of moving at certain periods is inherited

both by plants and animals, and several other points of
similitude have been specified. But the most striking,
resemblance is the localisation of their sensitiveness, and
the transmission of an influence from the excited part to-
another which consequently moves. Yet plants do not
                 DARWIN.                146

of course possess nerves or a central nervous system ;

and we may infer that with animals such structures serve

only for the more perfect transmission of impressions,

and for the more complete intercommunication of the

several parts."

Here we see how much light may be thrown on

animal structures and functions by vegetable physio

logy. We learn to limit our ideas of the superiority
of animals by discovering how much of what we consider

peculiar to them is found in plants. We appreciate the

unity of biology, indivisible without injury to our know

ledge of its parts. No structure in plants appears more

wonderful, as Darwin describes      than the tip of the
                 is
                               it,
rootlet of seedling. It impressed by and transmits
   a

influences of pressure, injury, moisture, light, and gravity

to other parts, and determines the course pursued by theis

rootlet in penetrating the ground. "It hardly an ex

aggeration to say that the tip of the radicle thus endowed,
and having the power of directing the movements of the

adjoining parts, acts like the brain of one of the lower

animals;" and the brain of Charles Darwin, in working

out this acquisition of knowledge for mankind, has

added new department to vegetable physiology and
a

to biology.

                 10
                       CHAPTER X.
I N his later years honours poured thick upon Darwin.
"J-ForInM1e8r7it1                the Prussian order of knighthood
                   he  received  elected a corresponding member
                   ";  and was

of the Austrian Academy of Sciences. In 1877 Cam

bridge University, making an exception to its custom of

not conferring honorary degrees on its members, gave him

the LL.D. and an ovation, when the kindly eyes of the

venerable naturalist beamed upon the monkey-figure

dangled by undergraduates before him from the galleries,

in addition to a solitary link of a huge chain, no doubt

representing " the missing link." In 1878 the honour,

long withheld, and certainly unsought, of being elected a

corresponding member of the Paris Academy of Sciences

in the section of Zoology, was his ; and that tardy body

recognised late the man whose supremacy in science it

had done nothing either to foster or to approve. In 1879
the Baly Medal of the London College of Physicians

was awarded to him.

After the Cambridge celebration a subscription was

raised to obtain a portrait of the veteran evolutionist,

which was executed by Mr. W. B. Richmond, and now

adorns the Philosophical Library of the New Museums
at Cambridge. Later, yet another portrait -- the finest
LIFE OF DARWIN.  147

in his own and many others' belief --was painted by Mr.
John Collier, and presented to the Linnean Society,
which will always be associated with the first announce
ment of Darwin's main theory, as well as with many
others of his scientific discoveries.

    Professor Haeckel has given the following charming
description of Darwin and his home surroundings in his

later years : " In Darwin's own carriage, which he had

thoughtfully sent for my convenience to the railway

Istation, drove, one sunny morning in October, through

the graceful, hilly landscape of Kent, that with the
chequered foliage of its woods, with its stretches of

purple heath, yellow broom, and evergreen oaks, was
arrayed in its fairest autumnal dress. As the carriage
drew up in front of Darwin's pleasant country house,
clad in a vesture of ivy and embowered in elms, there
stepped out to meet me from the shady porch, over

grown with creeping plants, the great naturalist himself,
a tall and venerable figure, with the broad shoulders of
an Atlas supporting a world of thought, his Jupiter-like
forehead highly and broadly arched, as in the case of
Goethe, and deeply furrowed with the plough of mental

labour ; his kindly, mild eyes looking forth under the
shadow of prominent brows j his amiable mouth sur
rounded by a copious silver-white beard. The cordial,
prepossessing expression of the whole face, the gentle,

mild voice, the slow, deliberate utterance, the natural
and naive train of ideas which marked his conversation,
captivated my whole heart in the first hour of our
meeting, just as his great work had formerly, on my first

reading taken my whole understanding by storm.
it,

                                           I
148 LIFE OF

fancied a lofty world-sage out of Hellenic antiquity -- a
Socrates or Aristotle -- stood before me."

   The well-known botanist, Alphonse de Candolle, thus
describes a visit to Down :

  I" longed to converse once more with Darwin,

IIwhom had seen in 1839, and with whom kept up

a most interesting correspondence. It was on a fine

Iautumn morning in 1880 that arrived at Orpington

station, where my illustrious friend's break met me.
I will not here speak of the kind reception given
Ito me at Down, and of the pleasure
                                     felt in chat

ting familiarly with Mr. and Mrs. Darwin and their
Ison Francis.
               note only that Darwin at seventy was
Imore animated and appeared happier than when had

.seen him forty-one years before. His eye was bright

and his expression cheerful, whilst his photographs show

rather the shape of his head, like that of an ancient

philosopher. His varied, frank, gracious conversation,

entirely that of a gentleman, reminded me of that of

Oxford and Cambridge savants. The general tone was

like his books, as is the case with sincere men, devoid of

every trace of charlatanism. He expressed himself in

English easily understood by a foreigner, more like that

of Bulwer or Macaulay, than that of Dickens or Carlyle.

I asked him for news of the committee, of which he was
Ia member, for reforming English spelling, and when

said that moderate changes would be best received by

Ithe public, he laughingly said, ' As for myself, of course,
   am for the most radical changes.' We were more

in accord on another point, that a man of science, even
              DARWIN.                                                                             149

up to advanced age, ought to take an interest in new

ideas, and to accept them, if he finds them true. ' That

was very strongly the opinion of my friend Lyell,' he

said ; 'but he pushed it so far as sometimes to yield to

Ithe first objection, and was then obliged to defend him

against himself.' Darwin had more firmness in his

opinions, whether from temperament, or because he had

published nothing without prolonged reflection.

"Around the house no trace appeared to remain of

the former labours of the owner. Darwin used simple
means. He was not one who would have demanded

to have palaces built in order to accommodate labora
         I looked for the greenhouse in which such
tories.

beautiful experiments on hybrid plants had been made.

It contained only a vine. One thing struck me, although
it is not rare in England, where animals are loved. A

heifer and a colt were feeding close to us with the tran

Iquillity which tells of good masters, and heard the
joyful barking of dogs. ' Truly,' I said to myself, 'the

history of the variations of animals was written here, and

observations must be going on, for Darwin is never idle.'

I Idid not suspect that was walking above the dwellings

of those lowly beings called earthworms, the subject of

his last work, in which Darwin showed once more how

little causes in the long run produce great effects. He

Ihad been studying them for thirty years, but did not

knowa
         a it.

                     ;
                       a

                                                                                               ;
"Returning to the house, Darwin showed me his

library, large room on the ground floor, very convenient

for studious man; many books on the shelves windows

on two sides  writing-table and another for apparatus
150 LIFE OF

for his experiments. Those on the movements of stems

and roots were still in progress. The hours passed like
Iminutes.
                had to leave. Precious memories of that

visit remain."

   Yet once more, in 1881, the famous publishing
house of Murray issued a new work -- his last -- by
the great illuminator of Nature. Its subject was one

which no one save those who knew him could have

expected. It dealt with "The Formation of Vegetable

Mould, through the Action of Worms, with Observations
on their Habits," and in it the lowly earthworm was at

last raised to its true rank as the genuine preparer and
possessor of the soil. Both Gilbert White and Edward

Jenner had been impressed with the work earthworms
do in nature, but no one had written extensively on the
subject till Darwin himself, in 1837, read a short paper
on the "Formation of Mould" before the Geological
Society of London (published in the fifth volume of the
Society's Transactions), showing that small fragments
of burnt marl, cinders, &c, which had been thickly
strewed over the surface of several meadows, were found

after a few years lying at the depth of some inches

beneath the turf. It was suggested to him by his relative

Mr. Wedgwood, of Maer Hall, in Staffordshire, that this
was due to the quantity of fine earth continually brought
up to the surface by worms in the form of castings.

Observation and experiment were to settle the question

in the usual Darwinian manner, and many a portion of

soil was watched. One experiment lasted nearly thirty
years, for a quantity of broken chalk and sifted coal
               DARWIN.                                                           151

cinders was spread on December 20, 1842, over distinct

parts of a field near Down House, which had existed as
pasture for a very long time. At the end of November,

187 1, a trench was dug across this part of the field, and

the nodules of chalk were found buried seven inches. A

similar change took place in a field covered with flints,

where in thirty years the turf was compact without any

stones. A pathway formed of loose-set flagstones was

similarly buried by worms, and became undistinguishable

from the rest of the lawn. And these are but a few of

the evidences of the wonderful action of worms, col

lected by the activity of Charles Darwin and his sons.

Earthworms were not only scrutinised in their out-of-

door work, but were kept in confinement and studied.

It appears they swallow earth both to make their burrows

and to extract all nutriment it may contain; they will

eat almost anything they can get their skin over. From

careful calculation it was shown that worms on an aver

age pass ten tons of the soil on an acre of ground

through their bodies every year. It then, but truism
               It

                                          a by
                                                       is,
                                                                              a
to say that every bit of soil on the surface of the globe

must have passed through their bodies many times.

They were discovered to work mainly by night, when

hundreds may with care be discerned, with tails fixed

in their burrows, prowling round in circles, rapidly

retreating into holes, and strongly resisting efforts to

extract them.  was found  careful study that they

have no sense of hearing, but most remarkable sensi

tiveness to vibrations of the earth or even to contact with
air in motion. No book Darwin wrote was fuller of

interesting and undoubtedly correct observations.
152 LIFE OF

In concluding, the author enforces the claims of

worms on the gratitude of archaeologists, as they protect

and preserve for an indefinitely long period every object

not liable to decay which is dropped on the surface of

the land, by burying it beneath their castings. It is thus

that many tesselated pavements and other ancient

remains have been preserved; but, on the other hand,

worms have undermined many old massive walls and

caused them to subside, and no building is in this

respect safe unless the foundations are at least six or

seven feet beneath the surface, below which depth worms

cannot work. Worms also prepare the ground in an

excellent manner for plant life, periodically exposing the

mould to the air, sifting it so that no stones larger than

the particles they can swallow are left in mingling the
                                   it,
                                                          is a
whole intimately together, burying all decaying objects

within reach of the roots of the plants, allowing air to
penetrate deeply into the earth. "When we behold

wide, turf-covered expanse, we should remember that its

smoothness, on which so much of its beauty depends,

mainly due to all the inequalities having been slowly

Itlevelled worms.   It          marvellous reflection that the

                by       is
                             a

whole of the superficial mould over any such expanse

has passed, and will again pass, every few years through

the bodies of worms. The plough one of the most
                                   is

                                                     ;
ancient and most valuable of man's inventions but long

before he existed the land was in fact regularly ploughed,

and still continues to be thus ploughed by earthworms.

may be doubted whether there are many other animals

which have played so important part in the history
                                a

of the world, as have these lowly organised creatures."
DARWIN.  158

   After this last book Darwin felt much exhausted, and

I IIwrote : " feel so worn out that do not suppose

shall ever again give reviewers trouble." His brother
Erasmus's death in the same year was the severance of a
link with early days. Yet for some months he continued
in a moderate degree of health, still working. For some
weeks however in the following March and April he was
slightly unwell, and the action of his heart became so

weak that he was not allowed to mount the stairs. On
Tuesday, April 18, he was in his study examining a plant

which he had had brought to him, and he read the same

evening before retiring. Till the day of his death he did

not become seriously ill. On that day the heart, which
had so long done its duty, failed, and about 4 p.m.,
on April 19, 1882, Charles Darwin breathed his last in

peace, aged seventy-three years, two months, and seven

days.
                       CHAPTER XI.

THE death of Charles Darwin focussed, as it were,
        into one concentrated glow the feelings of admi
ration, and even reverence, which had been growing

stronger and stronger in the years since the " Origin of
Species " was published. It soon became evident that

a public funeral in Westminster Abbey was very generally
called for, and this being granted, a grave was chosen
in the north aisle and north-east corner of the nave,

north of and side by side with that of Sir John Herschel,
and ten or twelve feet only from that of Sir Isaac
Newton. On April 26, 1882, a great representative
host of scientists, literary men, politicians, and theolo
gians assembled for the final scene. The pallbearers
were the Dukes of Devonshire and Argyll, the Earl of
Derby, Mr. J. Russell Lowell (then American Minister
in London), Mr. W. Spottiswoode (President of the
Royal Society), Sir Joseph Hooker, Mr. Alfred Russel
Wallace, Professor Huxley, Sir John Lubbock, and
Canon Farrar. The Bishop of Carlisle, preaching at

the Abbey on the following Sunday, admitted that
Darwin had produced a greater change in the current of
thought than any other man, and had done it by per-
LIFE OF DARWIN.  155

fectly legitimate means. He had observed Nature with
a strength of purpose, pertinacity, honesty, and ingenuity
never surpassed.

   "The career of Charles Darwin," wrote The Times

on the day of his funeral, "eludes the grasp of per
sonal curiosity as much as of personal enmity. He
thought, and his thoughts have passed into the substance

of facts of the universe. A grass plot, a plant in bloom,

a human gesture, the entire circle of the doings and
tendencies of nature, builds his monument and records
his exploits. . . . The Abbey has its orators and

ministers who have convinced senates and swayed
nations. Not one of them all has wielded a power over

men and their intelligences more complete than that

which for the last twenty-three years has emanated from
a simple country house in Kent. Memories of poets
breathe about the mighty church. Science invokes the
aid of imagination no less than poetry. Darwin as he

searched, imagined. Every microscopic fact his patient
eyes unearthed, his fancy caught up and set in its proper
niche in a fabric as stately and grand as ever the creative
company of Poets' Corner wove from sunbeams and rain

bows."

   " Our century is Darwin's century," said the All-

genuine Zeilung. The New York Herald described his
life as " that of Socrates except its close." The Neue

Freie Presse said truly that his death caused lamentation

as far as truth had penetrated, and wherever civilisation

had made any impression.

   A movement was at once set on foot for securing a

worthy public memorial of Darwin. Subscriptions
150 LIFE OF

flowed in abundantly, and came from all countries of

Europe, the United States, the British Colonies, and

Brazil. Sweden sent the astonishing number of 2296
subscriptions ; persons of all ranks contributed, from a

bishop to a seamstress. Over ^4,000 in all was sub

scribed, and it was resolved, in the first place, to procure

the best possible statue. This work was entrusted to Mr.

Boehm, R.A., with admirable results. Permission was

obtained to place it in the great hall of the British

Museum of Natural History, South Kensington, and

here it was unveiled on June 9, 1885, by the Prince of

Wales, who accepted the statue on behalf of the Trustees

of the British Museum from Professor Huxley as repre

senting the subscribers. It is agreed that the statue is

excellent, the attitude easy and dignified, the expression

natural and characteristic. The only defect is that the

hands are unlike Darwin's. The balance, about 2, 200,

remaining over from the fund, was given to the Royal

Society to be invested for the promotion of biological

studies and researches.

The conditions under which Darwin lived were just

those in which, as The Saturday Review put  his
It

                               a

                                            it

                                                                                    a
                                                                                         it,

                                                                                                           a
sweet and gentle nature could blossom into perfection.

"Arrogance, irritability, and envy, the faults that ordinarily

beset men of genius, were not so much conquered as

non-existent in singularly simple and generous mind.

never occurred to him that would be to his gain to

show that he and not some one else was the author of
Ifdiscovery.
              he was appealed to for help by fellow-

worker, the thought never passed into his mind that he

had secrets to divulge which would lessen his importance.
                        DARWIN.                           167

It was science, not the fame of science, that he loved,

and he helped science by the temper in which he ap

a                 He had to say things which were distasteful
             it.
proached

to large portion of the public, but he won the ear even

of his most adverse critics by the manifest absence of
                                                          is a
mere desire to shine, by his modesty, and by his courtesy.

He told honestly what he thought to be the truth, but he

told without wish to triumph or to wound. There
it                if a

an arrogance of unorthodoxy as well as an arrogance of

orthodoxy, and ideas that quarter of century ago
                              a     a

                                         if
were regarded with dread are now accepted without         a

pang, the rapidity of the change of opinion, not the

change itself, largely due to the fact that the leading
                  is

exponent of these ideas was the least arrogant of men."

Geniality and genuine humour must be remembered as

among the many delightful traits in Darwin's character.
Mr. Edmund Yates, in his " Celebrities at Home "

(second series), describes his as laugh to remember, "a

rich Homeric laugh, round and full, musical and jocund."
" At droll suggestion of Mr. Huxley's, or humorous
a                                a
                                                       a

doubt insinuated in the musical tones of the President of

the Royal Society (Sir Joseph Hooker), the eyes twinkle
under the massive overhanging brows, the Socratic head,

as Professor Tyndall loves to call  thrown back, and
                                    it,
                                        is
                                                a
over the long white beard rolls out such laugh as we

have attempted to describe."

Exceptionally good-hearted and sympathetic as man,
                                                          a
                                                                     a
Darwin discovered his life-work, and did in spite ofit,

most powerful hindrance, in the best possible manner,

with the least possible waste of force. But, more than

doing his work, he set others to work, incited them,
158 LIFE OF

suggested to them, aided them, scattered among them
seeds which, finding fertile soil, sprang up and bore fruit

a hundredfold. His greatness is as much in what he

caused others to do as in what he did himself. Even in

arousing antagonism, though by the gentlest means, he
did a great work, for he secured examination and criticism
in such bulk that the whole world was leavened by his
doctrine ; and in controversy no man has any disagree
able reminiscence of him. Many have cause to bless the
day when they first came into communication with
Darwin, to find him welcome them, encourage them,
place his own vast stores of knowledge and thought at
their disposal, and, best of all, make them love him

naturally as a dear friend.
   Darwin's was one of those open and frank minds which

are entrenched behind no rampart of isolating prejudice,

and elevated on no platform of conscious superiority. It

was equally natural to him to ask and to give information.
No one ever was more accessible to all who genuinely
sought his aid in their inquiries or their projects ; no one
ever more truly sought information from all quarters
whence truth was attainable. Hence the mass of his
letters to all kinds of persons is enormous, and only a

small proportion, probably, will ever be published. His

letters are like his conversation, free, frank, without a

trace of arrilre penske, praising others where possible--

and no man ever found it more possible to praise others

more genuinely-- depreciating himself and his work most

Iunduly. " You so overestimate the value of what do,"

he writes on one occasion, " that you make me feel
ashamed of myself, and wish to be worthy of such praise."
                         DARWIN.                           159

Again, "You have indeed passed a most magnificent

Ieulogium on me, and wonder that you were not afraid of

hearing ' oh, oh,' or some other sign of disapprobation.

IMany persons think that what have done in science has
Ibeen much overrated, and very often think so myself,
Ibut my comfort is that have never consciously done

anything to gain applause." Here we see the scientific

man occupying the highest possible moral standpoint as

a seeker after truth. His election as one of the honorary

members of the Physiological Society was to him a
" wholly unexpected honour," and a " mark of sympathy"

which pleased him in a very high degree.

   " Work," he writes on another occasion, "is my sole

pleasure in life." " It is so much more interesting to

observe than to write." So long as he could devise ex

periments and mark the results he continued to do          '

rather than prepare his voluminous notes on many                  is it,
subjects for publication. " Trollope, in one of his novels,

gives as maxim of constant use by brickmaker, It
a

                is I

                                  a
                                              it a
dogged as does it,' and have often and often," wrote
Darwin, " thought this
                                   motto for every scientific

worker." How faithfully he adopted himself those who

read through any one of his experimental books can ap
preciate. He habitually read or heard some good novel

as a recreation, and took by no means restricted interest
                         it a
in general literature.         is

Considering how usual              for leading thinkers to be

drawn into controversy, even when most desirous of

avoiding  it,          remarkable how little Darwin was mixed
             it
                  is
                     it
up with hotly-debated questions. " hate controversy,"
                                   I

he writes, "and wastes much time, at least with man
                                                    a
ICO LIFE OF

who, like myself, can work for only a short time in a day."

One of the few occasions on which he appeared as a

champion of a cause was on the question of vivisection,

in which a chivalrous feeling led him to intervene with

the following letter to Professor Holmgren, of Upsala

"IUniversity, which was published in The Times of
April 1 8, 1 88 1.      thought it fair," he wrote, "to bear

my share of the abuse poured in so atrocious a manner

on all physiologists."

   "Dear Sir, -- In answer to your courteous letter of

IApril 7, have no objection to express my opinion with

respect to the right of experimenting on living animals.

I use this latter expression as more correct and compre

hensive than that of vivisection. You are at liberty to

make any use of this letter which you may think fit, but

Iif published should wish the whole to appear. I have

all my life been a strong advocate for humanity to

Ianimals, and have done what could in my writings to

enforce this duty. Several years ago, when the agitation

against physiologists commenced in England, it was

asserted that inhumanity was here practised, and useless

Isuffering caused to animals ; and was led to think that

it might be advisable to have an Act of Parliament on the
Isubject.
           then took an active part in trying to get a

Bill passed, such as would have removed all just cause

of complaint, and at the same time have left physiologists
free to pursue their researches -- a Bill very different from

the Act which has since been passed. It is right to add

that the investigation of the matter by a Royal Com

mission proved that the accusations made against our
DARWIN.  161

IEnglish physiologists were false. From all that have
Iheard, however, fear that in some parts of Europe little

regard is paid to the sufferings of animals, and if this be

Ithe case should be glad to hear of legislation against
Iinhumanity in any such country. On the other hand,

know that physiology cannot possibly progress except by

Imeans of experiments on living animals, and feel the

deepest conviction that he who retards the progress of

physiology commits a crime against mankind. Any one

Iwho remembers, as can, the state of this science half

a century ago, must admit that it has made immense
progress, and it is now progressing at an ever-increasing

rate.

   "What improvements in medical practice may be

directly attributed to physiological research is a question
which can be properly discussed only by those physi

ologists and medical practitioners who have studied the

Ihistory of their subjects ; but, as far as can learn, the

benefits are already great. However this may be, no
one, unless he is grossly ignorant of what science has
done for mankind, can entertain any doubt of the in
calculable benefits which will hereafter be derived from

physiology, not only by man, but by the lower animals.
Look, for instance, at Pasteur's results of modifying the
germs of the most malignant diseases, from which, as it
so happens, animals will, in the first place, receive more
relief than man. Let it be remembered how many lives,
and what a fearful amount of suffering have been saved
by the knowledge gained of parasitic worms through the
experiments of Virchow and others on living animals.

In the future every one will be astonished at the in-
102 LIFE OF

gratitude shown, at least in England, to these benefactors
of mankind. As for myself, permit me to assure you

Ithat honour, and shall always honour, every one who

advances the noble science of physiology.
                               " Dear sir, yours faithfully,

                                          "Charles Darwin."

As an experimenter Darwin was by no means over

confident either in his methods or his power of obtaining

results. He simply took the best means open to him, or

that he could devise, applied them in the best way known

to him, and calmly studied the result. "As far as my

experience goes," he wrote, in reference to experimental

work, " what one expects rarely happens." On another

occasion, after working like a slave at a certain investiga
       " with                        "                " as usual,
tion,          very  poor  success      he  remarks,
                                    ;
Ialmost everything goes differently to what had antici

pated." How few investigators have the magnanimity

which appears in this confession. But more than this, it

is an indication of the rare patience with which he stuck

at a subject till he knew all he could read or discover or

develop in connection with it. It was " dogged " that did
it ; " awfully hard work " sometimes. In reference to an

attempt of his to define intelligence, which he regarded

as unsatisfactory, after remarking that he tried to observe

what passed in his own mind when he did the work of a

Iworm, he writes : " If come across a professed meta
Iphysician, will ask him to give me a more technical

definition with a few big words, about the abstract, the

Iconcrete, the absolute, and the infinite. But sincerely,

should be grateful for any suggestions ; for it will hardly
                 DARWIN.                         163

 do to assume that every fool knows what 'intelligent'
 means."

     Inasmuch as it must necessarily be of great interest to
 know the attitude which so great a thinker as Darwin

 adopted towards Christianity, revelation, and other
 matters of theology, we give unabridged two letters
 which were written without a view to publication, and

 were published after his death without the authorisation
 of his representatives. Having been widely published,
 however, it is right that they should be given here.

     The first of these was sent in 1873 to N. D. Deedes,

 a Dutch gentleman, who wrote to ask Darwin his opinion
  on the existence of a God :

I" It is impossible to answer your question briefly ;
IIam not sure that
                 could do so even if  wrote at
Isome length. But may say that the impossibility of

conceiving that this grand and wondrous universe, with

our conscious selves, arose through chance, seems to me

our chief argument for the existence of God; but whether
Ithis is an argument of real value, have never been able
Ito decide.
             am aware that if we admit a first cause, the

mind still craves to know whence it came and how it
Iarose. Nor can
                 overlook the difficulty from the
Iimmense amount of suffering through the world.
                                                 am,

also, induced to defer to a certain extent to the judgment

of the many able men who have fully believed in God ;

Ibut here, again, see how poor an argument this is.

The safest conclusion seems to be that the whole subject

is beyond the scope of man's intellect, but man can do

his duty."
164 LIFE OF

   The second letter was addressed to Nicholas, Baron

Mengden, a German University student, in whom the-

Itstudy of Darwin's books had raised religious doubts.

is dated June 5, 1879. The following is a re-translation
of a German translation :

  I" am very busy, and am an old man in delicate

health, and have not time to answer your questions fully,
even assuming that they are capable of being answered
at all. Science and Christ have nothing to do with each
other, except in so far as the habit of scientific investiga
tion makes a man cautious about accepting any proofs.

I IAs far as am concerned, do not believe that any

revelation has ever been made with regard to a future

life; every one must draw his own conclusions from

vague and contradictory probabilities."

It should be added that he was greatly averse to every

form of militant anti-religious controversy, and always

deprecated    it.  He would have been the last to desire

that his words should be quoted as of scientific authority,

or as being more than the results of his own thought on

questions which were not the subject of his life study.

Let those who think that his having expressed these

views  is     regrettable blow to orthodox Christianity, set
           a

against the enormous service Darwin did to reasonable
       it

                   by
natural theology giving an intelligible key to the ex

planation of the universe. And let all men remember

that genuine honesty such as Darwin's cannot possibly

hinder the interests or the spread of truth. His declara

tion that "man can do his duty," implies his conviction)
DARWIN.  165

that man may know what his duty is ; and very many

noble spirits besides Darwin have not found it possible

to advance with certainty beyond this point.
   As to Darwin's place in literature, that is due super

eminently to his thoughts. In his expression of them

he had the saving quality of directness, and usually wrote
with simplicity. Incisive he was not ordinarily ; caution
of his type harmonises ill with incisiveness. But what
he lost thereby he gained in solidity and in permanence.
Sometimes, as we have pointed out, his imagination

carried him beyond his usual sober vein, and then he

showed himself aglow with feeling or with sympathetic

perception.
    But when we speak of his imagination we pass at once

to the other side of his mind --if indeed any such patient

inquiry as his could have been maintained except for the
imaginative side of him. This lit up his path, buoyed

him in difficulties and failures, suggested new expedients,
experiments, and combinations. The use of imagination

in science has never been more aptly illustrated nor
more beneficial than in his case. Darwin, more than

any other man perhaps, showed the value, if not the
essentiality, of " working hypotheses " ; and if any man

now wants to progress in biology, he will be foolish if he

does not seek such and use them freely, and abandon

them readily if disproved.

    Darwin imagined grandly, and verified his imaginings

as far as one man's life suffices ; and no man can do more.
And Darwin won, as far as a man can win, success during
his lifetime. As Professor Huxley said, in lecturing on

" The Coming of Age of ' The Origin of Species,' " " the
1GG LIFE OF

foremost men of science in every country are either
avowed champions of its leading doctrines, or at any rate
abstain from opposing them." His prescience has in less
than a generation been justified by the discovery of inter
mediate fossil forms of animals too numerous to be here

recounted. The break between vertebrate and inver

tebrate animals, between flowering and non-flowering

plants, between animal and plant, is now bridged over by

discoveries in the life histories of animals and plants

which exist to-day. Embryo animals and plants are now

known to go through stages which repeat and condense
the upward ascent of life ; and they give us information

of the greatest value as to lost stages in the path.

We can, as it were, see the actual track through which

evolution may have proceeded. " Thus," says Professor
Huxley, " if the doctrine of evolution had not existed,

      ;"

                            is
                                                 a

                                                       it,
                                                                                  a is

                                                                                        is

                                                                               it
palaeontologists must have invented so irresistibly
forced upon the mind by the study of the remains of the

Tertiary mammalia which have been brought to light since

1859  and again, "so far as the animal world  con

cerned, evolution no longer speculation, but state

ment of historical fact."

   As to the limits of the truth of Darwin's theory, Pro
fessor Huxley, writing on " Evolution in Biology," in
" The Encyclopaedia Britannica," says " How far natural
selection suffices for the production of species remains to
is
   a
                 a

                                       if
                                                                                                                        :

                                                                                   ;

                                                                                        it it
be seen. Few can doubt that, not the whole cause,

very important factor in that operation and that

must play great part in the sorting out of varieties into

those which are transitory, and those which are per

manent. But the causes and conditions of variation
                     DARWIN.                  107

have yet to be thoroughly explored ; and the importance

of natural selection will not be impaired, even if further

inquiries should prove that variability is definite, and is

determined in certain directions rather than in others, by
conditions inherent in that which varies."

We have not space to describe the importance of the

work Darwin did in, or bearing on, entomology, changing

its face and vastly elevating its importance. A volume

might be compiled from his writings on this subject, as

reference to Professor Riley's excellent summary (Dar
win Memorial Meeting, Washington, 1882) will readily
show. Nor can we recount his important work in other

branches of biology further than has been already done

in the foregoing pages. To do so would require much

more than a volume of this size.

One special department may perhaps claim notice on

the ground of its supposed non-scientific character. Dr.

Masters (Gardeners'  Chronicle,    April 22,  1882) says of
Darwin's service to  horticulture   : " Let   any one who

knows what was the state of botany in this country even

so recently as fifteen or twenty years ago, compare the

feeling between botanists and horticulturists at that time

with what it is now. What sympathy had the one for the
pursuits of the other ? The botanist looked down on

the varieties, the races, and strains, raised with so much

pride by the patient skill of the florist as on things
unworthy of his notice and study. The horticulturist,

on his side, knowing how very imperfectly plants could

be studied from the mummified specimens in herbaria,

which then constituted in most cases all the material

that the botanist of this country considered necessary for
1G8 LIFE OF

the study of plants, naturally looked on the botanist
somewhat in the light of a laborious trifler. . . . Darwin
altered all this. He made the dry bones live ; he in

vested plants and animals with a history, a biography, a
genealogy, which at once conferred an interest and a
dignity on them. Before, they were as the stuffed skin
of a beast in the glass case of a museum ; now they are
living beings, each in their degree affected by the same

circumstances that affect ourselves, and swayed, mutatis

mutandis, by like feelings and like passions. If he had

done nothing more than this we might still have claimed

Darwin as a horticulturist ; but as we shall see, he has
more direct claims on our gratitude. The apparently

trifling variations, the variations which it was once the

fashion for botanists to overlook, have become, as it
were, the keystone of a great theory."

   A valuable summary of Darwin's influence on general

philosophic thought has been given by Mr. James Sully,
in his article, "Evolution in Philosophy," in "The En-
cyclopaedia Britannica," 9th ed., vol. viii. He, like many
other thinkers, considers that Darwin has done much to
banish old ideas as to the evidence of purpose in nature.

Mr. Sully's views are not entirely shared, however, by

Professor Winchell, an able American evolutionist ("En

cyclopaedia Americana," vol. ii.) who considers that the
question of teleology, or of purpose in nature, is not really
touched by the special principle of natural selection, nor
by the general doctrine of evolution. The mechanical
theorist may, consistently with these doctrines, maintain
that every event takes place without a purpose ; while the
teleologist, or believer in purpose, may no less con
                          DARWIN.                                169

sistently maintain that the more orderly and uniform we
find the succession of events, the more reason is there to

presume that a purposeful intelligence is regulating them.

It is certainly impossible to show that the whole system

of evolution does not exist for a purpose. The ranks
of the evolutionists, and even of the Darwinians, as a
fact, embrace believers in the most diverse systems of
philosophy, including many of those who accept Christ's
teaching as an authoritative Divine revelation. May not

this diversity among Darwinians itself teach hope ? Dar
winism is held with vital grip and will therefore not
become a dead creed, a fossil formula. The belief that
every generation is a step in progress to a higher and
fuller life contains within it the promise of a glorious evo

lution which is no longer a faint hope, but a reasoned faith.

" Man's thought is like Antaeus, and must be
         Touched to the ground of Nature to regain
         Fresh force, new impulse, else it would remain

   Dead in the grip of strong Authority.
   But, once thereon reset, 'tis like a tree,

          Sap-swollen in spring-time : bonds may not restrain ;
         Nor weight repress ; its rootlets rend in twain
   Dead stones and walls and rocks resistlessly.

Thine then it was to touch dead thoughts to earth,
   Till of old dreams sprang new philosophies,

  -From visions systems, and beneath thy spell

   Swiftly uprose, like magic palaces, --
Thyself half-conscious only of thy worth

      Calm priest of a tremendous oracle." 1

   1 Round Table Series.  " Charles Darwin " (1886), by J. T.
Cunningham.
1 70 LIFE OF DA R WIN.

   Here let us leave Charles Darwin; a marvellously
patient and successful revolutioniser of thought ; a noble
and beloved man.

                                      THE END.
                   INDEX.

                     A.               Bladderwort, The, 140
                                      Botanical papers, 103
Ainsworth, Mr. W. F., on Dar          Botanical works, 103-108, 136-14 ;
   win at Edinburgh, 22               Brazil, 32-36
                                      Breeds, Domestic, 80-82, 109-111
Allen, Mr. Grant, on Darwin, 25,      British Association, Darwin at, 60
                                      Buenos Ayres, 39, 40
    31, 95, 112                       Burdon-Sanderson, Prof., 140
                                      Butterwort, The, 140
Ancestry of the Darwins, 11, 12,      Button, Jemmy, theFuegian, 130

    14                                                       C.

Andes, 43, 45                         Caldclcugh, Mr., 45
Antiquity of man, 113                 Cambridge University, 24-29, 146
Ants, Observations on, 88, 89         Candolle, A. de, 148-150
Archaeology and earthworms, 151,      Carlisle, Bishop of, on Darwin,

    152                                  154. I5S
                                      Carlyle, Thomas and Mrs., and
Athemtum, The, 22, 94, 124
                                         Erasmus Darwin, 19
               B.
                                      Character of Darwin, I^-lCo,
Bahia, 32
Bahia Blanca, 38                          162-165
Beagle, H.M.S., 27, 29, 34, 36, 40,   Chili, 43-45
                                      Chiloe, 43
41, 44, 45, 48, 52-60, 65             Chonos Archipelago, 43

Bees,  Observations on, 88,   89  Ex
Bell,
       Sir O, "Anatomy       of

   pression," 126
Bentley, T., and Darwin's mother,

    17

Blushing, 133
172 INDEX.

Chihtianity and Darwin, 115-117,                       forms  "ofGfeloowloergsy,  143 ; funeral of,
                                                       154 ;                      of the Beagle,"
   131, 163-6, 169                                     55-60; history of "Origin of
Cirripedia, Books on, 61-63
                                                       Species," 64-78 ; honours be
C"laCslsimificbaintigon,Pla9n1ts," 107                 stowed on, 146; "Insectivorous

Copley medal, 106                                      Plants," 136-9 ; "Journal of

Coral reefs, Book on, 55-59 ; ob                       Researches," 52 ; modesty of,
   servations on, 48, 52, 55                           28, 66 ; on blushing, 133 ; on
                                                       Cirripedia, 61-63 ; on religion,
Corfield, Mr. R., 43                                   115-117, 121, 163-169 ; on
Cross-fertilisation of plants, 141-3
                                                       vivisection, 160-162; "Origin
         D.
                                                       of Species," 41, 42, 46, 64-78,

Dana, Prof. J. D., on Coral                            79-99 ; physical appearance
   Reefs, 58                                           and habits of, 100-102, 147,
Darwin, Charles, and domestic
                                                          148 ; places named after, 48 ;
animals, 71 ; and entomology,
25, 167 ; and Malthus, 72, 73 ;                          portraits of, 146 ; power of
and novelists, 133 ; and Prof.                            movement in plants, 143-145 ;
Henslow, 24-30 ; and Sir C.
Lyell, 31, 51, 52, 69, 70 ; and                           school-days of, 19-21 ; secretary
J.Sir Hooker, 54, 74, 75, 78 ;                            of Geological Society, 51 ; sons
and slavery, 34, 35 ; and spell
                                                          of, 102 ; statue of, 156 ; voyage
ing reform, 148 ; as an experi
                                                       DairnwBine,agMler,s.29C-5,0 53

                                                       Darwin, Erasmus, of Lichfield and

2m9e;ntaetr,Ed1i6n2bu; ragthC, a2m2b-2ri4dg!e",   24-     Derby, 12-14, 66-67
                                                 Bio   Darwin, Erasmus, of London, 19,

graphical Sketch of an Infant,"                            153

131 ; birth, 18 ; character of,                        Darwin, Mr. Francis, 140-144
155-160, 162-165; "Climbing                            Darwin, Mrs. R. W. (Susannah

Plants," 107; contributions to                            Wedgwood), 17-19
                                                       Darwin, R. W., of Elston, 12
mental   s!cie"ncDee, sc1e3n4t,  135  ; death          Darwin, R. W., father of Charles,
fi JS3
                                  of  Man,"

112-125 ; discovery of extinct                         14-18
                                                       Darwin Sound, 48
mammals, 38, 39 ; elected                                                Charles Darwin, 153
F.G.S., 51, F.R.S., 52 ; expe                          D" eDaetshceonft   of Man," 112-125
rience of missionaries, 43, 47 ;
;"experiments on children, 129,                       Digestion by plants, 137, 138
                                                       Discovery of extinct mammals, 39
131 Expression of Emotions,"
126-135 ; fertilisation in                             Down House, 60, 101, 102, 147-
table kingdom, 141-3 ;           th"evFeegrtei-
                                                       150
lisation of Orchids,"            2310; 3"-1F0o6r  ;
                                                                         E.
first scientific paper,
mation of Mould," 150-152 ;                            Earle, Erasmus, 12
                                                       Earthquake experience, 44
                                         INDEX.                                                           178

EEdairnthbwurogrhms,ReDvaierwwi,noonn",  150-152  Germination of plants,                        142
                                         Descent  Grant, Prof., 23, 69
                                                  Greville, Dr., 23
   of Man,"      124;  onon"  Erasmus
   Darwin, 12,   13 ;         Origin of

   Species," 94                                            H.

Edinburgh University, 21-24                       Haeckel, Prof., 71, 72, 147
                                                  Hall, Capt. Basil, and Coral
Ehrenberg, 31
Entomology, 25, 141-3                                Reefs, 55
Evolution, History of, in Darwin's                Henslow, Prof., 24-30
                                                  Herbert, Dean, 71
   mind, 39, 40-2, 46, 47, 50, 64-                Holmgren, Prof., Letter to, 160-

"  78, 112      of  Emotions,"           126-

   Expression

   135                                            163

                                                  Honours  conferred     on Darwin,                       146
                                                  Hooker,
                     F.                                    Sir J., 54,    74, 78, 140

Falkland Islands, 43, 60                          Huxley, Prof., 65, 91, 94, 165-167
Fertilisation, Cross and Self-, in
                                                                     r.
   the Vegetable Kingdom, 141-3
"Fertilisation of Orchids," 103-                  I"mInasgeinctaivtioorno,usDePfilnanittios,n"  of, 115
                                                                                                 136-141
    106                                           Insects, 88, 89, 102-106, 136-9
                                                  Instinct, 88-90, 114
Fitzroy, Capt., 27, 29, 31, 48, 49                Interdependence of species, 84
"Forms of Flowers," 143
Fuegians, 42, 43, 112
Funeral of Charles Darwin, 154

                        G.                                            J-                             31, 34,

Galapagos Islands, 45-47                          Jameson, Prof., 23
Gauchos, 38, 40, 116, 130                         "Journal of Researches,"
Geikie, Prof. A., on Darwin's
                                                      36, 42, 46, 53
   "Coral Reefs," 58
                                                                    K.
Geographical distribution, 91
Geological observations by Dar                    Keeling Islands, 48, 56

   win, 30, 38, 39                                         L.
Geological papers by Darwin, 51,
                                                  Lamarck and Darwin, 67, 68
   52, 59, 60                                     Linnean Society, 75-78, 107, 143,
Geological record, Imperfection
                                                  147
   of, 90, 91                                     Literary position of Darwin, 165
Geological Society, 51, 52, 63                    Lubbock, Sir J.,
                                                  Lyell, Sir C, 31,  141                        69,  70,  74
"Geology of the Beagle,'' 53, 55-                                    51, 52,

   60
174 INDEX.

               M.                                                         O.
                                                  "Orchids, Fertilisation of," 103-
Magellan, Straits of, 43
Maldonado, 36, 37                                      106
Malthus on Population, 72, 73, 82
Mammals, Extinct, 38, 39, 54                      "Origin of Species,'' 41, 42, 46,
Masters, Dr., on Darwin and
                                                      64-78. 79-99
   Horticulture, 167
Matthew, Mr. P., and "Origin of                   Owen, Sir R., 53, 64
                                                  Oxford, Bishop of, (Wilberforce),
   Species," 97
                                                     on "Origin of Species," 95
Mental powers of man, 114-123
Mental science, Darwin and, 134,                                          P.

   I3S                                            Palaeontographical Society, 62
Mcteyard, Miss, on R. W. Dar
                                                  inPampas thistles, 40
   win, 16 ; on Wedgwood, 18
Missionaries, 43, 47                              Pangenesis, Hypothesis of,
                                                  Patagonia, 41
Monkeys, 132                                      Peru, 45
Monkeys and man, 114, 115, 117,
                                                  Phillips, Prof. J., 52, 63
118, 120, 122
                                                  Physiological Selection, 87
Monte Video, 36, 40                    " Pelican  Physiological Society, 159
Montgomery, James,                                Plinian Society, Edinburgh, 22, 23
                                                  Port Darwin, 48
Island," 55                                       Portraits of Darwin, 146
                                                  Punch, 123, 124
M" oMrpohuoldlo, gFyo, rm64a, ti9o1n,  92
                                             152
                                       of,"

Mount Darwin, 49                                       Q.
Mount, The, Shrewsbury, 17-20,
                                                  Qu"aJortuerrnlyal,R"ev53iew; onon"  Darwin's
80                                                  SMpaenci,e"s,1"249,5125 ; on
                                                                                      "DeOsrcigenint  of
"Movement, Power of, in Plants,"                                                                      of

   143-145

Murray, Mr. J., on Coral Reefs,

    59                                                 R.

Mylodon Darwinii, 54                              Ray Society, 62
                                                  Religion, 115-117, 121
                     N.                           Religious views of Darwin, 163-6,

" Naturalist's Voyage round the                       169
   World," 53
                                                  Reptiles of Galapagos, 46
Natural Selection, 84, 85, 97-99,                 Riley, Prof. C. V., on Darwin and

    108, 117                                         Entomology, 25, 167              115,  134,
                                                  Rio Negro, 37, 40
New Zealand, 47                                   Rio Plata, 41
Niata cattle, 40                                  Romanes, Mr., 87, 89,
Novelists, 133
                                                  135
                                        INDEX.                                        175

Rosas, General, 38, 39     Dar              Times, The, on Charles Darwin,
Royal medal, 62
Royal Society and Charles                       155

    win, 52, 62, 106                        Tree of Life, 85-87
Rudimentary organs, 92                      Tres Montes, 44
                                            Tucutuco, Blindness of, 68

                  S.                                               U.

Santiago, 43, 43                            Unitarian Church, Shrewsbury,

Saturday Review on Charles Dar                 17. 19              V.

win, 156, 157;    on  "D" eOsrciegnint  of  Valdivia, 44
                  on                    of  Valparaiso, 43, 45
Man," 125 ;                                 "Variation of Animals

Species," 95                                                                          and

Savage man described, 49, 122,                 Plants," 108-112

    123                                     Variations of Species, 79, 85-87,

"Scientific Inquiry, Manual of,"               108-112

    61                                      V"eVredset,igCesapoef  de, 31, 41  73
                                                                   Creation,"
Selection, Natural, 84, 85, 97-99
Selection, Physiological, 87                Vivisection, Darwin on, 160-162
Semper, Prof., on Coral Reefs, 58
Shrewsbury, 15-20                           Volcanic islands, 59
Shrewsbury school, 20
Social qualities of man, 1 16                                      W.
Social questions, 121
Sonnet on Darwin, 169                       Wallace, Mr. A. R., 75-78                 of
Spencer, Mr. Herbert, Views of,             Wedgwood, Josiah, 14
                                            Wells, Dr., and Origin

    73, 112                                    Species, 96
                                            Winchell, Prof., and evolution,
Statue of Darwin, 155-156
Stokes, Admiral, 33, 34                         168-169
Structure of human body, 114                Wollaston medal, 63
                                            Woman compared with man, 119,
Struggle for existence, 72, 73, 82,
                                                120
   83
                                            Woodall, Mr. E., on Charles
Sully, Mr. James, on Evolution                 Darwin, 17, 101

   and Design, 168                                                  Y.  " Darwin      at

Sun-dew, 136-139                            Yates, Mr. E. , on
Sweden and Darwin, 156                         Home," 157
Sydney, 48

                   T.                                              Z.

Tahiti, 47                                  Zoological Gardens, 115, 128, 131,
Tasmania, 48
Tierra del Fuego, 42, 43                    "  132      of         the  Beagle,"  53

                                               Zoology
I

t

J

 i

 I
              BIBLIOGRAPHY.

                                           BY

                    JOHN P. ANDERSON

                          (British Museum ).

     I. Works.                                                   III. Appendix--
    II. Miscellaneous Writings.
                                                                          Biography, Criticism, etc.
                                                                          Magazine Articles.

                                                                 IV. Chronolooical List op

                                                                         Works.

              I. WORKS.                                          Journal of Researches into the
                                                                 Natural History and Geology of
Narrativeof the Surveying Voyages                                the Countries visited during the
   of His Majesty's Ships Ad                                     Voyage of H.M.S. Beagle round
venture and Beagle between the
                                                                 the World, under the command
years 1826 and 1836, describing                                  of Captain Fitzroy, R.N. Se
their examination of the South
ern Shores of South America,                                     cond edition, corrected, with
                                                                 additions. (Murray's Colonial
and the Beagle's circumnaviga                                    and Home Library.) London,
tion of the globe. [With ap
pendices and addenda]. 3 vols.                                   1845, 8vo.
                                                                    This has
London,       1839,   8"vJoo.urnal           and                 title-page   rbeeaedninrge,pri"ntAedNwatiuthraalisnte'sw
   Vol. iii.  is the                              Re             Voyage Round the World, etc."
marks, 1832-1836," by Charles Dar
win. The appendix to vol. ii. has a                              The Zoology of the Voyage of
distinct titlo-page and pagination.                                 H.M.S. Beagle, under the com
                                                                 mand of Captain R. Fitzroy,
Some copies of this work were issued
iitnse2lfv,olasn.,dthseotldhirsdepbaeriantgelcyomwpitlhetethine
                                                                 during the years 1832-36. Edit-
                                                                 ed and superintended by C. D.
title "Journal of Researches into                                a i.,Part Fossil Mammalia, by R.
the Geology and Natural History of
the various countries visited by                                 Owen. (Part ii., Mammalia,
    MCa.Sp.taBineaFgiltez,rouyn,deRr Nth.e,  command             described by G. R. Waterhouse,
11                                           from 1832           with notice of their habits

of
to 183(1. By Charles Darwin, Esq.,"
etc.                                                             and ranges by C. D. ParJ; iii.,

                                                        12
                     BIBLIOGRAPHY.

Birds, described by  Gould,                               Monograph of                 the sub-clasa
5                                                       Cirripedia, with
           a                                                                           figures of all
                                                   .T.

                                                  A
with  notice of their habits                            the species. (Ray Society). 2voh.
and ranges by C. D., with an
anatomical appendix by T. C.                            London. 1851-54, 8vo.
                                                      A Monograph of the Fossil Bala-
Eyton. Part iv., Fish, de                                nidne ana Vurrncidie of Great
scribed by L. Jenyns. Part v.,
Reptiles, described by T. Bell.)                        Biitain.                       (Palcconlograj>]iical
                                                        Society.) London, 1854, 4to.
parts. London, 1840-39-43, 4.                        On the Origin of Species by means

The Structure and Distribution of                       of Natural Selection,          or the
   Coral Reefs. Being the first                         preservation of favoured
   part of the Geology of the                                                          races in
   Voyage of the Beagle, under the                      the struggle for life. By C. D.
   command of Captain Fitzroy,
                                                        London, 1859, 8vo.             London,
1832 to 1836. London, 1842,                                Fifth thousand.

8vo.                                                    1860, 8vo.

Geological Observations on the                             Third edition, with additions
   Volcanic Islands, visited during                     and corrections. London, 1861,
   the voyage of H.M.S. Beagle,                         8vo.
together with some brief notices
                                                           Fourth edition, with additions
                                                        and corrections. Loudon, 1866,
on the Geology of Australia and
the Cape of Good Hope. Being                            8vo.
the second part of the Geology
of the Voyage of the Beagle, etc.                          Fifth edition, with additions
London, 1844, 8vo.                                      and corrections. London, 1869,

                                                        8vo.

                                                           Sixth edition, with additions
                                                        and corrections. London, 1872,
Geological Observations on South
   America. Being the third part                        8vo.
                                                      On the Various Contrivances by
   of the Geology of the Voyage of                       which British and Foreign
   the Beagle, under the command                         Orchids are fertilised by Insects,
   of Captain Fitzroy, etc. London,                      and on the good elfects of inter
    1846, 8vo.                                           crossing. By C. D. With illus
                                                          trations. London, 1862, 8vo.
The Structure and Distribution of
   Coral Reefs, by C. D. With                                                     Second edition. With illus
   three plates. Second edition,
   revised. London, 1874, 8vo.                          trations. London, 1877, 8vo.
                                                      The Movements and Habits of
Geological Observations on the                          Climbing Plants. By C. D.
    Volcanic Islands and parts of                       [From the Journal of the
   South America, visited during                        Linnean Society.]              London,

   the voyage of H.M.S. Beagle,                                                 1865, 8vo.
   by C. D. Second edition, with
                                                                                  Second edition, revised. With
    maps and illustrations. London,                                                    London, 1875,

1876, 8vo.                                              illustrations.

Monograph on the Fossil Lepa-
A                                                                               8vo.

                                                                               2
dida?, or Pedunculated Cirri-                         The Variation of Animals and
pedes of Great Britain. (Palce-                                                 Plants under domestication, by
ontographical Society.) London,                                                        With illustrations.
                                                                                C. D.

1851, 4to.                                                                        vols. London, 1868, 8vo.
                        BIBLIOGRAPHY.                                             iii

The Variation of Animals and       II. MISCELLANEOUS
    Plants under domestication.          WRITINGS.
Second edition, revised. Fourth
thousand. With illustrations.      For private distribution. The
2 vols. London, 1875, 8vo.            following pages contain extracts
                                      from letters addressed to Pro
   Second edition, revised. Fifth     fessor Henslow by C. Darwin,
thousand. With illustrations.         Esq., printed for private distri
    2 vols. London, 1885, 8vo.        bution among the Members of
The Descent of Man, and Selection     the Cambridge Philosophical
in relation to Sex. By C. D.          Society in consequence of the
With illustrations.                   geological notices which they
Loudon, 1871, 8vo.      2 vols.       contain, etc. [Cambridge, 1835.]

Second edition, revised and           8vo.
augmented. Tenth thousand.
London, 1874, 8vo.
                                   Note sur la decouverte de quelques
Second edition, revised and           Ojsemens F"Ssiles dans l'Ame-

augmented. Seventeenth thou        riquo du Sud.
sand. London, 1883, 8vo.              Annal. Sci. Sat. 2nd Ser. (Zoology).
The Expression of the Emotions in
                                   Tom. vii., 1837, pp. 319, 320.

Man and Animals. By C. D.          Notes upon the Rhea Americana.
With photographic and other              Zunl. Soc. Proc, vol. v., 1S37, pp.
illustrations.  London, 1872,
                                        35, 38.

8vo.                               Remarks upon the Habits of the
                                      Genera Geospiza, Camarhyn-
Insectivorous Plants.   By C. D.      chus, Cactornis, and Certhidea
   With illustrations.    London,  of Gould.

1875, 8vo.                         Proc. Xool. Soc, 1637, p. 49.
The Effects of Cross and Self-
Fertilisation in the Vegetable     Sur trois Especes du Genre Fclis.
Kingdom. By C. D. London,                L'Institut. Tom. vi., 1838, No.

1876, 8vo.                             235, pp. 210, 211.

The Different Forms of Flowers     On the fotmation of Mould (1837).
on Plants of tlio same Species.          Geol. Soc. Proc, vol. ii., 183S, pp.
By C. D. With illustrations.
                                       574-576 ; Geol. Soc. Trans., vol. v.,
London, 1877, 8vo.                     1840, pp. 505-510; Froriep, Notizcn.
                                      lid. vt, 1838, col. 180-183.

The Power of Movement in Plants.   Observations of proofs of recent
                                      elevation on the Coast of Chili,
By C. D. , assisted by Francis     Hm.adMe.S.du"riBnegaglet,he"    survey of
Darwin. With illustrations.                                      commanded

London, 18S0, 8vo.                 by Capt. Fitzroy
                                      Gcol. Soc. Proc,
The Formation of Vegetable                                v(1oSl 3ii7.,).
Mould through the Action of                                                       pp.
                                                                           1838,

Worms, with observations on        446-449.

their habits. By C. D. With        A sketch of the deposits contain
                                   ing extinct Mammalia in the
illustrations. London, 1881, 8vo.  neighbourhood of the Plata

   Fifth thousand (corrected).     (1837).   Soc Proc,    vol. ii., 1S3S,         vpnp..,
                                      Gcol.  ; Ann. Sci.   Sat. Tom.
London, 1881, 8vo.
   Sixth thousand (corrected).     542-544
Loudon, 1882, 8vo.
                                   (Zool.) 1837, pp. 319, 320.
Iv BIBLIOGRAPHY.

On certain areas of elevation and                 On a remarkable bar of Sandstone
   subsidence in the Pacific and
   Indian Oceans, as deduced from                 off Pernambuco, on the coast
   the study of coral formations
                                                  of Brazil.
                                                     Phil, hlag., vol. x'x., 1841, pp.

(1837).                                           257-260.

   Geol. Soc. Proc., vol. ii.,    1838,  pivp..,  Notes on the effects produced by
652-651; Froriep, Notizen.                        the ancient glaciers of Caernar
1838, col. 100-103.                Bd.            vonshire, and on the Boulders

Geological Notes made during a                    transported by floating ice.
survey of the East and West                         Edinb. New. Phil. Jour.,
Coasts of South America in the                                                   vol.
                                                  XXxiiL, 1842, pp. 352, 353.

years 1832, 1833, 1834, and                       On the distribution of the erratic
                                                  boulders, and on the contem
1835; with an account of a
transverse section of the Cor
                                                  poraneous unstratified deposits
dilleras of the Andes between                     ofGSeoolu. tShocAmPreorcic,avo(l1. 8i4ii1.,). 1812, pp.
                                                  425-430; Geol. Sue. Trans., vol. vi.,
Valparaiso and Mendoza.
   Geol. Soc. Proc., vol. ii., 1838, pp.          1842, pp. 415-432.

210-212.                                          The structure and distribution of

Origin of saliferous deposits. Salt               Coral Reefs.
   Lakesof Patagonia and La Plata.                pBNpdeG..weolxg1P.i1vh5,i-lS1.1o18c9J4.o;5u,JorPp.uop,rg..gv,o6el6n.v3do-6xol1xr3jxxf,ii;vi..,AE, dn11in88n41ab23l..,,
      Geol. Soc. Jour., vol. ii. (pt. 2),

    1838, pp. 127. 18.

On the connexion of certain
volcanic phenomena, and on the
formation of mountain chains,                     pp. 47-50.

and the effects of continental                    Observations on the structure and
                                                  propagation of the genusSagitta.
elevations.                                       Ann. Nat. Hist. Tom. xiii., 1844,
   Geol. Soc. Proc, vol. ii., 1838, pp.                            ; Ann. Sc.    Nat. (Zool.) Tom.
                                                  lp.p, .1814-46,                 Froriep, Notizen.
654-660; Geol. Soc. Trans., vol. v.,                               pp. 860-365;
                              Pogijendorff,       Bd. xxx., 1844, col. 1-6.
1840,     pp.   601-632 ;    pp. 484-496.
           Bd.                                    Brief descriptions of several Ter
Annal.          lii., 1841,                          restrial Planariae and of some
Monographia Chalciditum, by
Francis Walker. (Vol. ii.,
Species collected by C. Darwin.)                  remarkable Marine species, with
                                                  an account of their habits.
London, 1839, 8vo.                                   Ann. Nat. Hint., vol. xiv., 1844,
Note on a rock seen on an iceberg                 pp. 241-251.
   in 16 South Latitude.
      Geo/f. Soc. Jour., vol. ix., 1839,          An Account of the Fine Dustwliich
                                                  often falls on vessels in the
    pp. 528, 529.
Ueber die Luftschifferei der                      Atlantic Ocean.
                                                    Geol. Soc Jour., vol. ii., 1846, pp.
Spinnen.
   Froriep, N. Not. Bd. lxxvii., No.              26-30.

    222, 1839, pp. 23, 24.                        On the Geology of the Falkland

Observations on the Parallel                      Islands.
   Roads of Glen Roy , and of                       Geol. Soc. Jour., vol. ii., 1846, pp.
   other parts of Lochaber in Scot
                                                  267-274.

land, with an attempt to prove                    On the Transportal of Erratic
                                                  Boulders from a lower to a
that they are of marine origin.
  Phil.     Tram.,                      89-82;    higher level.
Edinb.    Sew Phil.  J1o8u39r,.,  pp.   xxvii.,     Geol. Soc. Jour., vol. iv., 1848, pp.
                                  vol.

1839, pp. 395-403.                                315-323.
                          BIBLIOGRAPHY.                                                                                          

                                                                                                                                 V

A Manual of Scientific Inquiry ;             Fertilisation of Vincas.
   prepared for the uso of Her                   Gardeners' Chronicle, 1861, pp. 552,
Majesty's Navy, and travellers
                                             831, 832.

in general. Edited by Sir John               On the Two Forms, or Dimorphic
F. W. Herschel. London, 1849,                Condition, in the species of
                                             Primula, and on their remark
8vo.
   This work, which has run through          able Sexual Relations.
several editions, consists of a series          Linn. Soc. Jour.,
of papers by various writers. Charles        (Bot.), pp. 77-96.                                                             vol. vi., 1862
Darwin wrote "Geology," pp. 156-
195.                                         On the three remarkable sexual
                                             forms of Catasetumtridentatum,
On British Fossil Lepadidae.                 an Orchid in the possession of
      Geol. Soc. Jour., vol. vi. 1850, pp.   the Linnean
439, 440.                                       Linn. Soc.    Society.
                                                              Jour., vol.                                                   vi,
Analogy of the structure of some             (Bot.), pp. 151-157.                                                                1862

Volcanic Rocks with that of                  Observations sur h^teromorph-
       )
Glaciers.                        ;           isme des fleurs et ses conse
Edinb. Royal Soc. Proe. vol. ii.,
1851, pp. 17, 18.                ; i.,       quences pour fecondation.
                                               Jnnal. Sci. Nat. Tom. xix., 1863,
On the power of icebergs to make                            ;
rectilinear uniformly-directed                                                           p.(Bot.) pp. 204-255.

grooves across a submarine un-                                                                                          1'On the thickness of the Pampean
   dulatorv surface.                            formation, near Buenos Ayres.
      Phil. Mag., vol. x., 1855, pp. 96-98.        Geol. Soc. Jour., vol. xix., 1863,

On the action of Sea-water on the                pp. 68-71.

germination of Seeds      (1856).            On the existence of two forms,
  Linn. Soc. Jour., vol.   1857 (Bot.),      and on their reciprocal sexual
                                             relation, in several species of
pp. 130-140.                                 the genus Linum.
On the agency of Bees in the
   Fertilisation of Papilionaceous           Linn. Soc. Jour., vol. vii. (Bot.),
                                               "1863, pp. 69-83.
Flowers, and on the crossing of                                                                                           Auditory sac "
   Kidney Beans.                             On the so-called
       Ann. Nat. Hint., vol. ii., 1858, pp.  of Cirripedes.
                                             Nat. Hist. Review, 1863, pp. 115,
    459-465; Gardeners' Chronicle, 1857,     116.
    pp. 725, and 1858, pp. 824, 844.
                                             On the sexual relations of the
On the Tendency of Species to
form Varieties and on the
                                             three forms of Lythruin Salicaria
Perpetuation of Varieties and
Species by Natural Means of                  (18L6in4n).. Soc. Jour., vol. viii., 1865,
Selection. By C. D. and Alfred                       pp. 169-196; Archives Sci.
                                             (Bot.)  Nat. Tom. xxiii., 1865, pp.
Wallace.                                     Phys.
  Jour. Proc. Linn. Soc, voL iii.,
                                             69-72.

    1859, pp. 45-62.                         On the movements and habits of
                                             ClLiminbn.ingSocP.laJnotusr.,(18v6o5l.). ix.,
On the variation of organic beings           (Bot.) pp. 1-118; Flora, vol.
in a state of nature on the                                                                                                 1867,

natural means of selection on                                                                                               xlix.,
                                             1866, pp. 241-252, 273-282, 321-325,
the comparison of domestic races
                                             337-345, 375-378, 3S5-398.

and true species.                            Queries about Expression for
Linn. Soc. Jour., vol Iii., 1859,            Anthropological Inquiry.
          pp.   46-53; Halle, Zeitschr.      Report of Smithsonian Institution
(Zool.         Bd. xvi., I860, pp. 425-459.  for 1867,  324.
Gesell.  Sat.
vl BIBLIOGRAPHY.

Noto on the Common Broom                           Perception in the lower animals.
                                                         Zoologist, vol. viii., 1873, pp. 3488
(Cytisus  SSoce.opJaoruiur.s,).  tol.  Ix.,  1867
   Linn.                                               8489 ; Nature, vol. vii., 1873, p. MX).
(Tiot.), p. 358.
On tliu character and hybrid-like                  Fertilisation of the Fnmaiiacere.
                                                         Nature, vol. ix., 1874, p. 460.

nature of the offspring from the Flowers of the Primrose destroyed
illegitimate unions of dimorphic
anLdintnr.imoSorpc.hicJouprl.a, ntvso.l. x., 1869     by birds.
                                                         Nature, vol. ix., 1874, p. 432 ; vol.
(Hot ), pp. 393-437.
On the specific dilfcrence between                     X., p. 24.

                                                   Sexual Selection in relation to

Primula veris, Brit. Fl. (var.                        Monkeys.
officinalis, Linn.), P. vulgaris,                         Nature, vol. xv., 1876, pp. 18, 19.

                                                   Testimonial to Mr. Darwin.
                                                      Evolution in the Netherlands.
Brit. Fl. (var. acaulis, Linn.)                       Letter of Mr. Darwin.
                                                      Nature, vol. xv. , 1877, pp. 410-412.
and P. elatior, Jacq. and on
the hybrid natureof the common                        Biographical Sketch of an
Oxlip. With supplementary                          A  Infant.
                                                         Mind, vol.
   remarks on naturally-produced                                     ii. (No. 7,  dJuelyl'in1t8e7l7l)i,-
   hybrids in thegenus Verbascum.                     pp. 285-294.   Les Debuts
                                                      gence ; Ksquis^e biographique d'un
      Linn. Soc. Jour., Yol. x., 1809                 petit enfant, Revue Scientifique.tom.
                                                       13, 1877, pp. 25-29.
   (Bot.), pp. 4S7-454.
De la variation des animanx et                     The Contractile Filaments of the

   des plantes sous Taction de la
   domestication. (Transl.)
      Archives Sci. Phns. Nat. Tom.                   Teasel.
                                                          Nature, vol. xvi., 1877, p. 339.
    xxxiv., 1869, pp. 41-66.
                                                   Fritz Miiller on Flowers and
The Fertilisation of Winter-
   flowering Plants.                                  Insects.
      A aturc, vol. i., 1869, p. 85.                      Nature, vol. xvii., 1877, p. 78.

Notes on the Fertilisation of                      Note on Fertilisation of Plants.

                                                           Gardeners' Chronicle, 1877, p. 246.
                                                   Transplantation of Shells.
Orchids.
Ann. Mag. Nat. Hist., vol. iv.,                       Nature, vol. xviii., 1878, p. 120.
                                                   Flowers and their unbidden guests,
    1869, pp. 141-159.                                from the German of Dr. A.
                                                      tKeerrnbeyr.CDW. itLhonadopnr,ef1a8t7o8ry,                let
Note on the habits of the Pampas                                                                               8vo.
   Woodpecker: Colaptes cam-
   pestris.                                        Erasmus Darwin.                By Ernst

       Zool. Soc. Proc., 1870, pp 705,                Krause. Translated from the
                                                      German by W. S. Dallas. With
     706.

Pangenesis.
      Nature, vol. iii., 1871, pp. 502,

     503.                                             a preliminary notice by Charles
                                                      Darwin. London,
Fertilisation of LescJicnaultia.                         Originally appeared  1in87"9K, os8mvoo.s."

        Gardeners' Chronicle, 1871, p. 1166.

Origin of certain Instincts.                          Charles    DthaerwEinngliwshroteedtithieonl,ifew, hpicph.
                                                      1-127 for
       Nature, vol vii., 1873, pp. 417,               on the publication of the work in
                                                      book form      ainn1-d7G2e. armppAaenaycrosp(1y8in8o0f)   was
     418.                                             translated                                               that
                                                      edition, pp.                                             this
On the males and complemental                         work in the Library of the British
   males of certain Cirripedes, and
on rudimentary structures.
Nature, vol, viii., 1873, pp. 431-                    Museum contains MS. Notes by
                                                      Samuel Butler.
BIBLIOGRAPHY.

Fritz Miiller on a Frog having                    Ammonia on the roots of certain
   Eggs on its back : on the Abor                 plants.
   tion of the Hairs on the Legs of
                                                     Linn. Soc. Jour. (Bot.), vol. xix.,
    certain Caddis Flies, etc.                    1882, pp. 239-261 ; abstract by Mr.
       Nature, vol. xix., 1879, pp. 462-          Francis Darwin in Nature, vol. xxv.,
                                                  1882, pp, 489-490.
      464.                                    The action of Carbonate of
                                                  Ammonia on Chlorophyll
Rats and Water Casks.                             Bodies.

        Nature, vol. xix., 1879, p. 481.            Linn. Soc.Jour.(Bot.),vol.xix. 1882,
                                                  pp. 262-284 ; abstract by Mr. Francis
Fertility of Hybrids from the                     Darwin in Nature, vol. xxv. 1882,
                                                  pp. 489, 490.
    Common and Chinese Goose.                 On the dispersal of freshwater
       Nature, vol. xxi., 1880, p. 207.           bivalves.

The Sexual Colours of certain                        Nature, vol. xxv., 1882, pp. 629,
    Butterflies.
       Nature, vol. xxi., 1880, p. 237.            630.

The Omari Shell Mounds.                       On the Modification of a Eace of
       Nature, vol. xxi., 1880, pp. 601,          Syrian Street Dog3 by means of
                                                 Sexual Selection. By Dr. Van
     662.                                        Dyck. With a preliminary
                                                 notice by Charles Darwin.
Sir Wyville Thomson on Natural                      Proc. of the Zool. Soc. of London,

    Selection.                                     1882, pp. 367-370.
       Nature, vol. xxiii., 1880, p. 32.
                                              Mental Evolution in Animals.
Black Sheep.                                     By George John Komanes.
       Nature, vol. xxiii., 1880, p. 193.        With a posthumous essay on
                                                 Instinct, by Charles Darwin.
Movements of Plants.                             London, 1833, 8vo.
       Nature, vol. xxiii., 1881, p. 409.
                                              Memoire ineJit sur 1' instinct.
Mr. Darwin on Vivisection.
       Nature, vol. xxiii., 1881, p. 583.            Ilevue Scitntifique, tom. vi. 1883,
                                                  pp. 749, 750.
The Movements of Leaves.
       Nature, vol. xxiii., 1881, pp. 603,    The Fertilisation of Flowers. By
                                                 Prof. Hermann Mueller. Trans
     604.                                        lated and edited by D'Arcy
                                                 W. Thompson. With a preface
Inheritance.                                     by Charles Darwin. London,
        Nature, vol. xxiv., 1881, p. 257.
                                                  1883, 8vo.
Leaves injured at night by free               Notes on Parasites collected by
    radiation.
                                                 C. D., by T. Spencer Cobbold.
       Nature, vol. xxiv., 1881, pp. 469.           Jour, Linn. Soc. (Zoology), voL

On the Bodily and Mental Develop                xix., 1885, pp. 174-178.
   ment of Infants.
                                                      III.-- APPENDIX.
       Nature, vol. xxiv. 1881, p, 565.
Studies in the Theory of Descent,                Biography, Criticism, etc.

   by August Weismann. Trans                     The European Literature upon
   lated and edited by R. Meldola,            Charles Darwin and his Works
   with a prefatory notice by
   Charles Darwin. 3 pts., Lon                is so extensive that it is only
   don, 1882, 8vo.
The parasitic habits of Molo-                 possible to give a selection.
    thrns.

        Nature, vol. xxv., 1882, pp. 61, 62.

The action of Carbonate of
viii BIBLIOGRAPHY.

Adams, W. H. Davenport. --             preface by Edward Meyrick
   Master Minds in Art, Science,       Goulburn, Dean of Norwich.

   and Letters. London, 1886,          London, 1877, 8vo.
                                       Bennett, A. W.-- The Theory of
8vo.                                   Natural Selection from a mathe
  Charles Darwin, with portrait,
    pp. 251-276.
                                       matical point           of view.        (Read
Allen, Grant. -- The Evolutionist      before section          D of the       British

at Large. [Reprinted from tho          Association, at Liverpool, Sept.
fit. James's Gazette.] London,
                                          20, 1870).       M. -- Tho
1881, 8vo.                                                                    World's
                                       Bennett, D.
English Worthies.           Edited     Sages, Infidels, and Thinkers.

by Andrew Lang.              Charles   New York, 1876, 8vo.
Darwin, by G. A.            Loudon,    BensDoanrw, Lina,wprep.nc84e6-S84.8--. Philosophic

    1885, 8vo.  of. -- The  Reign  of  Reviews. Darwin answered ;
                                       or, Evolution a myth, etc
Argyll, Duke
Law. London, 1867, 8vo.
   References to Charles Darwin.       BeNnethwamYo, rGke, or1g8e7.5--, 8"vAod. dresses of

The Unity of Nature. Lon               George Bentham, President,

don, 1884, 8vo.                        read at the meetings of the
   Numerous references to Charles
    Darwin.                            Linnean Society, 1862-1873."
                R. A. -- Modern                          Hon.    G. C.        Grantley
Armstrong,                  Charles    BeFrk. el--ey,  Fact    against         Fiction.
    Sermons.    No. 3.
   Darwin,    by the Rev. R. A.
Armstrong. Manchester [1885],          With some remarks on Darwin.
                                       2 vols. London, 1874, 8vo.
                                       Bernardo, D. di. -- II Darwinismo
    8vo.                                                                      Siena,
                                       e le specie animali.
Aveling, Edward B. -- Tho Stu
dent's Darwin. (International 1881, 8vo.

Library of Science and Free- Bianconi, J. Joseph. -- La Theorie
thought, vol. ii. ) London, 1881,      Darwinienne et la Creation dito

8vo.                                   Indepeudante. Bologne, 1874,

Darwinism and Small Fami               8vo.

   lies. London, 1882, 8vo.            Biological Society of Washington.
                                          -- Proceedings of the Biological
       The Religious Views of          Society of Washington. With
   Charles Darwin. London, 1883,       the addresses read on the occa
   8vo.                                sion of the Darwin Memorial
                                       Meeting, May 12, 1882. Wash
Baildon, Henry B.--The Spirit of       ington, 1882, 8vo.
                                       With vol. xxv. of the Smithsonian
   Nature, being a series of inter     Miscellaneous Collections.             The
   pretative essays on the history     awdedrere--sseIns troddeluivcetroerdy  on the occasion
   of matter from the atom to the                                              by Theodore
   flower. London, 1880, 8vo.          Gill ; Biographical Sketch by
Balfour, Francis M. -- A Treatise      William         H.  Dall ; The         Philosopbio
   on Comparative Embryology,          Hearings        of  Darwinism,         by John W.
   2 vols. London, 1880-1, 8vo.        Powell ; Darwin's Investigations on
                                       the relation of         Plants and      Insects,
Bateman, Frederic. -- Darwinism        by C. V. Riley ;         Darwin as     a Botan-         '

   tested by language ; with a
                                 BIBLIOGRAPHY.                                      ix

iEstm, obtiyonLa.l   F. Ward;      Darwin on       Darwin's Theory of Natural
                    Expression,  by F. Baker ;      Selection. London, 1887, 8vo.
a Darwinian Bibliography, by F. W.              Candolle, Alphonse de. --Histoire
True.                                              desScienceset desSavants depuis
Blind, Mathilde. -- Shelley's View                 deux Siecles, suivie d'autres
of Nature contrasted with Dar                      etudes sur des sujets scien-
    win's. London, 1886, 8vo.                      tifiijucs, en particulier sur la
        Only 25 copies of this lecture were        Selection dansl'EspeceHumaine.

    printed for private distribution.           Geneve, 1873, 8vo.

Boase, Henry S. --A few words on
Evolution and Creation, etc.
                                                Darwin consider^ an point
    London, 1882, Svo.
Braubach, W. -- Religion, Moral,                de vue des causes de son succes

   und Philosophic der Darwin'                  et de l'importancede ses travaux.
                                                Denxieme edition.
schen Artlehre. Neuwied, 1869,                                                      Geneve,

    8vo.                                            1882, 8vo.

Bree, C. R. -- Species not Trans-               Canestrini, Giovanni. -- La Teoria
mutable, nor the result of                         dell' Evoluzione esposta ne' suoi
                                                   fondamenti come introduzione
secondary causes.                Being a
critical examination             "ofOriMgirn.      alia lettura delle opere del Dar
Darwin's work entitled                             win e de' suoi seguaci. Torino,

and Variation of Species."                      1877, 8vo.

London [1860], 8vo.                             Carlyle, Rev. Gavin.-- The Battle
   An Exposition of Fallacies in                of Unbelief. London, 1878, 8vo.
                                                Darwinianism and Man, pp. 149-
the Hypothesis of Mr. Darwin.
    London, 1872, 8vo.                               173.  B. -- Sittlichkeit
Biichner, Ludwig. -- Sechs Vorles-                                                  und
                                                Carneri,

ungen iiber die Darwin'sche                     CaDrtaorowninismPourst.raitsW. ien--, 187C1a,rt8ovoon.

Theorie, etc. Leipzig, 1868,                    Portraits and Biographical

8vo.                                            Sketches of Men of the Day.

Conferences sur la Theorie                      London, 1873, 4to.

Darwinienne de la Transmuta                           C. E. Darwin,  CF..--R.SIs.,  pp. 6 and 7.
                                                Cattell, Charles
tion des Especes, etc. Leipzig,                                                     Darwinism
                                                Atheistic? (The Atheistic Plat
    1869, 8vo.                                  form, No. viii.) London, 1884,

Butler, Samuel. -- Evolution, old

and new ; or, the theories of                      8vo.      Ladislav. -- Uvahy
Buffon, Dr. Erasmus Darwin,                     Celakovsky,

and Lamarck, as compared with                   Prirodovedecke o Darwinove
that of Mr. Charles Darwin.
London, 1879, 8vo.                              Theorii, etc. V Praze, 1877,

Second edition.                  London,            8vo.   John. --Evolution,       Ex
                                                Cleland,

1882, 8vo.                                      pression, and Sensation, etc.

Unconscious Memory, etc.                           Glasgow, 1881, 8vo.
 --London, 1880, 8vo.                           Cobbe, Frances Power. -- Darwin

-- Luck or Cunning, as the main                    ism in Morals, and other Essays.
means of organic modification ?                 CoLlolinndso, nM, o1rt8im72e, r.8v--o. Pen Sketches
An attempt to throw additional
light upon the late Mr. Charles                    by a Vanished Hand ; from the
                            BIBLTOGRAPHY.

papers of the lata Mortimer                          Darwin, Charles R. --Stammen wir
                                                     von den Aden ab ? [Being a
Collins.    2 vols. London,                          reply to Darwin's Origin of

1879, 8vo.
Darwinism, vol. II., pp. 51-61.                      Species.] Dresden, 1872, 8vo.
Conn, H. \V.-- Kvolution of To
         etc. New Yoik,                                  The   FDaallrwofinM'san"  ;   an answer
   day,  Joseph. -- lioston  1886, 8vo.                   Mr.                         Descent of
Cook,                           Monday               to

Lectures. Heredity, etc. Lon                         Man," being a complete refuta
                                                     tion, by common sense argu
don, 1881, 8vo.                                      ments, of the Theory of the
Darwin's Thcoty of Pangenesis,
pp. 59-79 ; Darwin on the Origin of                  Development of the human race
                                                     by means of natural selection.
     Conscience, pp.        b--O-9E9.volution,  tho  London, 1873, 8vo.
Jpooper, Thomas.
Stone Book, and the Mosaic
Record of Creation. London,                             The Darwinian Theory ex
                                                     amined. London, 1878, 8vo.
1878, 8vo.
   Thoughts at fourscore, and                           Bondige uiteenzetling van
                                                     bet Darwinisme voor lceken
earlier. A Medley. London,
                                                     in de natnurwcten?chappeu.
    1885, 8vo.                                       Dcventer, 1878, 8vo.
       Charles Darwin and the Fallacies
                                                         What Mr. Darwin saw in his
    of evolution, pp. 132 162 ; The Origin
   of .Species, pp. 322-334.                         voyage    "  round the  world in the
                                                     ship         Beagle."   [Illustrated.]
Cope, K. D. -- Origin of tho Fittest.                                        8vo.

CuLnonnindgohna,m1, S87J.,  Svo.           Round     New Yoik [1879],

                            T. -- The                   Die Grundlchien der wahren
                                                     Naturreligion nach Darwin und
Table Series. (No. 5.) Charles                       llieckel. Berlin, 1881, 8vo.
Dai win, Naturalist. Edinburgh,
                                                        Darwinism stated by Darwin
    1SS6, 8vo.                                       himself. Characteristic pas
                                                     sages from the writings of C. T>. ,
Curtis, George T. -- Creation or
   Evolution ? A Philosophical                       selected and arranged by N.
DaIrnwqinu,iry.ChaLrolensdonR, --18T8h7o,            Sl.eppard. New York, 1884,
                                           Svo.

                                             Dar

winian Theory of the Trans                               8vo.

mutation of Species examined                         Daubeny, Charles. --Remarks on
by a Graduate of the University                         the final causes of the Sexuality
ol Cambridge. Second edition.                           of Plants, with particular
London, 1868, 8vo.                                      referenco to Mr. Darwin's work
   The Fall of Man : or, the                            on the Origin of Species.
Loves of the Gorillas. A popu
lar scientific lecture upon the                         Oxford, 1860, 8vo.
Darwinian Theory of Develop                                 Miscellanies : being a col
ment by Sexual Selection. By
a Learned Gorilla. Edited by                            lection of Memoirs ami Essays,

tho author of "The New                                  etc. 2 vols. Oxford, 1867,

                                                     Svo.
                                                         Remarks on the Final Causes of
   Gospel of Peace." [Illustrated.]                  the Sexuality of Plants, etc., vol.
   New York, 1871, 8vo.                                 ii , pp. 86-107.
 Our Blood Relations ; or,                           Davey, Samuel.       --Darwin,   Carlyle,
   the Darwinian Theory. Lon                         and Dickens, with other essays,
                                                     London [1876], 8vo.
don, 1872, 8vo.
                                  BIBLIOGRAPHY.                                          ad

Davies, Charles M. -- Mystic                                                 Emil. --
   London ; or, phases of occult
   life in the Metropolis. London,                                        Englischen
                                                Durbicohis-ReIIy.moinnd,A le             Fried-

                                                                               i            Ur-
                                                                                                   la
                                                theilen. Darwin und Kopernicus,

1875, 8vo.                                         etc. Leipzig, 1884, 8vo.
   "Darwinism on the Devil," pp.
                                                Ducasse, Felix. -- Etude historique
     179-197.
                                                   et critique sur Transformisme,
Diman, Jeremiah Lewis. -- The                      etc. Paris, 1876, 8vo.
   Theistic Argument as effected                Dumont, Leon .-- Haeckel et
   by recent theories. A course of                 theorie de Involution en Alle-
   lectures delivered at the Lowell
   Institute in Boston. [Edited,                Dnmvaalg,neM. athPiaasr.is--, 1L8e73D,ar8wvoin. isme.
   with a preface, by G. P. Fisher.]
    Boston, 1881, 8vo.                          Paris, 1886, 8vo.
Dixon, Cliarles. --Evolution with
                                                Dykes, Rev. J.Oswald. -- Problems
                                                of Faith,                 contribution to
out Natural Selection ; or, the                                    :a
Segregation of Species without                  present controversies, being
the aid of the Darwinian                                                           J.
                                                                                           a
                                                                                                       a
                                                third series of Lectures to
                                                Young Men, etc. With pre
Hypothesis.        London, 1885,                                                     0. D.
                                                face by the Rev.
8vo.
                                                London, 1875, 8vo.
Doilel, afterwards Dodcl-Port,
   Arnold. DieneuereSchbpfungs-                    Disputed Questions of Belief              ;
    geschichto nach deni gegen-                 being Lectures to Young Men,
   wartigen Stande der Natur-
                                                etc. London, 1874, 8vo.
                                                Evolution An Exposition and
wissenschaften, etc. Leipzig,                   Critique by the Rev. H. S. Paterson,
                                                    pp.
  "1875, 8vo.                                            183-252.       --  Winds    of  Doc
                                                Elam,
Draper, Professor. -- On the                                Charles.
   Intellectual Development of
   Europe, considered with refer                trine: being an examination of
   ence to the views of Mr. Darwin              the modern theories of automa

                                                tism and evolution. London,

and others, that the Progression                    1876, 8vo.     Americana.        -- The
of Organisms is determined by                   Encyclopaedia
Law." Paper read at the
Oxford Meeting of the British                   Encyclopaedia Americana, etc.
Association, 1860, with discus                  New York, 1885, to.
                                                Articles Darwin and Darwinism,8.
                                                   vol. ii., pp. 542-555.       4
sion. (Gardeners' Chronicle,                    Encyclopaedia Britannica.            -- The
                                                Encyclopaedia Britannica. Ninth
DreAhuegr.,Euge1n8.60--, pDpe. rfi,713, 714.)
                                  Darwinismiis
                                                edition. Vol                       Edinburgh,
nnd seine Cocsequenzen in
wisscnchaftlicher und socialer                  1877, 4to.
                                                The article Evolution by Professor
                   Halle, 18S2, 8vo.               Huxley  andLuJaigmie. s--SulDlya. rwinismo.
   Beziehung.  B.  -- Veddes Lectures,          Ercolani,
Drury, John
1883. Truths and Untruths of                    EssRaeygsg. i--o,   Calabria, 1882,  8vo.
Evolution. New York [1884],                                        English Essays.      Ham

    8vo. .         Emil. --Darwin                  burg, 1869, 12mo.
Dubois-Reymond,                                        Mr. Darwin's Theories, vol. ii.,
versus Galiani. Berlin, 1876,
                                                    pp. 106-138. Eeprinted from the
8to.
                                                FawWceesttmt,insHteernrRye.vi--ewO, nJanthuearMy e1t8h6o9.d
xii BIBLIOGRAPHY.

of Mr. Darwin in his Treatise on Force, M. F. -- Pre-historic Mnn.
the Origin of Species. (Report              Darwinism and Deity. The
of the 31st Meeting of the British          Mound Builders. Cincinnati,

Association, 1861, p. 141.)                 1873, 8vo.
                                                           Francis. -- Hereditary
FeeL,ondAon. ,--1L8e62,  8vo.          ou   Galton,
                         Darwinisms,        Genius : an inquiry into its

Examen de la Theorie rolativo b,            laws and consequences. Lou-
V origine des especes. Paris,
                                            don, 1869, Svo.
                                            References to C. D.
186*, 8vo.
   Appeared originally in the               English Men of Science : their
    Gazette Ilebdomaitaire de Me'decine                                            London,
    el de Chirurgie, 1864.                  nature and nurture.
                                            1874, 8vo.
Ferriere, Emile. -- Le Darwinisme.
                                                References to C. D.
                                               Inquiries into Human Faculty
   Paris, 1872, 8vo.                        and its Development. London,
Ferris, Benjamin G. -- A new
theory of the Origin of Species.
                                            1883, 8vo.                        D.
                                                                              and
   New  York,   1--83D3,ar8wvion.ism,  and  GeoloRgeyfe.r--encGeesotloo gCy.       its  Teach
Fiske,  John.                               ing, especially as it relates to
other Essays. London, 1879,
                                            CtphrreoepaotiuDonnedv"eedalonpdminDeanrtw"inVT'eshstei'go' eOrsyrigiaonsf
8vo.

Another edition.         Boston

[U.S.] 1885, 8vo.                           of Species." Reprinted from
   Outlines of Cosmic Philosophy,           the "Leeds Express." Lon

hased on the Doctrino of Evolu                 don, 1861, 12mo.
tion, etc. 2 vols. London,
                                            Gibson, Rev. Charles B.-- Philo
1874, 8vo.                                  sophy, Science, and Revelation.
   Numerous references to Charles           Second edition. London, 1874,

Darwin.

Excursions of an Evolutionist.              8vo.            Alvielln, Count Eugene.
                                                           Contemporary Evolution
London, 1884, 8vo.                          Go--bleTthed'
  In raemoriam: Charles Darwin,

pp. 337-3C9.                                of Religious Thought in England,
                                            America, and Iudia. Translated
   The Destiny of Man viewed in
the light of his Origin. Boston             by J. Moden. Loudon, 1885,

[U.S.] 1884, 8vo.                               8vo.
   The Idea of God as affected
                                            Graham, "William.--The Creed of
by modern knowledge. London,                   Science, religious, moral, and

    1885, 8vo.  J.       P. --Examen   du      social. London, 1831, Svo.

Flourens, M.                                Gray, Asa. -- Natural Selection not
livre de M. Darwin sur l'origino               inconsistent with Natural
   des especes. Paris, 1864, 12mo.             Theology. A free examination
Flower, Professor W. H. On                  of Darwin's Treatise on the
Palseontological Evidence of                Origin of Species and of its
Gradual Modification of Animal              American Reviewers. London,
Forms, read at the Royal Insti
tution of Great Britain, April              1861, 8vo.
25, 1873 (Journal of Hie Royal              AtlAapnpteicarMedontholyrigfoinraJlluylv,   in the
                                            and October, 1860.                          August,

Institution).
                      BIBLIOGRAPHY.

Gray, Asa. --Darwiniana : Essays                 Hall, A. Wilford.-- The Problem
                                                    of Human Life, . . . with a
    and Reviews pertaining to Dar                   review of Darwin, Huxky, etc.
   winism. New York, 1876,                          Revised edition. New York,
   8vo.
                                                     1880, 8vo.
Greaves, C. A. --The Science of
   Life ; and Darwin's Hypothesis.               Hallier, Ernst. --Darwin's Lehre

    Two lectures. London [1873],                    und die Specification. Ham
                                                    burg, 1865, 8vo.
    8vo.
                                                 Hartmann, C. R. E. von. -- Wahr
Haeckel, Ernst II .P. A.-- Gener                    heit und Irrthum im Darwin
elle Morphologie der Organis                        ismus. Berlin, 1875, 8vo.

men. Allgemeine Grundzge
der organischen       Formen-
                                                    Darwinismus und Thierpio-
Wissenschaft, mechanisch be-                     duction. Mnchen, 1876, 8vo.
gindet durch die von Charles
Darwin, etc. 2 Bde. Berlin,
                                                 Le Darwinisme, traduit de
1866, 8vo.                                          l'Allemand par Georges Gue-
                                                    roult. Paris, 1877, 8vo.
   Natrliche Schpfungsges                      Hartsen, F. A. -- Darwin en de
chichte, etc. Berlin, 1868, 8vo.

Die heutige Entwickelungs-                       Godsdienst. Eene populaire
lehre im Verhltnisse zur                        uiteenzctting van het Darwin
                      Stutt
Gesammtwissenschaft.                             isme, etc. Lcyden, 1869, 8vo.

gart, 1877, 8vo.                                 Heller, Karl B. --Darwin und der

   Gesammel te populre Vortrge                    Darwinismus. Wien, 1869, 8vo.

aus dem Gebiete der Entwick                      Henslow, George. --The Theory of
                                                    Evolution of living things, and
lungslehre.  Bonn, 1878-79,

8vo.                                             the application of the principles

    Antliropogenie, oder Ent-                    of evolution to religion con
wickelungsgeschichte des Men                                       illustrative of the
schen, etc. Leipzig, 1874, 8ro.                  s"idWeriesddomas  and Beneficence of

   The Evolution of Man, etc.                    the Almighty." London, 187?,
From the German of E. H.
[With plates.] 2 vols. Lon                       8vo.
don, 1879, 8vo.
                                                 The Fertilisation of Plants :
   Ziele und Wege der heuti
                                                 a lecture [on D.'s Cross-and-Self-
                                                 Fertilisation of Plants] delivered
gen Entwickelungs-geschichte.                    8th March, 1377. (Transactions
Jena, 1875, 8vo.                                 of the Watford Nat. Hist. Soc.

Die Naturanschauung von                          Vol.  i.,  1878, pp. 201-210.)
Darwin, Goethe, und Lamarck.                              I.
Jena, 1882, 8vo.                                 Hertwig, Ii. -- Gedchtnissrede
                                                 auf Charles Darwin. Knigs
The Pedigree of Man : and
other Essays, by E. Haeckel.                         berg, 1883, 4to.
Translated from the German by
          LBib. raArvyeloinfgS.cienc(eIntaenr-d  Hertzka, Theodor. --Die Urge
Edward
national                                            schichte der Erde und des Men

                                                 schen,            Vorlesung ber die

FreethouglU, voL 6.) London,                     Darwinsche Theorie, etc. Pest,

1883, 8vo.                                       1871, 8vo.
xtv BIBLIOGRAPHY.

Hicks, L. E. -- A Critique of                      James, Constantin. -- Du Darwin-
                                                      isme, ou 1'komme-singe. Paris,
Design-Arguments, etc. New
                                                       1877, 8vo.
York, 188 !, 8vo.
                                                   Johns, Rev. B. G. --Moses, not
   Darwinian and Design, pp. 303-                     Darwin : a sermon. London,

330.

Hodge, Charles.--What is Dar                           1871, 8vo.  S. -- Teleologie
winism ? London, 1874, 8vo.                        Kalischer,
                         Hermann. -- Unter-                                                   und

Hoffmann,                                          Darwinismus.           Beilin, 1878,

Michnngen zur Bestimmung                               8vo.    W. F. --Evolution              and
des Werthes von Species und
                                                   Kirby,
Variett, etc. Giessen, 1869,                      Natural Theology. London,

    8vo.   Johannes. --Die                         1883, 8vo.             Critics,
Huber,                                                   Darwin  and his             pp. 50-6S.
                                 Lehre                                    -- The
                                                   Kirk, Rev.     John.              Doctrine
DDar.rwiJn.'s  kritisch hetracktet vou             of Creation according to
               H. Miiuchen, 1871,                  Darwin, Aeassiz and Moses.

    8vo.                                              London, 1869,   8vo.           --Carlo
                                                   Kleinenberg.      Nicolaus.
llnmiecki, M. --Darwinizni. Lw6w,

    1878, 8vo.           Henry. -- Evi             Darwin e l'opera sua. Discorso
I Iuxloy, Thomas                                   commemorativo letto nell' aula
dence as to Man's Place in
                                                   della R. Universitadi Messina
Nature. London, 1863, 8vo.                         il 21 Maggio 1882. Messina,
Lay Sermons, Addresses, and
Reviews. London, 1870, 8vo.                            1882,  8vo.
   The Origin of Species,                          Klbnne,                           Voorouders
Reprinted from the          pp. 280-327.                      B. H. -- Onze
                           Westminster             volgens de Theorie van Darwin
l"icTvhieeu;OrAigpinril   1860 ; Criticisms    on  en hot Darwinisme van Winkler.
                         of Species," pp.    328-  Met gravuren. 'S Hertogen-
350. Reprinted from the Natural
History lirview, 1864.                                 bosch,  1869, 8vo.
Critiques and Addresses.                                         Albreckt,           -- Entwick
                                                   Kblliker,
                                                   lungsgeschichte des Menschen
London, 1873, 8vo.                                 und der hheren Thiere, etc.
Mr. Darwin's Critics, pp. 251-302.                 Leipzig, 1661, 8vo.
Reprinted from the Contemporary
lteview, 1871.                                          Zweite Auflage. Leipzig,
      Science and Culture, and other
                                                       1879, 8vo.
Essays. London,          1881,   "8vOor.igin
  Tiie Comingof Age      of tho                    Kramer, Paul. -- Theorie und
                                                   Erfahrung. Beitrge zur Beur-
    of Species," pp. 310-324.                      theilung des Darwinismus.
                                 sur la               Halle
Jaeoby, Paul. -- Etudes                            Krause,     a/ESr.n, es1t8.7--7.   8vo.
Selection dans ses rapports avec                                                     Erasmus
                                                                                              Dar
l'herediie chez l'homme, etc.
                                                   win und seine Stellung in der
   Paris, 1881, 8vo.                               Geschichte der Desccndcnz-
                                                   Tkeorie. Mit seinem Lebeus-
Jaeger, Gustav. -- Die Darwin                      nnd Charakterbilde von C.

   sche Theorie und ihre Stellung                  Darwin. Leipzig, 1880, 8vo.
   zu Moral und Religion. Stutt                       References to C. D's family. Ori

gart [1869], 8vo.                insbe             ginally appeared in Kosmoa. The
                                 Stutt             life by C. D. is a translation from
   In Sachen Darwin's                              the English edition (1879).

sondere contra Wigand.
gart, 1874, 8vo.
                      BIBLIOGRAPHY.

Krause, Ernest. -- ErasmusDarwin.                         Deuiieme edition. Bruxelles,
   -- Translated from the German
   by W. S. Dallas. With a pre                                1868, 8vo.
   liminary notice by C. Darwin.
   Portrait and woodcuts. Lon                             Lessona, Michele. -- Carlo Darwin.

                                                          Roma, 1883, 8vo.

don, 1879, 8vo.                                           Commemorazione di Carlo
   The Life by C. D. pp. 1-127.                           Darwin (AM       delta It. Accad.
                                                                           Torino,vo\. xviii,
There is a copy of this work in the                       delle Scicnzedi
Library of the British Museum
which contains MS. Notes by                                  1882, pp. 709-718). Torino,
Samuel Butler.                                               1882, 8vo.
                                                          Lewes, George Henry. -- Problems
   Charles Darwin und sein                                   of Life and Mind. Three Series.
Verhltiiiss zu Deutschland.
                                                             London, 1874-70, 8vo.
(Gesammelte Kleinere Schriften,                           Lichthorn, C. -- Die Erforschung
   Bd.,       H.L--eipEzsisga,ys1-o8n85,Re8lviog.ion
Laing,   1.)          By various                             der physiologischen Natur
                                                          gesetze der menschlichen Geist
         F.

and Literature.
writers. Edited by Henry
                                                          esttigkeit auf der Grundlage
                                                          der neuesten grossen Entdeck
Edward, Archbishop of West
minster. Third Series. Lon                                ungen  Dubois - Reymond's,
                                                          Darwin's und Hacker's ber die
don, 1874, 8vo.                                           organische Natur, etc. Breslau,
Darwinism brought to Book, by
   the Rev. F. H.   HLaeirnbge, rptp. .--2D57a-2r8w3. in
Laing, Sidney                                                 1875, 8vo.
ism Refuted. An Essay            Mr.
Darwin's Theory of     on"       The                      Liddon, H. P. --The Recovery of
                                                          St. Thomas: a sermon preached
Descent of Man." London,
                                                          in St. Paul's Cathedral, April
    1871, 8vo.  L.  de. --Etude  sur  la                  23, 1882, witli a prefatory note
                                                          on the late Mr. Darwin. Lon
Lanessan, J.
Doctrine de Darwin. La lutte                                  don, 1882, 8vo.

pour l'existence et l'association                         Lindsay, William Lauder. --Mind
   pour la    lutte.  PRaaryi.s,--1D8e8g1,en8evroa.          in the Lower Animals in health
Lankester,     Edwin
                                                          and disease. 2 vols. London,

tion : a chapter in Darwinism.                                1879, 8vo.

   (Nature Series.) London, 1880,                         Lwenthal, Eduard. -- Herr Schlei
    8vo.                                                     den und der Darwinsche
Lecomte, A. -- Le Darwinisme et                              Arten - Entstehungs - Humbug.
   l'origine de l'homme. Paris,                              Berlin, 1864, 8vo.

    1873, 12mo.                                           Lyell, Sir Charles. -- Life, Letters,
                                                             and Journals of Sir Charles
Le Conte, Joseph. -- Religion and                            Lyell, Bart. Edited by his
   Science: a series of Sunday                               sister-in-law, Mrs. Lyell. 2 vols.
Lectures on the relation of                                   London, 1881, 8vo.

    natural and revealed religion,                                 Contains a number of Letters to
    etc. London, 1874, 8vo.                                   C. D.

Le Hon, H. -- L'Homme Fossile                             Lyon, W. P. -- HomoversusDarwin:
en Europe, etc. (Appendice-                                  a judicial examination of state
Abrege de la Theorie de Darwin                            ments recently published by
ou Transformisme, traduit de
1' Italien du Prof. Omboni).                              Mr. Darwin regarding "The
xvi BIBLIOGRAPHY.

Descent of Man." Second edi                             Wedgwoods and their friends.
tion. London, [1872], 8vo.                              London, 1871, 8vo.
                                                        Numerous references to the Dar
Third edition.                 London,                  win family.

    [1873],   8vo.  James. --Anti-Dar                   Meyer, A. B. --Charles Darwin
M'Cann,      Rev.                                       und Alfred Russel Wallace.
winism : with Professor Huxley's
                                                        Ihre  "erEstnetnstePhuubnligcatdioenrenArteiihne"r
   reply. Glasgow, 1869, 8vo.                           die
                                                        nebst einer Skizze ihres Lebcns
McCarthy, Justin. --A History                           und einem Verzeichniss ihrer
   of Our Own Times. A new                              Schriften. Erlangen, 1870, 8vo.

   edition. 4 vols. London, 1882,

8vo.                                                    Miall, L. C--The Life and Works
   Charles Darwin, vol. iv., pp. 286-
                                                           of Charles Darwin; a lecture
     288.                                                  delivered to the Leeds Philo
                                                           sophical and Literary Society,
Maclaron, James. --A Critical Ex                            on February 6, 1883. Leeds,

amination of some of the princi                             1883, 8vo.
pal arguments for and against
Darwinism. London, 1876,                                Michelis, Fr. -- Die Naturwissen-
                                                           schaftliche Unhaltbarkheit der
8vo.                Theology   in the                      Darwinschen Hypothese. Hei
                    Century.   London,
   Natural
Nineteenth

   1878, 8vo.                                              delberg, 1885, 8vo.
Maklin, F. W. -- Allmanna betrak-                       Mivart, Saint George. -- On the
telser bfver den Darwinska
                              fdrtallande                  Genesis of Species. London,
descendenslarens
till ochmed de organiska                                1871, 8vo.

   formernas och isynnerhet                                  Men and Apes, an exposition
   djurens geografisk utbredning.                       of structural resemblances bear
                                                        ing upon questions of affinity
MaHnetelsgianzgzfoar,sP, ao1l8o8. 2--, C8ovmo. memora-  and origin. London, 1873, 8vo.

   zione di Carlo Darwin. Discorso                           Contemporary Evolution.
   del Professor P. M. Firenze,                         An essay on some recent social
                                                        changes. London, 1876, 8vo.
    1882, 8vo.
                    --  La  theorie  de                    Nature and Thought ; an
Martins, C.                                             introduction to a Natural Phil
                                                        osophy. London, 1882, 8vo.
revolution en histoire naturellc.
   Paiis, 1876, 8vo.                                       Second edition. London,
Maschi, Luigi. -- Confutazione delle
Dottrine Transformistiche di                                1885, 8vo.
Huxley, Darwin, etc. Parma,                             Molescliott, Jacob.  --Carlo  Roberto

    187 4,   8v         -- II  Concetto                 Darwin. Commemorazione pro-
Menza,       Antonino.                                  nunziata a nome degli studenti
Scientifico di Darwin svilnppato                        dell' University di Roma,
dalla Filosofia Positiva. Saggio                        25 di Giugno, 1882. Torino,

critico di A M. Catania, 1882,                          1882, 8vo.           Darwin.  -- Denk-

    8vo.     Eliza. --A group of                            Karl Robert
Meteyard,                                               rede gehalten im Collegio
Englishmen (1795 to 1815), be                           Romano im Namen der Studi-

ing records of the younger                              renden der Hochschule zu Rom
                        BIBLIOGRAPHY.                                xvii

von Jacob Moleschott. Giessen,         Mller Hermann. -- Alpenblumen,
                                          ihre Befruchtung, durch In
    1883, 8vo.                         sekten und ihre Anpassungen

Morris, Rev. F. 0. -- Difficulties of  an dieselben. Mit Abbildungen,
Darwinism. Read before the
British Association at Norwich         etc. Leipzig, 1881, 8vo.

and Exeter, in 1868 and 1869,          Nature Series. -- Charles Darwin.

etc. London, 1869, 8vo.                Memorial notices reprinted from

    All the Articles of the Dar        "Nature." [With a portrait on
win Faith. London [1882],              steel by C. H. Jeens.] London,

8vo.                                   1882, 8vo.
Moss, Arthur B. -- Darwin against
                                       Contents --Introductory Notice,
                                       by T. H.  GH.uJx.leRyo;mLainfeesan; dWCohrakracin
Moses. London [1885], 8vo.             ter, by

Miiller, Aug. -- Ueber die erste       Geology, by Archibald Geikie ;
                                       Work  in Botany, by W.   J.T.RbToy.mDGany. eersJ;.;
   Entstehung organischer Wesen        Work  in Zoology, by G.
   und deren Spaltung in Arten.        Work
   Berlin, 1866, 8vo.                          in Psychology,
Miiller, F. Max. -- Lectures on the    Romanes.

Science of Language, etc Two           Neaves, Lord. -- The Descent of
                                       Man. A      Aciro,nti"nuGaretieonnsleeovef s an"
Series. London, 1861-64, 8vo.
   Several editions.                   old Song.

Chips from a German Work               {Darwin loquitur).            [Black
                                       wood's Edinburgh Magazine,
shop. 4 vols. London, 1867-75,
                                       vol. 109, 1871, pp. 517-519.
8vo.
   My reply to Mr. Darwin, vol. iv.,   Songs and Verses, social and
                                       scientific. Edinburgh, 1868, 8vo.
pp. 433-472 ; reprinted from the         The Origin of
Contemporary Review, Jan. 1875.        The Darwinian       Species,    pp. 1-4 ;
                                                                     Farming,
   The Science of Thought.                                Era of

    London, 1887, 8vo.  Darwin.            pp. 8, 9.
Miiller, Fritz-- Fur
                                       Nicholson, H. Alleyne. -- On the

Leipzig, 1864, 8vo.                    hearing of certain palaeonto-
                                       logical facts upon the Darwinian
      Facts and Arguments for          Theory of the Origin of Species,
Darwin. Translated from the
German by W. S. Dallas. Lon            and on the general doctrine of
                                       Evolution. (Journal of the
   don, 1869, 8vo.                     Transactions of the Victoria
Miiller, Hermann. -- Anwendung         Institute, vol. ix., 1876, pp.
der Darwinschen Lehre auf
Bienen. Berlin, 1872, 8vo.             207-231 ; Discussion on preced

Die Befruchtung der Blumen             ing, pp. 231-236.

durch Insekten und die gegcn-          O'Neill, T. Warren.-- The Refuta-
                                          tion of Darwinism ; and the
seitigen Anpassungen beider,
                                          Converse Theory of Develop
etc. Leipzig, 1873, 8vo.                  ment. Philadelphia, 1880, 8vo.
    The Fertilisation of Flowers.
                                       Ormathwaite, Lord. --Astronomy
Translated and edited by                  and Geology compared. Lon
D'Arcy W. Thompson, with
                                           don, 1872, 8vo.
a preface by C. Darwin. With                  Remarks on the Theories of Mr.
illustrations. London, 1883,
                                          Darwin and Mr. Buckle, pp. 57-111.
8vo.

                                                        i3
xviii BIBLIOGRAPHY.

Al'age, David. -- Strictures              upon  Portanova, Gennaro. --Errori e
                                      subject,     delirii del Darwinismo. Napoli,
     t"heManlec--turewsh--enocne?the  where?
                                                   1872,  J.8voL..  --
whither? and an exposure of the                 Porter,                 Science        and  Reve
Darwinian Development Theory,
etc Edinburgh, 1867, 8vo.                       lation : their destructive pro
                                                vinces. With a review of the
Parker, W. Kitchen. -- On Mam                   theories of Tyndall, Huxley,
malian Descent : the llunterian                 Darwin, and Herbert Spencer.
                                                   Belfast, 1874,
Lectures for 1884. London,                      Powell, B. H.                  8vo.    --  Creation
                                                                               Baden.
1885, 8vo.
                                                and its Records, etc. London,
Pascoe, Francis P. -- Notes on
.Natural Selection and the Origin                  1886, 8vo.
of Species. London, 1884, 8vo.                                      H. --The           Descent  of
                                                Pratt, John
                                                Man, in connection with
Patane, Agostino. -- II Darwinismo              Hypothesis of Development.                      thAe
   (a proposito dell 'opera -- Di               lecture, etc. Loudon, 1871, 8vo.
Bernardo). Acireale, 18S2, 8vo.
                                                Prel, Karl F. du.-- Der Kampf
^Patterson, Robert. --The Errors                   urn's Dasein am Himmel. Die
of Evolution. An examination
of the nebular theory, geo                      Darwin'sche Formel nachge-
logical evolution, the origin of                wiesen in der Mechanik der
                                                                               Berlin, 1874,
life, and Darwinism. London,                    Sternenwelt.

1885, 8vo.                                         8vo.    Geremia. --Un poco                   di
Pawlicki, Stefan. -- Czlowiek                   Properzi,
   i Malpa. Ostatnie Slowo Dar-                 buon senso, ovvero saggio di un
                                                esame critico popolare delle
   wina.   Lwow,    1872, 8vo.        be        teorie pedagogiche di P. Sicil-
Peebles,           The Conflict                 iani e delle materialistiche dei
          J. M.--
tween Darwinism and Spir                        Buchner, Darwin, etc. Genova,
   itualism. Boston, 1876,
Pelzeln, August von. --                12mo.    Psy1c8h8o2s, is8.v--o. Our Modern Philoso
                                      Bemer-

kungen gegen Darwin's Theorie                   phers, Darwin, Bain, and
vom Ursprung der Spezies.                       Spencer, or the Descent of Man,
   Wieu,
Perrier,  E1d8m6o1,ud8.v--o. La  Philosophic    Mind and Body. A rhyme [on

                                                C. R. Darwin's "Descent of
                                                of Man," etc.], with reasons,
Zoologique avant Darwin. Paris,
                                                essays, notes and quotations,
1884, 8vo.
                                                liy Psychosis. London, 1884,
Pl'uff, Friedrich.-- Die Theorie
Darwin's und die Thatsachen
der Geologic Frankfort, a.M.,                       8vo.

                                                Punch. -- Punch. London, 1871,

    1876, 8vo.                                  1877, 1882, 4to.
                                                   Our Family                  T; reDear(w6invearsneds),Pivcokl.
Polo y Peyrolon, Manuel. -- Par-
                                                60, 1871, p. 105
entesco entre el honibre y el                   wick (3 verses), p. 145 ; The Develop
Mono. Observaciones contra
el Transformismo Darvinista                     A2m34enD; taTrhwoefiniODanrriegsinsBao(l6fladDvearrs(w4eisnv),iesrmspe,.s)1,v9o7pl..;

en general y especialmente con                  61, p. 69 ; A Darwinian Develop
tra el oilmen sunio, etc.
Madrid, 1878, 8vo.                              mSpeirnittu(a6lisvmer,sesp),.  p. 110 ; Darwinian
                                                                               196 ; Punch to Dr.
                    BIBLIOGRAPHY.                                                   xix

   Darwin 8 verses), vol. 73, 1S77, p.                    der Darwin' sclieu Lehre, etc
    241 : Memorial Poem (6 lines), vol.                   Frankfurt am Main, 1866, 8vo.
                                                          Romanes, George John. --Animal
    82, 1882, p. 203.                                     Intelligence.
                                                                                (International
Rusey, S. E. B. Bouverie.-- Per                           Scientific Series, vol. xli. ) Lon
   manence and Evolution ; an                             don, 1882, 8vo.
    inquiry unto the supposed mut
    ability of animal types, Lon
    don,                                                     The Scientific Evidences of
Quadri,   A18c8h2i,lle8.v--o. Note alia Teoria            Organic Evolution. (Nature
                                                          Series.) London, 1882, 8vo.
    Darwiniaua.     Bologna, 1869,
                                                             Mental Evolution in Animals.
    8vo.                                                  With a posthumous essay on
                                                          Instinct by Charles Darwin.
Quatrefages de Breau, A. de. --
   Charles Darwin et ses precur-                          London, 1883, 8vo.
    seurs Francais ; etude sur le                            Numerous references to C. D.
                    Paris, 1870,
    Transformisme.

E.  8Gvo. --. The  DTahrrweien'sBarr"ierOsrig: innoteosf     Physiological Selection ; an
    on Mr.                                                additional suggestion on the
    Species." Edinburgh, 1861,                            Or igin of Species. (Journal of the
                                                          Linnean Society, vol. 19, 1885,
    8vo.
                                                             pp. 337-411.)
Bade, E. -- Charles Darwin und
                                                          Ross, James. --The Graft Theory
    seine Deutschen Anhanger im
    Jahre 1876. Strassburg, 1877,                         of Disease, being an application
                                                          of Mr. Darwin's Hypothesis of
    8vo.                                                  Pangenesis to the explanation
                                                          of the phenomena of the
Ra^usa, C, F. -- Saggio critico sul                       Zymotic Diseases. London,
    Darwinismo, etc. Napoli, 1878,

    8vo.  C.       M. --L 'origine  des                       1872, 8vo.
Reiiooz,
                                                          Rossi, D. C. --Le Darwinisme et
    animaux. Tiieoiie refutant celle
    de M. Darwin. Paris, 1883,                               les generations spontanees, ou

    12mo.                                                    reponse aux refutations de MM.

Reus y Bahamonde, Emilio. --                                 P. Flourens, de Quatrefages,
    Estudios sobre Filosofia de la                           etc. Paris, 1870, 12mo.
    Creaeion, etc. Madrid, 1876,                          Roux, Wilhelm. -- Uebor die Leist-
                                                             ungsfahigkeit der Principien der
    8vo.           George. -- On    the                      Descendenzlehre zur Erklarung
                                                             der Zweckmassigkeiten des thier-
Richardson,                                                  ischen Organismus. Breslau,

    spirit in which scientific studies
    should be pursued, with re
    marks on the Darwinian theory
    of Evolution. A lecture, etc.                         1880, 8vo.

   London, 1872,                                          Der Kampf der Theile im
Eolle, Friedrich.   8--voC. harles                                                  Leipzig,
                                                          Organismus, etc.

                                    Dar                       1881,  8vo.       --
                                                          Royer,     Clemence.
    win's Lehre von der Entstehung                                                  Darwinisme.
    der Arten un Pflanzen - und
    Thierreich, etc. Frankfurt am                         (Dictionnaire Encyclopidique des
    Main, 1863, 8vo.                                      Sciences Midicalcs, vol. xxv.,

    Der Mensch, seine Abstain-                                698-767.)    Paris, 1880, 8vo.
                                                          Riitimeyer,
                                                                         L. -- Die Grenzen der
                                                          Thierweit Eine Betrachtung zu
    mung und Gesittung im Lichte
           BIBLIOGRAPHY.

   Darwin's Lehre. Basel, 1868,                      der Entwicklungslehre. Jena,

    8vo.                                                 1875, 8vo.

St. Clair, George. --Darwinism                       Schumann, Richard. -- Darwinis
   and Design ; or, Creation by                         mus und Kirche. Potsdam,
   Evolution. London, 1873, 8vo.
                                                         1874, 8vo.
Schleicher, August. -- Die Darwin
    sche Theorie und die Sprach                      Seidlitz, Georg. -- Die Darwinsche
    wissenschaft Weimar, 1863,                       Theorie. Dorpat, 1871, 8vo.

8vo.                                                        Beitrge zur Descendenz-
                                                        Theorie. Leipzig, 1876, 8vo.
      Darwinism tested by the                        Semper, Carl. -- The natural con
   Science of Language. Trans                           ditions of existence as they
   lated from the German, with
   preface and additional notes,                        affect animal life. With maps
   by Dr. Alex. V. W. Bikkers.
   London, 1869, 8vo.                                and woodcuts. (International
Schmid, Rudolf. --Die Darwin'                        Scientific Series, vol. xxxi.) Lon
   sehen Theorien und ihre Stell                     don, 1881, 8vo.
   ung zur Philosophie, Religion                     Simon, Leon. -- De l'Origine des
   und Moral. Stuttgart, 1876,                       Especes, en particulier du
                                                     Systeme Darwin : conferences,
    8vo.                                             etc. Paris, 1865, 8vo.
                                                     Simonin, AmedeeH. -- Psychologie
       The Theories of Darwin, and                                  Histoire de la
   their relation to philosophy,                     Humaine.
   religion, and morality. Trans
   lated from the German, by                         Psychologie, etc. Paris, 1879,
   G. A. Zimmermann. With an
   introduction by the Duke of                       8vo.
   Argyll. Chicago, 1883, 8vo.                          Darwin et le Darwinisme, pp.
Schmidt, Eduard Oscar. -- Das
   Alter der Menschheit und das                           418-443.  Herbert.-- First Prin
   Paradies. Zwei Vortrge von                                      London, 1862, 8vo.
   0. S. und Franz Unger. Wien,                      Spencer,
                                                        ciples.
    1866, 8vo.
       Descendenzlehre und Darwin                    The Principles of Biology.
                                                                    London, 1864, 8vo.
   ismus. Leipzig, 1873, 8vo.                          J.2 vols.      W. -- Die Darwinsche

       The Doctrine of Descent and                   Spengel,
    Darwinism (International Scien                   Theorie. Berlin, 1872, 8vo.
    tific Series). London, 1875, 8vo.
                                                     Die Fortschritte des Darwin
       Descendance et Darwinisme.
                                                        ismus. Coin. 1874, 8vo.
    Paris, 1875, 8vo.                                Stebbing, Thomas R. R. -- Darwin

                                                        ism. A lecture delivered be

                                                         fore the Torquay Natural

                                                     History Society, February 1,
                                                     186D9a. rwiLnoisnmdo. n--,
                                                                                 1869,  8vo.
                                                                                 The    Noachian
                                                     Flood. A lecture delivered be
Darwinismus und Socialdemo-
cratie. Bonn, 1878, 8vo.                             fore the Torquay Natural
Schneider, G. H. -- Der thierisehe                   History Society, January 81,
   Willo,  etFcr. itzL.e--ipKziagnt[18u8n0d],        1870. London, 1870, 8vo.
Schultze,                                      8vo.
                                               Dar       Essays on Darwinism. Lon

win. Ein Beitrag zur Geschichte                      Stedpohne, n1, 87Le1,sli8ev. o--. Essays on Free
                            BIBLIOGRAPHY.

thinking and Plain speaking.                                    Va lala-Fapale, G. -- Darwinismo
London, 1873, 8vo.
Darwinism and Divinity, pp.                                         Naturale e Darwinismo Sociale.
72-109.                                                            Torino, 1882, 8vo.
-Lite of Henry Fawcett. Lon                                     Vianna De Lima, Arthur. -- Expose
don, 1885, 8vo.                                                    sommaire des Theories Trans-
                                                                formistes de Lamarck, Darwin
         Charles  LDuadrwwinig, .p--p. 9D8i-e102Gaenisdt2e3s9.  VireethHoawe,ckReul.doPlpahr.is,--1D8i8e5,Fr1e2imheo.it
                                                                   der Wissenchaft im modernen
Strmpell,                                                         Staat, etc. Berlin, 1877, 8vo.
krfte der Menschen verglichen
mit denen der Thiere. Ein
Bedenken gegen Darwin's An
sicht iiber denselben Gegen                                     The Freedom in Science in the
                                                                Modern State. Translated from
    stand.        LHei.p--zigA, nt1i8-D78a,rw8ivno. : or        WatghneeGr,erAm.a--n.ZuLor nFdeosnts, te1l8lu7n8g,
Suckling,                                                                                                              8vo.
some reasons for not accepting                                                                                          des
                                                                WaAgrntbeerg, riffeCs.arMl. --ncShtaemnm, 1t86
his  hy"pCotehyelosnis,.    By the author                                                                        1  ,  8vo.
of                          ancient and                                                                                 der
                                                                Mensch vom Affen ab ? Stutt
modern" [H. Suckling]. Twick                                       gart, 1879, 8vo.
   enham, 1884,           --16nEivo.olution                     Wagner, Moritz.
                                             and                                     --Die  Darwin'
Swift, Edmund.
Natural Selection in the Light                                  sehe Theorie und das Migra
of the New Church, etc. Lon                                     tionsgesetz der Organismen.

Tefft,don, 1879, 8vo.       F. -- Evolution                     Leipzig, 1868, 8vo.
                  Benjamin                                         The Darwinian Theory and
and Christianity ; or, an answer                                the Law of the Migration of
                                                                Organisms. Translated from
to the Development Infidelity                                      the German of M. W. by James
of modern times. Boston [U.S.],                                    L. Laird. London, 1873, 8vo.
                                                                Wainwright, Samuel. --Scientific
    1885, 8vo.              --Evolu tion     and
                                                                  Sophisms. A review of current
Th omson, George.
   Involution.
Traill, H. D.     --LoTnhdeonn,ew188L0u,ci8avno,.                  theories concerning Atoms, Aprs,
being a series of Dialogues of
the Dead. London, 1884, 8vo.                                    ofWaanlfdorMd,en.EdwLaorndd. o--n,Po1r8t8r1a,its8vo.
Lucretius, Paley, and Darwin,                                   Men of Eminence in Literat ure,
     pp. 287-312.
                   W. -- A Darwinian                            Science, and Art, etc. London,
True, Frederick
                                                                    1866, 8vo.
Bibliography. (Smithsonian Mis                                         Charles Robert Darwin, with
cellaneous Collections, vol. xxv. ,
                                                                   portrait, vol. v., pp. 49-52.
    1883, pp. 92-101.)      George. --
Twemlow, Maj.-Gen.                                              WaSlelalecect,ioAnl--freMdr.KuWssaellla.--ce'sNarteuprlayl
                                                                   to Mr. Bennett. (Nature, vol.
Facts and fossils adduced to                                      iii, 1870, pp. 49,50.)
prove the Deluge of Noah and

modify thetransmutation system                                     Contributions to the theory

of Darwin, etc. London [1868],                                  of Natural Selection. A series
                                                                               LFo.n--doDny, na1m87ic1,
    8vo.    John. -- Fragments               of                    of essays.                                    8vo.
                                                                Ward, Lester                                     Soci
Tyndall,                                                        ology, or applied Social Science,
                  2 vols. London,                               etc. 2 vols. New York, 1883, 8 vo.
Science.

1879, 8vo.
                            BIBLIOGRAPHY.

Weidenhammer, R. -- Die land-                                                         Studies, chieflv Biological.
   wirthschal'tliche Thierzucht, als
   Argument der Darwin' schen                                                         London, 1879, 8vo.
   Tlieorie. Stuttgart, 1864, 8vo.                                                                     to  Charles Darwin.
                                                                                      References      on
Weismann, August. -- Uber die                                                         Chapters             Evolution. Lon

Bereclitigung der Darwin' scheu                                                       don, 1883, 8vo.
Theorio. Leipzig, 1868, 8vo.                                                             Numerous references to Charles
                                                                                      Darwin.
   Studien zur Doscendenz-
Theoiie. Leipzig, 1875, etc.                                                             Studies in Life and Sense.
                                                                                      With thirty-six illustrations,
                                                                                      London, 1887, 8vo.
                                                                                      Winn, J. M. --Darwin. Reprinted
8vo.                                                                                  from The Journal           of Psycho
                                                                                      logical Medicine,          vol. viii.,
      Studies in the Theory of
   Descent. Translated and edited                                                     part 2. London [1883], 8vo.
   by R. Meldola, with a prefatory
   notice, by Charles Darwin.                                                         Modern Pseudo-Philosophy.
   3 pts. London, 1880-82, 8vo.
Werner, Hermann. -- Ueber Dar                                                            London,   [1878],  8--voT. ransactions
                                                                                      WoodalL      Edward.

win's fheorievonder Entstehung                                                        of the Shropshire Archaeological
der Arten und der Abstammung                                                          and Natural History Society.
des Menschen. Elberfeld, 1876,                                                        Vol. viii., 1885. Shrewsbury

    8vo.                                                                              [1885], 8vo.               on       Charles
Weygoldt,                                                                                Contains a paper        by       Edward
           G.       P. --Darwinismus,                                                 Darwin, contributed
Religion, Sittlichkeit, etc.                                                          Woodall, pp. 1-64, with a portrait
                                                                                      and illustrations.
   Leiden, 1878, 8vo.                                                                    Charles Darwin.                  A paper
Wieser, Johann. -- Mensch und                                                         contributed to the Transactions
                                                                                      of the Shropshire Archaeological
   Thier . . . mit Riicksicht auf                                                        Society. London                  8vo.
   die Darwin' sche Descendenz-                                                       Worsley-Benison,        [1384],
   lehre. Freiburg im Breisgau,                                                                                             S. --
                                                                                                             H. W.
    1875,  8vo.                                                                       Charles Darwin. [Reprinted
Wie.sner,           -- Das  Bewegungs-                                                from the Journal of Microscopy
           Julius.
vermiigen der Pflanzen. Eine
kritische Studie iiber das                                                            and Natural Science.] Bath,

gleichnamige Werk von Charles                                                             1886,  8vo.        --  Darwinism         :
Darwin. [' ' On the movements                                                                     Chauncey.
and habits of Climbing Plants."]                                                      Wright,
                                                                                      being an examination of Mr. St.
                                                                                      George Mivart's Genesis of
Wien, 1881, 8vo.                                                                                       [Reprinted from      the
                                                                                      Species.     American Review,'
Wigand, Albert. -- Der Darwinis                                                                                           July
   mus und die Naturforschung                                                         'North
   NewtoDB und Cuviers. 3 Bde.                                                        1871, with additions]. London,
   Braunschweig, 1874, 8vo.                                                               1871, 8vo.
Wilberforce, Samuel. -- Essays                                                                        --Celebrities       at Home.
                                                                                      Yates, E. H.
                                                                                      Reprinted from "The World."
   contributed to the Quarterly                                                       London, 1877, 8vo.
   Review. 2 vols. London, 1874,                                                      Mr. Darwin at Down. Second
                                                                                        J.series,
Wi81l8sv6ooD0.n)a, r,wvoinAl.'nsid.,rOeprwpig..in52---1o0f3L.eSipseucriees-Ti(mJuely             pp.F.22--3-2N30o.tes on  Evolution
                                                                                      Yorke,
                                                                                      and Christianity.                   London,

                                                                                      1882, 8vo.
                                BIBLIOGRAPHY.                                                                        xxiii

Young, J. R.-- Modern Scepticism, Darwin, Charles Robert.
viewed in relation to Modern                                                    1882, pp. 453-463.-- Wesley an

Science ; more especially in                                                    Methodist Magazine, by \V.
            to the doctrines of                                                                 vol. 105,
reference   Huxley, Lyell, and                                                  S49p4ie. r--s,  Saturday    1882, pp. 488-
Colenso,
                                                                                                            Review, April
Darwin, etc. London, 1865,                                                      22, 1882, pp, 481, 482.-- Athe
                                                                                naeum, April 29, 1882, pp. 541,
    8vo.    Otto -- Zur         Entwick-                                        --542A,caadnedmMy,ayby13,
Zacharias,                                                                                                   pp. 604, 605.
lungstheorie. Jena, 1876, 8vo.
                                                                                                            Grant Allen,
Charles R. Darwin und die                                                       April 29, 1882, pp. 306, 307.--
                                                                                Journal of Botany, by A. W.
cultui 1 is^orische             Bedeutung                                       Bennett, vol. 11, N.S., 1882,

seiner Theorie vom Ursprung
der Arten. Berlin, 1882, 8vo.                                                   pp. 165-168.-- AtlanticMonthly,
                                                                                by John Fiske, vol. 49, 1882,
Magazine Articles.                                                              pp. 835-845. -- American Natur
                                                                                --alisDti,avl,ol.by16,
J.Darwin, Charles Robert. --Unsere                                                                       1882,  pp.  487-490.
                                                                                                        David    S.
                                                                                                                      Jordan,

Zeit, by               Schonemann, Bd. 7,                                       vol. 3, 1882, pp. 2-4.--Zoolo
1863, pp.               699-718. -- Erganz-                                     gist, vol. 6, third series, 1882,
                        znr   Kentniss   de r
ungsbltter                   B. Carus,  Bd.                                    J.pp. 193-193. -- Unsere Zeit, by
Gegenwart,             by J.
3, 1868, pp. 46 48. --Every                                                          Victor Carus, Bd. 2, 1882,
Saturday, with portrait, vol.                                                   Inpp. 200-226.-- Spectator, 1882,

                                                                                pp. 525, 526, 557, 558.--
10, p. 347. -- Eclectic Magazine,                                               quirer, by W. Binns, May 6,
with portrait, vol. 13, N.S.,                                                   1882, pp. 297, 298.-- Nature, vol.

1871, pp. 757, 758.-- Appleton's                                                26, 1882, pp. 49-51, 73-75,

Journal of Literature, with por                                                 97-100, 145-147, 169-171, re

--traPite,nnvoMl. o3n, th18ly70,Mapgpa. z4in3e9,-4v4o1l..                       printed in Nature Series, 1882.
                                                                                -- Geological Magazine, vol. 9,
                                                                                N.S., 1882, pp. 239, 240.--
2, 1871, pp. 469-472.-- Once a                                                  Journal of Microscopy, by H.
Week, with portrait, vol. 9,                                                    W. S. Worsley-Benison, vol. 5,
t--hiPrdopuslearries,                                                           1886, pp. 69-92 ; reprinted same
                        1872, pp. 520-523.

                       Science Monthly,
with portrait, vol. 2, 1873, pp.
497, 498.-- Nature, with por                                                    year.                           Christian
trait, by Asa Gray, vol. 10,                                                       and Chemistry.

                                                                                Scientific Magazine, by Andrew
                                                                                Taylor, April 1887.
1874, pp. 79-81 ; same article,
Popular Science Monthly, vol.                                                   and Copernicus. Nature, by

5, 1874, pp. 475-480 ; American                                                 Du Bois Reyniond, vol. 27,
Naturalist,
473-479. --            vol. 8,  1874, pp.                                       1883, pp. 557, 558.
                       Dublin                                                      and Evolution. Church Quar
Magazine, with                  University
N.S., 1878, pp.        portrait, vol. 2,                                        terly Review, vol. 14, 1882, pp.
                        154-163.-- Men                                          347-367.
so1e8fr8ie2Ms.,a--r1k8,7A8mw. --eitrhiTcaimnpeosr,tJroauAitrp,nrailtlh2ir1od,f
                                                                                and Oaliani.                         Popular
                                                                                Science Monthly, by Prof. Einil
                                                                                du Bois - Reymond, vol. 14,
Science, by Asa Gray, vol 24,
                                                                                1879, pp. 409-425.
xxiv BIBLIOGRAPHY.

Darwin, Charles Robert.                                 Darwin, Charles Robert.

   and Haeckel. Popular Science                            as a Botanist. Smithsonian
Monthly, by Professor Huxley,                           Miscellaneous Collections, by
vol. 6, 1875, pp. 592-598.                              Lester F. Ward, vol. 25, 1883,

   and his Teachings. Quarterly                         pp. 81-86.
Journal of Science, illustrated,
vol. 3, 1866, pp. 151-176.                                 as a Horticulturist. Gar
                                                        deners' Chronicle, with portrait,
 ami Pangenesis.         Scientific                     March 6th, 1875, pp. 308, 309.

Opinion, vol. 2, 1869, pp. 365-                            before the French Academy.
367, 391-393, 407, 408.-- Quar                          Nature, vol. 2, 1870, pp. 261,
terly Journal of Science, vol. 5,                       298, and 309.-- Das Ausland,

1868, pp. 295-313.                                      1870, pp. 855-857.

       Pangenesis as applied to the                     Biography of.            Biograph,
  faculty of memory. Journal of
   Anthropology, by Alfred San                          vol. 6, 1881, pp. 525-529.--
   ders, Oct. 1870, pp. 144-149.                        Smithsonian Miscellaneous Col
i and Philosophy. Contem
   porary Review, by Sir A. Grant,                      lections, by William H. Dall,
   vol. 17, 1871, pp. 275-281 ;
                                                        vol 25, 1883, pp. 56-59.
   same article, Littrll's Living
                                                            Contributions to Philosophy.
   Age, vol. 109, 1871, pp. 626-                        Smithsonian Miscellaneous Col

                                                        lections, by John W. Powell,

                                                        vol. 25, 1883, pp. 60-70.
                                                           Critics on. Contemporary
631.
                                                        Review, by T. H. Huxley, vol.
  e la Filosofia del Secolo XIX.                        18, 1871, pp. 443-476; reprinted

Rivista Europea, by C. Bizzo-
zero, vol. 29, 1882, pp. 5-34.
   and Spencer, Huxley, and                             in Critiques and Addresses, by
                                                        Huxley, 1873.
Tyndall. Dickinson's Theolo                             et ses Critiques. Revue des
gical Annual, by George B.
Cheever, 1875, pp. 418-441.                             Deux Mondes, by Auguste
   Animals and Plants under
                                                        Laugel, tome 74, seconde

Domestication. Boston Review,                           periode, 1868, pp. 130-156.  Aus
                                                        und seine Gegner.
by C. R. Bliss, vol. 9, 1869, pp.
453-462.-- Student and Intel                            Ausland, 1871, pp. 88-91.
                                                           Cross and Self-Fertilisation
lectual Observer, vol. 1, 1868,                         in the Vegetable Kingdom.

pp. 179-188.-- Westminster Re                           American Journal of Science,
view, vol. 35, N.S., 1869, pp.                          by Asa Gray, vol. 13, 3rd Series,
207-227.-- Harper's New Month                           1877, pp. 125-141.-- Nature, by
5ly8-6M3a. g--azNinueo,vavol.An36to, lo1g8ia6,7,        W. T. Thiselton Dyer, vol. 15,
                                                  pp.
                                                   by   1877, pp. 329-332.
P. Mantegazza, torn. 8, 1868,
       70-98.-- Das Ausland,                               Debt of Science to. Illus
)ii.  1868, pp. 217-224; No.                     No.   trated. Century, by Alfred R.
10,                                                     Wallace, vol. 25, 1883, pp.
                                                   11,
pp. 246-251, and 281-286.
   Answered. Penn Monthly                               420-432.
                                                           Descent of Man. Academy, by
Magazine, vol. 6, 1875, pp.                             Alfred R. Wallace, vol. 2, 1871,
                                                        pp. 177- 183. --Athenaeum, March
368-372.
                                      BIBLIOGRAPHY.                                               XXV

Da r win, Charles Robert.                                   Darwin, Charles Robert.

4, 1871, pp. 275-277.-- Saturday                            Miscellaneous Collections, by
Review,   vol.
277, and  315,     31, 1871,          pp. 276,              Theodore Gill, vol. 25, 1883,

                   316.-- All         the Year              pp. 47-55.
Round, vol. 5, N.S., 1871, pp.
445-450.-- Nature, by P. H. Pye-                               Expression of the Emotions in
                                                            Man and Animals. St. Paul's
Smith, vol. 3, 1871, pp. 442-                               Magazine, by Henry Holbeach,
444, and 463-465.-- Revue des                               vol. 12, 1873, pp. 190-211.--
Deux Mondesi, by R. Radau,                                  Edinburgh Review, vol. 137,
v--olM. on9t5h,ly                                           1873, pp. 492-528; same article,
                   1871, pp. 675-690.
vol. 45,                                                    Littell Living Age, vol. 118,
                   Religious          --MSaoguatzhienren,         s
                   p. 501.                                                                    4,
                                                                                                             9
R73e8v.ie--w,Luvthoel.ra9n,  1871, pp. 733-                 1873, pp. 3-23.-- Academy, by
                              Quarterly, by                 Anton Dohrn, vol. 1873, pp.
                                                            209-212.-- Athenaeum, Nov,

C. Thomas,         evtco.l--. 2N, aptpio. n2,13b, yetcB..,  and   --16,Sa1t8u7r2d,aypp.  591 and  631,
and 346,                                                    632.                         Review,  vol.
G. Wilder, vol. 12, 1871, pp.                               34, 1872, pp. 633-635.-- Smith
258-260.-- Month, by A. Weld,                               sonian Miscellaneous Collec
vol 15, 1871, pp. 71-101.-- Old                             tions, by Frank Baker, vol.
                                                            25, 1883, pp. 87-92.-- Revue
and   N--ew,Quvaorlt.er3l,y  1871, pp.   594-               Scientifique, by A. Bain, vol.
600.                                        of
                                Journal
Psychological Society, vol. 5,
                                                                1874, pp. 433-441.
1871, pp. 550-566.-- British and                               Facts and Fancies of. Good7,
                                      Review, by            Words, by David Brewster,5,
JF.oreRig. nLeEevbaondgye,licvaol l.    21, 1872,
pp. 1-35. -- Edinburgh Review,                              1862, pp. 3-9.               and his

                                                              His Biographers
                                                            Traducer. Journal of Science,
vol. 134, 1871, pp. 195-235.--
Quarterly Review, vol. 131,                                 vol. 3rd series, 1883, pp. 203-
1871, pp. 47-90; same article,
Eclectic Magazine, vol. 14,                                 210.
N.S., pp. 385-404, 605-611 ;
Littell's Living Age, vol. 23,                                His Mistake. Catholic World,
4th series, pp. 67-90. -- Canadian
                                                            vol. 39, 1884, pp. 289-300.

                                                               His Work in Entomology.

Monthly, by H. Alleyne Nichol                               Smithsonian Miscellaneous Col

son, vol. 1, 1872, pp. 35-45.--                             lections, vol. 25, 1883, pp. 70-

Westminster Review, vol. 42,                                81.

N.S., 1872, pp. 378-400.--                                     Hypotheses of. Fortnightly
Baptist Quarterly, by E. Nisbet,                            Review, by G. H. Lewes, vol.

                                                                 1868, pp. 353-373, 611-628,9,
                                                            and vol. 10, pp. 61-80, 492-
vol. 7, 1873, pp. 204-227.--                                509.
Brownson's Quarterly Review,
                                                               Hypothesis and Design in
July, 1873, pp. 340-352.--                                  Nature. Dickinson's Theological
Journal  byofJ. SpHec. ulaPteivpeper,Phvilool.              Annual, by George F. White,
sophy,             134-141.-- Charing
                    C. Hodgson, vol.                        1877, pp. 404-419.
J.10, 1876, pp.                                                Insectivorous Plants. Nature,

Cross, by                                                   by Alfred W. Bennett, vol. 12,
6 N S., 1878, pp. 254-266.                                  1875, pp. 207-209, and 228-231.
Doctrine                     Smithsonian
                   of.
                             BIBLIOGRAPHY.

Darwin, Charles Robert.                                   Darwin, Charles Robert.
                                                          pp. 487-532.-- Atlantic Monthly,
   Life and Work. Modern                                  by A. Gray, vol. 6, 1860, pp.
Review, by W. B. Carpenter,                               109-116, and 229-239.-- Wi-st-
vol. 3,                        500-524.--
Canadian   1M8o82n,thlpyp,.                               minster Review, by T. H.
                             vol. 8, N.S.,                pHpu.xle54y1,-57v0o.l.--1A7m, erNic.aSn.,
                                                                                                      1860,
1882, pp. 540-542.
                                                                                                      Jour
On a Future State. Spectator,                             nal of Science, reprinted in Lay
                                                          Sermons, etc. 1860, by A. Gray,
1882, p. 1249.

   On Coral Reefs. Nature, by                             vol. 79, 1-60, pp. 153-184.--
James D. Dana, vol. 10, 1874,                             National Review, vol. 10, 1860,
pp. 408-410.-- Nature, by John
M35u4r.r--ayP,rovco.l.of2t2h,e1R8o8y0a, lpSpo.cie35ty1,-  pp. 188-214.-- North British
Edinb., by John Murray, vol.                              Review, vol. 32, 1860, pp. 455-
                                                                        vol. 46/
10, pp. 505-518 [abstract],                               J.486  ;      Christian         1867, pp.   277-
                                                                                           Examiner,     by
                                                          318.   --

On Earth Worms. Fraser's                                       A. Lowell, vol. 68, 1860, pp.
                                                          449-464. -- British Quarterly
Magazine, by F. A. Paley, vol.                            Review, vol. 31, 1860, pp. 398-
J.25, N.S., 1882, pp. 46-53.--
Nature, by George            Romanes,                     421 ; same article, Eclectic

vol. 24, 1881, pp. 553-556.--                             M--aEgcalzeicnteic,  vol. 50,   pp. 331-345.
Acad . my, by H. N. Moseley,                                                   Review,
                                                                                          vol. 3, N.S.,

vol. 20, 1881, pp. 313, 314.--                            1860, pp. 217-242.-- Chambers's
                                                          Journal, vol. 12, 1860, pp. 388-
Athenaeum, Oct. 15, 1881, pp.                             391. -- London Review, vol. 14,

499, 500-- Saturday Review, vol.                          pp. 281-308.-- American Presby

52, 1881, pp. 578, 579.                                   etetcr.ia--n   Review, vol. 20, pp. 349,
                                                                        Macmillan's Magazine, by
On His Travels.                         Penn
Monthly, by R. E. Thompson,
volO. n2,O1rc8h7i1d,s.p--p.                               pHpe. nr8y1-9F2a.wc--ettE, dinvbolu. rg3h,  1860,
                              562-572.                                                                 New
                             Weldon's                     Philosophical Journal, vol. 2,
               W. B.                    Regis
ter,   by                    39.T--egePtompeuilearr,      N.S., 1860, pp. 280-289.--
1862,     pp.      38,                                    Revue des Deux Mondes, by A.
Science Review, vol. 1, N.S.,
1877, pp. 174-180.-- Edinburgh                            L6a71u.g--el,Chtorirsnt.ian26,  1860, pp.   644-
New Philosophical Magazine,                                                               Observer,   vol.
vol. 16, N.S., 1862, pp. 277-
285.-- Das Ausland, No. 29                                60, 1860, pp. 561-574.-- Cana
                                                          dian Journal, vol. 5, N.S., pp.
                                                          367, etc. -- Canadian Journal, by
1862, pp. 681-685.-- Das Aus                              W.    Heitncc. k--s,Amveorli.can8,  N.S., pp.
                                                                                              Journal of
land, No. 13, 1865, pp. 294-297,                          390,

and No.    14,  pSpp. ec3i1e9s.-3--22S. aturday           Science, vol. 80, by                F--. BNoworetnh,
   Origin                                                 1860, pp. 226-239.
Review,     of
776. --   vol. 8, 1859, pp.             775,              American Review, vol. 90, 1860,
         Athenaeum, Nov.                  19,                                  -- Register of         Liter
                                                          pp. 474-       506.                         1-7. --
1859, pp. 659, 660.-- Quarterly                           ature,        Aug.     1860, pp.
Review, by S. Wilberforce, vol.
Ill,108, 1860, pp. 225-264.-- Edin                        Das Ausland, No. 5, 1860,
                                                          pp. 97-101, 135-140; No. 4,
burgh Review, vol.           1860, pp.
                                                          i\1S67, pp. 73-8 No. 3, 1870,
                                     BIBLIOGRAPHY.                                                                   xxvii

   Darwin, Charles Robert.                                                          Darwin, Charles Robert,

   pp. 59-62. -- Revue Germanique,                                                      vol. 7, 3rd Ser., 1885, pp. 441-
   by E. Claperede, torn. 16, 1861,                                                     458.

   pp. 523-559, and torn. 17, pp.                                                               Criticisms on the Origin
   232-263.-- Proceedings of the                                                        of Species. Natural History
   Literary and Philosophical                                                           Review, by T. H. Huxley, vol.
   Society of Liverpool, by H. H.
   Higgins, No. 15, 1861, pp. 42-                                                       4, 1864, pp. 566-580 ; reprinted
   49, and pp. 135-140.-- Methodist                                                     in Lay Sermons, 1870.

   Quarterly Review, by W. C.                                                           Origin  Coming of    Age of   the
   Wilson, vol. 43, 1861, pp. 605-                                                              of Species.  Nature,  by
                                                                                        T. H. Huxley, vol. 22, 1880,
   627. -American Quarterly Church
   Review, vol.                                                                         pp. 1-4 ; same article, Popular
   198. -- Revue       17, 1865,     pp. 169-                                           Science Monthly, vol. 17, 1880,
                       des Deux      Mondes,
                                                                                        pp. 337-344.
   by George Pouchet, torn. 85,
   1870, pp. 691-703.-- Revue des                                                          Philosophy of Language.
   Deux Mondes, by A. de Quatre-                                                        Fraser's Magazine, by Professor
   fages; vol. 78, 1868, pp. 832-                                                       Max Miiller, vol. 7, N.S., 1873,

   860, Les Precurseurs Francais                                                        pp. 525-541 and 659- 678, and
   de Darwin ; vol.                                                                     vol. 8, N.S., pp. 1-24 ; same
   240, La Thiorie     79,           Dpap.rw2i0n8-;                                     article, Eclectic Magazine, vol.
                       de                                                               18, N.S., pp. 75-88, 148-163,
   vol. 80, pp. 64-95 and 397-452,
   Discussion des Theories Trans-                                                       and 257-275.
                                                                                                Max Miiller on. Pro
   formistes; vol. 80, pp. 638-672,                                                     ceedings of Literary and Philo
    Theories de la Transformation                                                       sophical Society of Liverpool,
   pdtireoongrVebhsrosumivsqemuee.et--; deOFrloiagritnTnerigahnStismlfyoiermnRneae      No. 27, 1873, pp. xli-liii.
   view, by G. H. Lewes, vol. 9,                                                    --  --Phrenological Delineation   of.

                                                                                        Phrenological Magazine, with
                                                                                    portrait, vol. 1, 1880, pp. 89-92.
   1868, pp. 353-373, and 611-628.
   --Nation, by B. G. Wilder, vol.                                                     Power of Movement in Plants.
                                                                                    pSpa.tu5r7d,ay58.R--evEiedwin, bvuorlg. h51R,ev1i8e8w1,,
   12, 1871, pp. 199-201.-- Month,
   by   A7.1-W10e1l.d,--vMool.nt4h, lyN.SR.e,lig1i8o7u1s,                           vol. 153, 1881, pp. 497-514.--
   pp.
                                                                                        Academy, by George Henslow,
   --MaNgaatzuinree,,  vol. 50, pp.
                       by A. W.      496, etc.                                      vol. 19, 1881, pp. 120-122.--
                                     Bennett,                                       Athenaeum, Dec. 18, 1880, pp.
   vol. 5, 1872, pp. 318, 319.                                                      817, 818.-- Journal of Botany,

:          Agassiz Views of the                                                     vol. 10, 1881, pp. 375-381.--
           of Species. Proceedings
   Origin                                                                           Nation, by Asa Gray, Jan. 6 and
                                                                                    13, 1876 ; reprinted in Darwin-
   of Literary and Philosophical                                                    iana, by Asa Gray, 1876. --
   Society of Liverpool, by C. Col-                                                 Dial, by David S. Jordan, vol.
   lingwood, No. 15, 1861, pp.
   81-99.                                                                           1, 1881, pp. 255-257.

            A          Characterisation of                                              Reminiscence of.     Harper's
                       of Species. Journal                                          New Monthly Magazine (por
   the Origin          by Oswald Dawson,                                            trait), by James D. Hague, vol.
   of Science,
                                                                                    69, 1884, pp. 759-763.
xxviii                    BIBLIOGRAPHY.

Darwin, Charles Robert.                                 Darwin, Charles Robert.
                                                        635.-- Student and Intellectual
ReSvtieuwdi,esbyin.J.     American Church               Observer, voL 1, 1868, pp. 179-
                          F. Garrison, vol,             188. -- Proceedings of the Bristol
                                                        Naturalists' Society, by Charles
27,    1875, pp.          197-218.     Nether           Jecks, vol. 3, N.S., pp, 107-113.
     Testimonial
                           to, in the                   --American Quarterly Church
lands. American Naturalist,

vol. 11, 1877, pp. 295-300.                             R53e6v.ie--w,   vol.  21, 1870,         pp. 524-
                                                                       Das     Ausland,          by M.
   Theories of. Dial, by A. L.                          Wagner, 1871, pp. 289-293,
Chapin, vol. 3, 1882, pp. 168, 169.
   Theory of Instinct.                   Nine
teenth Century, by                     G. F.            322 327, 343-347, 535-540, 559-
                                                        564, 865-870, 891-894, 913-918,
Romanes, vol. 16, 1884, pp.
                                                        946-948, 1057-1061, 1081-1085.
434-450.
    Works of. Westminster Re                            --Bibliotheca Sacra, by F.
                                                        Gardiner, vol. 29, 1872, pp.
view, N.S., vol. 62, 1882, pp.                          240- 289.-- Transatlantic, vol. 1,
                                                        1872, pp. 139-146.-- Catholic
    85-121.               Eden. -- Overland             World, by F. Smith, vol, 17,

Darwinian
Monthly, by M. G. Upton,
                          pp. 159-166.--                1873, pp. 641-655.-- Southern
   vol. 7,   1Id8e7a1,--  Every Saturday,               Review, vol. 12, 1873, pp. 406-
Darwinian                                               423.-- Old and New, by George
Davrowl.in1is0m, p. p--.
                           414, etc.  Examiner,         M. Kellogg, vol. 8, 1873, pp.
                                                        283- 292.-- Baptist Quarterly, by
                          Christian                     E. Nisbet, vol. 7, 1873, pp. 69-
by J. A. Lowell, vol. 68, 1860,
pp. 449-464.-- Dublin Review,
vol. 48, 1860, pp. 50-81.--                             87, and 204-227.-- Congrega
Unitarian Review,         by W. H.                      tional Review, by S. Adams,
Furness, vol. 5, p.                          --                        pp. 233, etc., 338,      etc.
Unitarian Review,         291,         etc,             vol. 11,       Englander, by L.
                           by                J.         -- New                                    T.
                                       L.
                                                        Adams, vol. 33, 1874, pp. 741-
Livermore, vol. 3, p. 237, etc.                         769.-- Old and New, by G.
-- Morgenblatt,
                          1862,       bypp.M.1-6J.,     J.Axford, vol. 6, pp. 655- 663.--       B.
31-36.-- Unsere           Zeit,                         Scribner's Monthly, by

Schleiden, Jahr. 5, pp. 50-71,                          Drury, vol. 10, 1875, pp. 348-
and 258-277.-- Eclectic Review,
v--olG. a4ze, ttNe.S.      1863, pp. 337-345,           360. --Tiusleys' Magazine, by W.
                          Hebdomadaire de               5H1.5-P5e2n3n--ingB, iblviootl.he1c9a,  1876, pp.
Medecine et de Chirurgie, by                                                                    Sacra, by

Dr. Fee 1864, pp. 289-292, 321-                         b4pGyp9. .6J-.F56.15B16.aW---6yr9niA4egt,.h--latv,noCtla.ivctoh2lMo.6l,ioc3n138t,h7W8ly1,o8,rp7lbd6py,,.

323, 337-342, 353-357, 409-413,

427-432,481-484.-- Ergiinzungs-

blatterzur Kenntniss der Gegen-                                                             46, 1880, pp.
                                                                                            by George
                                                        J.William

                                                        441-459.
J.wart, Bd. 1, 1866, by G. Jaeger,                                     --JamNeastu.vroel,.

pp. 291-294 ; Bd. 4, 1869, by                           Romanes, Feb, 1887, pp. 362-
        Aptpla. n6t0ic7-M61o5n,6th7l0y-,67b8y,C7.2J8.-
Huber,                                                  364.
739.--                                                     Analogies with Calvinism.
Sprague, vol. 18, 1866, pp. 415-
425. -- New Englander, by W.                            Bibliotheca Sacra, by Geo. F.
N. Rice, vol. 26, 1867, pp. 603-                        Wright, vol. 37, 1880, pp. 48-76.
                          BI-BLIOGRAPHY.                                             xxix

Darwin, Charles Robert.                   Darwin, Charles Robert.

   and Agassiz. Popular Science           51 ; same article, Eclectic Maga
                                          zine, vol. 14, N.S., 1871, pp. 25-
Monthly, by John Fiske, vol, 3,           31, and Littell's Living Age,

1873, pp. 692-705.                        vol. 109, 1871, pp. 621-626.
   and Chemistry. Christian
                                             and Schopenhauer. Journal of
Science Magazine, by A. Taylor,           Anthropology, by Dr. D. Asher,
April 1887.                               Jan. 1871, pp. 312-332.
 and Christianity. Lakeside
   Monthly, by E. 0. Haven, vol.            An Exegesis of, by Oswald

   7, 1872, pp. 302-313. -Baptist         Dawson. Journal of Science,
                                          vol. 6, 3rd series, 1884, pp. 725-
    Magazine, vol. 74, 1882, pp.

245-253.                                  738.
                                          Application of, to Flowers and
   Man in, and in Christianity.

American Church Review, vol.              the Insects which visit them.

24, 1872, pp. 288-299.                    American Naturalist, by E.
                                          Muller, vol. 5, 1871, pp. 271-
   and Design, St. Clair on.
Dublin Review, vol. 23, N.S.,             297.

1874, pp. 232-240.                           Attitude of Working Natural
                                          ists towards. Nation, by Asa
   and Divinity. Fraser's Maga
zine, by Leslie Stephen, vol.             Gray, vol. 17, 1873, pp. 258-
5, N.S., 1872, pp. 409-421 ;              261 ; reprinted in Darwiniana,
same article, Popular Science             by Asa Gray, 1876.
Monthly, vol 1, 1872, pp. 188-            Bateman on. Dublin Review,
                                                --31N, atNio.nS,.,
202.                                      J.vol.                                     139-
                                                                                     vol.
                                          152.
   and its  EfJfoeuctrs,  upon Religious                              1878.     pp.
Thought.                   of the Trans,                            by       Fiske,

                                          27, 1878, pp. 367, 368.
of the Victoria Institute, by C.             Credibility   of. Jour, of the
R. Bree, vol. 7, 1874, pp. 253-           Trans, of the   Victoria Institute,

570.                                      by Geo. Warington, vol. 2,

-- Discussion on preceding,               1867, pp. 39-62.

    pp. 270-285.                                        Reply to preceding
. and Language. North Ameri               Paper, by James Reddie, vol. 2,

   can Review, by W. D. Whitney,          1867, pp. 63-85.
vol. 119, 1874, pp. 61-88.--                    Discussion on same,
Das Ausland, No. 17, 1864, pp.
                                          pp. 85-125.
397-399.
                                             Dangers of. Popular Science
   and Language, Schleicher on.           Monthly, vol. 15, 1879, pp.
Nature, by Max Miiller, vol. 1,
                                          68-71.
    1870, pp. 256-259     Canadian
. and Morality.                              Deduction from. Nature, by
Monthly, by John Watson, vol.             W. Stanley Jevons, vol. 1, 1870,

10, 1876, pp. 319-326.--                  pp. 231, 232.
                                             Development Theory in. Das

Spectator, 1867, pp. 1255, 1256.          Ausland, No. 14, 1863, pp. 825-
   and National Life. Nature,
                                          331.
vol. 1, 1869, pp. 183, 184.
                                          Difficulties of.                   Quarterly
                                          Journal of Science, vol. 12,
and Meligion. Macmillan's

Magazine, vol. 24, 1871, pp. 45-          1875, pp. 322-336.
XXX BIBLIOGRAPHY.

Darwin, Charles Robert.                             Darwin, Charles Robert.
                                                          Last Attack on. Nature, by
--    -Ethical  AbsypecJt.    of. Canadian
    Monthly,                   Watson, vol.            A. R. Wallace, vol. 6, 1872,
                                                       pp. 237-239.
    11, 1878, pp. 638- 644.
                                                           Latest Development of. Lon
      Fallacies of, Dr. Bree on.                       don Quarterly Review, vol. 57,
    Dublin Review, vol. 23, N.S.,
                                                        1882, pp. 371-391.
    1874, pp. 240-246.-- Nature, by
    Alfred R. Wallace, vol. 5, 1872,                       Missing Links in. Gentle
                                                        man's Magazine, by Andrew
    pp. 237-239.                                        Wilson, 1879, pp. 298-320.

    Fiske on. Nature, vol. 20,                             Mivart on. Dublin Review,
                                                       vol. 16, N.S., 1871, pp, 482-
    1879, pp. 575, 576.
                                                         486.
      J.Frolic in Space. Lakeside,
                                                           My Cousin the Gorilla. Tins-
    by M. Biuckley, vol. 8, pp.
    446, etc.
                              Nation,               ley's Magazine, vol. 8, 1871, pp.
       Gray's Darwiniana.     vol. 23,              395-399, and vol, 9, pp. 135-
    by H. W. Holland,
                                                    140.    York   "Nation"                   on, in
    1876, pp. 358, 359.                                New
                                                                   Popular Science
       Great Difficulty of. Nature,                 Germany.
    by L. S. Beale, vol. 5, 1872,                   Monthly, vol. 8, 1876, pp. 235-

    pp. 63, 64.                                     240.
       Hacckel's Reply to Virchow.                     Relation of, to other branches
    Nation, by H. T. Finck, vol.                                                              Maga
                                                    ozifne,ScbieyncRe.obeLrot nSg.mBane'lsl,  vol. 3,
    28, 1879, pp. 320-322.
    Historic Development                            1884, pp. 76-92.
                              of.
    Baptist Quarterly, by G. W.                        Ridiculous. Lutheran Quar
    Samson, vol. 11, 1877, pp. 29-                  terly, by W. Streissguth, vol. 5,

    38.                                             J.pp. 404, etc.        University

       Infallibility in. Dublin                        Science against.
    University Magazine, vol. 5,                    Quarterly, by Moore, vol. 35,

    N.S., 1880, pp. 641-669.                        pp. 186, etc.
    in Germany. North American                      Some Popular Misconceptions
                                                                   of the Literar y and
    Review, by C. L. Brace, vol.                    of. Proc.      of Liverpool, by S.
    110, 1870, pp. 284-299.-- Nation,               Phil. Soc.
                                                    Fletcher- Williams, No. 36,
    by   C.168W1r7ig0h. --t,   vol. 21, 1875,
    pp.                       Anthropological       1882, pp. 133-156.

    Review, vol. 6, 1868, pp. 21-26.                   Strictures on. Anthropologi-
         in Morals.           Canadian              caljournal, by H. H. Howorth,
    Monthly, by J. A. Allen, vol.                   vol. 2, 1873, pp. 21-40; vol. 3,
                                                    pp. 208-229 ; vol. 4, pp. 101-
    11, 1878, pp. 490-501.-- Theo
    logical Review, by F. P. Cobbe,
                                                    121.                   American Church
    vol. 8, 1871, pp. 167-192.                                              F. Garrison, vol.
                                                    ReSvtieuwdi,esbyin.J.
       Its Value as a Cosmological
                thCeapReevM. oJn.thTlyurnMbauglal,  27, 1875, pp. 197-218.
    Theory.                                                        recent researches in
    zine, by                                            tested by  Jour, of the Trans.
    vol. 11, N.S. 1875, pp. 184-188                 language.
                                                    of the Victoria Institute, by
    and 212-225.
                         BIBLIOGRAPHY,                                  xxxi

Darwin, Charles Robert.               Darwin, Charles Robert.

Fred. Bateman, vol. 7, 1874,             1877, pp. 244-251, and 392-
pp. 73-95.                               399 ; vol. 12, pp. 138-145 ; vol.
                                          13, pp. 139-150.
      Theological Import    73,  of.
Christian Observer, vol,          p.         versus Philosophy. Southern
623, etc.                                Review, vol. 13, 1873, pp. 253-
                                         273.
    Triumph  oJf..  North American
Review, by          Fiske, vol. 124,         What is? Nation, by A.
                                         Gray, vol. 18, 1874, pp. 348-
1877, pp. 90-106.                       351 ; reprinted in Darwiniana,
    True and False in. Journal           by Asa Gray, 1876.
of  Speculative Philosophy,
E.   von Hartmann, vol.      by

                             11,

           IV.-- CHRONOLOGICAL LIST OF WORKS.

Journal of Researches    . 1839       Movements and Habits of

Structure and Distribution            Climbing Plants .       .         1865
   of Coral Reefs . . 1842
                                      The Variation of Animals          1868
Geological Observations on               and Plants under Do            1871
                                      mestication .                     1872
the Volcanic Islands                                     .           .  1875
                                      The Descent of Man .
visited during the Voyage             The Expression of             .   1876
of H.M.S. Beagle .
                         .   1844                             the       1877
                                      Emotions . . .                    1880
Geological Observations on
    South America . . 1846            Insectivorous Plants .  .         1881
                                      The Effects of Cross and
Monograph on the Fossil               Self-Fertilisation in the

Lepadidae . . . 1851                  Vegetable King lorn     .

Monograph of the Cir-                 The Different Forms of

ripedia .    . . 1851-54              Flowers on Plants of the
Monograph of the Fossil
                                      same Species     ..
                                      The Power of Movement in
Balanidae    ..          . 1854
On the Origin of Species . 1859
On the Various Contriv                Plants .      .         .

ances by which Orchids                The Formation of Vege
                                      table Mould through the
are fertilised . . . 1862             Action of Worms .
                                                              .
i

i
TLe Canterbury Poel5.

In SHILLING Monthly                     Volumes,          Square 8vo.      Well printed  on fine
                                        Border,          and strongly  bound in Cloth.     Each
toned paper, with Red-line
bRHVyiooclghuWbmmeeoinlnl,cidao,nAmt.aEinJr.sSnhefSrasoyrtmpmR,i3nh0gyM0stoa,tontPh,e3i3Jrloc0dsyeepapEsBhs.elsin.PSdikn,ipWksWeietrhyta,olItnneE,trrvoaMduLrcesHtw.oorpiynGe,,aNrJdoJooteihhcnenn,s
JRDM.oeadRaceeknniadCy,,aNMrorrEeisn.lr,gicFtJor.enSiA,.lidgDdRrriao.ntbgJh.etroBtnKsroarondSe,syhkmaeWowrn,,idlsJliF.,arLmeGod.geWieTriiicrRlkeloibsbuCecCortkoospo,oeknerS,,, tMHuE.oaArnri.ct,.
                       Samuel Waddington, etc., etc.

Cloth, Red Edges                     -  Is.              Red Roan, Gilt Edges 2s. 6d.
                                        Is.              Silk Plush, Gilt Edges 4s. 6d.
Cloth, Uncut Edges -

        THE FOLLOWim VOLUMES ARE SOW READY.
CHRISTIAN YEAR.
COLERIDGE. By Rev. John Eeble.                           SONNETS EodfitethdisbyCWEaNlteTrULRewYin..
LONGFELELdOiteWd .by Joseph Skipsey.                     WHITMANE.dited by William Sharp.
                                                                       LMaaEdrdymiteoiodfntbh,yeeEtrLcna.ekset ,Eheytsc..
                        Edited by Eva Hope.              SCOTT.
                                                         SCOTT.
SHELLEY. Edited by J. Hogben.                            PRAED. Edited by William Sharp.
WORDSWEEddOitietReddTbHbyy.AJ.osJ.epShymSiknipgstoeny..          Edited by Fredejiek Cooper.
                                                         HOGG.
                                                         GOLDBSy MhisITDHaughter. Mrs. Garden.
WHITTIEERd.ited by Joseph Skipsey.                                     William TirOebFuckA.

                                                                         By Eric Mackay.
FOE.    Edited by Eva Hope.                              LETTERSLOVEEdited by

CHATTERETdiOteNd .by   Joseph Skipsey.                   SPEVNIOSLEIRN.IST.
                       John Richmond.                    CHILDREEdiNtedObFy HToHn. ERoPdOenETNoSe.l.
BURNS.  Edited by
BURNS.   PSooenmgss..                                    BBTYHERNEOSJNOOENdN(iE2StENdeOdVidEtieNtoTebdl.Sysd.bE)byryOiMcJF.aStA.hE.RiUlodSbyeSmeOrBotnslPidonisndi....
MARLOWEEd.ited by Joseph Skipsey.
BEATS. Edited by       P.  E. Pinkerton.
HERBERTE.dited         by  John Hogben.                  ASYLLDANNEEdYitReEdADdiMtObeySdBJA.EbyYLLo.LSg..ieWaRdodbienrgttsooun..

VICTOR     Edited by Ernest Rhys.
        HUGO.
COWTFraEnsRla.ted by Dean Carrington.
SHSAoKnEgSs,PPEoAeRmEEdsi:,teadnbdy     Eva Hope.        BPHOEEAIPNUEE.M. ONEETddEiidtt&eeitddeBFdybbLyybJEy.JMoTrMhSsC.r.nsHF.KHlreDEootoegcRbhkbeeeerlrnl....
                                        Sonnets.
        Edited by William Sharp.

London : WALTER SCOTT, 24 Warwick Lane, Paternoster Row.
THE CAMELOT SERIES,

VOLUMES ALREADY ISSUED.

ROMANCE OF KING ARTHUR.

                                                       Edited by Ernest Rhys.

WALDBN.                                          Edited by Will H. Dircks.
CONFESSIONS
                           OF AN ENGLISH OPIUM-
    EATER
                                                      Edited by William Sharp.

IMAGINARY CONVERSATIONS.

                                                       Edited by Havelock Ellis.

PLUTARCH'S LIVES.                                      Edited by B. J. Snell, M.A.
SIR THOMAS BROWNE'S RELIGIO MEDICI, etc.

                                           Edited by J. Addington Symonds.

SHELLEY'S ESSAYS AND LETTERS.

                                                       Edited by Emest Rhys.

PROSE WRITINGS OF SWIFT.
                                                                   Edited by W. Lewin.

MY STUDY WINDOWS.

                                       Edited by Richard Garnett, LL.D.
GREAT ENGLISH PAINTERS.
                                                       Edited by William Sharp.

LORD BYRON'S LETTERS.                                  Edited by M. Blind.

ESSAYS BY LEIGH HUNT.                                  Edited by A. Symons.

LONGFELLOWS PROSE WORKS.
                                                       Edited by William Tirebuck.

GREAT MUSICAL COMPOSERS.

                                               Edited by Mrs. William Sharp.

MARCUS AURELIUS.                                       Edited by Alice Zimmern.
SPECIMEN DAYS IN AMERICA. By Walt Whitman.

The Series is issued in two styles of Binding -- Red Cloth,
CStuytle,EdPgreicse;  and  SDhairlklinBglu. e  Cloth,  Uncut Edges.  Either

                      One
        MONTHLY SHILLING VOLUMES.

GREAT WRITERS.

    A New Series of Critical Biographies.
        Edited by Professor Eric S. Robertson.

                    ALREADY ISSUED--

LIFE OP LONGFELLOW. By Professor ERIC S.
         ROBERTSON.

LIFE OF COLERIDGE. HALLa t""rTaNnhoselabtseottortreyar roleiffeetxhocefeLlploeonnegtt.'f"se--llliofSweaitsuhrwadsaeylbleteRoneldv.pieuw.b.l.is.heTdh."e--reGmlaasrgkoswonHeLroanldg.fellow as
                                               By CAINE.
    "ItThe Scotsman says--
tshpeirivtaaluned  great   literary  skill.  is a capital book.  ..   . Written throughout with
                   of the  work.              The bibliography        unusually full, and adds to
                                                                  is

"ItbiteisoTTvnhehoerelsoAmoBckiaraemldldeipnmbrgayyhisaasemnayytsos--DtsuaadyielytnhtiasPotogfsirttCaciosselaefwyursioldl--yrgthe"a.yT"nhdoefstybhmeopomkatehismetaoicrgyarlelwyahtiwcghraiitntite, nea,nnsd.hr.cina.enasn.no"dt
LIFE OF DICKENS." An interesting
                                           By FRANK T. MARZIALS.

                           and well-written biography." --Scotsman.
LIFE OP DANTE GABRIEL ROSSETTI. By
LIFEJOOSFEPSHAKMNIUGEHLT JOHNSON. By Col. F. GRANT.

LIFE Ready May 2$th.

        OF DARWIN. By G. T. BETTANY.

                            To be followed on June 2$tA by

CHARLOTTE BRONTE. By AUGUSTINE BIRRELL.

Volumes    Hinaldpraenpaer,atioMn.P.b,y      Austin   Dobson, Richard Garnett,
R. B.                                        William    Rossetti, William Sharp,

                                             James Sime, etc.

    LIBRARY EDITION OF " GREAT WRITERS."
      An   Issue of all the          Volumes    in  this Series will be published, printed
on  large  paper of extra            quality,  in   handsome binding, Demy 8vo, price

2s. 6d. per volume.

    London : Walter Scott, 24 Warwick Lane, Paternoster Row.
 Zbc Canterbury Jpoets.

     Cloth, Red Edges, is. ; Red Roan, Gill Edges, 2s. 6d.

      LEAVES OF GRASS.

         THE POEMS

                                                  OF

WALT WHITMAN

                          [SELECTED]

                  WITH INTRODUCTION

      By ERNEST RHYS.

London : Walter Scott, 24 Warwick Lane, Paternoster Row.
          READY EARLY IN MAY.

                      Crown 8uo, Price 4s. 6d.

For

    A Song's

                     Sake

         AND OTHER STORIES.

                                           By

 THE LATE PHILIP BOURKE MARSTON.

            WITH A MEMOIR BY WILLIAM SHARP.

London : Walter Scott, 24 Warwick Lane, Paternoster Row.
                   Just Published, Price 6s., Crown Svo.

GLADYS THE SINGER,

    By MACKAT,EEIOAND OTHER POEMS.

                           Author of " Love Letters of a Violinist."

              London : Reeves and Turner, 196 Strand.

                                  CONTENTS :

Gladys the Singer :                                         The Nightingales.
    Canto L                                                 Medusa's Hair.
    Canto II.                                               The King's Rest.
                                                            Vox Amoris.
A Choral Ode to Liberty.

" Modern erotic poets should take example by Eric Mackay ; then might
they learn that, by the true poetic soul, human passion may be so treated
as to  elevate it to  --puTrheeanGdrapsphiirci.tual  force  instead  of being degraded                                                                            into
mere   animalism."
"Reward him with the daintiest little book in all the world, 'Love
aLev"teterTyrhseecophfroealtuoVdieothlietnoissetta,h'tiswanlhoevereex-qpLouoeisvmietelyiysietglhdorsto-unupesdv.a"o--lturmuTelryutoehfx. qpuoiseimtes  which gives
                                                                                                                                                       idea of the
nobler feelings aroused in man's nature by woman's sanctifying influence
and enduring love. Seldom have we read a description of scenery so
replete with colour   and variety.       'Tthoe      poet's quick transition                                                                           from 'the
shuddering that the   twilight sends                 the subsequent joy and
arising in the birth  of another                                                                                                                       happiness
-- The Theatre.                    day,  is worthy our      heartiest  commendation."

"We find ourselves lifted at once by the author's genius out of the
work-a-day world of this England of to-day, and are transported into an
atmosphere as rare and ethereal as that in which the poet of Vaucluse
lived and   loved and   had his    bemineglo. dyT."h--is     modern Petrarch                                                                                told  bis
passion in  numbers of  exquisite                           The Morning Post.                                                                          has

Orders for " Gladys the Singer " should be given without delay, a

                                 large demand being expected.

CPaaCtneorptneioerssbteourfryB"LoPOwo,VeEtLso--nLdEmonTayT;EbaRenSdoabOltlaFiBnoeAodkVsoeIfOlleWLrsINailnItSetThre"--SUcinnoictteltu,dde2K4dinWgindaortwhmeic. kserLieasneo, f'
                        SEASON 1887.

    )Will be published early in May. Price (Cloth 3/6.

THOROUGHLY REVISED, NEW ILLUSTRATIONS, STEAMER TIME
                             TABLES, SKELETON TOURS.

THE LAND OF THE VIKINGS,

                           A POPULAR

Guide to Norway,

                     CONTAINING

Description of that Wonderful Country.
Constitution and Politics of Norway.
Hints to Tourists.

Railway and Steamboat Arrangements.

Popular Tourist Routes by Fjeld and Fjord.

Tables of Exchange.

Cost of Travelling in Norway.

Trips to the North Cape.

The Scenery of the Sogne, the Hardanger, the Hjorund, Norang,
      and other famous Arms of the Sea.

Fishing and Shooting.

Modes of Travel.

Rates of Charges for Horse and Carriole, etc.
Tourist Tracks to all Parts.

Tables of Distances from Station to Station.
A new feature of this
                          Season's   Guide will be a detailed list of
  over thirty different    Tours,   extending over five, twelve, and
   nineteen days.

Maps of the Principal Routes, and every other Information useful
to the Traveller.

London : Walter Scott, 24 Warwick Lane, Paternoster Row.
    NOW READY, CLOTH GILT, PRICE THREE SHILLINGS.

                 NEW VOLUME OF VERSE.

LAST YEAR'S LEAVES.

     By JOHN JERVIS BERESFORD, M.A.

                  OPINIONS OF THE PRESS.

    "These poems and sonnets make a handsome little volume. The
poet finds inspiration in many subjects, and the events, domestic and
public, which touch the springs of the nation's life." -- The Christian.

   "A collection of gracefully-written verse." -- Western Mail.
   " Instinct with true poetry." -- The Malvern Advertiser.
   " His descriptions of ' Elsie Venner ' and Shorthouse's lovely book,

' Sir Perceval,' are full of point and poetic beauty, which all readers
of those books will fully appreciate." -- The Carmarthen Journal.

  " ' The Legend of Myddfai,' and 'The Poet's Crown ' should live in

our literature."-- The Bayswater Chronicle.
   " We commend this little volume very heartily to all true lovers of

poetry and nature." --Malvern Looker-on.

  " The fruits of a Muso graceful, sober, playful, stately, tender, or

strong, according to the theme." -- The Sect JJragon.

  " Altogether, there is much merit and promise in this handsome

little volume. We shall hope to extend our acquaintance with Mr.
Beresford." -- Oxford Review.

London : WALTER SCOTT, 24 Warwick Lane, Paternoster Row.

