Charles Kingsley / by James J. Ellis.

Ellis, James J.
New York : Thomas Whittaker, [1890?]
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/njp.32101068153277

                                          Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                                          meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                                          free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                                          in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                                          heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                                          of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                                          copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                                          of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                                          need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                                          address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                                          produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                                          on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                                          the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                                          or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                                          educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.
·Princeton Jribrar^
      3% gift ai

       Wlllar-l Thorp.
1

      »

L
I

                                          \

                                                                   j
MEN WITH A M/SSrON.

Charles Kingsley.

              REV. JAMES J. ELLIS,
                                                      AUTHOR OF ' "

"HENRY MORTON STANLEV," t(JOHN WILLIAMS," "HARNESS FOR A PAIK,'
                                                       ETC. ETC.

'* 1 should advise a constant use of the biography of good men, their
inward feelings, prayers, &c."-- Dr. Arnold.

" Faith in the God Triune, the God-made man,

  Sole light wherein I walk, and walking burn ;

And they that walk with me, shall burn like me,

By faith."  -- Legends of St. Patrick.

            NEW YORK:

THOMAS WHITTAKER,

           2 & 3 Bible House.
MEN WITH A MISSION.

     New Series of Popular Biographies.

              Illustrated. Small Crown 8rn.
                   Price Fifty Cents each.

      HENRY MORTON STANLEY.
      CHARLES KINGSLEY.
      HUGH LATIMER.
      WILLIAM TYNDALE.
     JOHN HOWARD.

                   In Preparation.
      ABRAHAM LINCOLN.
      LORD LAWRENCE.
     DAVID LIVINGSTONE.

                PRINTED IN ENGLAND.
              PREFACE.

      Charles Kingsley was pre-eminently a man with

        a mission, and a mission that he discharged most

j efficiently. He was the prophet of the present life,
        and as such he endeavoured to show how near and

 J beautiful God is to those who will look for Him.

^ His was the teaching of the Psalmist : " The earth 

\ is full of the glory of the Lord : the earth is the
       Lord's, and the fulness thereof."
           And Kingsley endeavoured also to correct the
        monkish superstition which makes piety synony
       mous with asceticism. " Who ever heard of a fat
       saint ? " asked a recent speaker. The well-being
       of the soul has indeed been too often associated

4 with Jthe ill-being of the body, and many pursuits

        and pastimes have been branded too readily as sinful.

      Muscular Christianity will never be popular except

   ·J

       amongst muscular men ; but the healthier view that

      \

   «3 VVi
vi PREFACE.

prevails with regard to cricket and other sports is
largely to be attributed to Kingsley's influence.

    His influence upon the Christian Church was not
wholly good, but, taken altogether, it will, we think,
be found that Charles Kingsley was a man of God

who lived and laboured for men.

      Habbingai, London, N., July 189a
                    CONTENTS.

                    CHAPTER I.

LOST IN THE WILDERNESS ; OR, THROUGH
              THICKET AND TANGLE.
"--""MAKING PEOPLE STARE
                          HIS PALLOR IS HIS               PAGES

BEAUTY" -- A DREADFUL OBJECT-LESSON -- THE

MAN WHO DID MAKE MIST AKES-- COLD MUTTON

AND HERESY--INTO THE RANKS AT LAST .             . I -1 3

                    CHAPTER II.

THE WILD MAN OF THE WOODS; OR, ESAU ALSO
                              A BROTHER.

THE BEST FOR HIM-- WORKING WHILE WAITING-- A              14-20

 ....BROTHER, AND THEREFORE A HELPER--THE IRON

      THAT DEFLECTED THE NEEDLE-- A BIRTH AND
      HONOURS-- THE GOSPEL OF WORK-- CHILDREN OF

       GOD, AND THEREFORE SALVABLE
                    CHAPTER III.

BLAZING A PATH; OR, SHOWING TO OTHERS
                       THE WAY HOME.

FILLI--NG"   UP A   GAP WITH LEAVES--A CANDID    FRIEND
            ONLY A  BARKER "-- THOMAS COOPER--"  YEAST "

--BURNING THE CANDLE AT BOTH ENDS-- INVA

LIDED--AT WORK AGAIN                                      21-32
viii CONTENTS.

        CHAPTER IV.

THE MODERN CRUSADER; OR, THE VIKING OF A
                               NEW AGE.

                                                      PAGES

WORK ! WORK ! WORK !--ONE ENEMY AFTER ANOTHER

--MISUNDERSTOOD, AND THEREFORE HATED--THE

GOSPEL OF SOAP AND WATER--ASSAILED IN THE

HOUSE OF HIS FRIENDS-- EXHAUSTED, BUT NOT

BEATEN                                                33-40

                       CHAPTER V.
THE GOSPEL OF THIS LIFE; OR, THE APOSTLE

                      TO THE OUTCASTS.

... ...MAKING ALLOWANCES-- THE SACRED SABBATH-- CON
     STRAINED TO SPEAK-- "HYPATIA"-- NOT UPON
      THE FATHERS, BUT UPON CHRIST-- MORE LIGHT
BEYOND                                             .  41-48

        CHAPTER VI.

STRIFE ABROAD, BUT PEACE AT HOME.

THE CRIMEAN BLUNDERS AND SUFFERINGS-- TEACHING        49-58
      THE NEGLECTED-- WE ARE PENCILS-- AT HOME A
      KING-- MARRIAGE NOT FOR THIS LIFE ALONE .

        CHAPTER VII.

MISUNDERSTOOD; OR, DIFFERENT, AND THERE

        FORE WRONG.

CONVERTED BY FEAR-- SUFFERING FOR FAITHFULNESS        59-64
      --INDIAN MUTINY AND ITS HORRORS-- THE CHIL
      DREN IN DANGER-- PREACHING BEFORE PRINCES

 ....--THE INEQUALITIES OF LIFE
CONTENTS.                                          ix

CHAPTER VIII.

THE SOLDIER IN A BLACK COAT; OR, NO PEACE

                                  HERE.

                                                   PAGES

APPOINTED PROFESSOR-- DEATH OF HIS FATHER-- IS
      PRAYER OF ANY AVAIL ?-- WATCHED WITH RAT'S

EYES-- DEATH OF PRINCE ALBERT-- SCIENCE NOT

OPPOSED TO THE BIBLE                               6S"72

CHAPTER IX.

'GAINST POPES OF VARIOUS DEGREE.

"THRASH THEM WELL "--CONTROVERSY WITH NEW          73-8 1
      MAN--VISIT TO SPAIN-- THE TWO REVELATIONS--
      THE FRANCO-GERMAN WAR-- ATTACKED AGAIN .

                         CHAPTER X.

 APPRECIATED TOO LATE; OR, TRUE AFTER ALL.

CANON OF CHESTER-- TAKING ROOT ONCE MORE-- "ALL
      OVER BUT THE SHOUTING ! "--LAST WORDS-- INTO
     NEW AND HIGHER SERVICE . . , . .82-88

                      CHAPTER XI.

                DEAD, BUT YET SPEAKING.

HERO-WORSHIP-- GOOD IN THE WORST AND BAD IN
      THE BEST OF MEN-- KINGSLEY'S FAULTS OF DE
      FECT CHIEFLY-- HIS INFLUENCE LIKELY TO LAST 89-103
CHARLES KINGSLEY.

                    CHAPTER I.

LOST IN THE WILDERNESS ; OR, THROUGH

              THICKET AND TANGLE.

          " God had destined to do more
             Through him than through an armed power.
             God gave him reverence of laws,

          Yet stirring blood in freedom's cause,
           A spirit to the rocks akin,

             The eye of the hawk, and the fire therein."
                                                               -- Coleridge.

" MAKING PEOPLE STARE "-- " HIS PALLOR IS HIS BEAUTY "

      --A DREADFUL OBJECT-LESSON-- THE MAN WHO DID
      MAKE MISTAKES-- COLD MUTTON AND HERESY-- INTO
      THE RANKS AT LAST.

" There is in human nature," said Dr Johnson,
" a general inclination to make people stare, and

Ifevery wise man has to cure himself of and he
          it

                is
                                                                                            !

                                                              A it,
                                                                                                                                                  .
does cure himself.  you wish to make people

stare by doing better than others, why, make them

stare until they stare their eyes out But consider

how easy  to make people stare by being
2 MEN WITH A MISSION.

Iabsurd.  may do it by going into a drawing-

room without my shoes." Which witness is still true,

and the counsel is requisite even for this genera

tion ; nor is the liking for admiration which is the

secret of this longing to make others stare alto

gether wrong. For a man who does not regard the

opinions of others is wholly lost to good, and praise

and blame are signposts upon the right way of life.; is,

It therefore, no fault of the subject of this

sketch that he possessed in  very remarkable
                             a
degree this stare- compelling power of the better
                                   is
kind he was hated, resisted, excommunicated by

many, but Charles Kingsley could not be ignored.

For good or for evil, his influence still powerful

amongst us, and in his own way he certainly ful

filled mission which subserves the grand purpose
   a

of Christ. His magnificent mental accomplish

ments, his original gifts of thought and of expres

sion, mark him as unique man among the many
                it a

                     is a
                           is is

                                          a

                                                                is

                                                                                        a
great men of this age. Miss Jewsbury said of her

friend Jane Welsh Carlyle, that she could construct

a  story about broom-handle, and that, further,

she could render the narrative interesting. Which

faculty, while  largely feminine accomplish

ment and monopoly, to some extent an essential

for all effective teaching. For dulness  not

quality of truth, but rather the mixture of alloy

which an unskilful workman has blended with the

fine gold. Or, to change the figure, all real teach

ing like water, inviting, clear, and refreshingis
                 LOST IN THE WILDERNESS.          3

just in proportion as it is pure. It therefore,
        a
                  is

                           it
                                  it

                                                                 a
                                                                is,

                                                                       a

                                                                  it

                                                                                is a
mark of mental and spiritual poverty when our

testimony fails to attract. Charles Kingsley pos

sessed       diction which was undoubtedly        part of

his endowment, and enabled him to set his mes

sage to such music that became pleasant song

to those who heard it. While, strictly speaking,

the prophet distinct from his message, yet
also true that the peculiarities and excellences of

the lamp are the work of the Fountain of Light, and
are therefore to be considered as His gift. The

influence of Charles Kingsley upon the age can

only be estimated correctly when we understand

what he was in himself, for he in his excellences

was given to subserve the interests of the Gospel.

   It always needful in considering a life to bear

strongly in mind the important influence that
a                                                 is

         is
exerted upon character by things that are wholly

beyond human control and choice. Thus
                                      is          already

                                         it

                                              is
call from God to holiness when man born of pious
                                a
parents whose ambition
                                  it
                        it  is  that he should excel

them in Christian service, while      is  an additional

difficulty when strength must be exerted in removing

the dead weight of an evil training before ascending

the mountains. Both sets of conditions are arranged

by God, and of course with unerring wisdom.

   In the case of Charles Kingsley, he started in

life under highly favourable circumstances, for the

blood of line of soldiers mingled in his veins with
             aa
that of family that had been distinguished for
4 MEN WITH A MISSION.

travel and scientific attainments, while in his case .it

was also an advantage, probably, that he was born

in a parsonage. For, account for it how one may,
it is a fact that many sons of unknown ministers
have been famous and useful. In a parsonage,
therefore, upon the 12th of July 18 19, Charles
Kingsley was born. His father, the elder of that
name, had entered the Church at the age of thirty,
without relinquishing the tastes and habits of a
country gentleman of his time. At the time of his
son's birth, Charles Kingsley was curate in charge
at Holne, a village upon the verge of Dartmoor.

It goes without saying that the curate was no

ordinary man, for no genius is ever born of dull

parents, any more than peaches are yielded by a

stinging-nettle. In the case of Charles Kingsley,

junior, favourable circumstances developed and ex
hibited the talents that were hidden in his father,

just as a statue is admired when placed upon an
appropriate pedestal, although its merits had been
unnoticed in a village workshop. Prom his father,
Charles Kingsley the younger inherited a love for

manly sports, and a craving for arduous exertions
which were indeed requisite for an iron constitu
tion such as he possessed. From his father, too,

he inherited the seeing eye that so quickly detected
the beauties of nature, while the stories of peril and
of adventure that he heard from his maternal

grandfather inspired and strengthened his daring
spirit. Although all through his life Charles
             LOST IN THE WILDERNESS.             5

Kingsley felt an intense affection for the West

Country, his earliest years were spent in another

part of England. The child was only six weeks old
when his father removed to Barnack Rectory, in the

Fens, to which place he had been appointed as a

place-holder for the Bishop's son. There the boy

grew up amidst such surroundings as have now

departed for ever. Then the Pens were still

a distinct country, which was inhabited by a race
who were quite unlike other English folk ; but in

spite of its ague and other discomforts the great Pen

was even then very delightful and charming. No

where in the British Isles could such glorious sunsets

be seen, and during Kingsley's boyhood the Fen

abounded in      ga"mTeh, eanladndisncavpaerieptiaeisnteorf,"lifesatyhsatCoanre

now extinct.
stable, " must walk in the field with a humble

mind. No arrogant man was ever permitted to
                                     "
see  nature  in  all  her  beauty       and the same is true
                                   ;

of others as much as of artists. The boy's mind

was occupied from his infancy with the characters
of the alphabet by which God spells out His

wisdom, power, and love to men. Then Charles

Kingsley learned that while this world is imper

fect and stained, yet it is God's world still, and
may be made a vestibule of heaven. His father

took the boy abroad whenever he went shooting, and

the child's quick eye and sensitive nature thrilled

to the sights and sounds that are a manifestation oE

God to the devout heart.
6 MEN WITH A MISSION.

                                             " Nature all,
                   Wears to the lover's eye a look of love,
                   But to the wicked, lours
                   As with avenging thunder."

Charles Kingsley's mind came to maturity early,

and at the age of four years he began to preach,

and even to write poetry. Some of these childish

productions were secretly taken down by his mother,

who was assured by her friends that her boy would

certainly become no ordinary man.

But the Divine Wisdom, that moves and shifts

men so as to fulfil by them His gracious designs,

transferred Charles Kingsley at the age of eleven

years to the fair county of Devonshire. His father

in the year 1830 was appointed rector of Clovelly,
and there, with his wife, he found a most congenial

home.     Unlike  rLeomrdarkBeedactoonsafiepldain(toefr,wh"oRmemheismwbiefer
is said
         to have

that his pallor is his beauty"), Charles Kingsley,

senior, possessed the physical development and

. strength that the Devonshire fishermen could readily

appreciate and admire. There was certainly no

pallor whatever about him, and the fact that he

could match any of his flock at their own fishing

pursuits, was a bond between them and an advantage

which he wisely employed for their spiritual im

provement. They soon loved and obeyed him, as

only West Country folk can love, and for them

Charles Kingsley acquired a liking which was never

eradicated from his nature. Only for a few months,
LOST IN THE WILDERNESS.  7

however, was Charles Kingsley, junior, permitted
to enjoy the charms of Clovelly, and then he was
sent away from home to school at Clifton. The

charming Downs, the Nightingale Valley, the Staple-

ton Dell, and the many other beautiful surroundings
of Bristol were treasuries of natural history to him,
and, as all intelligent boys must in similar circum

stances, he became an ardent geologist, and searched
with delight the magnificent section of rock beneath
the Bridge. There every formation, from the Old
Bed Sandstone right up to the Carboniferous lime

stone, is exposed, and waiting to be studied.
    But a far more terrible lesson than any that the

rocks yielded was now appointed for his education,
for during Charles Kingsley's school-days at Clifton
the Bristol riots ensued. Owing to the timidity and
cowardice of the authorities, a furious mob wrecked

and destroyed the city unchecked, and the huge
cauldron of flaming ruin was a spectacle that the

boy never forgot. At that period all Europe was

agitated by volcanic forces that muttered below
the surface ; it was as well for Kingsley's future'
usefulness that he thus early learned to appreciate
the magnitude of the danger which threatened the
established order of things. His timid, shrinking
nature, morbidly sensitive as it had been, was

transformed at the revelation, and the boy felt a
new-born courage arise within him, which in after-
years enabled him to grapple with Chartism and
infidelity with success. From Clifton, Charles
8 MEN WITH A MISSION.

Kingsley was sent on to Helston, and there the
friendship and influence of one of his tutors deepened

and directed his love for nature. It is probably from

the want of the seeing eye that men malign and miss

the beauty of God's fair world, for it is true that --

              " This earth is cramra'd with heaven,
                And every common bush afire with God,
                Had we but eyes to see it."

Yet his courage was not small, as when, for example,
be applied a red-hot poker to a wounded finger,

and endured the torture without flinching. A per

haps less noticeable act was when he climbed a tree

in order to rob a hawk's nest. More than once this
was done with impunity, and when the bird avenged
itself upon the intruder's hand, without losing his
self-control Charles Kingsley calmly descended the
tree in order to have his wounds dressed.

   In the year 1836 a further stage in his pilgrim

age was reached, for then his father removed to

Chelsea, in London. Although not then what it
is now, Chelsea presented an utter and an unfavour
able contrast to Clovelly. Yet, here, for the first
time in his life, Charles Kingsley became acquainted
with the awful squalor and vice of our great cities.
He had during the two years of his residence hero
but few amusements, and he therefore found delight
in the poets, with the chief of whom he became
well acquainted. Probably no man ever became a
successful author without a knowledge of poetry,
LOST IN THE WILDERNESS.  9

which is that upon which other colours are deposited
in order to form the picture. Ruskin, in his dog
matic, conceited style, remarks of his own childhood,

" It was extremely unusual with me to make a
mistake at all," which, if ever true, is certainly not

so now. Kingsley was far too wise a man to ever
make such a claim. He, as all men do, make mis
takes, just as a child stumbles in its attempts to
walk and to gauge distances. Yet the child by

its very mistakes learns how to stand steadily upon
the earth and to move about upon it.

    During this period of transition from youth to

manhood Kingsley walked daily backwards and for
wards from his home to King's College, London, in

order to study. In the year 1838 he went up to

Cambridge. By sheer talent he acquired eminence
here ; for genius in his case compensated for his want
of previous application. But during this term of

study his mind was terribly distressed by religious
doubts ; a correct portrait of himself at this period
of his life is probably given in " Yeast." Although
it is not necessary for a man to verify the compass
every day, yet every man must learn for himself

the solid facts upon which our hopes of redemption

rest, and the process is often a terrible agony.

Ruskin, it is true, attributes the feet that he did

not become a clergyman to the disgust which he

conceived for evangelical religion, from the fact
that his doubtless much-tried aunt gave him cold
mutton instead of hot meat for dinner. Probably
10 MEN WITH A MISSION.

much so-called honest doubt is of the same un

reasonable nature. But with Charles Kingsley it

was not so ; he really desired to know the truth

and to be right with God, and this could not easily

be. An eccentric clergyman who once lived in the

West of England devoutly believed that a bucket

of cold water hurled over his children immediately

after they left their beds in the morning was highly

conducive to their health ; certainly mental and
spiritual health is promoted by the cold bath which

all must suffer. The shock which Kingsley at first

felt at the cold bath was terrible ; the faith which

he had received upon parental authority he now

longed to be able to rest upon solid fact, and the

dash of cold water was therefore an agony. Unable

to really rest upon the inviting promises and com

plete atonement of the Gospel, he endeavoured to

drown thought, and by excitement and the pursuit

of pleasure in sport to still the awful           cravings  for

satisfaction that stirred within him : --

                                    " Poor man !

Ashamed to ask, and yet he needed help 1

Proof this beyond all lingering of doubt
That not with natural or mental wealth
Is God delighted and His peace secured,
That not in natural or mental wealth

Is human happiness or grandeur found.

Attempt how monstrous and how surely vain !
With things of earthly sort, with aught but God,
With aught but moral excellence, truth, and love,
To satisfy and fill the immortal soul ! " 1

1 Pollock.
LOST IN THE WILDERNESS.                                          n

It was no wonder that Charles Kingsley so doubted

and suffered, for society at that time was in a con

dition of agitation and unrest. The Oxford Tracts

acted as powerful solvents upon many men, and

although Charles Kingsley was startled at their ten

dency, yet to some extent he was influenced by them

at the time. They were positive and earnest, and

therefore they were read, and in his case at least

they added another discordant element to the mental

chaos which at length yielded to the voice that com

manded light and order in the natural world.

Yet Charles Kingsley did not attain certainty by

the method that he anticipated, for very seldom does

any heart find rest by reasoning. He was brought
into loving contact with Christ in another life, and

although unsolved, his doubts ceased to perplex him.

In the year 1839 it fell out, in the providence of

God, that he met with a lady whom he loved at

first sight, and who afterwards became his wife.

His soul awoke under the sunshine of love, and this

lady's faith in God helped to fix his. In the agony

of his despair Charles Kingsley had almost resolved

to leave England and to emigrate to America, but

now a new meaning and force had come                       into  his

life :--

                 " It comes, the beautiful, the free,

                       The crown of all humanity,

                   In silence, and alone,

                       To seek the appointed one.

                 " O weary heart ! 0 slumbering eyes !

                         O drooping souls whose destinies
12 MEN WITH A MISSION.

Are fraught   with  faegaarinanI d"  pain,
Ye shall be  loved

    Gradually Charles Kingsley came to a knowledge
of Christ, and in His vicarious atonement his soul
found that for which it had craved so long. As a
consequence of his new hopes and resolutions, Charles
Kingsley resolved to enter the Church rather than

to go to the Bar, as he had once intended, and

in July 1 8^-2 he became curate at Eversley. This

hamlet, with which his name is historically asso
ciated, stands in the midst of a stretch of breezy
heathland, which is fragrant with the odour of fir
forests all the year round, and in summer is rich
in the golden bloom of the broom-plant.

    The people of this charming village had been

shamefully neglected by the preceding clergyman,

and as a natural consequence they were inclined

both to intemperance and poaching. Kingsley took

things as he found them, and endeavoured to adapt

himself to the conditions of the place. In this he

followed Dr. Johnson's advice, who, when a friend
complained to him that in the county where he

Ilived all men talked of nothing but of oxen, replied

-- " Then, sir, would talk of oxen also."

    Charles Kingsley first made himself a friend of
his people ; he talked of oxen to them, and as a
result he lived to see an immense improvement in

their habits and condition. The church at Eversley
in which he laboured for thirty-three years was
restored in the year 1876 at a cost of £1200 as a
LOST IN THE WILDERNESS.  13

memorial of Mm. It is described as being "a brick

edifice of no particular character, and the ruddy-
tiles of the high pitched roof have a singularly un-
ecclesiastical appearance. The nave and aisles are
of equal proportions, and they are divided by square
whitewashed pillars, with substantial arches between

them."

    Thus we see Charles Kingsley at last settled
down to his life-work ; the great proportions of
which he did not at the time at all foresee, but
which was precisely the very best form of service
that he could render, both for himself and for the

world.
                   CHAPTER II.

   THE WILD MAN OF THE WOODS; OR, ESAU
                      ALSO A BROTHER.

 " Patience and abnegation of self and devotion unto others,
   This was the lesson that a life of sorrow and trial had taught him ;
   So was his love diffused, but, like some odorous spices,
   Suffered no waste nor loss though filling the air with aroma."

                                                                  --Longfellow.

               " Those things should we regard with fear
                 Which bring misfortune on another's head."
                                                                        -- Dante.
                 " God can write straight in crooked lines."
                                                           -- POBTUGUESE PltOVERB.

THE BEST FOR HIM-- WORKING WHILE WAITING-- A BROTHER,
      AND THEREFORE A HELPER-- THE IRON THAT DEFLECTED
      THE NEEDLE --A BIRTH AND HONOURS--THE GOSPEL OF
     WORK --CHILDREN OF GOD, AND THEREFORE SALVABLE.

" There is some one state of character and plan of
action," said John Foster, " which is the very best

for me, when all the circumstances of my age,
measure of mental abilities, and the means within
my reach are considered." This is certainly true of
every man, and therefore only when he is himself,
and attempts to perform his own peculiar work, is a
man as useful as he may be. Then is he seen at

                                                        *4
THE WILD MAN OF THE WOODS.                                        15

his best, like a sailor at sea, and then his own

peculiar faculties are able to exert their full force.

Charles Kingsley was at his best at Eversley, and

from no other district could he, probably, have

exerted so large an influence upon the mind and

life of his time.

    Dean Stanley, in  his funeral sermon on Charles
Kingsley, said that   " he was far beyond what falls

to the lot of most, alive in every pore to the beauty,
the marvels of nature ; " and to every sense the
teachings of the outdoor gospel were directed in

his country charge. His sporting instincts and his

love for soldiers enabled him to win the confidence

of both classes, who admired his English directness

and common-sense. His soldierly daring and devo

it

                            ;

                                         it,

                                                               a
tion to duty as he knew impelled him to make

efforts for the mental and spiritual improvement

of classes who are generally regarded as somewhat
outside the Church of Christ. His mind, too, was

of an eagle-type, and swooped directly upon what

   aimed at for Kingsley was not man to hesitate

or to delay. In him there was very little of the

amusing folly of which General Grant speaks in                    aa

his memoirs. An officer in the Federal army once
held two posts, and in one capacity he made

requisition upon himself in another capacity. This

requisition he resisted, urged, and again refused,

and so he continued waging a wordy war of argu

ment with himself, thus wasting both his time and

strength. To man like Kingsley such folly was
a
 1 6 MEN WITH A MISSION.

moral impossibility ; he first made up his mind as to
what was his duty, and then he attempted to do it.

     But not without suffering, for indeed no good
thing is ever accomplished in this world without
pain and anguish. Solomon tells us that it is good
for a man that he bear the yoke in his youth, and
experience proves that by the drilling and discipline
of defeat men learn how to conquer. To Kingsley
the pain of doubt gave place to a severer pang, for
during twelve months he was separated from the
lady to whom he had given his heart's love. He
was loyal to his troth, however, and he humbly
accepted the tribulation as intended for his own
good, as it certainly was. He was also far too wise
a man to waste hi3 time in vain regrets; he there
fore worked diligently at Eversley, waiting until the
cloud should lift, as lift it eventually did. Mathews
tells us of a biography that he had seen in MS.
which filled three handsomely bound volumes. They
related the memorabilia of a life of nearly forty years,
and they were mainly occupied with such items as
coach-fare and the cost and items of the dinners

that had been consumed during that period ! Such
existence is fearfully common ; the biographies of
such men would be like that of a cabbage or of a
rabbit, a mere consuming of the product of other
lives without rendering any adequate return.

    Charles Kingsley, however, was pre-eminently a
worker, and his first care was about the country
labourers and farmers among whom his lot was cast.
THE WILD MAN OF THE WOODS.  17

Probably the best portion of his life cannot be written,
because it will not be known until the day of God shall
declare it ; for no one can tell how many hearts were
lightened and comforted by him without his knowing
it. After a year of such quiet work he began to find
that his hopes and waiting were Dot in vain, and at
the end of the year 1 843 he was engaged to be mar
ried. He also received a promise of a small living,
and accordingly he left Bversley, and in January
1844 he was married to Fanny Grenfell. About
this time the rector of Eversley absconded, and the

parishioners endeavoured to secure Charles Kingsley
as their future pastor. The patron acceded to their
request, and in May 1 844 Charles Kingsley brought
his wife to Eversley. Of course, his difficulties were
not necessarily at an end, as is the case in the
traditional story, although the bride and bridegroom
lived happily ever afterwards. Their house had not
been repaired for nearly a century, for then Dr.
Jaeger had not fixed that period as the life-limit for

a dwelling-house. There were arrears of debt also
which the previous rector had left behind him, and
these had to be paid. The house, besides being
dilapidated, was also very damp and unhealthy,

and expensive drainage operations were necessary

before it was fit for habitation. There was no school

room in the parish, and practically no school, but

all these things acted upon Kingsley as upon Napier,

who declared that difficulties only made his feet go

deeper into the soil. A schoolmaster was trained

                                                                                              B
1 8 MEN WITH A MISSION.

for his work, and the Eectory was thrown open for
classes, in which probably the best teaching was the

insight which was then afforded into Kingsley's own

earnestness and fidelity. By personal contact with

his people at his own house and in tbeir own homes

he put into practice that reverence for the poor and

that diligence in helping them that he inculcated

upon others. The sense that the minister is also a

man, and that, beside his official duty, he has a

tender sympathy for all the sorrows of his people,

probably does far more than anything else to win

them for Christ. The days of priestly rule have long

since passed away, and the Christian ministry can
only exist now, much less prove effective, as it adopts

the apostolic rule of going from house to house.

Almost every mind is both a sun and a moon to

               is,

                 it

                                    is

                                                 it

                                                                  a
others ; that  both receives and imparts to

other minds of the light which each receives in varying

measure from God. Kingsley's ruling spirit was F.
D. Maurice, whom he called " Master," and whose
opinions he adopted. It
                              probably                               pity that

this was so, for Kingsley's love for Maurice in

duced him to follow his leader into some of the

vagaries into which Maurice wandered. Kingsley
undoubtedly loved Christ and believed in His

vicarious atonement, but his views upon the Sabbath

and upon the future state are not, in the opinion
of the writer, those that are taught in Scripture.

Further reference will be made to this later on

in this sketch, but  it       needful here to note the

                          is
THE WILD MAN OF THE WOODS.  19

magnetic influence that deflected the needle in

Kingsley's moral compass.

    In the year 1845 Charles Kingsley received his

first preferment, for he was made Honorary Canon
of Middleham in that year. Neither duties nor
emolument were attached to this office, but the title

was valued by Kingsley on account of its historic

interest.

    His home was gladdened about this period by the
birth of a daughter in the year 1846, and in the
following year his family was still further increased
by the birth of a son. The joy which followed this
event found expression in many ballads which were
written during a holiday that he spent in 1847 by
the seaside. These were, however, merely the relief-
valves of his exuberant emotions ; his first real lite

rary work was finished during the same summer

time. It was a Life of St. Elizabeth, which biography,

while relating the heroine's story, discussed the
great problems and questions of that day. The
office of the biographer and historian is not only
to relate, but also to apply ; not only to arrange an
elegant bouquet, but to distil and to prescribe the

medicines which the sicknesses of men require.
The past is only of interest and of use to us as

it is seen to be an exhibition of the results of

principles which are working within and around us

to-day.

   The book at once attracted attention ; it was

timely, and many of the youth in the universities
20 MEN WITH A MISSION.

were fortified by it against the Romanising influences

which were then dominant. The ascetic life has

always been attractive to some minds, for one reason

perhaps because it enables a man to earn heaven ;

but monachism is always an evil both to the in
dividual and to the Church. The Gospel of Work

is the Gospel of the devout life, and the field is the

world ; that  is,

                               ; it

                                        is
                                               is

                                                                                                    :
                                                                                                                :
              among the unbelieving, suffering

children of men. These Esaus are loved by God,

and may be brought within the range of His saving
                           true that --
grace. And, in one sense,

" All men on earth the children are

   Of Him who keeps them here in fosterage
  They see not yet His face hut He sees them,
  Yea, and decrees their seasons and their times
  Like infants, they must leam them first hy touch,
   Through Nature and her gifts-- by hearing next,
   The hearing of the ear, and that faith --

           By vision last.

Upon this first sonship rests the possibility of the

second birth, by which they are made joint-heirs
with Christ.
                   CHAPTER III.

 BLAZING A PATHy OR, SHOWING TO OTHERS
                       THE WAY HOME.

                   " Ye are brothers, ye are men ;
                      We conquer but to save." -- Campbell.

        " A saint is a glorified failure, you know I "--Trench.

   " His favourite expression was, ' The bitterest of all griefs is
to see misery, and yet not to be able to do anything;' and it might
stand as the motto of his whole mind, as it was often before his
life."--Said op Dr. Arnold.

FILLING UP A GAP WITH LEAVES-- A CANDID FRIEND--
       " ONLY A BARKER "--THOMAS COOPER--" YEAST "--BURN
      ING THE CANDLE AT BOTH ENDS-- INVALIDED-- AT WORK
       AGAIN.

It is related of a titled lady, whose house was

situated upon the verge of a cliff which looked over
the sea, that she desired to have the chasm filled
up. For this purpose her gardeners were directed
to throw the cuttings from the lawns and the

sweepings from the garden-walks over the cliff,
and the lady herself occupied her leisure by throw
ing any trifles such as dead leaves into the gulf

below. Of course, this labour had no perceptible
influence in filling up the chasm ; it was simply

                                                                        21
22 MEN WITH A MISSION.

labour in vain. In much the same spirit men

have been accustomed to deal with the yawning

gulfs that separate society and produce misery,
but, for all their well-meaning efforts, the chasm
still is not the less deep. Now and then the leaves
and grass-mowings are swept away by a whirlwind,

and then the abyss appears. Such a tempest came
in the year 1848, when Europe was astounded at

the revelations which were made of its dreadful

misery. The events of that year were such as

brought Kingsley prominently to the front and
showed him to be a born leader of men. He

threw himself into the educational movement which

sought to prepare the working classes for liberty, and

also into the Chartist agitation, that brought him into
touch, not only with the leaders of the working

classes, but also with those who sympathised with
them. He left his parish work and came to London

to endeavour, if possible, to allay the rancour of the

contending and opposite parties, and to fit the

Chartists for the rights which they demanded. He

was a very candid friend to them, however, point

ing out to them what he considered to be great
faults in their programme and society. The plea

for political liberty had become associated with

aFnredndchirtyin"fidf.e"lityAlathnodugfrhencthhis  books, with a   small
                                                    was probably  owing

to the persistent opposition which the privileged

classes had offered to the suggested and necessary
reforms, its effect was incalculably harmful all
              BLAZING A PATH.                     23

round. A paper was started by Kingsley and his

friends avowedly for the purpose of enlightening

the working classes, and large placards were issued,
which in terse, clear phrase showed both the merits

of the cause and its defects. The scorn and

obloquy which this entailed upon Kingsley were

not more than might have been anticipated from

the strength of the evils that he assailed. It is

said that, when Cobden made his maiden speech

in the House of Commons, Horace Twiss of the
Times said, " There is nothing in him ; he is only
a barker." No one could say that Kingsley was

only a barker ; he certainly had teeth, and he knew

how to use them with terrible effect. No small

part of the opposition which he had to encounter

came from his relatives, who regarded the probable

consequences to himself and his family of such
plain speaking with considerable alarm. But he

could not be induced to act a lie by being silent
when he felt it to be his duty to speak out. Pro

bably Kingsley was of Latimer's opinion, who in
his letter to King Henry the Eighth endorses

what "that    holy  man   St. John Chrysostom      saith
              not   only  a traitor to the truth  which
--that he is

openly for truth teaches a lie, but he also which

doth not freely pronounce, and show the truth

which he knoweth." It is indeed a crime both

against God and man when a needful testimony

is withheld by a witness into whose heart it has

been given for speech. This Kingsley certainly
24 MEN WITH A MISSION.

did not do at any part of his life, for he uttered

with all his might all that he himself knew as

truth.

One triumph he certainly secured by this fearless

speaking out of the Divine message, and that was in

the conversion of Thomas Cooper, who was at that

time one of the ablest advocates of infidelity and

of Chartism. Kingsley somehow secured Thomas

Cooper's friendship, and gently and tenderly he led

him into faith in Christ. After his conversion

Thomas Cooper dedicated his life to the service of

the faith that he had once destroyed, and with

signal success.  May not his usefulness be re

garded as a secondary triumph of Kingsley's

efforts ?

    This Thomas Cooper was a remarkable man ; in
deed he was probably one of the most powerful

stimulative thinkers and pioneers that has ever
arisen in the land. He was born to poverty, and

only secured for himself an education by dint of
self-denial and gigantic efforts. While in the

receipt of ten shillings per week, as a journeyman

shoemaker (upon which pittance he and his aged

mother subsisted), Thomas Cooper taught himself
Latin, Greek, Hebrew, French, and German. His

constitution at length broke down under the severe

strain to which he subjected it during these studies,

and then Thomas Cooper turned his attention to

teaching. After a variety of vicissitudes, he found

himself present at a Chartist meeting in Leicester.
BLAZING A PATH.  25

He bad come there in order to report on behalf of
a newspaper with which he was connected, but his
warm heart was lacerated by the tidings of sorrow
that he then heard. He found that the poor
stocking-makers earned only at the most four
shillings and sixpence per week, and sometimes not
even that amount. The natural effect of this hope
less toil was the enfeeblement of mind and body,

the poor creatures became too much dispirited to
even complain about the degradation and misery that
was their daily portion, and they ceased to struggle
against it. They had but few friends, for most
people viewed such conditions as a part of the bene
ficent plan of Providence, or else they shut their
ears and hearts to the voice of pity. Cooper could

not do this ; he not only pitied the poor dumb
sufferers, but he immediately gave himself to the

work of alleviating their distress. In order to

accomplish this Thomas Cooper surrendered the

small pittance which was his only income, and he
threw himself heart and soul into a movement that
he almost solely originated in their behalf. The

Whig Government of the day, doubtless with the

best possible intentions, contrived to impress the
poor with the feeling that they would not attempt
any relief for the distress that the Ministers ignored.
The irritating behaviour of the Government, who had
no better remedies for starving men than imprison
ment and massacre, made Cooper and those who
rallied around him desperate, and what selfish
26 MEN WITH A MISSION.

politicians desired for base purposes of their own
ensued. The populace created a riot, and ostensibly

for their supposed sedition and complicity in this
rioting Cooper and other leaders of the people were
sent to prison. The story of his own life, from

which the above facts are gleaned, is a book which

will richly repay study, for it casts a light not only
upon the sufferings of a patriot, but upon the blind
and selfish folly of some of those who were then in

Ipow"er. cannot avoid throwing my whole nature into
Ian undertaking when once enter upon
                                                  it,either

from a sense of duty or for self-gratification," says it

Mr. Cooper in his autobiography. Accordingly, in

spite of the risk that he thereby incurred of

another term of imprisonment, he persisted in

his efforts, and soon became    recognised leader
            ;
of the working-classes.  He had                   in his early
                a
                                                   " Often," he
                     I                            felt close to
                                               a
                               I
manhood been  devout Christian.
says, " for several days together

the Almighty felt that was His own and His

entirely." The harsh conduct of his minister drove

Thomas Cooper from the Methodist body, with which

he had been connected, and among whom he had

been     successful local preacher. The hopeless
      a

          it

               is
                            a

                                              it
misery, also, that he saw in the world still further

distressed and puzzled him, as                    has perplexed

many another man before him. For, explain as

we may,     still fact that there are many pro

found mysteries in God's government of the world,
BLAZING A PATH.                                       27

and there are many facts that appear to clash with

His mercy and justice. Of course, they only appear

to do so, for eventually they will be found to be the

modes of mercy, that only require time in order to

be seen in their beauty. These things, however,

pained Cooper, and the behaviour of Christian people

deepened the doubts that were lurking within him,

and in due time he lost his faith in Christ. In words
that are sadly significant he himself asks : " When

the belief in eternal punishment is given up, the

eternal demerit of sin has faded from the preacher's

conscience, and then what consistency can he see in
the doctrine of Christ's atonement ? "

    Strauss's book on the " Life of Christ " was in

a great measure the cause of Cooper's wandering

into infidelity, and he was retailing the opinions of

Strauss to immense audiences of the working-classes

when Charles Kingsley made his acquaintance. In

 from which
Cooper says
the volume

Igiven Mr.
             :  e"xtIrmacmtsedhaiavteelyalraeftaedry  been
                                                       had
Iobeyed conscience, and told the people had been

I Iin the habit of teaching that had been wrong,

determined to open my mind fully to my large-

hearted friend, Charles Kingsley. He showed the

fervent sympathy of a brother. He began a corre

spondence which extended over many months ; in
Ifact, over more than a year.
                               told him every
Idoubt and described every hope had ; and he coun

selled, instructed, and strengthened me to the end."

Mr. Cooper's friends obtained an introduction
28 MEN WITH A MISSION.

for him to Mr. Cowper, who was then President of

the Board of Health.

   " He said he wished much that he could offer me

Ianything better, but the only thing he could offer me

was that should become a copyist of letters, &c., at a

low remuneration ; he thought it was seventy words
I Ia penny.
                told him would take the employ, if
Iit were seventy words for a halfpenny. So went
down into the cellar of the Board of Health --for

Ithat is the truest name of the room --and there

was almost a daily worker every week for ninety-

seven weeks, not finally quitting my post till the

end of May 1858." 1

Charles Kingsley sympathised much with his

friend  in his drudgery,  and he wrote thus to him :

" May   not our Heavenly  Father just be bringing you
through this seemingly degrading work to give you --
what it cost me no little sorrow to learn -- the power
of working in harness, --and so actually drawing
something and being of real use ? Be sure if you

can once learn that lesson, in addition to the rest

you have learnt, you will rise to something worthy

of you yet." 2

Thomas Cooper took the advice so graciously

given to him, and he endured the yoke well. His

doubts did not depart all at once, nor did he ex

pect such an experience. But he was enabled in

the darkness to keep a firm grasp upon the doc-

                1 " Life of Thomas Cooper."
                s " Life of Charles Kingsley."
               BLAZING A PATH.                  29

trine of the Atonement, and therefore he eventually

came into happiness and rest.

Kingsley stood his friend all through this time

of agony and change, and he contributed by his

fervent brotherly affection to the establishment of

Cooper's faith in Christ. Cooper has gratefully

acknowledged this Christian conduct on the part

of Kingsley, and it must not be forgotten that at

that time Cooper had not attained the honour and

renown that are now deservedly his.

  I" told my friend Charles Kingsley," he says,
I"in our correspondence, that while
                                                diligently

read the ' Bridgewater Treatises,' and all the other

books with which he furnished me as a means of

beginning to teach sceptics the truth from the very

Ifoundation, that the foundations themselves seemed

to glide from under my feet; had to struggle

Iagainst my own new and tormenting doubts about

God's existence, and feared should be at last over

whelmed with darkness and confusion of mind.
    " ' No, no ! ' said my faithful and intelligent

friend, 'you will get out of all doubt in time.

When you feel you are in the deepest and gloomiest

d"oLuobrtd, ,  pray the prayer of desperation   ; cry out,
                                                that Thou
               if Thou dost exist, let me know
Idost exist ! Guide my mind by a way that know
not into Thy truth ! " and God will deliver you.' " 1

God did deliver Thomas Cooper, and that by

the most unlikely means. The words that he had
                       1 " Life of Thomas Cooper."-
30 MEN WITH A MISSION.

heard in his childhood when, in Gainsborough            *
Church, he had joined in the general confession of

sin, came back to his memory and delivered him
from the paralysis of doubt that had prevented him

from praying, and Thomas Cooper was able to find
rest in Christ

   Nor was this a solitary instance of Kingsley's
ready sympathy for those who were in spiritual

blindness and distress. It seems, indeed, as if God,

who formerly had sent Paul to those who were afar off,

also sent Kingsley in like manner to the Gentiles, if

so be that he might save some. It is true that in

many instances the results of Kingsley's sympathy
and teaching were not so readily evident as they
were in Cooper's case, but Cooper was only one out
of many who were attracted by Kingsley's rare
qualities of heart and intellect, and who were by him
led from darkness into light. There was abundant
need for all and more than Kingsley could accom
plish, for the social and religious condition of

England at that period was truly horrible. Kings-
ley did all that he could, and far more than he

should have done, if a due regard to his own health

had influenced him at all. He attempted to

awaken the upper classes from the selfish torpor in

which they remained, insensible both to the miseries
of their fellow-creatures, and to the dangers which

those miseries, unless checked, must eventually pro
duce to all. He did this in a story which received

the singular title of " Yeast." During the autumn
            BLAZING A PATH.                                          3»

of this year " Yeast " was passed as a serial

through Erasers Magazine, and though inferior to

his subsequent books, it accomplished his purpose.
Kingsley in it described scenes that his own eyes

had looked upon, and he attacked real evils that were

the death of multitudes. He wrote its pages gene

rally after a hard day of parish work, a method which

was fearfully exhaustive to himself, but which im
parted the glow and earnestness that make " Yeast "

still a useful book. Such a book could not but empty

him of needful energy and vitality ; and, therefore,

in the fall of the year his health broke down entirely.

So prostrate was he, that during the following autumn

and winter he was compelled to take complete rest

at Ilfracombe. There his receptive wits were not

idle, for, while exploring the countless treasures of

the shore,  he was   slowly   idnrteoam" inAgltoonutLtohcekest.o"ry  that
afterwards   shaped   itself                                         This

story, as all useful books must do, lay simmering

in his mind for a long time before it acquired

definite shape and purpose.

   In the summer of 1 849 he returned to Eversley

once more, but only to fall again a victim to his

devotion to his work. During the summer a low

fever visited the village, and oblivious of the risk

he ran, Kingsley diligently visited and nursed the

sufferers ; and with a result that might have been
anticipated, for after a night of nursing his health

once more broke down, and he had to return to

Ilfracombe for rest and complete quiet.
32 MEN WITH A MISSION.

In these labours Kingsley was to a large extent a

pioneer, for then there were very few who even knew

what was required, much less were able to do what

was needful. His work in many departments was

to pioneer for others, and in doing so he blazed

a path by which many wanderers have reached a

knowledge of Christ. The axe that he employed

was not a borrowed one, and he struck the trees

with a personal peculiarity which was all his own,

but none the less he was a helper of many who,

humanly speaking, must without him have died

in the waste. So that men be led into happiness,

what matter how the guide induces them to take

the right path ? Yet there were many who, be

cause they could not understand Kingsley, suspected

and assailed him. The true principle is laid down

for all   time in   the words of   our Lord when He
         He that   is not against
said, "                            us is on our part "

(Mark ix. 40).
                      OHAPTEE IV.

   THE MODERN CRUSADER; OR, THE VIKING
                        OF A NEW AGE.

                             I" have told

                  Most bitter truth, but without bitterness."
                                                                        -- Coleridge.

  " It is only by the repetition of noble acts of self-denial and faith

that natural character is nerved for high and continuous efforts."

--John Foster.

           " Christ in Christ-like life expressed,
              This, this, not words, subdues a land to Christ ;
             And in this best apostolate all have part."

                                              -- Legends of St. Patrick.

WORK ! WORK ! WORK ! -- ONE ENEMY AFTER ANOTHER--
      MISUNDERSTOOD, AND THEREFORE HATED--THE GOSPEL
      OF SOAP AND WATER--ASSAILED IN THE HOUSE OF HIS
       FRIENDS-- EXHAUSTED BUT NOT BEATEN.

" As for bidding me not work," said Sir Walter
Scott, " Molly might just as well put the kettle
on the fire and say, ' Now, don't boil.' " This is the
true spirit of all the world's workers ; their work
is a natural and irresistible consequence of what
they are and are sent to do. To a man, there
fore, of Kingsley's combative temperament it was
utterly impossible not to combat the errors and

                                          33 c
34 MEN WITH A MISSION.

evils which he saw around him, and in preaching

the modern crusade against dirt, cant, and tyranny

of all kinds his hand was against many a man's,

and many a man's hand, therefore, was against him.

This was partly the consequence of his own nervous

temperament, which could not stay to conciliate, and

which sometimes made him unjust when calmer

reason would have prevented the error. To mention

one instance    AofltomnanLyo,ckheis"  picture of Dissenting
                                       is felt by all impartial
ministers in "

men to be manifestly unjust and untrue ; in this

case the fault was rather from want of thought

than from malice prepense. Another example is

his treatment of the Free-traders, who are now

admitted to have rendered a most valuable service

to the nation. But these blemishes, while they

should not be omitted in a faithful portrait, be

cause they were in the man, are counterbalanced

by the sterling excellence of his character and

work. The gospel of soap and water required to

be preached, and men needed to be reminded that

this life has a present importance and may be happy
in greater measure than it is. Many excellent men

had settled down into a kind of fatalism which

regarded disease wholly as the visitation of God,

and not as also the penalty for violating His laws.
And in thinking of such men as Kingsley, it must

be admitted that there is a section of the Evangelical

school which is extremely narrow and self-conceited.

All light does not come throngh the same window,
             THE MODERN CRUSADER.                      35

and it is possible that a man may differ from our

view of truth without necessarily being an alien

and a heretic. But every man who really strives

to fulfil the mission that God has entrusted to him

does so at the expense of fighting, for the dragon

will not relinquish his captives without a struggle.

The year 1850 was pre-eminently a year of battle
with Charles Kingsley. He resigned upon principle

a sinecure that he had held for some years, and this

at a period when the loss of the money was serious

to him. His poor-rates were heavy, and the distress

among the farmers also lessened his income, so that

the sacrifice to principle was made at great personal

heBusatidK, in"gTsilmeye  felt  the spirit of Scott's  words
Icost.                    and                          for he
                                  against any two ; "
when

set to work at once to provide for the deficit in his in

come.    He  finished "Alton Locke," that     i--ncoamlaps a!ratbrulee
picture  of
             his suffering fellow-creatures,

in every page. Eeynolds remarked truthfully that

no man can put into a picture more than there

is in himself, and the same is also true of books.

As with every useful author, Kingsley put himself

largely into his books, and their amount of heart

is one of their charms.

   But there was such a prejudice against Kingsley
in many quarters that " Alton Locke " was rejected
by the publishers to whom it was first offered. By

the kind offices of Thomas Carlyle (who loved a
man dearly when he strove to perform a man's

work) the book was at length placed in the hands
is,3« MEN WITH A MISSION.

of a firm of publishers who were willing to incur
the odium which issuing Kingsley's books involved

at that time.
    This attack upon the tyranny that estimated the

lives of men as less valuable than the goods which
they manufacture at the cost of health and life itself,
was followed up by a pamphlet, in which he assailed

the same evil. Then, as if he had not enough assail

ants already attacking him, Kingsley threw himself
into another conflict. George Eliot, whose influence
upon this generation is of the nature one might expect
from such as she was, translated Strauss's flimsy
book upon the Life of Christ. This, Kingsley felt,
should not go unanswered, when the interests in
volved were so great and the refutation so easy.
As a general rule error is like fish, it soon exhibits
its own decay ; but it is sometimes useful to speak
out the truth, for fear any should be deluded by the
colours of death, which are indeed only a sign of
begun decay. This effort was the more needful
because the distress among the working classes
became extreme during the autumn, and men grow
lawless in proportion as religion loses its wholesome
terrors. Kingsley's house was among the number

that were attacked by housebreakers, and, sorely
against his will, he was compelled to arm himself.

   One of the Evangelical newspapers now commenced
an attack upon him, upon the principle, perhaps,
that " the principal business of good Christians

beyond all controversy, to fight one another," as has
THE MODERN CRUSADER.  37

been sadly observed. Kingsley, it is true, somewhat
invited attack, but it is certainly a pity when the
strength of a nation is wasted in civil war, to the
joy of the enemies outside. .After all, Christ is far
vaster than any experience of Him can be, and it is

surely more Christ-like to cover our brethrens' faults
than, Ham-like, to jest at their follies.

    Cruden styled himself the censor, and he walked
the streets with a eponge with which he wiped out

all announcements that he supposed to be wrong
and injurious to his fellow-creatures. Which office

might with advantage be revived just now; it would

certainly be more lovely than is the madness that at

times possesses some Christians. It is not too much

to say that in some parts of the Church of Christ it
would be plain truth to expose a placard -- " Mantraps

and spring-guns set on these premises."
· But it was Kingsley's fortune to be a fighting
man all his days ; indeed, he was a man of war from
his youth. His contributions to social science will
be referred to presently ; suffice it to note that in
that he was also in advance of his age.

    The year 1851 was signalised by the opening of
the Great Exhibition, which men imagined would
begin a new era in the history of men. Kingsley
recognised the immense benefits which the Exhibi

tion conferred upon the whole civilised world, but

he could scarcely have been so sanguine as others

were as to its results.

    His best work, " Hypatia," was commenced during
38 MEN WITH A MISSION.

this year, and it was passed through the pages of

Fraser's Magazine as a serial. It is undoubtedly

his masterpiece, and in it the excellences and defects
of his mind appeared. As a picture exquisitely
accurate of one of the most important periods of
human history it is unrivalled among all the books
of this age, while its influence as a moral force

cannot now be gauged. It belongs also to that

high order of books that express clearly what many
feel but cannot themselves utter, while, also, alas !
it is an attack upon received beliefs concerning the
future which is more difficult to repel than a treatise

would have been.

   In the summer of the Exhibition year Kingsley

experienced what was probably the most bitter of
all the attacks that he endured. He had been

invited to preach in a London church, and he dis
coursed as one might have expected him to speak.
Had the clergyman who invited Kingsley been
ignorant of Kingsley's views, it might have been
wise of him to have allowed his visitor to say his say
and then to have departed. But after having him
self arranged the service, the minister so far forgot
what was due both to God and to his friend as to

publicly denounce from the pulpit much of the ser
mon. The working men who thronged the building
very naturally resented this injustice, and probably
were more alienated from the Church by this well-
intended attempt to win them than by previous years
of neglect. Kingsley wisely attempted no reply at
THE MODERN CRUSADER.  39

the time; but when, weary and heart-sick, he returned
home to Eversley again he found relief for his spirit in
composing his exquisite ballad entitled "The Fishers."
He required all the fortitude that he possessed to
withstand the new attack which was hereupon made
upon him. The papers took up the new scandal, and
the Bishop of London allied himself with Kingsley's
enemies so far that he forbade Kingsley to preach
in the diocese of London. Subsequently, upon
reading the sermon, the Bishop withdrew his pro
hibition ; but all this anxiety and conflict seriously
injured Kingsley's health. To some natures such
struggles are not harmful, but to a man of Kings-

ley's exquisite sensibility even a victory purchased
at such a price is like a defeat. The conflict left

him exhausted in mind and body, and once more
he was compelled to seek for rest. He left England
in company with his parents, and amidst fresh

scenes he acquired new impetus for the arduous

conflict which was yet before him. The fact that he

was so furiously assailed may perhaps be accounted
for upon the principle which was indicated by the
Chinese evangelist when he said that " he lamented
the want of opposition, blaming his own unfaithful
ness as the only cause of such peace on the part of
the powers of darkness." For no fortress cares to
assail a train of baggage-mules, but every gun will
be pointed against an approaching train of artillery.

It is the severest condemnation when the Christian

Church is let severely alone in contemptuous neglect ;
40 MEN WITH A MISSION.

then there is nothing for fallen Samson bat to grind
in the prison-house. Kingsley intended to combat
every accessible enemy of God and man, and there
fore he encountered a violent resistance from men
whose instincts compelled them to dread the incoming
of light into their foul caverns.
                        CHAPTER V.

THE GOSPEL OF THIS LIFE; OR, THE APOSTLE

                      TO THE OUTCASTS.

          " For knowledge is a steep which few may climb,
             While duty is a path which all may tread."
                                                            --Epic of Hades.
                 " Every human heart is human,
                   And even in savage bosoms
                     There are longings, yearnings, Etrivings,
                   For the good they comprehend not.
                   And the feeble hands and helpless,
                     Groping blindly in the darkness,
                     Touch God's right hand in that darkness,
                   And are lifted up and strengthened."
                                                                     -- Longfellow.

MAKING ALLOWANCES-- THE SACRED SABBATH-- CONSTRAINED
      TO SPEAK -- "HYPATIA" -- NOT UPON THE FATHERS, BUT
      UPON CHRIST-- MORE LIGHT BEYOND.

"My dear      sir,"   Turner   the painter   once remarked
                     you only   knew how
to a critic,  " if                          difficult it is to

paint even a decent picture, you would not say the

severe things that you do of those who fail." The

counsel is good for all those whose only contribution

to the service of man is a criticism, and it repre

sents also an element to be borne in mind in

                               41
42 MEN WITH A MISSION.

estimating a life-work. The work of a pioneer is
infinitely more difficult than the enterprises of those
who follow him ; his log hut may really be a greater
triumph of art than a Grecian temple, all things

being considered.
    Yet, while all this is true, fidelity to truth com

pels the writer to dissent from many of the views of
Kingsley. His merits and usefulness are now gene
rally acknowledged, but it is imperative to remember
that the truth has paramount claims upon us.

    During the year 1852 a proposal was made to
open the Crystal Palace upon Sundays, upon the

plea that by so doing drunkenness would be lessened.
Such an end, of course, is infinitely desirable, but

it has yet to be proved that the purpose intended

would be accomplished by the suggested change.

The drunken classes are not as a rule patrons of

art, and the probabilities are that intemperance

would increase instead of lessening. But even if
the step be expedient, it has yet to be proved to
be lawful, for in the judgment of many, the obliga

tion to keep the Sabbath is one of the primary laws
of the moral constitution of man. And with all

diffidence, the writer would urge that the ends of
the Sabbath are not attained unless it be recog

nised as a sacred rest, a day for worshipping God.

It is true that the Sacred Day is a feast and not a

fast, but a feast it is with a peculiar meaning and
purpose. Had Kingsley lived for a few years longer,
it is probable that he would have modified his views
THE GOSPEL OF THIS LIFE.       43

upon this point. For the well-being and prosperityis,

aof a nation depend entirely upon its obedience to;
           athe Divine law, of which the fourth commandment
                       it
forms a conspicuous and integral portion.it
    Having said so much by way of criticism, it is
              it,
pleasant now to point out the usefulness of Kingsley
in other important directions. His correspondence

was immense and exhaustive, for from all parts of
the world men and women wrote to him for sym
pathy and guidance. Yet Kingsley did not com
plain, but he accepted the labour which was thus
entailed upon him as a portion of his life-mission.
Although this is rapidly becoming an age of post

cards, it is as well even now to employ the post

as a moral force, for a letter wisely written may
become of immense spiritual influence for good.

    During the summer of this same year, that
in 1852, the family of Judge Erskine settled in
Eversley, to the great comfort and assistance of

Kingsley. They gave him sympathy, counsel, and
practical monetary help in the multiform duties of his
charge. And this was the more needful, because as

he was understood, more and more strangers flocked,

often from great distance, to hear Kingsley preach.
To him this popularity was displeasing, as must be
with every finely-strung nature although, indeed,
he did not desire to be crowded, yet must have
been delight for him to find that, in spite of opposi
tion, and perhaps in consequence of he was able to

secure an audience. It might be said of Kingsley,
44 MEN WITH A MISSION.

both in his writing and in his preaching, as it was
said of Burke by Johnson, " Burke's talk is the

ebullition of his mind ; he does not talk from a
desire of distinction, but because his mind is full."

Kingsley felt that he had a message to deliver, and

therefore he uttered what was to many most nn-

welcome truth ; but although he had no pleasure in

wounding them, he could not repress that which

burned within him for expression. Silence is not
always golden, for at times it amounts to treason

against God and cruelty to men. We never really

know a truth until we can testify and we know
                            it,
                                        is
only potentially as we express that which given

into our charge. Kingsley at this period offended

many people (who     might    have been expected to
have known better)  by the  publication of " Hypatia "

as book. This was issued in the year 1853, an^
a                           is
            is                                                is &
set forth the writer's opinions about the future state.

Of the hereafter very little positive information

revealed in Scripture, but in the opinion of most
Christian people the Scripture clear in its asser
tion of the eternity, both of pain and of bliss. As

with many others who have departed from the

orthodox teaching upon this point, Kingsley's views

shifted more than once he was permanent only in
                    ;

                                         is
his fierce and at times almost blasphemous denun

ciation of hell and of penalty. It comparatively

easy for any one to indicate difficulties in any

solution of the after-life theory, but the question,

after all, one of revelation and also of God's jus
     THE GOSPEL OF THIS LIFE.  45

tice. " Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right ? "

may well still every murmur at what, after all, we

only dimly understand. Probably on account of the

persistent preaching of these views (which many

regarded as unscriptural and as having a tendency

to   weaken     tohfeusm),o"raHl yrpeasttiraain" tws aswdhiisclhikeadrebyalslomtoeo.
few   with all

Others were less excusable in their opposition, for

the exposure of the meanness, vileness, and wicked

ness of Cyril and other so-called fathers greatly

displeased those who regarded them with intense

reverence. As if men were not always and every

where the same, and the truth did not rest upon

Divine sanctions rather than upon merely human

testimonies ! Even supposing that all who had

gone before us were as vile as it is possible for

men to be, the Christian religion would not be

affected by their follies. The obligation to believe

and to obey the Gospel would even then be just as

cogent as it is now, for the Gospel is addressed to

every individual soul, quite apart and distinct from

all others. To many excellent people, however, it

appeared as if Kingsley were removing one of the

pillars upon which they supposed that the Church

rested, and they feared the doom of the Philistines.

The ugly charge of heresy was hinted, and it cer

tainly did much to prevent Charles Kingsley from

afterwards receiving a D.C.L. degree at Oxford.

To a greater extent than we know, or are disposed

to admit, the Christian Church acts upon the ancient
46 MEN WITH A MISSION.

assertion, " that every man has a right to utter

what he thinks truth, and that every man has a

right to knock him down for it." Truth is many-
sided, and it is always possible that some truth is

invisible from every attainable point of view ; but
above all things error should be dealt with gently,

and in a Christian spirit. The antagonism of the

Bar is out of place in themes that are the subject of
a Divine revelation, and the Holy Spirit will never

dwell in a contentious heart, even if that heart be

that of a defender of the faith. Old John Robinson

bade the pilgrim fathers remember that God had

not yet   shown them all that they   might yet       know.
    " He  charged us," says the old   chronicler,
                                                      " that

if God should reveal anything to us by any other
instrument of His, to be as ready to receive it as

any truth by his ministry ; for he was very confi

dent the Lord had more light and truth yet to
break forth out of His Holy Word." George Raw son

paraphrases the old man's words thus : --

          " We limit not the truth of God

                To our poor reach of mind
             By notions of our day or sect,

                Crude, partial, and confined.
             No ; let a near and better hope

               Within our breasts be stirred ;

             The Lord hath yet more light and truth
                To break forth from His Word."

    From various  Kreinasgosnlse,y,th"erHeyfopraet,iabu"twwasithgepnaerinaflluyl
consequences to
THE GOSPEL OF THIS LIFE.  47

received by the Church with regret and worse.

But its mission, as with others of Kingsley's books,

was chiefly to the outcasts who are generally out

side all recognised Christian influences.
   And Kingsley's chief teaching to them was the

divineness of all the nature of man ; asserting that
the old Manichean view of the body, which is a
part of ourselves, is utterly wrong. Every portion
of the body is a witness to the Divine skill and
wisdom, and it may also become the temple of
the Holy Ghost. For the useful evangelical revival
had not put the present life in its true view. We
are not born merely in order to prepare for death,
but also that in life we may enjoy and serve God,
and find present happiness in Him. Of course, the
application of the vicarious atonement of our Lord

and the renewal of the heart by the Divine Spirit
are essential to true life, but men who are busy

in practical matters require a present-day Gospel,

which recognises even this world as God's kingdom
and the theatre of His grace.

   In the year 1854 Charles Kingsley spent the

spring and winter at Torquay. This was on
account of his wife's illness. During this visit

Kingsley amused himself with the scientific wonders

which were scattered upon the shore, and an ar

ticle upon them was subsequently developed into a

volume which has been well received by the public.

Here, too, he was once more amidst the Stirling
influences of the west country that he loved so
48 MEN WITH A MISSION.

devoutly, and the        historical associations  of his new
home suggested to                                  --"
                         him " Westward Ho              one of
                                                  !

the best, if not the very best, of his books. In the

June of 1854 Kingsley had taken a house at
Bideford, on account of his wife's health. This

suggested the theme for the book, which is a power

ful sermon upon the tendencies of Eomanism. It
would be a useful study if some one would tell us

about the circumstances under which the great

books which have influenced the world have been

written. It would be found that in almost every

case sickness and sorrow upon the part of the

writer or of his dear ones was at least a part of

the  troureig:i--nating  cause.  Thus, Longfellow's words
are

     " (Inly those are crowned and sainted

        W ho with grief have been acquainted,
          Making nations nobler, freer.

     In their feverish exultations,
       In their triumph and their yearning,

     In their passionate pulsations,
     In their words among the nations,

        The Promethean fire is burning."
                     CHAPTER VI.

STRIFE ABROAD, BUT PEACE AT HOME.

          " Not scathless those that sing such song,

Grief their instructress, of the Muses chief

To hearts by grief unvanquished, to their hearts

Had taught a melody that neither spared

Singer nor listener."  -- Legends of St. Patrick.

" Let truth be told, but still without offence."

THE CRIMEAN BLUNDERS AND SUFFERINGS-- TEACHING THE
      NEGLECTED-- WE ARE PENCILS-- AT HOME A KING-- MAR
      RIAGE NOT FOR THIS LIFE ALONE.

The Crimean war, into which the English Govern

ment had drifted with a light heart, proved the

inefficiency of the English military leaders, and the

terrible sufferings which were endured by our brave

soldiers in consequence, wrung the         heart of the
nation with indignation and anguish.
                                            " The great

majority  of us are  clothed with  rags,"  wrote one who
was with  the army.                us are  without shoes ;
                        " Some of

others of us are without a cap to cover our heads

from the pelting of the pitiless storm, and some of

us have more mud than clothing attached to our

bodies. Hundreds of sick and wounded are daily

brought down famished, emaciated, and clothed in

                       49 D
                    MEN WITH A MISSION,

Irags. have seen many a noble form a total wreck

from the lack of timely aid. A heart-hardening
process in the army is only too apparent. A party

of soldiers was the other day seen playing at cards
in the trenches, when a shot laid one of them low.

Instantly they rose, carried the dead man away,
and resumed their game." The story of the suffer
ings of our brave men who were sacrificed to the
recklessness and incompetence of their leaders

stirred many who could not feel that --

         " 'Tis nothing ; a private or two now and then
              Will not count in the tale of the battle ;

             Not an officer lost, only one of the men
                Breathing out all alone his death-rattle."

\Not only was an inquiry demanded, but practical
relief was poured into the Crimea, private gene
rosity eclipsing Government grants in its eagerness
to supply the needs of the soldiers. Kingsley felt
keenly the exciting interest of the struggle, and he
has given vent to his military instincts in " Two
Years Ago." He wrote also a small tract to which
he did not affix his name, and which was sent out
in large quantities to the camp. And so the cam
paign went on with disastrous effects to the British
Empire in India, where it contributed to produce
afterwards the awful Mutiny.

     Meanwhile, in England, Kingsley published his
"Westward Ho," which he dedicated to Bishop
 Selwyn and to Rajah Brooke, two noble and suc
cessful workers in the cause of civilisation and of
STRIFE ABROAD, BUT PEACE AT HOME. 51

righteousness. The volume met with considerable

favour from the first, although Thackeray in the

Times expressed some disapproval. When the book

was off his mind, Kingsley felt the need of some

other employment to  occupy   his restless  e"neargcioens.
Madame de Stael has  defined  happiness as

stant occupation for a desirable object which is

constantly attended by a sense of continual pro

gress." It is true that continual progress seldom

attends any enterprise, however laudable, for, like the

tide, ebb and flow alternate with most efforts. Yet

no man can be happy who is not really working,

and that for ends outside himself and his interests.

The old story of the traveller who warmed himself

by his efforts to revive a dying man is a parable of

all life ; the reflex action of every good deed is both

a present reward and a promise of greater recom

pense yet to come. Kingsley, therefore, during his

stay in fair Bideford attempted to gather around

him the neglected and uneducated young men of the

town. He formed a drawing-class for their benefit,

and himself instructed them, in some instances at

least, with signal benefit to their future career. His

own skill with the pencil was marvellous ; indeed

one might have inferred this from the form and beauty

of his sentences. And he possessed the artist gift,
and could depict in a few strokes the thought that

burned within him. So the days passed in useful

work, with results that eternity alone will reveal. If

the drawing-classes had no other result than that
52 MEN WITH A MISSION.

which attended Joseph Livesey's attempts at edu

the poor,  they would         have been worth the
that they  entailed.         " don't know that
cating

I Ilabour
made much, if any, progress in my irregular attend

ance at Mr. Livesey's night-school," says Thomas
IWhittaker. " One thing, however,

Iit has continued with me to the
                               did learn, and

                             present day--

learned to love and esteem Joseph Livesey ; his is

a name never to be forgotten." It is no small gain

when the scholar learns to love and esteem his

teacher, who thus becomes a useful lesson, whatever

he may be able to impart to his pupils of other

instruction. Kingsley, unselfish, generous, cultured,

and exquisitely sensitive to the teachings of God in

nature, must have been a noble influence upon the

youths who gathered around him, and who learned

from him what he also learned from Christ. " Let

us remember that our children are pencils," said

Richard Cecil ; and so also are the lives that, for
their good or evil, come into daily contact with us ;

for by them we portray ourselves upon the time

which is yet to come. It is a serious and necessary

inquiry as to what we are by them depicting for

coming generations to read.

Kingsley returned to Eversley once more, but

only to find that during the winter his wife could
not live in the damp Parsonage house. But instead

of being compelled to remove to a distance, he was

able to find a house in an adjoining district which did

not necessitate his prolonged absence from his charge.
STRIFE ABROAD, BUT PEACE AT HOME. 53

The formation of the military camp at Aldershot

also brought new interest and new responsibilities

to him. Always interested in military men and

their needs, he formed many friendships among the
officers. Nor was he afraid to speak out when he

thought that his duty required him to reprove what

he felt to be wrong in them. His colours, like

Nelson's, were nailed to the mast, and those who

knew him most     intimately    say that    K"intghsalteyall  was
like Hannington,  of whom                                      his
                              it was said,

life, his amusement, as well as his labour, was per
meated by his faith in the Unseen." Therefore, " the

business of seeking to influence souls for Christ
was never alien to any of his moods." Of Kingsley

this was true, and he employed methods which were

his own, and therefore the best for him to use. He

was still consulted by many who had been affected

by his books, and who desired to break free from

the fetters which early vice had forced upon them.

To such Kingsley was a genuine son of consolation,

and for them he ungrudgingly gave the best of his

mind and heart. To gather the outcasts is the
Saviour's work ; He Himself describes His office
as that of the shepherd " who goeth after that which

is lost until he find it;" and men are likest God

when so they do. The need for sympathy prompted

the Eomish Confessional, which is a perversion of

the true method which God has devised. Every

man should become such, that all who are dis

heartened and discouraged may be able to turn to
54 MEN WITH A MISSION.

him, confident that they will not be rejected or

betrayed when they confess their faults. Such was

Kingsley, and therefore he was able to help so many

of his fellow-men.

Among those who visited Kingsley during this

year of 1856 was Mrs. Beecher Stowe, who, like

many Americans, has recorded her impressions and

memories of English scenes and persons. Mrs,

Stowe, it is true, did not come to Eversley for sym

pathy, but it was  a   tribute to Kingsley's  genius   that
                      Uncle Tom's Cabin "     visited  him.
the authoress of   "

And visited him in his own home, where he was

pre-eminently at his best. Many extremely worthy

people leave their courtesy and almost their piety

outside their door-mat; at home their natures are

under no restraint, and they are not compelled to

preserve   the courtesies which   make   life bearable.
          remarks that Talkative         a saint abroad
Buayan                            " was

and a devil at home," and it is to be feared that

there are many who are like him in this respect.

At home Kingsley, on the contrary, was at his best,

and there his best qualities pre-eminently shone.

He had not, it is true, the pecuniary anxieties and

difficulties which sometimes shadow the homes of

business men, but he left, as all men may do, his

work and all its troubles outside the family circle.

   In his home Kingsley was all brightness, and he

continued to impart his own sunny spirit to those

who lived with him. With him, love did not cease

at the altar, and his devotion to his wife partook
STRIFE ABROAD, BUT PEACE AT HOME. 55

of the romance of old chivalry. This was probably

owing partly to his natural high-toned courtesy,

but it was also owing to his own high ideas of
              "  A
marriage.             true idea of   the institution  of mar
riage," says     Dr.   Dale, " lies  very near the    founda

tion of every true philosophy of human life, and

affects the whole theory of the rights and duties

both of men and of women, and of their relations

to each other. Marriage rests upon the possibility

of the absolute mutual surrender to each other of

man and woman ; a surrender in which nothing is
reserved but loyalty to God and to those supreme

moral duties which no human relationship can

disturb and modify. It rests not only on the

possibility of that perfect blending of life and

interest, but on the strength and blessedness which
come from it. And any theory of marriage which

would impair the completeness of the resolution of

two individual lives into a higher though complex
unity is a departure from that ideal which, in our

highest, noblest, and happiest hours, asserts for each

one of us its authority and truth." These are

noble words, and they are true as they are worthy

to be remembered. They explain Kingsley's view

of the sacred relationship which our Saviour has

constituted a model and type of His union with
His saints. Towards his wife Kingsley ever mani

fested his affection, and he clung firmly to the

devout hope (which is cherished by many others)
that the tie which is created by marriage is pro
                MEN WITH A MISSION.

bably eternal. Of late years     the fact   that a lead
ing journal could discuss the  question,
                                           " Is marriage

a failure?" shows the low esteem into which the

sacred bond has fallen. We require a repetition

of Kingsley's teaching in order that woman may

receive her due, and the national life be kept pure

at its source.

As a natural consequence of his devoted affection

towards his wife, Kingsley was tender and con

siderate towards his children. Sir James Wylie

has discovered as the result of careful investiga

tions that four times as many patients recover from

their sickness when they are placed in clear sun

shine as do those who are in the dark, and this

is a most important principle in morals. Cheer

fulness is a most powerful medicine and preventive

against moral and social perils both for old and

young. Kingsley possessed the mirth-provoking

faculty in a very eminent degree, and he did not

scruple to use it. He felt rightly that humour and
wit are gifts of God, and are to be used for His

Hgleorrby.ert'sHesingaut lalreassatyindgid-- not assent to George

        " All Solomon's sea of brass and world of stone
           Is not so dear to God as one good groan."

Without doubt there is a frivolity which is ruinous --

giggle and make giggle are terribly demoralising,

but a cheerful spirit is a part of the work of grace,

and joy in the Lord is one of the marks of the new

birth. Goldsmith said that he had a knack of
     STRIFE ABROAD, BUT PEACE AT HOME. 57

hoping, and Dr. Johnson said also that a habit of
looking at the bright side of things was worth a

thousand pounds per year to any man. Kingsley
had that habit, and he did not scruple to use it
at home. His piety was never sour and vinegary,

and therefore his children loved him. All life is

necessarily so sad, that any man who will assist his
fellows to bear their burdens easily is sure of being
popular, for men turn to cheerfulness as they do

to a sunny landscape. It cheers and brightens

them, and merely looking at it lightens the heart.

   It is true that with regard to the Sabbath

Kingsley was led into excess, but this may have
been a revolt against the narrow, evangelical strict
ness of his childhood's home. The spirit which
forbade a mother to kiss her child on a Sunday
is undoubtedly unscriptural, but so also is the
making of the Lord's Day into a holiday. Cricket
on the green at Eversley on Sunday afternoons was
no doubt popular, but it was certainly a breach of
the fourth commandment, which, as is every other
precept of the moral law, is still binding upon Chris
tians. The holy day, it is true, has been changed from
the seventh to the first, but this has been done by the
highest authority of all. Cricket also is not a primary
necessity of human nature, but the worship of God

is ; and, after all, the old adage is true that --

           " A Sabbath well spent

                 Urings a week of content,
                   And health for the toil of the morrow j
58 MEN WITH A MISSION.

But a Sabbath profaned,
Whate'er may be gained,

  Is the certain forerunner of sorrow."

In Kingsley's home, indeed, the Sabbath was

marked as a day of gladness, for then his children

brought out their Sunday picture-books, in which

he drew whatever animal or subject they might select,
and the early hours of the day were spent by them in

decking the graves in the churchyard with flowers.

Such a custom   is,     of course, impossible in some

homes, but yet  it      surely possible to do far more

                    is

than has ever yet been done by any one to make

the Sabbath delight to the children and servants
              a
of the family.       true idea of the Sabbath obliga
                  A

tion and an earnest attempt to rise to its solemn

meaning would do much to heal the breaches of

religious and national life. This, however, will

not be until right views prevail as to the supreme

authority of the Word of God.
                     CHAPTEE VII.

     MISUNDERSTOOD ; OR, DIFFERENT, AND
                     THEREFORE WRONG.

          " But good my brother,

                Do not as some ungracious pastors do, --
                  Show me the steep and thorny way to heaven,
                Whilst like a puff 'd and careless libertine,
                  Himself the primrose path of dalliance treads,
                And recks not his own rede." -- Shakespeare.
            " He had perceived the presence and the power
                  Of Greatness ; and deep feeling had impressed
                 Great objects on his mind with portraiture
                And colour so distinct, that on his mind
                 They lay like substances, and almost seemed
                To haunt the bodily sense." -- Wobdsworth.
   " God was using these things to create in me a sense of vocation,
confused at first, but becoming ever more distinct." -- Casalis.

CONVERTED BY FEAE -- SUFFERING FOR FAITHFULNESS --
      INDIAN MUTINY AND ITS HORRORS-- THE CHILDREN IN

      DANGER-- PREACHING BEFORE PRINCES-- THE INEQUALI
      TIES OF LIFE.

In " My Life in Basuto Land " we are told that the

Dutch colonists tried to excuse their cruelties to the

poor helpless natives by alleging that they supposed

Ithat thereby they  were advancing the
                    a Christian ? " one of
cause of religion.
("thAemDutncoht)

59
6o MEN WITH A MISSION.

Ithem inquired. " have a white skin and long
I Ihair !                           sing psalms ! "
            have been baptized and

Which is similar to the Irishman's definition of the

Methodists as the people whose religion consisted in

their wearing long whiskers !

   In various degrees the same kind of spirit lingers
amongst us even yet, and it requires a faithful deal

ing with on the part of those who would help their

fellow-men. Almost all through his life Kingsley

was looked at suspiciously by many excellent people,

who, if they believed in him at all, regarded him in

much the same kind of spirit. He was an ori

ginal, and grew foliage of his own, and as in many

respects he refused to be clipped into shape after

the orthodox fashion, men hinted at more than they

dared to say about him. It was, however, his power

that he was one by himself, for the gifts of his

genius were for a special and peculiar purpose.

    When,   therefore, in the year 1857, Kingsley  pub
lished his  " Two Years Ago," the book was met     with

a chorus of disapproval from many who did not

understand its drift and purpose. It was not after

the pattern of the books which they were accus

tomed to read or to approve, and therefore they

supposed that it must be evil. Yet the book is

one that must do good to every intelligent reader,

because it deals with facts as they really are in the

world around us. For outside the circle of our

immediate acquaintance there are throngs of those

who both require and will repay religious teaching.
              MISUNDERSTOOD.                                                         61

To these outcasts Kingsley spoke, and these
he really did influence for good in " Two Years

Ago."

    The book was issued from the press at a period
when, for the first time in three years, Kingsley

was able to spend the winter in his own home at
Eversley; that in the year 1857.

    The same year brought to England the awful
I
news of the Indian Mutiny, and Kingsley shared to
               ;

               it

                      is,

                    I
the full the national frenzy which arose when the

hsaoird"ribLloerergdsatorSdrhyafwteaasssburtehrlyea,tde"dy.iwnghicehffort  of Brahminism,"
                                                                           visibly, palpably
                                                                         is
                                                                                 is
declining all its remaining strength excited and
concentrated for one final struggle. And bear this
in mind, the retribution that follows upon these

crimes must be equal to the nature and extent of

the crimes themselves.     maintain that justice,

pure simple justice, demands we should exact of

these men that compensation which                                          !         due to that

crime unparalleled in the history of mankind. We                               is

do not seek for revenge. God forbid that the word

should be used in our declamation And God for

bid that the sentiment should enter into our hearts
                                                                                     it
But there such thing as justice, and there
a             a                                                                          is !
          is      a
such thing as sense of justice imprinted upon

the human heart by the hand of God Himself.

Justice, hold, must be satisfied every principle of

policy and every principle of religion require --
it                         ;

     is

      I
       your policy, and the greatest policy in the
«2 MEN WITH A MISSION.

sense of humanity, that justice should be fully

exe"rcNisoetdh.i"ng can be more just and moderate," said

the Times in  reviewing Lord Shaftesbury's                           speech,
" than what                                                    "
              he  says                    about  punishment         in fact,
                                                              ;

all England was furiously agreed in its demand for

a stern penalty. Although Kingsley had neither

personal friend nor relative among the sufferers, he

felt keenly the awful wickedness of the Mutiny.

The story of Oawnpore will always be regarded

with horror by civilised men, but when the tidings

of the massacre first reached home, the feeling was,

of course, much keener than it can be now.
The year after the Mutiny--that in                                      -- not
                                                         is,  it 18   8

                                                                     5

only did evil tidings, but far worse came to our

shores for in that year diphtheria first appeared
         a
among us. This scourge of childhood had been
           it is ;
previously unknown in Britain, and                                  therefore
                                    a
excited as much alarm as the plague had formerlya

done. The terror and danger were equally call to
                                                                    a

Kingsley, who, like all men of strong nature, was an

intense lover of little children. He went about his

parish carrying with him the remedies, which he

taught his people by example how to employ.

Since the cessation of miracles in the world, such

service as much part of the Gospel as preaching,

and by     sKaimngeslyeeyarpeorffogrmraeced--lotyhaal t  service    for God.

   In the                                                     in    185 --
                                                         is,

                                                                               8

Kingsley published volume of poems, which met

with more favourable reception from the critics than
                         MISUNDERSTOOD.                             63

his   p--retvhiaotus  books had received.   During     the next
year                                       also first  began to
                       in 859 -- Kingsley
a

                    is,
                           is 1

                                                  it

                                                                is

                                                       A
receive favourable notice from high quarters, for on

Palm-Sunday of that year he preached before the

Queen and Prince Consort at Buckingham Palace.
Although Kingsley had been an ardent advocate of

the suffering poor, his tastes were especially aris-

tocratical, and he feared God not more than he

honoured the Queen. For, while               natural in

free country that the head of the State should be

freely criticised, loyal men should be careful not

to speak evil of the ruler of their people.                         form

of government            essential to happy life, and rests

upon Divine authority. So that government rests

not upon the consent of the nation only, but also,

the nation having consented to the particular

form of government that may have been selected,

the head of the State rules by Divine authority.
Kingsley was not a courtier in any other sense
than that in which his hero, Sir Richard Grenville,

was courtier, although he had instinctively the
      aa
old-world loyalty for rank and station. Hence
                                                       is
was personal gratification as much as an honour
                                                            it
which he had earned when he was appointed one of

the Queen's chaplains, and when in that capacity he
preached in his turn before the Court. His merit

was becoming clear and recognised, for the Prince

Consort was keen judge of character, and had he
                      a

lived he would probably have advanced Kingsley to

further honours than he attained. But such the
is,64 MEN WITH A MISSION.

irregularity of the system of moral government
under which we live, that often the recognition and
reward of merit come when they are too late to be
enjoyed. God, indeed, has not promised to reward
virtue in the present condition of affairs, and He
often permits virtue to suffer unrewarded and vice
to sin unchecked, because He has a long eternity in
which to adjust and to explain all tbat is perplexing

here.

   It is worthy, too, of notice, how as he grew

older, Kingsley more and more recognised the
Divine Hand which is slowly working out in the
world the purpose of righteousness, even by adverse
things. This truth of the Divine sovereignty and
rule after all, that which the mind most requires
for its comfort during the seasons of perplexity
which come to us all at times.
                  CHAPTER VIII.

    THE SOLDIER IN A BLACK COATj OR, NO
                           PEACE HERE.

  I" have been from my childhood always of a tumorous and stormy

nature." -- Luther.
   " Low, wretched, and dismal as they are, we see in them the

nursery of the Christian faith ; and truly it is in keeping, for if the

Founder of our religion was born in a stable, we must not be sur
prised that His humble and despised followers had no better shelter

than the tombs." -- Lord Shaftesbury on the Catacombs.

   "The fires were kept constantly supplied with human fuel by
monks, who knew the art of burning Reformers better than that
of arguing with them. The scaffold was the most conclusive of
syllogisms, and used upon all occasions. Still the people remained

unconvinced. Thousands of burned heretics had not made a single

convert." --Motley on the Dutch Republic.

APPOINTED PROFESSOR -- DEATH OF HIS FATHER-- IS PRAYER
      OF ANY AVAIL ?--WATCHED WITH RAT'S EYES--DEATH
      OF PRINCE ALBERT-- SCIENCE NOT OPPOSED TO THE
       BIBLE.

In the year i860 another honour fell to Kings-

ley's lot, for then Lord Palmerston, perhaps at the
instigation of Lord Shaftesbury, who was his son-in-
law, offered Kingsley the post of Regius Professor
of Modern History in the University of Cambridge.
Kingsley at once accepted the position, and the more

                                                  6S E
65 MEN WITH A MISSION.

readily because it brought him into contact with

the student youth of the University. Although

some of the college authorities had been prejudiced

very much against him on account of his books,

yet when he went up in the summer in order to
take his M.A. degree, Kingsley was very kindly

received. He was much gratified by this favourable

reception, which indeed was almost essential to his

doing any good among the young men. The pleasure

of this appointment was, however, speedily dashed by

a bereavement which fell upon him during the fall of
the same year. For an acid is always mixed in the

sweetest cup to prevent the injurious effects which

might follow from too much sweet in our lot. To

Kingsley the loss was a very great one, for with

the death of a father the home is for ever destroyed.

a                                                                                   of
                   a

                                                                               is,
Nothing can compensate for the loss which

course, the greater the better the departed has been

beloved. From the time of his father's death until

her own death Kingsley's aged mother lived with

him at Eversley.

   During the year i860 Kingsley once more en

raged the orthodox, who did not perhaps under

stand his meaning, or perhaps were unable to look

beyond the present. The summer of the year was

very wet one, and mindful only of the present

seen effects of the rain, many religious men began to

pray for fine weather. Kingsley understood better

what benefit the rains were to our country, and he

preached sermon upon the subject, which he after
THE SOLDIER IN A BLACK COAT.                         6J

wards published. The cholera had been for a long

time threatening an outbreak, but the heavy rains

averted the calamity by cleansing the drains and

sewers, and thus removing much dangerous matter

which would have produced or fed the disease. The

smaller evil he felt to be as nothing when compared

with the larger benefit, and he said so. Some expres

sions in the sermon, it is to be regretted, with regard

to prayer were open to serious misapprehension,

for some people supposed from them that Kingsley

objected to special prayer. This was not the case,

but believing as he did most intensely in the Divine

Wisdom with regard to all the events of life, Kingsley

rightly believed that although men may not be able

to detect the purpose which is behind the Divine

action, yet, after all, what God sends is actually,

and essentially, the very best for us. This principle

requires guarding, for we are permitted and even

commanded to pray ; in all things by prayer and

supplication is the Divine rule and standard, but

there is one view of prayer which would make man

the ruler of his own destiny. Of course, no one in

tends to do this, but in effect this is sometimes done,

and against this want of submission to God's will

Kingsley sturdily protested. In such matters we are

as little children,  but  Tupper has beautifully  :  --expressed
what is perhaps      the  truth of the question

" Thus, 0 worshipper of reason, thou hast heard the sum of the

matter :

And woe to his hairy scalp that restraineth prayer before

God.
68 MEN WITH A MISSION.

Prayer is a creature's strength, his very breath and being :
Prayer is the golden key that can open the wicket of mercy ;
Prayer is the magic sound that saitli to Fate, ' So be it ; '
Prayer is the tender nerve that moveth the muscles of

       Omnipotence ;

Wherefore pray, O creature, for many and great are thy

       wants.

Thy mind, thy conscience, and thy being, thy rights command

      thee unto prayer,
The cure of all cares, the grand panacea for all pains,
Doubt's destroyer, ruin's remedy, the antidote to all anxieties ;
So then God is true, and yet He hath not changed.

It is He that sendeth the petition, to answer it according to
      His will."

Ia the autumn of the year i860 Kingsley went

up to Cambridge for his first residence. His in

augural lecture  was  "sTuhbeseqRuoemntalyn  printed as a book
under the title  of                          and the Teuton."

The students at Cambridge took readily to him, and

pronounced that, whether they agreed with Kingsley
or not, they liked him. And this because Kingsley

aimed at practical benefit in all that he said and
Idid. " Did you ever hear                       " Coleridge
                                                never heard
is said to have once asked
                      amme anp.reac"h        ?

you do anything else," was the somewhat sarcastical

reply. Kingsley also was always preaching ; that
    he sought by all means and at all times to in
is,

                                             a

                                                              if
culcate the great principles of righteousness, and to

illustrate their consequences in daily life. And men
love to be faithfully dealt with in God's name,

only the preacher be true to his Master and Lord.

Kingsley's life well accorded with his own teachings,
and although, to quote South Sea phrase, " he was
THE SOLDIER IN A BLACK COAT.                             69

watched with rat's eyes," there was no crookedness

in him. Hence his preaching became attractive to

young men, and under his skilful treatment history

became a   lmiviignhgt--and  eloquent  portrait gallery  in
which one

           "Justify the ways of God to men."

    Our Saviour is a justification of this method of
teaching, for He took His texts from the incidents
of daily life and the scenes of nature, which were
thus made types and parables of nobler and Divine
things. Of course, in all, Christ and His atonement
are the central truth which explains and gives
meaning to every secondary truth, but it is good
not to forget that some needful truths are beauti
fully taught to us in nature which are preparatory
for the greater revelations of grace.

   It was a tribute both to Kingsley's personal merit

and also to his ability as a tutor, that at the express
desire of the Prince Consort, the Prince of Wales

was entrusted to his care for the study of modern

history. In February 1861 Kingsley formed a

private class, which consisted of eleven members,
at his own house in Cambridge. The Prince of
Wales rode over every morning to attend this class,

and his diligence and dignified courtesy quite won

his tutor's heart.

    Kingsley had also learned to love the Prince

Consort, whose noble qualities were only dimly dis

cerned by the nation when lie was taken away from
JO MEN WITH A MISSION.

us, and it was therefore a personal bereavement to

him when Prince Albert died. Then at last Eng

land, who had never previously understood the Prince,

awoke to a sense of his high qualities, and intense

sympathy was roused among all classes for the be

reaved Queen. It is doubtful if history supplies

another similar example of national sorrow at the
death of a ruler as was witnessed when Prince Albert

died. Death is busy everywhere, but men, by the

wise arrangement of Providence, must not stay tbeir

labour because of weeping, and indeed the Divine

medicine of work is one of the appointed remedies

for bereavement. Kingsley, therefore, in spite of

his sorrow,  disureinntgitlethdis"  year   finished his children's
book which                          The   Water-Babies."

    Geology had long been a fascinating study to
Kingsley, as it cannot but be to any one who has

sufficient patience to master the initial difficulties.

The testimony of the rocks he had regarded and

interpreted to others, and the study of stones had

been, almost as much as botany, his favourite relaxa

tion. In the year 1862 his contributions to this
science (which as yet is probably only in its infancy)

were favourably recognised by the highest authority,

for he was then elected as a Fellow of the Geological

Society. All through his ministry Kingsley con

tended that there was no necessary antagonism

between science and the Scriptures, nor indeed canis,

there possibly ever be so. It of course, customary

to regard the believers of revelation as chiefly in fault
THE SOLDIER IN A BLACK COAT.  ft

for this hostility, but although they have had much
to answer for upon this account, they are by no

means the sole offenders. There has been, upon
the part of some men of science at least, a disposi
tion to square the supposed teachings of science,

so as to damage the authority of the Bible. But

that book is authenticated by evidence which is

peculiar to itself, and which cannot be gainsaid,

and while human interpretations of it may be

erroneous, the divine facts and principles that are

contained in it cannot be wrong. It is far better

to await higher light than to assume a contradic
tion which in many cases, it is to be feared, is merely
alleged as a mask for personal neglect of the Gospel
and its claims. After all, many of the supposed
contradictions may- be dealt with upon the principle
of the countryman who described a harmony of the

Gospels as an attempt to make four men agree

who had never fallen out !

   God may be safely left to take care of what He
Himself has revealed, and further search will only

disclose deeper harmonies than ever have been

known before. All knowledge is good, and if it

be held devoutly, it may contribute to the growth
of the spirit in truth and righteousness. Fighting,
therefore, the battle of science against a narrow
ecclesiasticism which will not admit the progress of

mind, and combating, on the other hand, the dog

matism which ignores the Bible, Kingsley did his
best to lead both to a higher view of God.
7* MEN WITH A MISSION.

So he went his way quietly, as, on the whole,

most lives are spent, until, in the year 1863, he

was privileged to attend the wedding of the Prince

of Wales. This was certainly the most popular

royal wedding that had been seen for a long period

in Britain, and Kingsley was much affected by          it it,

for he devoutly loved his pupil. The affection was
reciprocated, and when, in the following summer,

the Prince and Princess of Wales visited Oxford,

was the express wish of the Prince that his tutor
should receive the degree of D.C.L. But such

intense opposition was made to this suggestion
upon the part of those who obeyed Pusey as leader

that the purpose was abandoned. The alleged

reason for this persecution was the asserted im

moral tendency of Kingsley's books. Whereas he

had but portrayed facts which none but persistent
eye-shutters could ignore, and had sought in his

own way to remedy evils which were too great

for others to do more than forget. Kingsley felt

the blow keenly, but he bowed to                       in the spirit
     :

                                                   it
which  "KiSnog   David   manifested when              Shimei cursed
him             let him    curse, because            the Lord hath

said unto him, Curse David."
CHAPTER IX.

'GAINST POPES OF VARIOUS DEGREE.

" Oh how skilful grows the hand

That obeyeth love's command !

It is the heart, and not the brain,

That to the highest doth attain,

And he who followeth love's behest

Far exceedeth all the rest."     --Longfellow.

" Ah, alas ! how many weeds
In my heart I've cherished,

And how many precious seeds           "
   Through neglect have perished
                                     !
                                 --Dowding.

   "God's Jacobs wrestle with God, but none shall wrestle with
them and prevail." -- Spurgeon.

" THRASH THEM WELL "--CONTROVERSY WITH NEWMAN-
      VISIT TO SPAIN -- THE TWO REVELATIONS-- THE FRANCO-
      GERMAN WAR--ATTACKED AGAIN.

The interpreter who accompanied the first mis

sionaries into Basuto Land suggested one day that

the best method of converting his fellow-country
Imen would be to thrash them well ! " will help
Iyou," said he, " and you shall see how well
                                                can

handle my whip. The only way of getting ar.y

73
74 MEN WITH A MISSION.

thing into these fellows is by blows." This ha3
been the long- accepted method of the Papacy, and

such is its spirit to-day. It goes without saying

that such a man as Kingsley was could not avoid
a conflict with the far-reaching power of Romanism.
The whole system, in its aggressive inroads into
home life, and especially in its offensive and degrading
teachings with regard to marriage, aroused his martial
ardour, and he did his utmost to combat it as a

national peril. It was not, however, that Romanists

in themselves were hateful to Kingsley ; for, on the
contrary, he fully admitted the virtues and patriotism
of many of them ; but Papacy, as a crafty enemy
of married life, and especially as a political menace,
incensed him. He was, moreover, consulted by
many persons who were lured by the tempting baits

that such a system offers to distressed souls, while

others earnestly seeking for help and light upon the
greatest of all questions asked him for aid which he

could not refuse. In almost all his books Kingsley

returned to the attack upon the system which, through
the Tractarian revival, then seemed likely to subdue

all England ; and, as will be seen, he even crossed
swords with Cardinal Newman himself, who was not
only a Papal dignitary, but also one of the most
accomplished controversialists of the day. Every
effort counts in such a mortal conflict, and Kings-

ley was able to save very many persons from
the strong delusion and the remorseful awakening
which reconciliation with Rome involves for those
        'GAINST POPES OF VARIOUS DEGREE. 75

who are deluded into the spider's web. Hating the
Papal tyranny as one of the worst forms of existing
superstition, Kingsley unwittingly found himself
involved, in the year 1865, in a controversy with
Cardinal Newman. He was without a doubt out
matched, for his antagonist was one of the most
subtle disputants of the day, but probably most
Englishmen felt that Kingsley lost no honour in
the unequal struggle.

    Weary and unwell, Kingsley accepted an invita
tion to pay a visit to Spain. The Iberian Peninsula

will always be interesting to Britons, if only for its

connection with Wellington ; but quite apart from

this special interest, it presents to a student of

human nature peculiar features which are nowhere

else so prominent. Its decline and fall are one of the
most signal instances of the decay which follows the
Saviour's curse. Some day a better Gibbon will
point out the lessons of Spain's downfall as a pre

sent-day appeal to human needs, and a lesson for
human care and study.

    This change of scene did Kingsley much good,
although it was not a sufficiently long holiday to

restore him to perfect health once more. In these

days of rapid living, men are tempted to forget that
there are laws of health which cannot be disobeyed,

and which, if neglected, avenge themselves upon the

transgressor. During the autumn of this same year
of grace Kingsley added to his other employments,
for he was then appointed one of the select preachers
76 MEN WITH A MISSION.

for the University of Cambridge. He then de
livered four sermons upon the life of King David,

and these discourses awakened considerable interest

among the graduates. The life-story of the man
after God's own heart will always be of spiritual
importance to all Christian people, and among all
the heroes of faith David continues to hold the

chief place. These and other labours so much

exhausted Kingsley, that he was compelled to take
another complete rest, which he obtained upon the
eastern coast of England. Yet, while his physical
and mental exhaustion prevented his attempting
for a time any further service, Kingsley continued
keenly sensitive to the solemn realities of the
Gospel. To him the truths of revelation were solid

realities, and God was ever intensely present and

vivid to his imagination. It was this realisation of

God's nearness which made science such an attrac

tive study to Charles Kingsley ; he felt keenly

that which Cowper has said of the true man : --

      " He looks abroad into the varied field

         Of nature, and though poor, perhaps, compared
        With those whose mansions flitter in his sight,
         Calls the delightful scenery all his own.
        His are the mountains, and the valleys his,
         And the resplendent rivers ; his to enjoy
        With a propriety which none can feel
         But who, with filial confidence inspired,
        Can lift to heaven an unpresumptuous eye,
         And, smiling, say, ' My Father made them all.'
         Are they not his by a peculiar right ?
         And by an emphasis of interest his!
         Whose eye they fill with tears of holy joy,
'GAINST POPES OF VARIOUS DEGREE.                  77

Whose heart with praise, and whose exalted mind
With worthy thoughts of that unwearied love

That planned and built and still upholds a world
                                              "
So clothed with beauty  for rebellious  man
                                             ?

    With such a belief it is no wonder that Kingsley
was able to drink delight from all nature, and that
in spite of ill health he continued to work at what

he believed to be his peculiar mission.

    His circle of friends was narrowed during the
year 1865 by the death of Dr. Whewell, who had
been, during a long life, a leader in every movement
for university progress and reform. But Cambridge

possessed a new interest for Kingsley, because his

eldest son was now studying there under his father's
eye. The gentry of the town and its vicinity also
welcomed Kingsley heartily to their homes, so that
his residence in Cambridge was extremely pleasant
to him. His affectionate, open spirit fascinated his
hosts, and from the stores of his ready mental

wealth he drew that which unconsciously enriched
them in heart and home. Such men as Kingsley are

utterly unconscious of the enormous influence for
good which they exert upon their friends and cir
cumstances, but they are the choicest gifts of God to

the world. Nor, amid the honours which were

beginning to crowd out of his memory the con
tempt and suspicion with which he had been for

long years regarded by the upper classes, did

Kingsley neglect or forget the poor. Indeed, a
deepening interest in them marked his extending
78 MEN WITH A MISSION.

influence over their wealthier brethren, and he did

not relax his efforts in order to benefit them. In his

own parish of Eversley, Kingsley did his utmost in
order to brighten the lives of those who are familiar
with forms of distress and anxiety that are unknown

to the classes who are relieved from the pressure

of poverty. To the labouring poor of the agricul
tural districts life is intensely weary and hopelessly
barren, and Kingsley was one of the earliest pioneers
in the efforts which are now being made with so
much success in every parish in order to educate
and interest the poor. He instituted a series of
penny readings, which were interspersed with con
certs for them, and he employed all other available
methods of awakening the torpid mental energies

of the people. A narrow and ignorant religionism,

which leaves out of sight the triumphs of art and

music, cannot attract or help the miserable masses ;

for while it is true that something more is required

for the social and moral regeneration of the people
than good music or a knowledge of the English poets,

it is also true that these things are handmaids of the

Gospel, and may be made both subservient to its pur

poses and helpful to its mission. Kingsley believed
in the use of every lawful means in the best of all
services ; he was indeed all things to all men, as

was St. Paul, if by any means that he might save

some. " Let us glorify the room," one was accus

tomed to say when he drew up the blinds, that the

sunlight might stream in ; Kingsley believed that
       'GAINST POPES OF VARIOUS DEGREE. 79

every ray of sunlight came from God, and he wel
comed all that would brighten the dreary lives of men.

It was this spirit that won for Kingsley the intense

love which many men who ordinarily despised
Christian ministers felt for him ; he was able to
strike points of union which made them regard
him as a friend. And, above all things, he was
real, and had no cant in him.

    His political insight was keen and his instincts
acute, but Kingsley was sometimes grossly mistaken
with regard to political matters. For example,
during the summer of the year 1866 he took part
in a banquet which was given at Southampton
to Eyre, who, as Governor of Jamaica, had pro
voked a rebellion, which he had afterwards repressed
with needless cruelty. The majority of educated
Englishmen felt that Eyre had also been guilty of
a foul crime in his execution of Gordon, who was

personally obnoxious to him, but Kingsley, perhaps

deluded by Oarlyle, publicly expressed his sympathy
with him. This may perhaps be partially attri
buted to the fact that Eyre stood alone and con
demned by almost the whole body of the nation, but
it is a pity that Kingsley was upon the wrong side.
With regard to the Franco- Prussian war, Kingsley
was in sympathy with his fellow-countrymen, for
he heartily rejoiced at the Prussian successes.
The sympathies of most Britons were entirely with
Germany in her resistance of the unprovoked and

cruel invasion which Napoleon attempted for pur
8o MEN WITH A MISSION.

poses of his own ; he, with many others, realised
also what a menace to the well-being and liber
ties of Europe the triumph of France would mean,
and for that reason, among others, Kingsley re

joiced at her defeat. At the same time, his saga

cious eye detected that Germany should, for her
own future safety, and in order to prevent any
such attack as Napoleon had planned, demand the
annexation of Alsace.

    Peace in his own life was not, however, to continue

long, for during the next year (i 868) he was so much

disturbed by the attacks that were made upon him,
that he seriously thought of resigning his professor
ship. His lectures were then the subject of a keen
and bitter attack, which was the expression of
personal spite, and Kingsley felt that no other
course was open to him but to resign his post.
But the sage counsel of disinterested friends induced

him to suspend his action for a year, if for no other

reason than to prevent the triumph of those who

had hoped thus to expel him from his position of
influence. Kingsley, to his advantage, possessed
the terrible calmness under attack which is a char

acteristic of our nation ; for that awful British silence

which has again and again awed our enemies is a

potent moral force of no small value in controversy.
And, like a wise man, he was too busy to waste his
time in personal squabbles while so much remained
for him to do. The Saviour's reply to- persistent
and hateful opposition was to continue His work,
'GAINST POPES OF VARIOUS DEGREE. 81

and this is probably always the best course for His

followers to take. It requires great self-restraint

and strong patience to be able to do this, but           a it,

after all, the best answer to our enemies.

   A terrible home-sorrow fell upon Kingsley in
is
          is

                a
this year of 1868, for then his eldest son left home

in order to begin new life amidst the prairies and

tropical forests of South America. The breaking-

up of a home always acute anguish to parents

who love their children, and Charles Kingsley

felt bitterly the first break in his happy family
circle. Of course families must be scattered, that

thus the world may be influenced for right and for

good, but the process  very painful one to the
parents. For just as   a is
                           a             converted into

                                     is
                       field

meadow by sporadic patches of grass, which grow

out until they have changed the whole face of the

country, so by the separate action of those who
were once united in Christian families will the

world be won for Christ and possessed by His

Spirit. It of course, good for the world, but the
is,
       is,
benefit as all good things must be in this world,

purchased at the cost of much pain.

                                         F
              CHAPTER X.

APPRECIATED TOO LATE; OR, TRUE
                  AFTER ALL.

         '' In His will is our peace--." Dante.

" To meet, to know, to love, to part,

la  the  sad  tale  of  many  a human heart."
                                          -- Coleridge.

" He extremely resembled a rural George the Fourth, with an

expansive, healthy, benevolent eagerness of sympathy in his face,

and greatly resembled him as a type of British character." -- Pre
terit A.

CANON OF CHESTER-- TAKING HOOT ONCE MORE-- "ALL OVER
      BUT THE SHOUTING ! "--LAST WORDS-- INTO NEW AND

       HIGHER SERVICE.

The year 1869 saw Kingsley relinquishing his
duties as Professor at Cambridge. He left the
University, having secured many valuable friend
ships during his brief course there, besides contri
buting not a little to the education of many young
men whose after-life was richly influenced by his

teaching.

   In December 1869 Mr. Kingsley with his

daughter started for the West Indies, in accepta
tion of an invitation from his friend, Sir Arthur

                                                               82
             APPRECIATED TOO LATE.     83

Gordon, who was then Governor of Trinidad.

With him Kingsley spent the Christmas of 1869,

and having at last realised his fondest hopes

and gazed upon the fairyland of which he had

dreamed from his childhood, he returned home

refreshed and reinspired for the brief period of

service that was yet before him. He returned also
to new honour, for by Mr. Gladstone's influence he

had been appointed Canon of Chester, and on the

1st of May   1870 Canon Kingsley went  "upChfeosrtehr,i"s
first three  months' residence there.
says George Borrow, " is an ancient town with

walls and gates, a prison called a castle, built

on the site of an ancient keep, an unpretending-

looking red sandstone cathedral, two or three

handsome churches, several good streets and certain

curious places called rows. The Chester row is a

broad arched stone gallery running parallel with
the street within the facades of the houses ; it is

partly open on the side of the street, and just one

storey above it. Within the rows, of which there

are three or four, are shops, every shop being on

that side which is farthest from the street. All

the best shops in Chester are to be found in the

rows. These rows, to which you ascend by stairs

up narrow passages, were originally built for the
security of the wares of the principal merchants

against the Welsh. Should the mountaineers

break into the town, as they frequently did, they

might rifle some of the common shops, where their
84 MEN WITH A MISSION.

booty would be slight, but those which contained
the more costly articles would be beyond their

reach. For at the first alarm the doors of the pas

sages up which the stairs led would be closed, and
all access to the upper streets cut off from the open
arches, of which missiles of all kinds, kept ready for

such occasions, could be discharged upon the in
truders, who would be soon glad to beat a retreat."

    Kingsley was soon at home in this ancient city,
and its warm-hearted people speedily became as
devotedly attached to him as the west country folk
had been. During his residences in Chester, Canon

Kingsley, as we must now call him, added to his
official duties special efforts on behalf of the young
men of the town. He started for their benefit a

class to which he taught his favourite science of
Botany. This effort was crowned with singular
success, and so much encouraged him that in the
course of the following year (1871) he ventured to
add a series of Geological lectures and studies to
his Botanical lectures. And he dared to speak out
to his young men upon the special perils to which

vigorous immature youth is exposed ; his protest
which was then publishedagainst gambling might

be widely scattered with advantage to-day. It were

to be wished that similar subjects would oftener
engage the attention of the Christian Church, for

they constitute the most serious perils to its existence.
Kingsley's mind was eminently practical, and that

in religion as well as in other things. This was
APPRECIATED TOO LATE.  85

seen in the effect which was produced upon him
by the serious illness of the Prince of Wales. For

some days the fever seemed as if it must prove

fatal, and Kingsley shared to the utmost the na
tional anxiety which was felt as the life of the
Prince hovered in the balance. As soon as Kingsley
learned that the Prince was out of danger, he took

care to point out how preventible such diseases were,

if only the rules of health were observed. In a

thanksgiving sermon which, as one of the Royal

chaplains, Canon Kingsley preached at the Chapel-

Royal, London, he pressed those views upon his
audience. For Kingsley believed in the sacredness
of life, and in the duty which lies upon every one
to preserve it as long as may be.

    He himself had need of a faithful counsellor to

check him in his too arduous efforts, for in 1872
symptoms of paralysis appeared as a result of over

work. It has been said that in a certain northern

city most men who have succeeded in obtaining a
competence die early from lack of definite and use

ful employment. It is to be feared, however, that

few are thus stricken down when compared with

the multitudes who are worn out by the fearful

pace at which they must live. With a great num
ber of persons, existence is a slow death in order to

secure the means which are required to live, and

nature rings her alarm-bells in vain. Kingsley
might have prolonged his life had he been con

tent to vegetate for a few years, but, after all, long
86 MEN WITH A MISSION.

life is by no means the highest nor even an unmixed

good. Many a man survives his reputation or his

power to benefit others, who, had he died before

this torpor came upon him, would have been canon

ised as a martyr and a hero. Yet, on the other

hand, it may be questioned if a man has a right by

excessive labour to deprive his family of the comfort

of his presence, for upon those who are left behind

falls the bitterness of grief when a good man goes

to his rest.

With Canon Kingsley the end of his life was

rapidly  drawing near,     although he     knew it    not.
One of   Frith's pictures   is entitled,              but
                                          " All over

the shouting," which also was true in this case.

But just as earthly things were slipping from his

grasp, honour came to Kingsley when it was too

late for him to enjoy or to employ it with ad
vantage. In the year 1873 Kingsley was appointed
Canon of Westminster, an honour which relieved

him from pecuniary anxieties, and also gratified

him intensely. Dean Stanley was then at the

Deanery, and very heartily he welcomed his father's

friend to Westminster. For two years only Kings-

ley enjoyed the privileges which the new position

afforded to him for fulfilling his life-work, and

then he passed beyond the veil. Monod said that

upon   his tombstone he     should  like  to have the
words                      endeth   the   first lesson."
        written, " Here

Kingsley 's first lesson ended in the year 1875.
    On the 29th of November 1874 Canon Kingsley
APPRECIATED TOO LATE.  87

preached in Westminster Abbey, and the next day

he took a slight chill. He disregarded this, and

with his wife he returned home to Eversley. There

the greatest sorrow which can befall a mortal man

threatened him, for it seemed as if his wife must be

taken from him. He did his utmost to console and

to support her for the terrible struggle which every

one dreads, without for a moment dreaming that he

himself must pass through the dark valley first and

alone. He was too much alarmed and distressed

at the magnitude of the threatened calamity to
think of himself, and he was consequently some

what careless of his personal comfort. The cold
now settled upon him, and it speedily developed

into pneumonia. On the morning of the 23rd of

January 1875 he passed away, and so gentle was
the parting that the watchers beside his bed knew

not the exact moment when he began to live in

the truest sense. Then, as is often the case, men

began to appreciate him, and his burial was a

national tribute to his worth and value. He was

awbturritieEedvr,,ers"alteisyh.isenot"ewrTnehdeextphrcerhosusurgchwhyisahar,d,p"inicttushraeeyssqcuheaurcrhweyycacerhnd-t

gate, and the short approach is by an avenue
               In a corner of this crowded and
of cypresses.

sequestered God's acre, a monument is placed over

the grave of Charles Kingsley. The name and

date of his death, January 23, 1875, are carved

upon the pedestal, and around the head of the
£8 MEN WITH A MISSION.

cross are the words, " God is Love." The grave

is close to the boundary-wall, and is overshadowed

by one of the outlying branches of a venerable Scotch
fir in the Rectory grounds, which are separated
from the churchyard by a low iron railing."
CHAPTER XI.

DEAD, BUT YET SPEAKING.

" If man be only born to die,

      Whence this inheritance of hope ?
  Wherefore to him alone were lent

      Riches that never can be spent ?
  Enough, not more, to all the rest,

     For life and happiness was given ;

  To man, mysteriously unblest,
      Too much for any state but heaven."
                                                     -- Montgomery.

" The absence of years has only served to deepen in me the con

viction that no gift can be more valuable than the recollection and
Ithe inspiration of a great character working on our own.
                                                           hope
Ithat you may all experience this at some time of your life, as
have done." -- Dean Stanley.

HERO-WORSHIP-- GOOD IN THE WORST AND BAD IN THE BEST
      OF MEN-- KINGSLEY'S FAULTS OF DEFECT CHIEFLY-- HIS
     INFLUENCE LIKELY TO LAST.

It is scarcely possible for any one to study the

life and works of such a man as Charles Kingsley
without incurring, during the reading, a danger of
something that is very much like that of hero-
worship. This is even true of many who are not
good men, because we can discover in the very
worst of men traces of good, which may perhaps

                                                               89
90 MEN WITH A MISSION.

humiliate us to find how much superior to our
selves in some things men whom we condemn and
despise have been. This is one of the benefits of

biography, and this it is which makes it so prac
tically useful to all men who will but use it wisely.
The lives of evil men are thus not only beacons to

warn us from doing wrong, but they are also examples
to shame us from some faults that they escaped.

With great and good men, on the other hand, it
may be disappointing, but it is also assuring to us,

when we discover that they were not perfect, but that,

on the contrary, they blundered as we may do. It

is not, therefore, in any captious spirit that we
should seek to see wherein they erred, in order not
only that we may not follow them in wrong-doing,
but that we may, in spite of our own errors, be
inspired to do in our lives what they did upon a
larger scale in theirs.

    Most men are easily divisible into classes ; and
Christian teachers are associated into parties which

are sharply defined. Canon Kingsley was, however,
a class by himself, and we cannot assign to him a
position within any recognised party lines. He was

certainly not an Evangelical, although, traces of his

early training lingered, perhaps unconsciously, in
him. His mental architecture and his likings for
sport unfitted him for the position of a profound
theologian. He also lacked altogether the high
qualities which Hooker and other great divines
possessed. Yet Kingsley's influence is far greater
           DEAD, BUT YET SPEAKING.                  91

than oven Hooker himself upon the active religious
thought of our time. For Englishmen do not so

much care for doctrinal controversies as for practi

cal life, and just because he exposed real evils and

attempted to grapple with present-day sins, Kingsley
was popular. His faults as a theologian were indeed
rather in defect than in excess ; for while he evidently

held the vicarious atonement of our Lord, he un

wisely did not assign to it the prominence which it

holds in the Scriptures. Kingsley followed Maurice

almost slavishly, and that perhaps accounts for his
mental deficiencies. And upon the future-life ques

tion Kingsley took up a position which he undoubt

edly believed to be true, and imagined, as those who

hold similar views often do, that declamation and

invective can prove that which requires argument.

The question is not to be settled by an appeal to

human feelings, for human feelings, after all, must

be adjusted to Divine facts. Whatever God does

must be right, and to express one's opinions in the

tone that Kingsley and George Macdonald have

sometimes employed, amounts to constructive blas

phemy.

Kingsley as a religious teacher is the exponent

of strong common-sense, and manliness, which dis

regards drapery, and realises the fact that the Gospel

is a living message for to-day. Latimer two hundred

years ago  th"uTsheexPprloesusgehd."  this   truth  in his famous
sermon on                                   Christ  is a continual
                                        "

sacrifice in effect, fruit, operation, and virtue; as
92 MEN WITH A MISSION.

though He had from the beginning of the world, and

continually should to the world's end, hang still on

the cross; and He is as fresh hanging on the

cross now to them that believe and trust in Him

as He was fifteen hundred years ago, when He was

crucified." The Evangelical party has also too much

left the care for the present life to Secularists, and
here Kingsley corrected them. It
                                             is,  indeed, as

social reformer, and an advocate for the helpless
aa
         ;and friendless, that Kingsley was chiefly eminent.

                      aHe helped to fight the battle of the Chartists, of
the victims of our vicious trade system, of the

agricultural labourers, and of others who had no
other friend. His books are not only picture of
                                             a

the times which they represent, but they are ex

pressions of the threatening evils which muttered
and rumbled below the surface of society, and in

some measure do so still.

But, above all things, Kingsley was man of
                                             it a
God and even when we differ from him,                 with  a
                                                 is

painful sense of how inferior we are to him in some

things that are especially Christian traits of character.

His life was full of holy impulses to earnest activity,

and therefore he may be accounted as pre-eminently

  man with mission. And we all have similar
                                             a
trust committed into our   --chawrege   for  which, indeed,a
we shall give an account               are   entrusted with

much of the comfort and the power to serve of

our brethren. Only when we rise to lofty con

ception of our powers and seek God's help to enable
DEAD, BUT YET SPEAKING.                                93

us to use them rightly can we win the high praise

that, like Kingsley, we have served our generation.

   As a delineator of character we must assign a
very high place to Kingsley. His conceptions of

the ideal life were very pure and lofty, and he was
careful to maintain his own standard all through

his writings. In his books it is true that there

are some facts and some characters which shock

and offend the susceptibilities of nervous Christian

people. But these things are to be found in the
world in which we live, and similar imperfections

may be seen in those who perhaps live next door to

us. The eye to see these things is not possessed by

Iall                      the  artist  vision is
                                       not see
of                          "      do
men ; and one feels that                          a part
a novelist's equipment.                            these

things in Nature," said a lady to Turner the artist ;
and he replied, " No, Madam ; don't you wish that
you could see them ? " The power of seeing is not

possessed by all persons, for only the prophet is de
scribed as one " who has had his eyes opened." The

gift has its penalty, it is true, for there is much that

pains in a keen inspection both of life and of those
who live it around us. Kingsley saw our glorious

constitution, and those who suffered under        it,  and

saw, too, that they were men of flesh and blood, who

felt keenly the wrongs that were inflicted upon them.
To him " the people " were so many reproductions of

himself, with power to love, to hate, to suffer, and to

know God. He dared to associate with infidels and

political agitators, and he found that these men had
94 MEN WITH A MISSION.

some reason for complaint, for both the Church and

the Government had ill-used them. It required

some courage for a clergyman to do as Kingsley

did ; nowadays such conduct would wia praise

rather than the reverse, but the authorities thought

otherwise when Kingsley set himself to understand

the evils that he hoped to lessen. That he did see

them, and accurately portray them, we are assured

by those who knew the evil dens, the foulness of

which he exposed, and the consequent suffering for
which he sought a remedy.

    Since Kingsley began his work a social revolu
tion has indeed been wrought in England, and he

has been not the least of the workers who have

secured victory.

Upon the whole, it seems to us that the true

work of Kingsley was accomplished by means of his
novels, which, since their recent reissue in a popular

form, have been sold by millions. They, and not the

sermons, are being read in all quarters, and their

opinions are being assimilated by many who say little
about them, and thus " he being dead, yet speaketh."

   It may seem to be superfluous to enumerate

them, but the publishers were certainly wise in
         " Westward       "
placing              Ho      at  the  head  of  their list.
                         !

Kingsley intensely hated the Jesuits, as indeed

every thoughtful patriot must do, and he spared no

scorn in order that he might warn his readers

against their seductions.
   " Admit the simoom if you will," says Dr. "Wylie
DEAD, BUT YET SPEAKING.  95

in his sketch of the Jesuits. " As it sweeps along
over our land, it will strip tree and field, and lay
their blossoms in the dust; but the next spring
will restore their perished honours. Admit the

plague if you will. It will make many a corpse, it

will dig many a grave, and call forth on the high
way the mournful pomp of many a funeral proces
sion ; but a few years will pass, and again the
merry laugh of boyhood and girlhood will be heard

on our streets, and new forms, stately and stalwart,

will arise to fight our battles and plough our fields
and carry on the business of life. But let the
Jesuit enter, and it will be the dread spectacle seen

by the apocalyptist when he beheld and, ' Lo, a pale

horse, and he that sat on him was Death, and Hell

followed with him.' It is not the bodies of living

men merely that the Jesuits will trample into the

grave. It is the manhood, the virtue, the patriotism,

the piety, of the land which he will waste and

trample down. All that is lovely, and noble, and

good, will wither and die under the sirocco breath of

Jesuitism."

    These words are not the utterance of a tyro, but

of a man who may almost claim to be a specialist

upon this subject, and they are therefore entitled to

the most profound respect. Kingsley felt as Dr.
Wylie does, and he wove his teaching into a tale in
which the effects of Jesuit teaching and the natural

results of Eomanism are vividly shown. It is true

that at present there is terrible apathy in England
96 MEN WITH A MISSION.

upon these matters. Mr. Stead is smitten with
intense affection for the Papacy and Cardinal Man
ning, and those who do not agree with him regard the
Papacy as they do the Mormons or the believers in
the Identity of the English nation with the Lost

Ten Tribes of Israel. It will require, we fear, some

signal catastrophe, perhaps a revival of persecution,
to prove to the present generation that the Papacy
is unchanged, and is as much a menace to individual
piety and national greatness as it ever was.

   It may be objected that such important truths

should not have been committed to a novel, but that
they required a more dignified vehicle. Yet no one
complains of the method by which a patient is
cured, or a child enticed away from the tiger's lair ;
so long as the peril is averted and the people are
saved, the method may be safely left to the doer's

own judgment. It may be given to one to accom

plish his life-purpose by

                       " Mighty deeds and great,"

while another may employ ornaments of rhyme ;
Kingsley chose the romance.

     Scattered up and down the book there are exqui
site sentences that embody sentiments which are as
important to-day as they were at the time that they

were first penned. For example, upon one page of

--" Westward Ho ! " we find these noble sentences :

    " ' The prerogative of a man is to be bold against
                   '

himself.
          DEAD, BUT YET SPEAKING.                             97

" ' How,  sir     '
               ?
" ' To conquer our own fancies, Amy as, and our own

lusts, or our ambition, in the sacred name of duty ;

this it is to be truly brave and truly strong, for he

who cannot rule himself, how can he rule his creed
                       '"
and  his  fortunes
                     ?

He describes also a man "who wanted but one

step to greatness, and that was this, that in his hurry
to rule all the world he forgot to rule himself."

  IThe next passage that we select from the same

--book supplies the keynote of Kingsley's teaching :

    " ' have tried to hint to you two opposite sorts

of men. The one trying to be good with all his

might and main, according to certain approved

methods and rules which he has got by heart, and,

like a weak oarsman, feeling and fingering his spi

ritual muscles over all day, to see if they are grow

ing. The other, not even knowing whether he is

good or not, but just doing the right thing without

thinking about as simply as little child, becauseit,a
                    is
the Spirit of God with him. If you cannot see

the  great gulf fixed      sboemtwe edeany.'th"e  two,    trust that
you  will discover                                is a I
                     it

    Which sentence might stand as text for all

Kingsley's novels. In each there exhibited the

contrast between the unconscious piety of the man

who often despised as an outsider and publican,
     is                                                 a

and the obtrusive self-conscious religion of the man

who wearies himself and others about self-inspec

tion and puerile trivialities instead of striving to do

                                                           G
98 MEN WITH A MISSION.

his duty through    the         strength                                   that    !  c"omaebsouthnrdosugihn
faith in Christ.              Westward                                      Ho
                      "

passages that might be read and quoted with ad

vantage oftener than they are. For example, there

is an awful amount of truth in the sarcastical sen
tences : " ' Go to, lad ! Slander thy equals, envy thy

betters, pray for an eye which sees spots in every

sun, and for a vulture's nose to scent carrion in
Ifevery rose-bed.
                              thy friend win a battle, show
that he has needlessly thrown away his men ; if he

lose one, hint that he sold it ; if he rise to a great
place, argue favour; if he lose
                              if                                                      argue Divine

                                       it,
justice. Believe nothing, hope nothing, but endure

all things, even to kicking,                                               aught may be got

thereby; so shalt thou be clothed in purple and

fine linen, and  dsaity.i'n"  kings' palaces, and                                        fare sump
tuously every                     There are, alas                                        many who
                              :

                                I'

                                                  a
                                                                                     !
can say with Salterne " am man who has all

his life tried the  carfoteorkeadll.'ro"ad                                 first,  and   found  the
straight one safer

    Kingsley's own conception of his office he has

depicted in graphic words thus --

    " No wonder that young men, as the parsons com
plain so loudly, will not listen to the Gospel while
it        it,

    is '                     ;

                              ;a
                                '

                                                                        :
        presented to them by men on whom they can

not but look down             set of soft-headed fellows

who cannot dig and are ashamed to beg and, as my
                                                                                      ;

'brother has must be          parsons before they                                        are  men.'
                                 and even though                                          we   may
    " Ay,' said Frank

excuse that in Popish priests and friars, who are
           DEAD, BUT YET SPEAKING.              99

     vowed not to be men, and get their bread shame

     fully and rascally by telling sinners who owe a

     hundred measures to sit down quickly and take

     their bill and write fifty ; yet for a priest of the

     Church of England (whose business it is not merely
     to smuggle sinful souls up the backstairs into heaven,

     but to make men good Christians by making them

     good men, good gentlemen, and good Englishmen)

     to show the white feather in the hour of need, is to

     unpreach in one minute all that he had been preach
     ing his life long.' "

        In our judgment the book is wholly good, and

     will impart vigour and act as a tonic to any young

     man who will read it through once or twice thought

     fully and carefully, not only in order to obtain amuse

           it,
     ment from but also in order to allow its iron and

     steel to impregnate his mind and soul. Next to
     " Tom Brown's Schooldays," which naturally much
                                     is it
     resembles, there no manlier book in our language,
                is
     and its bracing spirit  contagious and beneficial,
                      it is

                                  a

                               if
     as all who have read must confess.

    Next in importance as moral force we should
place " Alton Locke," which, read side by side with

Thomas Cooper's life, will be felt by all to be truthaa

ful picture --perhaps portrait. It true that there
                a
                                  taken from their con
                      if
are some passages which,

     nection, are untrue in fact, but the book as whole

it is  one which should and will enlarge the heart, and

     dispose to see brethren and friends where perhaps
       it

       previously only saw foes.
TOO MEN WITH A MISSION.

As a work of art, " Hypatia " is generally con

sidered the best of all Kingsley's works, but we have

never been able to kindle under it as we have
always done under " Westward Ho ! " For one

thing, the teachings of the book upon the after-life

are, we believe, unscriptural ; an d for another thing

we have no great admiration of Arsenius nor even

for Cyril.
    " Two Years Ago" is a work of another character,

and it contains some passages that Kingsley never

surpassed. The character of Tom Thurnall resem

bles Kingsley in many points ; he
   ;                                 indeed, the

nineteenth century Esau. For Esau does not huntis,
                 is
much now, but he still glories in his strength, andis

does not think much about God or the life to come.

He knows nothing about them he does not pray,

nor feel any desire to do so, because he absorbed

in the practical duties of life. The manner in which

Kingsley deals with this type of character splen

did we are charmed as Tom Thurnall at last comes
;

to feel his defect and to seek God.

We hear that the vivid and awful description of

the night that Vavasour spent upon Snowdon led

to the conversion of wanderer who had lost his
   is
       a

                                     is
                                            a

                                                 it,
way through life, and we do not wonder at             for

the word-painting awful and grand, resembling,

indeed, one of Martin's pictures.
    With " Hereward the Wake " we confess that we

find no sympathy whatever. The tale  sad one,

and we fancy that the topic was not so congenial
DEAD, BUT YET SPEAKING:                  101

to Kingsley as were the subjects of his previous
stories. That it is readable, and will do good, we

can quite believe, for we cannot imagine that

Kingsley could write anything that would not be
interesting and benefioial in some degree, but it
certainly is far below " Westward Ho ! " or even
" Alton Locke," in diction, and in its possession of

that subtle somewhat that we may define as the

soul of a book.

Of his other works no mention need be made

here, for long after his essays and sermons cease

to be read, Kingsley's novels will be read and

studied. For human life is much the same in

every age, and its sufferings are essentially the same,
as also the remedies for its misery are identical for

Iall. Wesley in his journals tells us about a revenue
officer who  while dying gasped    out feebly, " --want
                 This is the real
--Christ."                         want  --ofCahlrlismt e; na,nadnidt
--of the world at large ; they     want

is the business of all who love Christ to bring Him

into living contact with the dying seeking myriads.
We believe that, in his own way, Kingsley did bring

Christ to men, and that because of this his novels
will live and exert a beneficial influence for years to

come. As to whether he might not have accom

plished more had he not held certain beliefs that

he felt bound to publish, is quite another question r

let us remember that the coxswain of the lifeboat

who has expended his energies in bringing .some of

the shipwrecked safely to shore cannot very well be
102 MEN WITH A MISSION.

censured because others who stood upon the shore
suppose that he might have rescued more.

    Dean Stanley, who understood and consequently
loved Kingsley, in the funeral sermon that he

Ipreached for his friend at Westminster Abbey

speaks thus of his character : " would fain recall
some of those higher strains which, amid manifold
imperfections acknowledged by none more freely
than himself, placed him unquestionably among the
conspicuous teachers of his age, and gave to his
voice the power of reaching souls to which other
preachers and teachers addressed themselves in
vain. . . . He was what he was, not by virtue of
his office, but by virtue of what God made him in

--himself. . . . He was sent by Providence, as it

were, far off to the Gentiles far off, not to other
lands or other races of mankind, but far off from
the usual sphere of minister or priest, to ' fresh
woods and pastures new,' to find fresh worlds of
thought and wild tracts of character in which he
found a response for himself because he gave a re
sponse to them. . . . Scholar, poet, novelist, he
yet felt himself to be, with all and before all, a
spiritual teacher and guide. . . . Amidst all the
wavering inconstancy of our time, he called upon
men of his generation, with a steadfastness and
assured conviction that of itself steadied and re
assured the minds of those for whom he spoke, to
stand fast in the faith."
DEAD, BUT YET SPEAKING.                103

    Nothing need be added to these noble words,
except to express a wish that it may be the testi

mony of those who come after us that our influence

upon them has been what Kingsley's influence has

been to many, wholly for good.

   "Life is a serious thing," say3 the German

Schiller; a conviction of its intense seriousness

Ishould compel us to right and worthy efforts to

employ it for the highest ^purposes. " cannot do
without the man Christ Jesus," was Kingsley's
heartfelt confession, and in the faith and convic
tion that prompted it are the secret of his manliness
and usefulness. This faith in Christ Jesus counter

acted his errors, strengthened his heart, and made
him one of the successful workers in the world.

     " They who would be something more
        Than they who feast and laugh and die will hear

         The voice of duty as the note of war,
         Nerving their spirits to great enterprise,
         And knitting every sinew for the charge.
         Who do, and who have done,

       All that has ever aided man to free

         Himself imperfectly from grosser self,
        And made his seeing pure ;-- such souls sublime

        Will never want for blessed joy in work,

         Working for Duty, which can never die."
                                                                        --W00LNEE.

THE END.

PRINTED BY BALLANTYNE, HANSON AND CO.
               EDINBURGH AND LONDON.
                                               2>'

                                               .C

I

          DATE DUE      DATE ISSUED  DATE DUE

afWI                             3

'         ;ir,R16'! 54

 APR 2

APR ,1 0                

 MAY

   * Mm ... I f\ M ^ n

