The life of Philip Henry Gosse, F.R.S. by his son Edmund Gosse.

Gosse, Edmund, 1849-1928.
London : K. Paul, Trench, Trübner, 1890.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/aeu.ark:/13960/t8nc6g33j

                                          Public Domain in the United States
                                              http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-us

                                                          We have determined this work to be in the public domain
                                                          in the United States of America. It may not be in the
                                                          public domain in other countries. Copies are provided
                                                          as a preservation service. Particularly outside of the
                                                          United States, persons receiving copies should make
                                                          appropriate efforts to determine the copyright status
                                                          of the work in their country and use the work accordingly.
                                                          It is possible that current copyright holders, heirs or
                                                          the estate of the authors of individual portions of the
                                                          work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert copyrights
                                                          over these portions. Depending on the nature of subsequent
                                                          use that is made, additional rights may need to be obtained
                                                          independently of anything we can address.
                                                                                 i.<o

                                                                                / .%
                                                                                                                                 Q<

                                                                            ^

                                                                                  :/

                               IMAGE EVALUATION
                               TEST TARGET (MT-3)

                               1.0           |50 IIIM                 M

                               I.I           1|40 2.0

                               1.25                            Illll 1.8
                                                                 11 1.6
                                             \A.

                    V]                                                             4?

                  ^^                                                              V

            VI                                                              iV \^
          c*
       c^i          c>1    /A                                                <\

V>            <i/w^'^^                                                                 ^
                       c?
                 /             PhotOgTdphic                                 ^i>; 4^

                                  Sciences             23 WEST MAIN STREET
                               Corporation             WEBSTER, NY. 14580

                                                           (716) 872-450r
CIHM/ICMH   CIHM/ICMH

Microfiche  Collection de
Series.     microfiches.

                          Canadian Institute for Historical Microreproductions / Institut canadien de microreproductions historiques

OV
          Technical and Bibliographic Notes/Notes techniques et bibliographiques

The Institute has attempted to obtain the best                 L'institut a microfilm^ le meilleur exemplaire
original copy available for filming. Features of this          qu'it lui a 6t^ possible de se procurer. Les details
copy which may be bibliographically unique,                    de cet exemplaire qui sont peut-etre uniques du
which may alter any of the images in the
reproduction, or which may significantly change                point de vue bibliographique, qui peuvent modifier
the usual method of filming, are checked below.                une image reproduite, ou qui peuvent exiger une

                                                               modification dans la m6thode normale de filmage

                                                               sont indiques ci-dessous.

n Coloured covers/                                              Coloured pages/
         Couverture de couleur                                          Pages de couleur

D Covers damaged/                                              D Pages damaged/
         Couverture endommagee                                          Pages endommagees

n Covers restored and/or laminated/                             Pages restored and/or laminated/
         Couverture restaur6e et/ou pellicul^e                          Pages restaurees et/ou pelliculees

D Cover title missing/                                         Q' Pages discoloured, stained or foxed/
        Le titre de couverture manque                                   Pages decolorees, tachetees ou piquees

D Coloured maps/                                               r~V Pages detached/
        Cartes geographiques en couleur
                                                               ' I Pages detachees

D Coloured ink li.e. other than blue or black)/                I    ~l/ Showthrough/
         Encre de couleur (i.e. autre que bleue ou noire)      I      I Transparence

     Coloured plates and/or illustrations/                      Quality of print varies/
     Planches et/ou illustrntions en couleur                           Qualite inegale de limjpression

     Bound with other material/                                     Includes supplementary material/
     Relie avec d'autres documents                                      mprend du materiel supplementaire

D    Tight binding may cause shadows or distortion                  Only edition available/
                                                                    Seule Edition disponible
     along interior margin/
     La reliure serree peut causer de I'ombre ou de la              Pages wholly or partially obscured by errata
     distortion le long de la marge int^rieure                      slips, tissues, etc., have been refilmed to

D    Blank leaves added during restoration may                      ensure the best possible image/
     appear within the text. Whenever possible, these               Les pages totalement ou partiellement
     have been omitted from filming/                                obscurcies par un feuillet d'errata, une pelure,
     II se peut que certaines pages blanches ajout6es               etc., ont et6 filmees d nouveau de facon a
     lors dune restauration apparaissent dans le texte,             obtenir la meilleure image possible.
     mais, lorsque cela ^tait possible, ces pages n'ont
     pas ete filmees.

D Additional comments;/
         Commentaires supplementaires.

This item is filmed at the reduction ratio checked below/
Ce document est film^ au taux de reduction <^diqu6 ci-dessous.

10X       14X                            18,^                  22X       26 X                           SOX

                                                            y

     12X                        16X                    20X          24X                    28X                  32X
The copy filmed here has been reproduced thanks      iL'exemplaire film^ fut reproduit grace la
to the generosity of:
                                                     g^ndrositd de:
    Library
    Laurent ian University                               Bibliotheque
                                                         Universite Laurentienne
The images appearing here are the best quality
possible considering the condition and legibility    Les images suivantes ont et6 reproduites avec le
of the original copy and in keeping with ,ne         plus grand soin, compte tenu de la condition et
filming contract specifications.                     de la nettetd de l'exemplaire film^, et en
                                                     conformity avec les conditions du contrat de
Original copies in printed paper covers are filmed   filmage.
beginning with the front cover and ending on
the last page with a printed or illustrated impres-  Les exemplaires originaux dont ia couverture en
sion, or the back cover when appropriate. All        papier est imprimde sont film^s en commencant
other original copies are filmed beginning on the    par le premier plat et en terminant soit par la
first page with a printed or illustrated impres-     dernidre page qui comporte une empreinte
sion, and ending on the last page with a printed     d'impression ou d'illustration, soit par le second
or illustrated impression.                           plat, selon le cas. Tous les autres exemplaires
                                                     originaux sont film6s> en commencant par la
The last recorded frame on each microfiche           premiere page qui comporte une empreinte
shall contain the symbol --- (meaning "CON-          d'impression ou d'illustration et en terminant par
                                                     la dernidre page qui comporte une telle
TINUED"), or the symbol V (meaning "END              empreinte.

whichever applies.                                   Un des symboles suivants apparaitra sur la
                                                     derniSre image de chaque microfiche, selon le
Maps, plates, charts, etc., may be filmed at         cas: le symbole --·- signifie 'A SUIVRE", le
different reduction ratios. Those too large to be
entirely included in one exposure are filmed         symbols V signifie "FIN".
beginning in the upper left hand corner, left to
right and top to bottom, as many frames as           Les cartes, planches, tableaux, etc., peuvent etre
required. The following diagrams illustrate the      film6s des taux de reduction diff6rents.
method:                                              Lorsque document est trop grand pour etre
                                                     reproduit en un seul cliche, est film^ partir
                                                     de Tangle sup^rieur gauche, de gauche droite,
                                                     et de haut en bas, en prenant le nombre
                                                     d'images n^cessaire. Les diagrammes suivants
                                                     illustrent la m^thode.
1

                2
                                                          "),

                              3
                                                                                                              d
                                                                                                                    le
                                                                                                                                                              il
                                                                                   id

41
               52
                            63
V
"^wttTninwtirimanji.i  IW-'MUII. . iW<imiltijiI^ij .^^^1..>^;.»;

                               THE LIFE OF

        PHILIP HENRY GOSSE, E.R.S.

9
        OTHER WORKS BV

MR. EDMUND GOSSE.

                              IN VERSE.  I.VRrcAL  Poems.
                                                   Poems.
ON VIOL AND FLUTE :

       New ICdilion. Price 6j-.

FERDANSI IN EXILE, and other

Second Edition. Price 6s.

                             IN PROSE.   1S79. Popular Edi-

NORTHERN STUDIES.

       tion. 1890.

LIFE OF GRAY.

SEVENTEENTH-CENTURY STUDIES.
       18S3. Second Edition, i:.-85. Price los. dd.

LIFE OF CONGREVE. 18S8.

A HISTORY OF EIGHTEENTH-CEN-
    TURY LITERATURE. 18S9.
IS.
IS
                                       mn

         ,i^4f-fn^J^U

k'i^\r*'^^
               THE LIFE

                                                                                 OF

i PHILIP HENRY GOSSE

                                          F.R.S.

                                                           BY HIS SON

                        EDMUND GOSSE

                                                      HON-. M.A. OF TK,N,TV a.LLEOE, CAMnKII,,,

                     LONDON                                   .^.  CO., Lt?.

KEGAN PAUL. TRENCH. TRUBNER

                                                        1890
                                                                                                                \

             ^ 1a

{JIlu rights of translation and of reproduction are reserved.')
                                                                '10

           F;I)WIN RAV LANKESTER. KR.s., I.L.I).,'
              ."""-AN'.·.W'.PCRVOOCIKNEASRSiNVOrR,v,OK.:R,KXsOixTUovou,K,,(.(v)iK.LXai.,,:,.,,;n,i.K:.cuoO,,s,,nim.,.LK>K..n,,vKr, nKOVlK.s,,AR,n..n.v

Dear Laxkkstkr,

                   No one who reads this hook will rojinre to be told
that there were many points of vital importance upon > Mrh your
convictions and those of the subject of this l.io.rap-. were div
metncally opposed. Vet you resp-ected bun and v
and of all onr friends you were the earliest to ur<,e  admu-ed vo^^
                                                       me t..> under-
take this lauour of love. I desire to inscribe your ...u:c on this
tir.^^ page of my book, not merely because of those pleasant
relations which have so long existed between vour family and
m.ne, but as a hint to such readers as may con.e
of It with opinions strongly biassed in one direction  to the perusal
                                                       or in another
that It IS wise to "condemn not all things in the Coun.i1 of
Trent, nor approve all in th e Synod of Durt." You, at 1least, in
reading this life of your old acquaintance, will be pleased where
you can share his beliefs, and interested in tl le attitude of his
mind where you wholly disagree with 1iim.

                   Belie ve me to be

Ocfoh      i8<)0.  ^'ou rs very sincerely,
                                        Edmund Gos ;sK.

^y-ZcJ/*/
              i' RE FACE

                              -*&»-

   doubt that he h-,,1 n f  ,                     ^ ^ " ^"-'^^ "' without

   graphical material, In ,8G.^' 1,1^1                            "'" "^ '^'°-

   ''us,,:,,r,rawtonendratel",hcleitkhheaaamlutyna.tstTMsoseoird,,efdcha,,il^s,l rteciha,hieti,l,,denhvouoefoandntHth!ne ^,,r;Mo;::,^'-7";">' '"""""""'"""=""-"'-"^"'·^''

   ".Hia. As
                            iii;                                           '''

   is                                f
           a
                                 'l

                                                               '

                                                      ^

   ei',,.l',:r"°'"r'"'^"""-of elderly persons, his inter

   1«-- had passed the period
                                                         TM'"'"-°«"P>..-cs

                                           ,n ''"'"'""'' '"'^"
                            f

                                           '",

ri:';f'":";' "'""letters, and an nnbroken series                           '^''""?
                                                                  '°°^ "P '"'>
completed the tale The in
the rather unnsna^ood ,0
-"> "'tcrial, and o^havinj
              I                                                            '^ "-'

                         ,f                                                ''"'^"^'
                                       ,
                                                      '

                                                  l''-"'"^""^'

  m":;':':; Lrn;;'^The subject of this n,c,,,:iru-,":'^:'^^'"^;^r"';'""'^-^ve'r'y-.

character. Hcu-.. lo- ·                                                    sintruJar
-ientifie
              a                                   -'"/"^          "^--y-^i
                                        '           '"^^'''·'f"-

                               '
                                    ;'"; ''
or observer of equal distineti^             "·^" ^^               ·''"y -riter

   man should write a lIoonns.,f s.er,esa  of popular    "irious           that
                                                          books,           and
                                                                                                                 f^m

                                          PREFACE.

should add in many directions to the sum of exact know-
ledge, and at the same time have so little in common with

his contemporaries as my father had. I hope that in the

course of this narrative the salient points of a remarkable
mental constitution, of a peculiarly isolated mind, will be
found to have been so illuminated as to permit the reader
to form for himself a portrait of the man. I have not con-
cealed or manipulated any of his peculiarities. My only
endeavour has been to present my father as he was, and in
so doing I have felt sure of his own approval. He utterly
despised that species of modern biography which depicts
what was a human being as though transformed into the
tinted wax of a hairdresser's block. He used to speak
with strong contempt of "goody-goody lives of good m en.'
He was careless of opinion, and he lived rigidly up to a
private standard of his o\\n\. I have taken it to be the
truest piety to represent him exactly as I knew him and
have found him.

   For various statements in the earlier pages I am

indebted to the still unpublished autobiography of my
grandfather, ]\Ir. Thomas Gossc, and to the memory of my
venerable uncle, Mr. William Gosse. Among those whom

I have to thank for their kindness in helping me to pro-

 duce this volume, I must mention two friends in particular,
 Mr. I'Vancis Darwin, F.R.S., who has allov/ed me to print
a number of very interesting letters from his father ; and

 Mr. Arthur E. Shipley, Fellow of Christ's College, Cam-
 bridge, who has very kindly revised the zoological
 portions of the text.
                        CON T E N TS

I. Cnii.Diiooi) fiSio-iS27)...                        I'AfJE

 II. N'KWKorXDI.ANI) (1S27, 1S2S)                          I

III. XFWi-orMH.Axn (1828- KS35)                           30
                                                          61
IV. Ca.n..\i)a (1835-18381
                                                          89
V. Alabama (1S38)
                                                       no
   VI.  LlTKRARY .StIU'GCI.ES (1839-1S44I
                                                       149
 vir.   Jamaica (1S44-1846)                            I So
        LiTKRAKY Work in Lo.vdo.n- (1S46-1851          206
\iii.   Work at iiik .Skaskouk (1852-1856)
                                                      2,55
  IX.                                                 271
                                                      306
   x.   I.iTKRARv Work i.\ Devonsiiikk  (1857- IS64)  324
 XI.    Last \'kars (1S64-1SSS)                       353
        Ge.ni:rai. Charac- istics                     375
XII.

        Al'I'F.NDIX I.

        Al'I'EMilX II.

                                                              k

                        ssa
^~T

      ^^^
                           THE LIFE OF

     PHILIP HENRY GOSSE, F.R.S.

                               CHAPTER I.

                                                CHILDHOOD.

                                                  1 8 10-1827.

     EARLY in tlic sprinij of 1807 a middle-aged gentleman
                  arii\ccl in Worcester by the Bath coach, and pro-
        ceeded to modest lodgings, where he was already well
        known and highl>' respected. 1 fe was a man of a somewhat
         rueful countenance, whose well-made, thread-bare clothes
        indicated at the same time a certain past quality and an
M obvious state of present impecuniosity. He was tall and
         thin, his hair was prematurely whitening above a dark
         complexion, and his grave and gentle features very rarely
        relaxed into a smile. The simple wallet which comprised
        all his worldly possessions containcl, beside his slender
        store of clothes and necessaries, little except a Bible, and
         a Theocritus in Greek, which never quitted him, but
        formed, at the darkest moments of his career, a gate of
        instant exit from the hard facts of life into an idyllic world
        of glowing pastoral antic^uity. His one other and most
          indispensable companion was a box, containing colours,

                                                                                                           B
            THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

a bundle of five brushes, and some leaves of ivory, for he
was a perambulating^ miniature-painter.

   This was Mr. Thomas Gosse, father of tlic subject and
grandfather of the writer of the present memoir. Born in
1765, he had been the eleventh of the twelve children of
William Gosse, a wealthy cloth manufacturer of Ringwood,
in Hampshire. The family had been leading citizens of
that town, and had always been engaged in the same
industry since the reign of Charles II., legend attributing
to the race a French origin, and an advent into England
at the Restoration. The name appears to have no direct

or recent relation with Goss, a frequent name in the west
of England ; but to mark kinship with the southern h'rench

family, from which Etienne Gosse, the author of Le
MciUsaiit, sprang at the close of the eighteenth century.
Mr. William Gosse had been not a little of a local magnate,
and had served, by virtue of some Welsh estates, as High
Sheriff of Radnorshire. But the earliest introduction of

machinery had struck heavily at the woollen manufacture,
and he died in 1784, at the age of sevent}', an impoverished

though not a ruined man.

   Of the divided remnant of the father's fortune, Thomas
Gosse had, by 1807, long spent the last penny of his
trifling share. lie had been trained, at his own passionate
request, to be an artist, had worked at the schools of the
Royal Academy under Sir Joshua Reynolds, and for

twenty years had lived precariously as a mezzotint en-

graver, first under Anker Smith, A.R.A., then under
William Ward, A.R.A., and at length independently.
But he had no push in him, no ambition, and no energy.
 He was of a solitary and retiring disposition, and incapable
of any business exertion. At last, in the summer of
 1S03, he had ceased to follow engraving. The fashion

 for mezzotints was everywhere on the decline, and their
 he                                                 CHILDHOOD.

High         place was being taken by the highly finished miniatures
             on ivory of which Cosway had been the most famous
lomas        executant in tlic previous generation. The fiishion had
of his       now filtered down to the lower middle class, and it was
donate       become the practice for artists not of the highest rank to
 oi the      go round the country from town to town, staying long
ul for       enough in each place to paint the heads of such clients as
 nt cn-      they met with. Thomas Gossc, who had worked under
             Edward Penny, R.A., had preserved something of the dry
  undcr      manner of that pupil of Hudson's, but had learned from
JLlcntly.    his own long practice in mezzotint engraving to draw with
 Miergy.     accuracy. Never inspired or in any way first-rate, his
 [apable     miniatures are nevertheless fairly accomph^iied, and the
             best of them possess a certain delicate charm of colour.
      r of   But he had no introductions, he shrank with extreme
  tashion    timidity from any advertisement of himself, and during
             the first years of his new profession he sank lower and
      their  lower into the depths of genteel poverty. When he
             entered Worcester in 1S07, the fortunes of the gentle,
             melancholy, unupbraiding man were at their nadir. He

             was in his forty-third year, and he was ready to despair
             of life.

                 In his perambulations he had several times visited the
             city of Worcester, for which he professed a special par-
             tiality. His particular patrons and friends were a Mr.
             and Mrs. Green, people of wealth and education, at whose
             table the miniature-painter, w'th his tags of Theocritus
             and his Parson Adams' manner, was always welcome. On
             this occasion he met for the first time a fresh inmate of
             their establishment, a Miss Hannah Best, a very handsome
             and powerfully built girl of twenty-six, who occupied an
             ambiguous position, half lady's-maid, half companion, in
             the Green household. The fiict was that she had run away
              from her own home to escape the tyranny of her mother.
THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

Ilcr father, Philip IJcst, of Titton Brook, near Stourport,

was a yeoman, who cultivated his paternal acres, and

added to his income occasionally by workint^ for hire
under neighbouring farmers. His wife, the mother of

Hannah Best, was a virago of a bygone type. She was

a thorough shrew, who kept her children, and for that

matter her husband, in wholesome awe of her tongue and

hand. Even when her daughters were grown women,

Mrs. Best would scruple not, when her temper was aroused,

to whip off her high-heeled shoe and apply personal

chastisement in no perfunctory fashion. It was while

smarting under one of these humiliating inflictions that

Hannah Jiest had fled to an asylum in the house of Mrs.

Green, in Worcester.

The beauty, the strength, the pastoral richness of the

nature of Hannah Best produced an instant and extra-

                                ordinary effect on Thomas Gossc. She was one of his
1 Sicilian shepherdesses come to life again. Theocritus him-

self seemed to .lave prophesied of this beautiful child of a
race of neatherds. Like another daughter of Polybotas,

she had but just come from piping to the reapers on the

Titton farm. He fell violently in love, for the first time

in his life. Hannah Best, when he proposed, was startled

and repelled. This grey and withered man, who never
smiled, without fortune, without prospects -- what sort of

husband was that for her  But Mr. and Mrs. Green,
a
         a

                           ;
                                  .''

                                                     ;

                                                                   a
glad perhaps to have an embarrassing knot thus opportunely

cut, presented other views of the matter to her. He was

a gentleman and man of education, such as Hannah

could not hope otherwise to secure he was a man of pure

conduct and pious habits he would doubtless thrive when

once her strength of purpose and practical good sense

should supply backbone to his character. Not enthusi-

astically, she consented to marry him, and after fashion
CHILDHOOD.  S

she learned to love him. Love or no love, she made for        SI

nearly forty years an ideal mainstay and central standard
of his family life. They were married at the parish

church of St. Nicholas, in the city of Worcester, on July

15, 1807.

   He had taken to a nomadic life, and where he wandered
she was bound to wander. They began a desperate flight
from town to town, c([ualled only in discomfort by the
hurried and incessant pilgrimages of the parents of
Laurence Sterne. The first movement was to Gloucester,
where no one could be found to sit for a portrait. In a
panic, the couple presently fled to Bristol, where they
lodged for a few months, near the Mot Wells, Thomas
Gosse painting " valetudinary " and other ladies and teach-
ing drawing with tolerable success. On April 24, 1808,
a son, William, who still survives, was born to them in
Bristol. After shifting out to Clifton, and then iu again to
Bristol itself, they came to the conclusion that business

was exhausted in that neighbourhood, and in January, 18 10,
shifted again, this time back to Worcester ; thence to
Upton-on-Severn, thence to Evesham, and back once more

to Worcester, just in time for the auspicious incident to
take place of which the previous lines arc but the necessary

prologue.

  Philip Henry Gosse, the second child of Thomas

and Hannah Gosse, was born in lodgings over the shop
of i\Ir. Garner, the shoemaker, in High Street, Worcester,
on April 6, 18 10. Short rest was given to the unfortu-
nate mother, for in July the family, now four in number,

made yet another migration, this time to Coventry, where

they took lodgings in West Orchard. For some months

Coventry proved to be a capital centre, and Mr. Gosse
had plenty of business, but in December of the same year
they were off again, and now to Leicester. Mrs. Gosse,
                                                                            ^^I

     THE LIFE OF riTILIP HENRY GOSSE.

     however, was by tin's time weary of sucli an aimless life,

     such incessant pitching of the tent day's march further
     a
                                          aaon. She swept aside the objections of hur husband's

                                                       agentility, and determined to see whether she could not

     bring grist to the mill. While Mr. Gosse was away

     painting his portraits, she obtained permission to turn the
                                                        shop. She was " at
     front room of their lodgings into

     the expense of large and finely sashed bow-window,"

     and this she stocked with groceries. The conseciuence
     was that, when her husband made his next proposal that,

     as usual, they should move on, she declined to leave

     Leicester, and allowed him to start on professional tour

     through the cast of England alone. She was, however,

     in spite of her energy, unskilled in the arts of shopkeeping,

     and when he returned, she easily agreed to make one more

     flitting --as far as she was concerned, the final one.

     Three of Thomas Gosse's elder sisters had married

     well, and were all domiciled at Poole, in Dorsetshire. In

     the autumn of 1811 he went thither to visit them, and was

     struck by the advantages that might accrue from settling

     in the neighbourhood of these three well-to-do establish-
     ments. His visit to Poole, moreover, was attended by the

     exhibition in the heavens of comet of unusual splendour,
     a
         aand this imposing spectacle impressed his wife as an omen
                                    a
     of favourable import. Thomas Gosse passed the winter in
                                                 2,
il!  visiting his three sisters in turn, was encouraged by them

     all to come to reside in Dorset, and in j\Iay, 181 returned

     to Leicester to prepare for the final flitting. The family

     set out by stages in the coach, their furniture following

     them by waggon. They spent few days at Titton Brook

     with the grand-parents, and on this occasion my father

     formed his earliest durable recollection of scene. He

     was two years and one month old at the time, and his

     record of the fact may be given as the first example of the
                                        CHILDHOOD.                I

astonishincj power of memory which was to accompany
him throuj^li life. " I was in my mother's arms," he wrote
in a memorandum dated iS6S, "at the bottom of the

front ^^'lrden [at Titton], where it was (hvided by a hedi;e
from the road. There came b}' a team of oxen or horses,
driven b\- a peasant who j;uided tliem b)-his voice : -- ' (iec.
Captain! Wo, Alerryman!' Tliesc two names I vividly
recollect, and the whole scene." He never a^ain visited
Titton Brook, and it is certain that no portion of the im-
pression could be derived from later knowledj^c. Travei-
\'\\v^ by Birmingham and Salisbury, the Gosses came, in
June, 1S12, to Poole, and settled in furnished lodgini^^s in
the Old Orchard.

   The borouLjh and county of the boroui,di of Poole, to

give it its full honours, possessed in those days a population

of about six thousand souls. It was a prosperous little

town, whose good streets, sufficientl}- broad and well paved,
werj lined with solid and comfortable red-brick houses.
The Uj)p>^r part of the borough was clean, the sandy soil
on which it was built aiding a rapid drainage after rain.
The lower streets, such as the sea end of Lagland and Fish

Streets, the Strand, and the lanes abutting on the Quay,
were filthy enough ; while the nose was certainly not
regaled by the reeking odours of the Quay itself, with its
stores and piles of salt cod, its ranges of barrels of train
oil, its rope and tar and turpentine, and its well-stocked

shambles for fresh fish, sometimes too obviously in the
act of becoming stale fish. Yet, among seaport towns, its
character was one of exceptional sweetness and cleanliness.
And here, though the memory is one of some years' later
date, I may print my father's impression of the Poole of his
early childhood :--

       " The Quay, with its shipping and sailors ; their songs,
   "and cries of ' Heave with a will, yoho !' the busy mer-
THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENL Y GOSSE.

"chants bustlin.!::^ to and fro; fishermen and boatmen

"and hoymcn in their sou'vvcstcrs, guernsey frocks, and
" loose trousers ; countrymen, younj,^ bumi)kins in smocks,
"socking to be shipped as 'youngsters' for Newfound-
"land ; rows of casks redolent of train oil ; Dobell, the

"ganger, moving among them, rod in hand ; customs-
" officers and tide-waiters taking notes ; piles of salt fish

"loading ; packages of dry goods being shipped ; coal

"cargoes discharging ; dogs in scores ; idle boys larking
"about or mounting the rigging, -- among them 15ill
" Goodwin dis[)laying his agility and hardihood on the
"very truck of some tall brig ;-- all this makes a lively

"picture in my memory, while the church bells, a full

"peal of eight, arc ringing merrily. The Poole men
" gloried somewhat in this peal ; and one of the low inns
" frequented by sailors, in one of the lanes opening on

"the Quay, had for its sign the Eight Bells duly depicted
" in full.

   " Owing to the immense area of mud in Poole Harbour,

"dry at low water, and treacherously covered at high,
" leaving only narrow and winding channels of water

"deep enough for ship[)ing to traverse, skilled pilots

"were indispensable for every vessel arriving or sailing.
" From our upper windows in Skinner Street, wc could

"see the vessels pursuing    their course along Main
" Channel, now approaching   IJlliput, then turning and
" apparently coasting under  the sand-banks of North

"Haven. Pilots, fishermen, boatmen of various grades,
" a loose-trousered, guernsey-frocked sou'westercd race,

"were always lounging about the Quay."

Such was in 1812, and such continued to be for the next

twelve years, the background to the domestic fortunes of

the Gosses. Thomas Gosse presently departed, in his

customary nomadic way, and spent the winter at Yeovil,
                                                 CHILDHOOD.               i il

 ling.    in Somerset. Before leavinfj his wife and children, he took
tould     the house, No. I, Skinner Street, which is mentioned in the
          above quotation. The sisters-in-law helped with the
Jain      furnishing, and life promised to be far more pleasant with
          Hannah Gosse than ever before; but the protection of
  and     these relations was tempered by a kind of conscious
 [orth    condescension, and Thomas was not .dlowed to forget that
 idcs,
irace,    he had been guilty of a mesalliance. I have heard my

Incxt     grandmother describe how deep an impression was made
 is of    upon her by the loneliness of her first winter in Poole.
          She was timid and not a little inclined to superstition, and
     his  she had newly come into what seemed to her a large house,
  bovil,  with not a soul to relieve her nocturnal solitude, excei^t
          her two slecpin babies. She used to kcc[) them in a crib
          in the parlour till she went to bed, as some feeble company.
          These painful feelings were much increased by a terrifying

          circumstance, which was never satisfactorily accounted for.
          There was no shutter to the back-parlour window, and late

          one dark evening, in the depth of the winter of 1812, one
          of the bottom panes was suddenly smashed, by no apparent
          cause. Perhaps a cat had lost his footing on the tiles, and,
          pitching on the sill, had rebounded against the glass. ]iut
          it was the last straw that broke my poor grandmother's

          philosophy.
             Partly to increase her income, partly to lose this dreadful

          sense of loneliness, Mrs. Gosse let some of her rooms as
          lodgings. They were taken by ^wo ladies of the name of
          Bird, whose occupation was that of teaching a mysterious
          art known as " Poonah painting " in private, but on their

          printed advertisement described as " Oriental tinting." A

          good many young ladies came to learn ; but the fair pro-
          fessors affected great secrecy in their process, and bound
          their pupils by a solemn pledge to keep the secret of " the
           Indian formulas." This greatly stimulated Mrs. Gosse's
                                                                                         m

Hi

    10 T//£ LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

    curiosity, and when, long afterwards, the ladies left, she

    tried to worm out the secrets of the art by pumping the

    servant-maid. All that that poor oracle could tell, however,

                             was that she had been frequently sent to the chemist's for
,- 1 " million ; " this the united brains of the family translated

                             into " vermilion," and it was felt that a considerable

    discovery had been made.

    Immediately after the family !;ad removed into Skinner

    Street, Philip was seized with a serious attack of v/ater on

    the brain, and for a while his life hung on an even balance.

    His subsequent health docs not seem to Lave been                                        :%

    impaired and through life, in spite of frc(]ucnt temporary
    disorders, he enjoyed a very tough and clastic constitution.

    He acquired the rudiments of book-learning from a vener-
    able dame, called " IMa'am Sly," who taught babies their

    alphabet ia a little alley leading out of Skinner Street.

    To her he went at three years old, to be out of harm's way.

    A little later, he began to suffer from a phenomenon which

    would perhaps not be worth recording if it had not shown,

    in our fami!)-, a hereditary rccurroncc, having tormented
    the early childhood of my grandfather and also of myself.

    My father has thus described it :

         " I suffered when I was about five years old from some

       " strange indescribable dreams, which were repeated

       "quite frequently. It was as if space was occupied with

       "a multitude of concentric circles, the outer ones im-
       " measurably vast, I myself being the common centre.
       " They seemed to revolve and converge upon me, causing
       " a most painful sensation of dread. I do not know that
      " I had heard, and I was too young to have read, the
       "description of Ezekiel's ' dreadful wheels.' "

       At the age of four, the instinct of the future naturalist

    W3« first aroused, as in later years he was fond of repeating,

    by a vision which imprinted itself upon his memory with
                             CHILDHOOD.                                                                   II

:, she         perfect clearness. Being alone in the Springwell Fields,
r the
rcver,         from amidst the tall ripening wheat he saw rise, close to

    for        the footpath, and within few yards of him, large white
slated         1
arable           8

<inner                              a
tcr on                                                  a
dance.
                                                                                                    ;
  been
porary                                                                                         a
tution.;'s     grallatorial bird, which he was afterwards sure was the
vener-
is their       great white heron, or else the stork both of them, even
 Street.
I's way.       in 14, very rare English birds. In the next winter,

  which        between his fourth and fifth years, the child observed, with
 shown,
mcnted         much interest, robin, sitting day after day, pouring forth
 myself.
               his cheery song from the corner brick of the summit of the
 m some
  ;peatcd      parlour-chimney in Skinner Street, right above the yard,
led with
 [ics im-      in which the delighted Philip stood watching him. Of his

    ccntre.    slightly later inclinations towards natural history, note ofa
 [causing      his own shall speak more fully --               a
 low that
                     " My love for natural history was very early
   :ad, the    I
               "awakened. In Mr. Brown's library was complete
   ituralist                          it" series of Ilucyclopadia PcrtJicnsis, of which father also

   ll)eating,                        I"possessed the first seven volumes. For some time
                                                 Ia :" was accustomed to call this Encyclopicdia Parcutlwsis.
  |ry with
               "Well, the plates of animals in tin"s work, poor as they
               " were, John and were never tired of studying, and in
               " later years of copying. Ikit at Uncle Gosse's had
                                                                                                       I

               "the opportunity of looking over the Cyclopicdia
               " Pantologia, which, though work of inferior value, had
               " much more pretentious figures of animals, nicely

               "coloured. Aunt Bell and Cousin Salter both cultivated

               " natural history, and when found any specimen that
               " appeared to me curious, jr beautiful, or strange,
               " would take                                                                               III
                             to Aunt 15cll, with confidence that

               "should learn something of its history from her.

               "learned something of the metamorphosis of insects
               " from her, though I'do not recollect actually rearing any

               "caterpillars except that of the gooseberry or magpie
               " moth {Abraxas grossulaviatii),
                                                       I  used not unfrcquently

               "to find the pretty ermine moths (both the buff and
12 THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

   " the white) under the window ledges, and once we
   " found on the doorstep a very large moth with light
   "brown deflected wings, which Aunt Bell took for her

  A" cabinet. I presume it was one of the cggers.

  " little later I found, at very low springtides, around

   " Poole quays, the common forms of Actinia mcsein-
   " bryanthenmm, but I think no other species of sea-
   " anemone. Aunt Bell taught me their name of
   " Actinia, and suggested that I should keep them alive

  "in a vessel of sea-water. I recollect finding a very

   "showy specimen of the strawberry variety, round by

   "Oakley's Quay. It was too much trouble to get fresh
   " sea-water, and there was nothing known in those days

   "of aquarian philosophy, so the poor things were kept

    " involved in their mucus until the water stank and they

   "had to be thrown away. I well recollect them stand-

    " ing in jugs of sea-water in the kitchen window."
   To " Aunt Bell," then, belongs the distinction of having

been the first person to suggest the preservation of living

animals in aquaria of sea-water. This was Susan, the
fourth and by far the most intellectual of the children of

William Gosse ; she was remarkable for her gracious

sentimental manners, and for a devotion to science, then so

rare in a woman as to be almost unique. She had been born
in 1752, had in 17S8 married Mr. ]5ell, a surgeon of Poole,
and was the mother of Thomas Bell, afterwards an F.R.S.

and a distinguished zoologist. P'rom this cousin my

father in later life received much sympathy, but they did

 not meet in the youth of the latter. Thomas Bell was

 eighteen years my father's senior, and left Poole for Guy's
 Hospital in 1H13. At home in Skinner Street, the early

 partiality for animals vvas not welcomed so warmly as by
 Aunt Bell :--

       "Constitution Hill, not quite two miles from Poole, on
                         CHILDHOOD.                         13

"the Ringwood Road, was the h'mit of my walking in

"this direction, but here, scrambling up a gravelly cliff
" on the left, on a broad expanse of heath, with a fine

"view on all sides, one day in summer, probably in

"1819 or '20, we caught some beautiful green lizards,

" which I incline, from recent evidence, to believe were

" the true Laccrta viridis of continental Europe, not-
" withstanding what Thomas Bell says in his ' British
" Reptiles.' William brought them home in his hand-
" kerchief; but on showing our treasures to mother,

"she was terribly frightened, supposing them to be
" venomous. She ordered us to kill the ' nasty things,'
" which of course we immediately did, though with great
" regret, on the pebbles in front of the house.

If Mrs. Gosse lacked a due appreciation of reptiles, she

was none the less an admirable mother. Her life was by

no means an easy one. The peculiarity of her husband's

profession made him absent from home for ten or eleven

months of every year, and during his prolonged journeys

all the responsibility fell upon her. The income of the

family was extremely restricted, yet she contrived all

through the anxious period of their childhood .0 bring up

three sons and one daughter in what they were able to
                                                    "
look  back  upon  as  a  "reputable  subgentility      she  took
                                                   ;

care that they were always clean in person and neat in cloth-

ing, sufficiently fed and decently educated. Mr. (iosse's

earnings were not very considerable, were so irregular that

they could not be depended upon, and were t(j a large

degree expended by himself in his ceaseless wanderings.

But his wife had an abhorrence and terror of debt, and

rarely indeed was the rent not paid on the very day it            i

was due. To secure this, the greatest frugality and

industry were required, and ceaseless exercise of ingenuity.

)n Between Mrs. Gosse and her husband there was an ever-
^^Wi?BS  ^^^1^ mmm

         14 T//E LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

         widcninrr alienation, arising from their wholly different

         habits of thought and life. Each respected the other, but

         the peculiarities and weaknesses of the painter jarred more

         and more on the narrow sympathies and practical energy

         of his wife. It was an unceasing matter of dispute between

         them that my grandfather was always scribbling. For, in

         truth, he was a most voluminous writer, producing volumes

         upon volumes of manuscripts, which he was always en-

         deavouring, and always vainly, to palm off upon the pub-
         lishers. I lis works were varied enough -- talcs, dialogues,

         allegories, philosophical treatises, in verse as well as in

         prose. He completed two epic poems, if not more ; T/ie

         English Cn'iu zviiitcying in Spit:zbcrgcn i\\\f\ The Attempts

         of the Cainitc Giants to re-conqiier Paradise still languish
         in the family possession. Mr. Thomas Gosse is perhaps

                              unique as a very voluminous author who never contrived

I to publish a line. My grandmother, soon perceiving that
                           all this writing brought no grist to the mill, and even

         interfered with the painting of miniatures, which was

         fairly lucrative, waged incessant and ruthless war against

         scrupled not to style  " that cursed writin'," and
         it,
                       a

                                                     !

                                                       !
                                                       ! it

                                                                                                ;
                                                                                                       !
                                                                                                            !

                                                                                                        a

                                                                                                                                                ;
         scolded him whenever she found him at it. Many years

         after, when Philip was in the stream of successful literary

         life, and indeed supporting both parents in their old age

         by his pen, the war still continued. Grandfather would
         meekly object, " But there's Philip he writes books you
         don't find fault with Jiim " " Philip no, his books bring

         in bread-and-cheese for you and me When did your

         writings ever bring in anything .?" And the meek author

         of the Cainitc Giants would fal! back on his favourite
         ejaculation, "Pooh my dear " and let the discussion drop.

            Like all prudent housewives, Mrs. Gosse had strong

         aversion to tramps. Her husband, on the contrary, was

         as easy prey to them as the great Bishop Butler was,
                                                                       CHILDHOOD.;a

                                and squandered his halfpence on their ill-desert. Once,a!
                             when the family was at dinner, bcgc^ar strolled to the
                                                 !
                          door the maid came in and told the talc. My grand-
                             mother refused -- " Nothing for him " But grandfather's!
                             soft compassionate heart stayed the denial. " Oh yes
                             here's halfpenny for the poor man." The beggar who,a

                                through the open parlour-door, had heard all, shouted in,it
                                              a
                          as he took the copper, " God bless the man, -- but not the
           a
                                woman "
                                 Thomas Gosse was great reader, especially of poetry,a

                             but his wife had no approval for this exercise either. In;

                                later years the children often recallctl \\ow he would, while  1^

                                engaged in finishing a miniature in the back parlour, layfig
                             down his brush and take u[) volume of verse, till, on
                             hearing Mrs. Gossc's footstep in the passage, he would
                             hastily whip under his little green-baize desk and set to
                             work on the ivory. I\Iy father well remembered the bor-

                           rowing of Scott's Lady of the Lake and the Lord of the
                             Isles in their original quartos, and especially, about 1S16,
                             the arrival of batch of Byron's Talcs, then quite new, and
                           in particular The ofSie_<^e Coriiiih. These my grandfather
                              read and re-read with an evident delight, to the irreat
                              curiosity of his little second son, in whom the literary
                              instinct was already faintly awakened but the pleasure
lid was confined to himself as matter of course, since Mrs.

ou Gosse, from her absolute ignorance of books, could not
ng have appreciated or even comprehended it.
lur When the miniature-painter was expected home from
lor one of his journeys, his little sons, cvem'ng after evening in
lite summer-time, would go up to the Angel Inn in the Market
 )p. Place, and wait on the pavement till the Salisbury coach

                               came rumbling in. The particular day of his coming was
 ras never announced, and the children would be often disap-
  IS, pointed, till at length one evening they would see the white
                                                                                                       >

      i6 T//E LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

      hair, the strange costume, the familiar tall thin figure on

      the box. The dress in which he would reappear was ever
      a subject of speculation. Once he arrived in yellow-topped

      boots and nankeen small-clothes another time in cut-
                                              ;                                             ;a
                                                                 ;                                  !
      away, snuff-coloured coat and once in leather breeches.

      Expostulation on these occasions was thrown away his

      unfailing resource under my grandmother's sarcasm was,!it
      " Pooh the tailor told me was proper for me to have "
      His copious head of hair had grown pure silver before he

      was fifty, and was extremely becoming. In spite of the

      beautiful and venerable appearance with which nature had

      supplied him, he nourished                  guilty hankering after
                    a
                                  it

                                           a
                                                                                                 a
      brown wig. My grandmother had long suspected the

      existence of such piece of goods, but he had never had

      the temerity to produce                 at home. At last, however,

      when Philip was thirteen or fourteen years of age, the old

I     gentleman came home from his travels daringly adorned
   I  with the lovely snuff-coloured peruke. My grantl mother

      was no paltercr. Her first salute was to snatch off his
                                                                    a
                                                                                        it
      head, and to whip into the fire, where the possessor was
                    it
                         it
      fain ruefully to watch frizzle and consume.

         Mr. Thomas Gosse had collected considerable mass
      of miscellaneous literary information, and his son after-

      wards often regretted that he so seldom felt drawn to

      impart to his children. The memory of his second son
      it

      would certainly have borne away the greater portion of

      any instruction so given, and as very extraordinary
                                                                    a

                                                                          I
      instance of the child's retentive power,                               may mention
      the following fact -- My father happened once to relate to
      a
                      is

                                           :
      me conversation he had with his father about the year

      1823 -- that  to say, nearly half century previously -- in
                                                  a

      the course of which Mr. Thomas Gosse had quoted                                       a          the
                                                                                                       for
      .'.:anza of poem on the Norman Conquest, in which there
         a

      "ere many Saxonisms. This stanza my father had never
          CHILDHOOD.                                          17

          heard a second time, had never met with in any book, and

          yet remembered so perfectly that I, happening to recollect

          the source, begged him (in 1869) to write it down.  He
          did so literally as follows :--

mass                 "With thilka force he hit him to the ground,
                            And was demaisin^ how to take his life ;
.ftcr-
 n to                   When from iK-hiiul he L^at a trcach'rous wound,
                            Given by De Torcy with a stabl)ing knife.
d son
on of                  O trcach'rous Normans ! if such acts ye do,
jnary                   The conc[uer'd may claim victory of you."

 nition   The passage comes from the twenty-eighth stanza of
late to
          Chatterton's Battle of Hastinj^s No. i, and the divergencies
   year   are so extremely slight and unimportant that they merely
          add to the impression of the extraordinary tenacity of a
 ly-- in  memory which could retain these words from childhood to

 Ited a   old age after only hearing them once recited.
   there     In a paper which has been printed since his death,^ my

   never  father has described the schooling which he enjoyed m
          Poole. After having imbibed a slender stream of tuition
          successively from Ma'am Sly, and from a slightly more
          advanced Ma'am Drew, at the age of eight he joined his
          elder brother at the school of one Charles Sells, whose

          establishment was at that time the best day school in
          Poole. While he was there, Mrs. Gossc " would sometimes,

          for economy, keep us at home a quarter to carry on our
          studies in the back garret by ourselves. We were indus-
          trious, and mother was on the keen look-out, and wc did

          not miss much." It was before this, in 181 5, that Philip

          began to form a friendship which lasted, with only one
          momentary interruption, until adolescence and the un-
          timely death of his friend. John Hammond Brown was
          the nephew of a widow lady, a Mrs. Josiah Brown, who

               "A Country Day School Seventy Years Ago," in Longman's Magazine

           for March, 1S89,
i8 THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

lodged in the Skinner Street house in succession to the

fair professors of tlie mystery of Poonah-painting.  The

two little boys, who were identical in age, and who shared

several peculiarities of temperament which were not

found in any of their playmates, immediately became and

remained inseparable companions from morning to night.

My father has recorded, " My tastes were always literary.

As early as I can recollect, a book had at any time more

attraction for me than any game of play. And my plays
were quiet ; I always preferred my single playmate, John

Brown, to many." In another note I find this statement

enlarged :--

     "From infancy my tastes were bookish. I can recall

"myself, when a very tiny boy, stretched at full length
"on the hearth-rug before the parlour fire, reading with

"eager delight some childish book; and this as an

"ordinary habit. The earliest books I read were, I

" iWxuk, London Cries, The History of Little Jack, and
" Prince Leboo. Old Mrs. Thompson, our former land-
" lady, gave me a Sparrman's Travels in South Africa
"and the East Indies. This became one of my most
" valued books, yet, owing to my morbid bashfulness, I

"could not be persuaded to formally thank the old lady
" for her gift, Robinson Crusoe was an early delight, of

"course, and Pilgrims Progress another. This latter

" I knew nearly by heart when I was ten or twelve years

"old. It was the first part only that we had.

"Christiania's adventures I did not know until loncf
" after, and when I came to read them they never

"possessed for me the same charni as Christian's.    I

"could not persuade myself that they were genuine."

The first break in the monotony of the child's life

occurred when he was nine jears old. For seven years

Mrs. Gosse had not seen her parents, and in order that
         CiriT.DHOOD.                                                              19

      she mjfijht ^o to Titton, it was necessary first of all toa                  ;
      find a place where she could leave her children. Theyis
      were accordincjly boarded at the house of a farmer in the
      villac^e of Canford Parva, a mile from Wimborne. Thisa
      was tlic first experience of the country, or of anythincf buta
      the tarry quays of I'oolc, which the children had enjoyed.
      My father's memory of it was very vivid, but it was divided         a
                                                                       it,
      between the meadows and the orchards, on one hand, and
                                                                             a
      a store of the highly coloured romances, by Miss Porter and               a
      Lady Morgan, which had just come into fashion, and had
      found their way down into a cupboard of the Dorset farm-a

that  house. It was here, moreover, that he read Fat lie r Clemoit,

      and formed, at the tender age of nine, the basis of that

      violent prejudice against the Roman Catholic faith and

      practice which he retained all through life. At Canford

      Magna there was a nunnery, and the precocious little
      Protestant shuddered in passing with a vague notion of

      the terrible practices which, no doubt, were the occupation
      of its inmates.

         It pleasanter, and more agreeably characteristic, to
      note that the event wliich, above all others, illuminated

      the visit to Canford Parva was the discovery of a king-

      fisher's nest. Just beyond the farm, short and narrow
      lane ran down to bend of the river Stour. In this lane

      there was a low gravelly cliff over horse-pond. P'rom
         hole in this cliff the child used to watch the brilliant

      little gem fly out many times day, and as often return

      while, by going few rods further, the bird could be seen

      coursing to and fro over the breadth of the river, sitting
      on the low horizontal branches, or swooping down for fish.

      The child was already naturalist enough fully to ai)preciate
      the interest of this incident. The visit to Canford Parva

      was the only stay in rural English district which my father
      enjoyed until, in middle life, he came to reside in Devonshire.
jiuI '"i.iu.'i.k>.ii.M.jmm

                            20 r///r L/FE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.                          %

                               Next year, in July, 1S20, the boys had another brief
                            outin_!^, this time by sea to Swanat^c. It was haymakinf^
                            time, and they were playing in the hayfield, whence the
                            crop was being carried until pretty late in the evening. It
                            was quite dark, when I'hilip found, moving rapidly through

                            the short mown grass, already wet with dew, a half-grown
                            conger eel, though the field was a long way, perhaps half
                            a mile, from the seashore. The incident was a decidedly

                            curious one ; though far from unprecedented, and, in fact,
                            mentioned by Yarrell as having occurred within his experi-
                            ence. About the end of this same year, Poole, like other
                            country towns, was almost universally illuminated on
                            occasion of the termination of the trial of Queen Caroline
                            in accordance with popular sympathy. The house of the
                            Gosses became, on this occasion, the cynosure of Skinner
                            Street, for while neighbours were content with a candle

                            or two in each window, the Gosse b^ys adorned their front
                            with heads and figures borrowed from out of the paternal
                            portfolio -- the queen at full length, a dark bandit who did
                            duty for " Non mi ricordo" Majocchi, a priest, a scara-
                            mouch, and other vaguely effective personalities, handsomely
                            illuminated from behind.

                                The fust incident which could be called a landmark in
                            this uneventful career was the departure of the elder

                            brother to make his way in the world. Early in 1822,
                            William, being fourteen years old, sailed from Poole for
                            service in the firm of his uncle, in the port of Carbonear,
                            Newfoundland. Philip accompanied him on board the
                            ship, returning in the pilot's boat, and William's last act
                            was to tie a comforter round his brother's throat just as
                            the latter was leaving the ship. This mark of brotherly
                            care would bring tears into the younger boy's eyes for
                            months afterwards, whenever he thought of it. It
                            appears that the departure of William drew more
                          CirrLDHOOD.                             i\

    in               attention to Philip, whose curious cleverness in certain un-'I,a
  der                f.imiliar direction;; began from this time to be more aiul
                     more a subjuct of h)cal talk. In s[)ite of his moilier'sit.'
[822,                absence of cthication, she knew the vahie of book-lcaniin;^,I
   for                                                 is it,
                      and tlie aptitude which her second son slioweil imhicedIis
lear,
  the                 her to make jiecuh'ar sacrifices for liis advantaLje. Slie
   act              was determined to give liim a chance of acquiring some
                    knowledge of Latin, and in Januar>', 1.S23, she contrived to
 ;t as              get liim admitted into the well-known scIujcjI at Blandford.
 lerly
                   Of his brief stay in this school not many memorials exist.
    for
                    But one anecdote may not be thougiit too trivial to relate,
    It              because it illustrates the early development of the boy's

   lore  V independent curiosity in all matters connected with
                   literature :--
                           " One day, when we boys were out walking on the
                        " VVimbornc Road, and had just come to the opening
                      "of Snow's VoWy and Hanger Down, an eklerly

                        "gentleman with a long beard met us, and gathering the

                        "elder boys around him, began to question us abc^ut

                        "learning. He pulled an I'lton Latin Grammar from

                        "his pock'ct, and turning to the examjile ' --nee hujus
                        " ' existimo, qui me pili a;stimat,' asked us to explain
                        " Several, in an instant, ^-^//^//v/it'd^ correctly enough,

                     "'Nor do regard him this, who esteems me not hair.'

                         " Yes,' said our bearded friend, that the translation,

                      "'but want the meaning; what meant by this?'
                     "All were dumb, till whose curiosity had long before

                         " been exercised on this very point, having guessed out
                       "for myself, unaided, the solution, snapped my fingers at

                        "the word 'this', as repeated to him. He inimcdi-
                         " atcly approved my answer, and praised mc before the

                        "others as thinker.'"

                          W hen my father, however, later years was desired to

                    recall the incidents of this part of his boyish life, he was
            '

              a

                         I

                                             in
                                                it
32 THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

apt to recollect more clearly when the narcissus bloomed
in fields beside the Stour, and where yellow froths of an
uncommon marking were to be found, than what boys more

usually remember. Yet he never failed hii^hly to appreciate

the education which he receivetl during these months, the
only classical training w hich he ever enjoyed. I lis favourite
walk was over the race-down to Tarrant Monkton, along
the course of that primitive telegraph, on the six-shutter

princi[)le, which had been opened by Government to connect

London with Weymouth in the course of the Naj)oleonic

wars. Of the working of this line of telegraj)!!, a i)icturesquc

account is given in Mr. Hardy's admirable Dorset novel,

T/ie Trumpet Major.  In summer my father used to

wander off, across Lord Portman's park, to the bend in the

river just below Stourpaine, w!ierc the "clotes," the water-

lilies, grow thickest ; and in after years, Uxjking back on
these childish excursions, he used to repeat with peculiar

gusto those exquisite lines of William Barnes' --

" Wi' eiirms a-sprcaden, .tu' cheiiks a-blowcn,                   I
     How proud wcr I when I vu'st could zwim
                                                                  %
   Athirt the i)lcac:e where tliou bist a-growen,
      Wi' thy long more vroni the bottom dim ;

             While cowH, knee-high, O,
            In brook, wer nigh, O,
  Where thou dost float, goolden zummer clote ! "

   The inseparable John Brown had accompanied his friend          '4.
to Blandford, and these two weresuf'lcient unto themselves
throughout their school-days there. My father, at no time
of life much given to promiscuous r uuiality, does not seem

to have formed lasting acquaintanceships with any of his
Blandford schoolfellows, John Brown and he continued
their zoological studies with unabated ardour, and at this

time began to make coloured drawings of animals with

great assiduity. In 1S24 Wombweiri: travelling me-
                                                                            mniiii w

          CHILDHOOD.  n

friend    na^erie arrived at lUandford. The two youncf naturaHsts
          were excessively interested in a canvas paintin^j on tlic
Isclvcs   booth, which advertised an animal unknown to either of
   time   them by name or fii^ure. This was "The Fierce Xon-
   seem   dcscript, never before seen in this Country alive." John
          Brown, to allay his feverish curiosity, contrived overni^L;ht
lof his   an interview with the attendant, who confessed that the

[inued    Nondescript was also sometimes known by the less
 [t this  mysterious name of the tortoiseshell hyena. This, on
          the followint^ day, was found to be the case, and the boys
    with  had the deli^dit of seeing the South African hyena or
     me-  Cape huntin;j;-dog {Lycaoit picttts),x\o\v familiar to Ent:jlish

          sightseers, but in those days a quadruped never before

          secured by any travelling menagerie.

             Phili[) was at Blandford until the en' of the first
          term of 1S24. He acquired during his one full year at
          ]ilandford a good fundamental knowledge of Latin and

          the elements of Greek, being well grounded in the grammar
          of the former language. His vocabulary in Latin was

          not extensive ; he had read but few authors, and only
          Virgil at all thoroughly, yet he had secured an acquaintance
          with the language which was of great service Lo him in
          later life, and which he steadily increased until quite recent
          years. Like all boys who are destined to be men of letters,
          he began to versify, and such specimens of hir, early rhymes
          as have been preserved from his Blandford days show that
          he was beginning to secure facility in the arrangement of
          phrases. The expense of keeping him at boarding-school

          now became more than the household at l^ooie could

          sustain any longer, and he came home early in his fifteenth
          year. For the next twelvemonth he continued his studies

          as well as he could with none, or with at best very in-

           adequate local help.

             At fifteen Philip Gossc was a broad-shouldered, healthy
24 THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

boy, sliort for his aoc, with a profusion of straight dark-
brown hair on his Iicad, and a dark complexion which he
inherited froiu his falhcr. He describes himself at that age
as "a burly lad, tolerably educated, pretty well read, fairly
well behaved, habitually truthful, modest, obedient, timid,
shy, studious, ingenuous." It was time for him to begin
bread-winning, but what was to be done with him ? Poole
was a town of merchants. His brother William had
entered life in a merchant's counting-house ; why should
not he? His parents had kind and influential friends, and
one of them spoke to Mr. Garland, the much-respected
head of a large mercantile house in the Newfoundland trade.
There was a junior place vacant in his Poole business, and
he sent permission for Philip to call on him. Accordingly,
Mrs. Gosse took him to the office, where the kind and genial
old gentleman readily offered to engage the boy as a junior
clerk, at a salary of i^20 per annum to begin with. This,
of course, would not pay for his food, yet it was better than
lying idle, and there were hopes that it might lead to some-
thing better. The proposal was thankfully accepted.

    The counting-house of Messrs. George Garland and
 Sons was a spacious old-fashioned apartment, adapted from
a sort of corridor in the rambling family mansion. The
whole of one side, except an area at the doors which was
shut off by a rail, was occupied by three ample desks, which
looked down into the back-yard. The first of these desks
was occupied by Mr. lulward Lisby, chief clerk, a spruce
little man of about twenty-thice. The.econd was assigned
to young Gosse, and the third remained untenanted. Each
 clerk was ensconced in a den, since each several desk was
surrounded by a dark wainscot wall, around the summit of
which ran a set of turned rails. Mr. Lisby was very silent ;
 the new clerk was very shy ; and a portentous hush, broken
only by the squeaking of pens, was accustomed to reign in
CfriLDITOOD.  25

that solemn apartment. There was not nearly work enough

to keep the boy employed, and he enjoyed a great deal of

leisure. The time he spent at Air. Garland's office was

very pleasant. The further end of tlie counting-house was

occupied by an antique bookcase, in which were many old

books and a few new ones. There was an extensive series

of the Centlcnians Magazine, and another of the 'J'oi<.'n and
Coiii/try Magazine ; and these the boy read witli great

avidity. But, far more important to record, it was in this

bookcase that Philip discovered a volume which exercised,

as he has said, "a more powerful fascination upon me than

anything which I had ever read." This was the first

edition of Byron's Laya,\\\c issue of iS 14, with Roger's
Jacqueline printed at the end of it. To the close of his

days my father used to avow, with rising heat, that it was

most impertinent of Rogers to pour out his warm water by

the side of Byron's wine. Lara he had till now, in 1S25,

never even heard of, but as he read antl re read, devourmg

the romantic poem with an absorbing interest which

obliterated the world about him, almost the entire book        II

imprinted itself upon his memory, and remained there
indelibly impressed. The reading of Lara, he says, " was

an era to me ; for it was the dawning of Poetry on my

imagination. It appeared to me that I had acquired a new

sense. Before this I liad, of course, read some poetry,

many standard pieces of the eighteenth centur)-, including

something of Cowper, Thomson, ;!n'.l Shcnstone ; but

Shakespeare, Milton, and Dry den I knew onl)' by the
extracts in my school-books, and of the modern sensational

school nothing at all." About the same time, the two           %
volumes of Wordsworth's I^yrical Ballads came into his

hands, and caused him great pleasure, tame, however, it must

pa be confessed, in comparison with his ecstatic enjoyment of
lin Byron's talc.
    26 T//E LIFE OF PHILIP ItENRY GOSSE.

    There was in the office bookcase a copy of Scarron's

    Roman Comiqjic in Enc^lish, and the broad humour of this

    farcical chissic dch"L;"hted the boy amazingly, although its

    coarseness a little shocked him. He enjoj-ed it iufmitely

    more than Don Quixote, which he had read a short t'me
    before. " Perhaps my boyish mind," he says, " could not

    appreciate the polished wit and satire of Cervantes so well

    as the broad grins and buffoonery of Scarron." But Don

    Quixote was a book to which he retained through life an
    inexplicable aversion. Another novel in the office book-

    case was the immortal yfAT/// Andreivs, with which he was

    so greatly charmed that, on a second perusal, he could not

                           refrain from taking it home to read aloud in the evenings
1 . : for the delectation of his mother and his sister. The

    rough expressions which he had not observed as he read

    the book to himself, however, became painfully patent

    when propounded openly by the fireside, and he found,

    what others have discovered before and since, \\\c\\. JoscpJi

    ;                                     one of the male children of the

                                  is,
                                      is
    Andrczus, noble as it

    Muses he had to make an excuse and leave the tale half

    told. Among other literary stores laid up in this delight-
    ful bookcase were the " Peter Porcupine " pamphlets of

    William Cobbett, and these, when everything else was

    exhausted, were waded through for lack of better reading

    in many unoccupied hours.

       John Brown remained at school Blandford until mid-

    summer, 1825, when the friends were once more reunited
    a
                                       in

                                            a
    in Poole. He was presently put into counting-house on

    the Quay, and after office-hours, which closed at five in

    each case, the two lads were always together. They read

    and studied science together, tried their hands at music,

    and stained their clothes with chemicals, on one occasion

    coming near to public scandal with the unparalleled

    success of an artificial volcano. A large room at the top

l\
    CHILDHOOD.  27

    of the house now occupied by John Brown's mother they
    turned into a studio and worlvroom. Jolin was me-
    chanical, rhih'p inclined to the arts, both were equally

    bookish. One exijerinieiit of theirs mildly foreshadowed

    a famous invLiit'on of our own day. Philip contrived to

    make an acoustic tube of the rain-spout that led from a

    guttjr within the parapet of his mother's house all down
    th J ficnt of the l:ouse to the street, and into this sort of

    speaking-tube, the si)caker bein<;^ concealed close beneath the
    roof, he used to brcatiie projjhutic utterances, which rose

    as if from the pavement, to the alarm of mystified passers-

    by. But the serious amusement or main studious enter-
    tainmcpt of ihc boys was zoology. From every available
    souice tl;'\\' added to their knowledge of natural history,

    eagerly \' ading up for the dimensions, colours, postures,

    and habits general!}' of the piincipal (juadrupeds and birds.

    This, with iu'^essant copying of cuts and [)lates of animals,
    could not fail to give them both a solid substratum of

    zoological knowledge.

      At sixteen they were children still, unsophisticated,

    bashful, an.d ignorant of the world, far more interested in

    such a show as Sir Ashton Lever's travelling exhibition

    of natural history than in any public events or local

Ig  politics. It was the ci^ilection which I have just mentioned

    which first awakoii,.d in Phih'p Gosse one (A the master

    passions of hi-, life. .1 love of exotic lepidojitera. The

                                Lever Museum con.anied rue of the grand silver-blue

                          butterflies of South .\ p.erica, -- it was probably Morpho
ill Mcnclaus --and this created an extraf)rdinary longing in

                                   the boy's heart to go out and ca[)lurc such imperial

                             creatures for himself It was outside this show that was

    exhibited the portrait of a mermaiJ, "radiant in feminine

:d loveliness ami t.'-ic>ne scaliness." But the boy had studied
                                his zoology wi'li iwi too much care to be deceived for one
28 THE LIFE OF n/ILIP HENRY GOSSE.

moment by the real object, a shrivelled and blackened

little thin_c( comi)o;,cd by the in<;cnuity of some rascally
Japanese fisherman out of the head and shoulders of a
monkey and the body and tail of a sahn;m. It was in the

year 1826 that I'hilip made his first debut in the world of

letters, in a ^xry humble way. He composed a little
article on "The Mouse a Lover of INIusic," and sent it to
the editor of the Youth's Magazine. It was usual, in those
days, to get the local M.P., so far as his good nature ex-

tended, to frank your letters, and the bo)- appeared early

at the door of Mr. Lester, the member for Poole. Me

had addressed the envelope to ' · ·ublishers, "j\Iessrs.

Hamilton, Adams, and Co.;" th .          lan, as he took it

                                  in, misread the " Messrs." for " Miss, and benevolently

I' smiling, rallied the lad on its being "for his young lady."

The member fr.ink-cd however, and in due time, to the
                             it,
                                          a

                                                                            a
inexpressible joy o{ its author, " 'I'he Mouse                                 Lover of

Music " appeared, signed <l'</\(7r, in the pages of the YoutJis

Magazine.

   One da}', in 1826, he had narrow escape from death
by drowni-ng. Standing at the q.(\^c of the quay just

behind his employers' business premises, he suddenly

slipped down between the quay and one of Garlands'

brigs which was anchored there. By an extraordinary

good fortune he fell astride spar which happened to be
lashed alongside at that point, acting as " fender," and
                             aa
                                              a

                                                        a
he was hoistetl up again, jarred and terrified, but unhurt,

having escaped the death of rat by mere har. '-breadth.

A further stage his imaginative susceptibility was marked
it
         it
                         in
this year by his enjoyment of Campbell's Last Man^ then
recently published in the Nciv Mont/ily Magazine. He

thought very noble, as indeed  it        but in making copies
                                    is,

of for his friends he must needs, an infant Bcntley, be

                                                                                           m
                      CHILDHOOD.                               39

     tampering  with  the text, and, in his remarkable         revision,
                       "The aggregate of woe,"
     a line --

     takes the place of Campbell's (truly rather feeble)
                               "That shall no longer flow ! "

     Employment at the Garlands' office came to a natural

     end towards the close of 1826, when they found they had

     no further use for a junior clerk. Airs. Gosse became

     anxious once more, and was constantly urging Philip to
     " show himself about on the Quay," that the sight of him

     might keep him in the mind of mercantile acquaiiitar.ces.

     But he had no liking for the babel of the Quay, and after

     going thither he used immediately to take himself off over

     the ferry to Ham, where he would sit for hours in ore of

     the vessels building in the shipwrights' yards, reading

     some book which he had bnnight in his pocket. Friends,

     however, would appear to have noticed him as he strolled

     across, or else their memories needed no such refreshing,

                                 for at length, as the spring of 1827 came on, the firm of
                                 Messrs. Harrison, Slade, and Co. offered the lad employ-

                              ment as a clerk in their counting-house at the port of
                            Carboncar, in Newfoundland. lie dreadeil expatriation,

IS and this proposal did not meet with his wishes ; his

     mother, however, promptly vetoed all objection on his
 )e part, and he presently signed an agreement to go out for
hd six years to the American counting-house, on a very small

     salary. On Sunday morning, Ajiril 21, 1S27, as the bells
.h. were ringing the people of I'oole to church, having a
led few days before completed his seventeenth year, Philip
Icii Gosse, with a very heavy heart, slipped down the harbour
lie                                                                                         I
     in a boat and climbed on board the brig Carboncar^ which
|cs was lying at Stakes ready to get under way for New-
)e foundland.
^^^mmmmmmmmmmm

                ( 30 )

                          CHAPTER II.

                                    NEWFOUNDLAND.

                                               1827, 1S28.

THE brig Carbonear, on which Phih'p Gossc sailed
           away for the New World, was a poor tub of a craft.
 Her sailing powers were limited ; the voyagers suffered
from a large proportion of westerly winds ; and the voyage
extended over not fewer than 'orty-s'x days. The preval-
ence of fine warm weather, however, the pleasant society
onboard, together with the rare faculty of observation which
the boy possessed, and could now exercise on so n(n-el a
field as the ocean, prevented his feeling the inordinate
length of the voyage to be at all tedious. Ikside the
captain and mate, there were three other passengers -- Luke
Thomas, a lad two years younger than Gosse ; a Mr.
Phippard, saihnaker to the firm; and Air. Ochlenschlager, a
German gentleman from Hamburg, now going out to estab-
lish a mercantile connection in St. John's. The grown-up
people behaved with great cordiality to the two lads,
and they formed a lively party around the cabin-table.
Philip's sense of depression at partmg from home was
very transient. As soon as he grew accustomed to the
sickening motion of the sea, his pleasures began. He
soon learned to mo'.nt the rig^Mng, and to take up a
pleasant station in the maintop, delighting to : it and read
there, in the warm sunshine, with all the turmoil of the
                NE WFO UNDLAND.                                                                                                31

         sliip far below liiin. Of course, the first time tliat he

         essayed this feat he had to pay his footinf:^, for one of the

         sailors swarmed up after him, and tied his legs with an

         end of spun-yarn in the rigging, until he promised to stand

         treat with quart of rum.
                ;

                   a
                                                  a
                                                      it,
                                                            a
                                                                 a
                                                                             it

                                                                                                                    ;
         He soon found that he could write and even draw

         without any difficulty on board, in fair weather and so he

         went on with the literary work which had beguiled his

         young ambition at Poole, volume of Quadrupeds, copied
         and described from various books in his possession. This

         was good practice, though not in any sense an original

         exercise he kept hard at however, and was finished

         in time to be sent home on the first returning vessel from

         Carboncar. ]\Iore important, as work of self-education

         for the future naturalist, was copious journal kept for

         the delectation of the loved ones at home, mainly devoted

         to the birds and animals seen or conjectured on the

         voyage, and illustrated by coloured drawings of everything

         that seemed paintable, such as whales spouting porpoises
         leaping and plunging; petrels, boatswain-birds, " hfjg-
                al

                   ;
                                               ;

                                                              ;
                                                                                                                            ;
         downs," and other birds Portuguese men-o'-war {P/iysa/ia),                                                                Ii

         of which curious and gorgeous beings they encountered

         sevc.  icebergs Cape St. Francis from seaward, and

         the like. All this, though the adventures which were

         chronicled were small and trite, was excellent exercise

         both for pencil and pen. It was while on the Atlantic

                                      that the lad found himself, almost suddenly, to have

r* acquired the art of finishing drawing -- of " working-up,"
Ic. as was termed in the profession of miniature-painting.
         it

                                                                    a

d o lis  During this voyage, Philip Gosse scrupulously obeyed

         what had been his mother's final injunction, that he should

                                       read his Bible daily. No one else in the ship liad culti-
       a vated the same habit, and, as there was no opportunity

         for retirement, and as the lad was obliged to brave
mmmm

      32 7 IIP. LIFE OF FHILIP IJENRY GOSSE.

      publicity, it was not altogether easy to persevere. His

      young shipmate, Luke Thomas, looked upon the practice

      with stern disapproval, and took an opportunity of advising
      him "to get rid of that sort of thing, as that wouldn't do

      for Newfoundland." At no period of his life, however, was

      my fatlicr affected in the slightest degree by considera-

      tions of this sort. His conscience was a law to him, and

      a law that he was prepared to obey in face of an army

      of ridicule drawn up in line of battle. At this time, he

      was far from having acce[)tcd the vigorous forms of reli-
      gious belief which he adopted later on. He was not, as he

      would afterwards have put "converted;" he was as other
                                  it,
                                                                        a
      light-hearted boys are, but with the addition of an inflexible

      determination to do what was right, and in particular what

      he had i)romiscd to carry out, however unpleasant the

      performance might prove to be. This was                              personal

      characteristic with him, and one which will be found to

      have coloured his whole career. In an age which has

      mainly valued and cultivated breadth of religious feeling,

      he was almost physiologically predisposed to depth, even

      at the risk of narrowness.

         At length, on the morning of Wednesday, June                                                1827,
                                                              a
                                                                                                 6,
      a  long line of dim blue, ending in point, was visible on

      the western horizon, -- Newfoundland apparent at last, in

      the form of Cape St. Francis, the eastern boundary of

      Conception Bay, to which the brig was bound. All that

      day the promontory continued to occupy the same position,

      for there was very little wind. A noble iceberg of vast

      dimensions was also in view and this, while they were
         a
                 a

                      it,
                                                          a;
      gazing at  majestically shifted its balance, and turned

      about one-third over, causing an immense turmoil of water

      and swell that was felt for long time afterwards. To

      the impatient and imaginative lad, fretting for the con-

      quest of new continent, this iceberg seemed no inappro-
NE WFOUNDLAND.  33

priatc sentinel to i^uard the approach to those coUl sliorcs.
Next mornini:^ Cape St. Francis lay behind them, and the
ship was bowlin;^ along with a fair breeze into the ample
and beautiful Bay of Conception. The town of Carbo-
near (the third in size in the colony, bcinij exceeded only
by St. John's and by Harbour Grace) lay near the head
of the \o\v^ f^i^il^- I^hilip was aj:^recably surprised by the

first siL;ht of the town from on board. It was a much

more considerable place than he had expected to find.
The number, respectability, antl continuity of the houses ;
the crowd of shippin;^^, including^ a fleet of about !-'eventy
schooners just about to start for Labrador; the small

boats hurryini; to and fro ; the multitude of cries at sea
and movement on the shore ;-- all these made up a scene
very different from the desolation which, in his uninformed
fanc}', the lad had imagined of Newfoundland. It was
early summer, too ; fields and gardens and potato-patches
mapped out the sides of the hills which formed an amphi-
theatre around the long lake-like harbour, and verdure

was smiling ever}-where up to the very edge of the
universal dark environment of pine woods.

   Amonu' the first of thixse who came out in boats to
welcome the new-coming ship from England was William
Gossc, who, in his fraternal anxiety, had kindly drawn u[)
a code of regulations for his brother's behaviour in matters

of dei^ortment and etiipiette. I'hilii) was unsophisticated
as w( 11 as unaffected; he took this odd attention in the

spirit in which it was tendered, and endeavoured
scrupulously to observe the jutlicious precepts of his
nineteen years old brother. The presence of the Labrador
tleet was disturbing, and until these vessels were gone, he

was put, for a week or two, under the storekeeper, Mr.
·Vpsey. But as soon as the Labrador iiien had sailed

away, he took up his permanent place in the counting-

                                                                                                  D
34 THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.                                I

house. This office was pleasantly situated in the midst of
a large [^arden, in front of the dwelling-house of the firm,
the resident member of which was a Air. T.lson. Of the

four clerks, the third was William Charles St. John, a

lad of about twenty years of age, a native of the neigh-

bouring town of Harbour Grace, where his parents resided.
His father, Mr. Oliver St. John, belonged to a Protestant

Tipperary family, which claimed relationship alike with
Cromwell and with Lord Bolingbroke. As the young St.

John was destined for many years to be my father's most
intimate friend, I will now transcribe his portrait as T find
it recorded among my father's notes :--

       "Charley was a youth of manly height, with features
   " of the Grecian type, exquisitely chiselled, formed in a
   "very aristocratic mould, to which an aquiline nose of

   "unusual dimensions gave character. A mouth of

   "feminine smallness ; a finely cut chin ; a lofty forehead ;
    " dark eyes and hair, the latter copious, and rather
    " crisp than lank, completed the physiognomy of my
    " new acquaintance, which was continually animated

    "and lighted up by arch smiles, and by the frolic wit

    "and merry repartee which his prolific brain was
    " constantly forging. I saw in him a new type of
    "character; he was a fair sample of the Irish youth at
     " his best. Sarcastic and keen, ready in reply, un-
    " abashed, prompt to throw back a Roland for every
    " Oliver, full of fun and frolic, as ready at a practical as
    " at a verbal joke, possessing a strong perception of the
    " ludicrous side of everything, cool and self-possessed,

    "already a well-furnished man of the world, St. John
     "presented as great a contrast as can well be imagined
    " to me. I was thoroughly a greenhorn ; fresh from my
    " Puritan home and companionships ; utterly ignorant of
     " the world ; raw, awkward, and unsophisticated ; simple

                                                                  9
XtlVfOUXDLAXI).  35

                         in countenance as unsuspicious In mind ; -- the very       .«
                      quaintncss of the c(<sturne in which I h.ul l)ccii sent
                                                                                    m
                    forth from the parental nest told what a yokel I was.
                   A surtout coat of snuff-brown hue, reaching to my

                      ankles, and made out of a worn j;rcat-coat of my

                         uncle Gosse's which had been driven to mother,

                         enveloped my somewhat sturdy body ; for I was
                                       " ' Totus, teres, atiue rotundas ;'

                         while my intellectual rcj^^ion rejoiced in the protection
                      of a luhiU- hat (forsooth !) somewhat battered in sides
                         and crown, and manifestly the worse for wear. Such
                      was I in outward iruise : the idea of a witticism or

                         repartee, made hot on the occasion, had never entered

                      my noddle ; but then, had I not in my chest those

                      manuscript pages of stale jests, which I had toilfuUy
                    co[)icd out of the Joe Miller, with which I expected to
                      take captive the laugh of the office ? What wonder
                      that I became immediately the butt of so keen an
                      archer as St. John, the inviting centre about which the
                      flashes of his sparkling wit constantly coruscated
                       until at length, by the very inhalation of the

                      atmosphere, I learned gradually to play the same

                         game, and to pa\- him back with his own weapons ?
                        " Intellectually I think we were pretty much on a

                    par. We were both readers, but possibly I had read
                    more books than he ; I had learned Latin at school, he

                      French ; my slight knowledge of natural history was

                      balanced by his acquaintance with chemistry, mainly

li acquired from Parkes's Chanical Catcchisin, which I
                      had been used to see at John Brown's, l^ut then he
                      was a poet ; at least, he had the art of versification,

                         which, however, he chiefly exercised in semi-doggerel

                   Hudibrastic satirical pieces. A poem a his was extant

                       when I came, on the Methodist Missionary Meeting
m

   3*5 THE LIFE OF nnr.ip nF.vRV gosse.

   "of the preccclinj^ autumn -- a merry lampoon on the
   " preachers, and most of the people of the place, on the
   " occasion of their t^atherini^. It was very smart and

   "tellin.L,f, and entertained us fj^reatly. His favourite poet
   "was Pope, whose Essay on Ma)i he was continually

   "citin;:^, perhaps because it was dedicated to St. John, its
   "openinf^ lines running --

            " ' Awake, my St. John, leave all meaner things

                To low ambition, and the pride of Kings.'

   "The philosophy of this poem, such as it                     1 is,
   " another of our staple subjects of discussion.
                                                                                       ;
   " of thinkini; was somewhat loosC; dash}',                        formed
                                                                   lis mode
                                                                indefinite

   "mine, on the other liand, precise, microscopic, according

   "to rule. Withal, he was lithe and active in bodily

   "exercise-;,  skilful and much-admired skater,               a
                 a
                                  a  good leapcr end runner. He
   "vigorous swimmer,

   "possessed, too, an inexhaustible fimd of good humour;

   "was jovial boon-companion on occasion; and, to
   a
              a
   "crown all, great favourite with the ladies, being hand-
   " some, gallant, attentive, with fluent flattering tongue,a
   " ready wit, and good store of frivolous conversation,
                 a
                               is    the spice of life and means
   "the sniall-talk which
   " nothing."

      William Charles St. John and Philip Henry Gosse not                                 I
   only became knit in warm friendship which lasted until
                 a

   circumstances drew them apart, but the former had very
   much to do in moulding the far from susceptible mind of

   the latter. At least, their two minds grew very steadily

   together, in the dail}', hourly, momentary companionship of
   several years of budding manhood. The two friends Widked

   together, read together, discussed and disputed together,

   on every imaginable subject in the office they joked
                                     ;

                                                            in
   together, and spent their spare moments a never-ending

   scries of intellectual combats, so that the counting-house
         NEWFOUXDLAXD.                                   3,

         became the arena of constant mental j^Mailiatorship between
         these ardent and vigorous ^'ounj^ iiitellij^ences, " Whatever

         of humour or u it in conversation I possess," my father lias
         written ; " whatever of lo^^Mcal precision of thou<;ht ; what-

         ever of readiness of speech or power in tlebate, I lar,t;ely

         owe to those years of merry C(jmpanion.->hip."  St. John

         went to IJoston, U.S.A., where he died on March 13,

      f  1874.

 of         The establishment of Mr. IClson in Carbonear was com-
cd       posed of two contiLjuous buildini^s -- the up[)er house, where
         the family resided, and where the head of the firm slept ;
ILM",
         and the lower house, where all the clerks slept and boardetl,
;ed      and where Mr. Elson took his meals with them, spendini^
 se      the day from breakfast-time till about eleven o'clock at
         niijht. The lower house, a larj.jc but 1(jw structure <jf
         wood, w as old and ramshacklcd ; the only ornament on its
         rude colonial front, opposite the countin<;-hou .e, was an
         antique sundial. Immediately before this fagade, and
         running along its entire extent, was a raised platform of
         boards, known as "the gallery," so old and rotten that in

         a year or two it was cleared away and rephu ed by a walk
         of hard gravel. On this platform it was usual for the
         officials to assemble, as well as all those captains of ships
         in port who were free of Mr. l-llson's table, at one o'clock,

         when a bell aloft was rung as the signal for dinner. Here
         they would form in knots, conversing, until the man-cook
         appeared at the door and announced that Mr. h^lson was
         served. The bedrooms of the clerks were barns of j)laces,
         destitute of carpet or curtain, the unpainted deal of the
         walls and floors being black with age. Whatever bedding
         was required was supplied from the shop, without any
         supervision from Mr. Klson, and the young fellows took

         care to sleep warm enough. They made their own beds,

         and did for themselves whatever service was needed,
                             mmmFJM

                          38 T//E LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

                             sweeping each the floor of hi:, room, and performing his
\ ablutions at a sink at the end of the gallery.

                              For Sundays there were three places of religious
                             assembly : firstly, the Roman Catholic chapel, attended by
                          the great mass of the working population, as alsc by Mrs.
                             Elson and her daughters; secondly, the Established Church,
                          a small edifice ministered to by the Rev. John l^»urt, who
                             came over for the purpose from his own parish of Harbour
                             Grace, of which he was tlie incumbent ; ami, thirdly, the

 I, Methodist chapel, which rivalled the Catholic chapel in the

                             number of its attendants. Mr. Elson was a Freethinker,
                             and attended no religious service. On the first Sunday
                             afternoon at Carbonear, Philip Gossc, feeling much at a loss
                             for occupation, went boldly into the parlour and asked
                             Mr. Prison to lend him a book. He was very kind, entered
                             into conversation with the lad regarding recent literature,
                             and lent him at once two works which were still fresh to the
                          world of readers, The Fortunes oj Nigel and the first scries
                          of the collected Ilssaj's of lilia. As at home in England,
                             so even in Newfoundland, in tliat fortunate age for authors,
                             there was a book-club in every town of any consequence.
                           Of the Carbonear book-club Mr. I'Llson was the president
                             and librarian, and the books were kejit in a closet to which
                             the clerks, most of whom were members of the club, had
                             free access at breakfast-time and on Sundays. New books
                           were bought but once a }'car, when a solemn meeting of
                             members was hcKl in tlie parlour, and the pnrchase of
                             volumes was voted. Tnc choice was mainly left to Mr.
                           lilson himself. Of course there was the usual large pro-
                              portion of novels, of which Gossc became a great devnirer.
                              Most of Scott's, lialwer's. Cooper's, Gait's, and the O'Hara
                              series were to be found at Carbonear witliin a year of their
                              publication in London. 15i(jgrai)hy, poetr}-, travels, and
                              even science wer-j very fairly represented, and the basis of
        NE WFO UND LAND.                         30

a sound knowlcdjre of contemporary literature could be,

and was, formed in this remote harbour of Newfoundland.

It would be interesting:;' f.o know whether, in the course of

sixty years, the colonial standard of ci\-iH/.ation has risen

or fallen, and whether the clerks of the Carbonear of to-day

know their Stevenson and their Hajji^ard as well as my

lather and his colleagues knew their Buhver and their

Banim. At this point I may quote an amusiiv^ letter from

the late Mr. W. C. St. John to my father, dated lAIay 25,
186S, but referring to events of the year 1.S27 --

      "One of my first experiences with the ' old white iiat'

"was an evening's walk on that most delectable of all

"turnpikes, Carbonear beach, when the surf-worn stones

"spread themselves out so invitingly to one, like your-

"sclf, but recently recovered from rheumatism in the

"feet. Bad as is my memory, I remember the heads of
"our confabulation. You told me about your school

"curriculum under one Charles Henry Sells (I think),
"and of a further polishing-off under a Unitarian minis-
" ten You had begun the French, and had made some

"considerable progress in Latin. As I knew nothing                I1
"of the latter myself, Ifelt flattered that I should have

" a classical scholar for my companion, and wasn't at all

"unwilling that the street passengers should hear us

''conversing in an unknown tongue. So I asked you to

"repeat some Latin verses, which yow   did       ver)- readil\-,
" ever and anon, however, stopping to  rub       your toe or

"ankle, as those outl\'ing members would  receive damage
" from tlie treacherous stones. Your      favourite jxjet

"appeared to be Virgil; and I hear you now going

" mcasurcdly and with admirable ore rotnndo and em-

"phasis over the old Roman's ' Bucolic' --

" * Siix'lides Musaj, paiillo inajora canamus :

Nun om  [oh ! pslia ! my toe ! hop, hop, hop]
m       40 T//E LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

  IM    Non omnes arhustoi [ankle turns : limp, limp]
\U i
        Non omnes arbusta juvani, huniil                                  [psha !]
    |:
                                                humilesquc myrica;;
Pr
        Si canimus silvas, silvan sint Consule digniij !'

        "The last line was brought out with great oratorical
        "power, as being 'eminently beautiful;' to whieh I
        " assented xvithoiil hesitation -- requesting )-ou, over and

        "over, to repeat perhaps half dozen times before we
                      it
                            it,

                                                                       a
        "reached the bridge; and alwa)'s with an eye to have

        "you spouting the incomprehensible language just as
        "somebody -- might be only Johnny Dunn the cooper
        " -- was passing. But the naughty beach-stones sadly

        "disturbed my calcuk'.tions, and the audience was sure
        " to pass in the midst oi a parenthesis thereby render-
                                                                          a

                                                                                ';
                                                                                                 !

                                                                                              O

                                                                                                                         !' ;
        " ing the limping sufferer anything but an object of envy
        " or admiration.
                               have picked up little Latin since
                               I
                                             a
        "and man}' and many time have those lines recurred
        " to me, -- with all their concomitaiUs of psh.a
                                                                                           dear

        "etc., etc., as well as the glowing expression of counte-
        " nance at the inimitable --

        " . . silv;c sint Consule digna;.'
        a .'

              II

                                    it
        " On this memorable occasion you discovered that                                         I

        "knew little about French, and had dabbled somewhat

        " in chemistr}-, ami you were prepaied to assure Pack's
        " chaps that wasn't such an ignoramus as they took

        " mc to be.*           tliink was this evening that, on our

        " return to our chambers, you produced                                             voluminous
                                                                          it
                                                                                        a
        "compilation of Joe Miller anecdotes in manuscript,
        " man)' of which you read to me, taking care to look
        " grave on tcach.ing ///<' /c////, lest
                                                                          should be thought

           "(as took it) that you knew no better than to laughI
           "at your own (comi)iled) jokes! "
           * " 'I'lu' Incl w.is I'.uk's tliaps' wcc vury iini'.li iti ;uvo i>l my friend's wit'

        and iiuwcis ulsuicasni. Fur liis cintUc was luit hid uiidcr IjusUlI."
                                                                          a
NE WFO UNDLA XD.                                41

    Another walk which Gossc took with St. Jolin at a very    \:
 early period may be recalled, because it gave occasion for
                                                                  'A
 one of those burlesque poem; c f the latter which, if not
                                                               \
 quite up to the highest level, was quite good enough to
gain for " Charley " St. John a local reputation as a
dangerously gifted poet. The laugh was raised at Gossc's

expense, and it is the butt himself who has preserved the
ditty. On one of those June evenings the two friends,
having sauntered through the long town until they liad
passed the contiguous houses, had protracted their ramble

to the very lonely lane near Burnt J lead, known as Rocky
Drong. This " drong," or lane, was reputed to be haunted.

It was now ten o'clock at night, when, turning round in

this desolate and gloomy locality, Gosse saw ahead what
seemed a dim female figure in while, afterwiirds igno-
niiniously identified as "one of Dicky the ]5ird's nieces
coming up from the 'landwash' with a 'turn' of sand
for her mother's kitchen lloor." The young naturalist
from I'oole endured and quite failed to conceal a paroxysm
of terror, and got home in an exhausted condition. Two

days afterwards, Charley St. J(jhn produced at the office
a piece of foolscap, from which he i)roceeded to read to a
delighted audience the following doggerel effusion, the only
surviving text of which is, 1 regret to say, imperfect :--

                         . . . The other night
The mocii it shone, not \eiy hriglit,
A\'hcn lo ' iu Rochy Dioni; niijiear'd

A tdrni that iiiade jioor (;os>k afeard.
It seem'd to wear a woman's dollies,
A horse's head, a luHk-oit's nose;

And with a deep and liulluw moan,

It thus addressed the Latin drone --
"Young Man, I'm happy for to say

That long in Poole you did not stay ;
For to your house that very night,

The Devil claim'tl you as his right.
                                                                             I

42 THE LIFE OF FITILIP HENRY GOSSE.

A Parson who was right at hand,

'I'old him you'd gone to Xowfouiidland."
" Indeed ! " says H.-U/ " when did he go ?
For he's deserted, you must know.

But morrow-morning 1 shall post

On every wall his bloody ghost,

And,
''    fiery placard, speak
           ill
                 a

                                        '
'I'lie following words, in broken Greek --
                                                    !
                                           Notice.    '
                                                            :
      Deserted from okl Bkelzkhub,

'Two nights ago, I'liiL Gossk, my cub.

      Had on, when left, an old white hat,
'A brown surtiMit, choke full of fat,
'A [iialf-lino missing], and in his box

                  by                                Doctor Watts.
                                 by
' '*  Were two old books

      One sermon  Durant, and, dang 'ee,

      A book of ridtlles from his granny.

''Whoever harbours this my man,                              "

 Let him beware iiis hide ill tan
                  :

   One of the [)ublic characteristics of Newfoundland life
of which Gosse became earliest aware was tlie growing

jealousy of the Irish element              in       the population. The lad

quickly took the tone of the baxoii and purely colonial

minority amongj whom he had been thrown. A .special

nuisance of the town of Carbonear was the abundance of

mongrel curs in the streets and one day, wlien j-oung
      a

                                  ;
                                      a
Gosse liad strolled down to Harbour Rock (an elevated
spot about half-way down the port, which formed a very

general resort as terminus to moderate walk), in com-
pany with his brother William, two or three of the ships'
captains, and some clerks of various firms, he committed

an indiscretion which left a strong imi)ression on iiisa
memory. One of his companions was very gentleman-

like young fellow, called Moore, book-keeper to one of the

                  15i'Llzcbul)
                 NE nFOUXDLAXD.                                         43

smaller firms. A captain asked Gossc how he liked New-

foundland ; safe, as lie thouj^ht, witli none but colonists, he

replied smartly, " I see little in                            except do!^s and
             is

                                        ;
                                                  }

                                                       T it,
Irishmen." The silence that followed, where he had ex-

pected approvinn^ lau,i;hter, told him that somethinL^ was

wron^. At length his brother said, " Do \'ou not know

that Mr. Moore an Irishman " rhili[) Gosse was imme-
diately extremely abashed but Moore replied, with i^rcat

good humour, "There's no offence; am an Ulsterman,

and love the Papist Irish no better than the rest of you."

The southern Irish were not slow, of course, to observe the

feeling of which this conversation was an example. They

immensely preponderated in numbers, ami they already

formed an anti-English party in Newfoundland, the rancour

of which was an inconvenience,      not danger to the
                 a

                                     if

                                                                 a
colony. My father saj's, in one of his manuscript notes --
     " There existed in Xewfoundland in iSj/, among the

" Protestant population of the island, an habitual dread

"of the Irish as class, which was m(jre o[)[)ressively

" felt than openly expressed, and there was customary

"an habitual caution in convers;ition, to avoid any

"unguarded expression which might be laid hold of by

"their jealous enmit\'. It was very largely this dread

"which impelled me t(j forsake Newfoundland, as a

"residence,  in  iSj5 and  I    recollect saying to my
                 ;
                    '
" friends the Jacjueses, that when we got to Canada, we

''''· might climb to the iop of the tallest tree the forest,        in

" and shout " Irishman " at the top of (jur voice, withoutin

" fear.' "           !

Gosse's first summer Newfoundland was one of much

freedom. Mr. Elson, not having seen his English partners

for several years, took holiday in the mother-country,
                 a

and Newall, the easy-going book-keeper, ruled at Carbonear
as his /(jfum teneiis. Besides this, the summer was always
pvann                                      CS9I

       44 THE LIFE or ririLIP J/EARV GOSSE.

       a \'v^\\\. time. The fleet of schooners sailed for Labrador
       in the middle of June, and from that time tiU the end of

       October, when the crews had to be paid off and all accounts

       settled, there was very little to be done in the counting-

       house, I'ortuiuiLely the brief summer of Newfoundland is

       a vcr)' del._L;htful one. Of the winter pleasures of Carbonear

       I ma)' well permit my father to speak for himself, nor

       interrupt the unaffectrid chronicle of his earliest loves :--
              " Parties were frequent, but they were almost always

       "'balls.' The clerks of the different mercantile firms,

       "were of course in demand, as bein;^ almost the only

       "younjj^ chaps with the least pretensions to a genteel
       " appearance. Jane Elson one day sent mc a note, inviting
       " me to a forthcoming ' ball.' I had never danced in

       " my life, and so was compelled to decline. Her note

       " began,  ' Dear  Henry    '   and  1 thought  it was the proper
                                ;

1 1 "thing, in replying, to begin mine with 'Dear Jane.'

       "Having my note in my pocket, I gave it to her, as

       "1 met her and Alary in the lane, just below the plat-

       "form. Lusii, who had seen the action, benevolently
       " took me aside, and told me that ' it was not etiquette,

       "'to write a note to a lad}', and deliver it myself;' at
       " which I again felt much ashamed. This ignorance of

       "the art of dancing caused me to refuse all the parties,

       " and very much isolated me from the female society of

       " the place. I do not doubt that this was really very

       " much for my good, and preserved me from a good deal

       "of frivolity ; but I rebelled in spirit at
                                                '                       and mur-

                                                                   it,
       " inured at the Puritan prejudices of my i)arents, which
                         '
       "had not allowed me to be taught the elegant accom-
                                 in
       "plishinent, which ever)' Irish lad and girl acquires, as        it
                                   I
       " were, instinctively.         supposed  it  was absolutely im-

       " possible to join these parties without having been

       "taught; thoLiijh, truth, such movements as sufficed
                                                                                                                             lil' iiimiiDinntil i u^. ;>

                     NEWFOUXDLAXD.               45

   " for those simple Imps would have been readily ac-
   " quired in an evening or two's observation, under the

   "willing tuition of any of the merry girls. William,

   "indeed, as I afterwards found, went to them, and ac-

   " quitted himself ftfw;//^ il fant ; though he had no more

   " learned than I had. However, I believe I had somc-

   " what of the 'Puritan prejudice' myself; at least,
   " conscience was uneasy on the point, as I had been

   "used to hear balls classed with the theatre.
      " ]\Iy familiarities with the Elsons never proceeded

   "farther than a making of childish signals with my
   "candle at night. My bedroom window looked across

   "the meadow towards the Up[)er House, in frcjnt of
   " which was tlie bedroom window of the girls. We

   "used to signal to each other, holding the candle in the

   "various panes of the window, in turn, in res[)onse to
   "each other. There was no ulterior meaning attaclied

   "to the movements; it was mere child's play. They

   "certainly began       for am sure should not have
                     it,

                            I
                                   if

                                              I
   "ventured on such a liberty myself. Apsey, however,

   "took greater freedoms, for he were on the platform

   "waiting for dinner, when they happened to be coming

   "down the meadows to go into the town, he would way-

   "lay them at the end of the platform (which the)' were

   "obliged to cross) and not suffer them to pass, till each                                                                 it
   "had paid him the toll of kiss. It was readily yielded
                                                                                                                                  1)II

   is
                a

                                  a
                                                                                   a

                                                                                                                          ;
   "and though they affected to frown, an.d said, 'Mr.

   '"Apsey such tease,' they were evidently not much

   "discomposed, and bore him no malice, being (jf for-

   " giving disposition.  The toll was taken with full

   " publicity, in presence of us all, some of whom envied

   " him his impudence and success.

   " In truth, Jane IClson became the unconscious object
   " of my first boyish love. Before the autunm of this

I
                     M

    46 THE LIFE OF miLIP HENRY GOSSE.

        "first season had yi'jldcd to winter, I loved Jane with
       "a deep and passionate love, -- all the deeper because I
       " kept the secret close locked in my own bosom.

                                        " ' He never told his love ;

                        Pnit let concealment, like a worm i' the bud,
                        Feed on his damask cheek.'

           " The chaps in the office used to rally me about Mary,
        " who was indeed much the prettier and more vivacious
       " of the two, and I never undeceived them ; but Jane
       "was my flame. One night I awoke from a dream, in
       "which she had appeared endowed with a beauty quite
       "unearthly, and as it were angelic; so utterly unde-
       ' scribable, and indeed inconceivable, that on waking
       " I could only recall the general impression, every effort
      "to reproduce the details of her beauty being vain.
       " They were not so much gone from memory, ?.s from
       "the possibility of imagining. There was in truth no
       "great resemblance in the radiant vision to Jane's
      "homely face and person ; and j-et I intuiti\cly knew it
       " to be her.

         " My unconquerable bashfulness precluded my ever
      "hinting my love to Jane. A year or two afterwards,
      " I was at a 'ball ' at Newell's, the only one which I ever
      "attended, and the IClson girls were there. It was cus-
      "tomary for the fellows each to escort a lady home:
      " I asked Jane to allow me the honour. She took my
      "arm; and there, under the moon, we walked for full
      "half a mile, and not a word -- literally, not a single
      "word --broke the awful silence! I felt the awkward-
      "ness most painfully ; but the more I sought something
      "to say, the more my tongue seemed tied to the roof cf

      " my mouth.

        "This bojish passion gradually wore out: I think all
      "traces of it had ceased long before I visited England

\\
KEWFOUNDLAXD.  47

   "in 1832. About a jx-ar after that Jane married a            fc I
   "young merchant of St. Jolin's, named Wood; and
    "IMary accepted one of tlic small merchants of Car-
    "bonear, one Tom Gamble, in June, 1S36."
    What society Carbonear possessed was mainly to be
met with in the houses of the planters, several of whom
were wealthy and hospitable. The name "planter" needs
explanation. It had no connection with the cultivation of

the soil, although doubtless inherited from colonies where
it had tliat meaning. Tn Ncwfoundla. d the word de-
signated a man wIkj owned a schooner, 1 which he pro-
secuted one or both of the two fisheries of the colony,
that for seals in spring and that for cod in winter. In
Carbonear, a town of some two thousand five hundred

inhabitants in 1S2.S, there \\cre about seventy planters,

whose dealings were distributed amongst the mercantile
liouscs of the place. Of these, about twenty-five were

fitted out by the firm in which m\' father was a clerk, that
of Messrs. Slade, Elson, and Co. In general, business was

carried on upon the following terms. The mercantile firm,

having a house in luigland as well as one in Newfound-
land, imported into the island, from various pcjrts of luirope
and America, all supplies needful for local consumption
and for the prosecution of the fisheries, the colony itself

producing no provisions except fisli, fresh meat, oats, and

a few vegetables. Tlie planter was supplied by his mer-

chant, and alwaj's on credit, with cvcrj'thing requisite, the
whole produce of his voyage being bound to be delivered
to the house. The planter shipped a crew, averaging

about eighteen hands to each schooner, who (in the seal-
fishery) claimed one-half of the gross produce to be divided
among them ; the other half going to the owner, who in

most instances commanded his own vessel. The names
of the crew having been registered at the counting-house,
        4S 77//; LIFE OF rrriLir irEVRV gosse.

        each man wa:; allowed to take up t^oods on the credit of
        the voyage, to certair. amount, perhaps one-third, or even
        a
                     inone-half, of his probable carninc^s. The clerks were the
        judj^cs of the amount. For these goods both [planter and

        crew applied at the office, in order, and received tickets, or

        "notes," for the several articles. In the busy season the

        registering of these notes, delivering'the goods, and enter-

        ing the transactions                        the books would occupy the whole

        staff until late into the night.

        In his Introduction to Zooh\Q;y              I (i.  iio) my father has

        given the details of the seal-fishery, on which, as he was

        never personally cogni/.ant of them, need not dwell. But

        the preparation of the sea! fleet for starling was the busiest

\\ If   time of the year to him, the North Shore, and particularly

niir    Carbonear, being, from the 1st to the 17th of March, all

        alive with very active, noisy, rude, and exacting popula-
        a
                        it a
                                         a

                                                 a
        tion. During this fortnight, life was purgatory for the
                                                            a

|iI     clerks, wdio were besieged from morning till night l)y these
    l\
        vociferous and fragrant fellows. By St. Patrick's Day,

        however, was point of honour for all the scalers to
        have sailed, and thence, until the middle of i\pril, when

        the more fortunate schooners began to return, the

        counting-house kept sort of holidr". Then, once more,

        press of work set in. The seal-pelts brought home were

        delivered in tale, all the accounts incurred had to be

        settled, and amounts due to the successful crews to be paid
        them. This had to be done partly in cash -- the Spanish

        dollar of four shillings and twopence sterling passing for
        five shillings -- and partly in goods, which involved more

        " notes." The planters' accounts, too, had to be squared

        and the profit or loss on the voyage of each determined.

        By this time May would be far advanced, and now all

        was hurry, almost exactly repetition of the scenes in
        ;

                                                  a
        March on this occasion, the cod-fishery being prepared
                 A'y? IVFO UNDI.A XD.                          49

for. The same schooners, commanded by the same

skippers, but with newly selected crews, were fitted out

<»n exactl)' the same system of credit as before, with the
same bustle. \Sy the middle of June, all had sailed for

Labrador, where they remained, catchinrj and curini; fish,

until October, when they brou£,dit their produce back.

This interval was nearly a four months' holiday for the

clerks, and in the most deli;^htful part of the \'ear. The
work in the office was then little inore than routine -- the

copyinj^ of letters, keepini^ the goods' accounts of such

residents as dealt at Mr. Mlson's stores, despatchinij^ two

or three vessels to Knc^^land with the seal oil of the sprinj^
collection, and the business connected with what was

called the Shore fishery.

In the coves round about, and especiall)- alon^^j the
" North Shore " -- that
                           the coast of Conception Bay
                           is,
which stretched from Carbonear to Point Baccalao, ana

iron-bound, precipitous shore, much indented with small
inlets, but containinc^ no harbours for ships -- along this

North Shore, there resided hardy population, mainly

luiglish and Protestant, who possessed no schooners, but

held small sailing-boats, with which, mostly by families,

they pursued the cod-fishery in the bay. The fish they                                        !'

took were commonly of larger size, were better cured, and

commanded higher price than the Labrador produce, but
a
         it
                                                            a
the quantity of  was strictly limited. Many of the

North Shore men were tall, well-made, handsome fellows,

singularly simple and guileless, with marked aversion

and dread of the Irish population of the harbours, to whom

their peculiarities of idiom and manners afforded objects

of current ribaldry. In the spring, as they had no re-

                               sources at home, these mild giants shipped with the

II planters for the ice, and during the noisy first fortnight of
                                   March, when the crews " came to collar," as their arrival
    50 THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY COSSE.

Kf  w.as called, the port was rcs()un(lin;r every .light with shouts

    atid cries and responses, bandied from vessel to vessel,

    nicknames, ribald jokes, and ojjprobrious epithets showered

    on the inoffensive heads of the poor meek men from the
    North Slujre. Their tlialect was peculiar. It sounded

    particularly stran<^e in the ears of the Irish, althoui^h it
    was really ecpially diverse from that of any English

    peasantry. One of its traits was an inability to pronounce

                                Most of them were Wesleyans,
    itthe ///, which became / or
                                I:
                                                          singing hymns
                                                          </.

                                                                                     it
    and was amusing to hear them fervently
    in their odd language --

                           " J^c ting my God dut hate,

                                    Dat no more may do."

    With these simple folk the summer business of the

    counting-house was mainly occupied, they bringing their

    little boat-loads of excellent fish, according as                                                was

    cured, with such subordinate matters as fresh salmon for

    the house-table, and various delicious berries. Of these

    latter the Newfoundland summer produces a considerable

    variety, as cranberries, whortleberries, and the exquisitely

    delicate cloudberry {Rubies c/unnccinonis), locally known ivs
    " bakc-apples." These were always saleable, and some-

    times, though not often, the North Shore men would bring
      carcase of reindeer venison, nearly as large as cow -- an
    a
                                         a

                                              if

                                                                                                  a
    excellent and savoury meat. Such minute transactions as

    these, however, hardly broke the office holiday, and alto-
    gether the work of these four summer months would have

    been by no means oppressive, performed in one.

    In October the harbour gradually fdled again, and as

    the 31st of that month was the terminus of every en-

    gagement, no sooner did that much-hated and dreaded

    day arrive, than the counting-house was beset by the

    clamorous rogues, dozen or more crowding in at once

    into the office, all shouting, swearing, and wrangling to-
1%

                         NElVrOUXD/.AXD.                                   5«

    gcthcr, dirty and greasy, redolent witli a commingled
    fragrance of fish, oil, ruin, and tobacco -- one calling Heaven

    to witness in the richest Milesian accents that a certain

    pair of hose charged in his account never went upon //is

    legs, slunving the said legs at the same time, as a [)atent
    proof that he had no such stockings four months before ;

    another affecting great indignation, because the usual

    charge of one shilling has been made for "hospital;"

    another finding the balance of cash due to him rather less

    than his vivid imagination has antici[)ated, and romping

    and tearing about, swearing that he will not touch the

    dirty money, that the clerks ma}- keep               that he doesn't
                                    in ;
    care two i)ins for the clerks, but presently C(Joling down,it,

    pocketing the cash, and signing his beautiful autograph in

    the receipt-book. The hottest part <jf this settling business

    did not last through November at least, the crews, the

    roughest utter /AAs", were pretty well done with by the end
    of that month. Ikit as the year drew near its close, books

    had to be wound up, long planters' accounts to be copied,

    ample inventories of all stock  the various stores and

    shops to be taken and copied, various statements to be

    drawn uj) for transmission to England, long letters to be                  li' H

    transcribed, and general arrears in many branches to

    be made up. The winter business, therefore, was long

    and pretty arduous.

        The prices charged cm account varied little in general
                                                         ;
                                                                        ;
    they were about double what they cost in England that

    is  to say nominally, but the difference between sterling and

    currency must be borne in mind. 'I'o residents in the

    town, who paid cash over the counter, prices were con-

    siderably less. The clerks had all their goods charged to                         ^

    them at the actual invoice prices, to which twenty-five per

    cent, was then added, and all the cash they had drawn was,

    at settling time, turned into sterling, and the difference
 m               r///c L/FE OF PITILIP HENRY GOSSE.

li U  allowed to their.. The wages Philip Gossc rccciv^cd were

1'^!  small but then board and lodging were provided. VV'a.sh-

II '  ing, however, he had to pay himself, a/id the following

      anecdote may be peimitted to illustrate the system and
      his personal economy r--

            " It must have been in the summer of 1829 that I had

          "been a little exceeding my income, and Mr. IClson had

      "evidently his eye on ^x\y account. One little item
      " brought matters to a crisis. Tlicre suddenly appeared
      " in the ledger against my name, ' 2 o/s. Cmnamon, \s!

      "This I had got at the shop, to chew, as litt'o 'uxury
                                     .-:
      "but the skipper noticed  it,and, sno more, said nothing
                                  a                It
      "to me, but gavo orders to Lush that Thiiip Gosse must
      " have nothing more without note from him. Soon .'ifter   a;
      " this my laundress applied to me -- through her usual
                                                                       I
      "mesi. ngcr,  a  buxom daughter -- for some goods on

      "r"^. ant, for which  I,  suspecting nothing, gave her

      "note in my nvn hand. This note was dishonoured;

      "and few days later, old Mrs. Rowe herself applies to
      I" Mr. Iv, wl'.o comos with her into the office.
              a                                                           so

      " happcricd that did not recognize her, having genen.lly
                       I

      "(lone business with one or other of her daughters, and
      " look no hcetl whatever to what she and Mr. F-!,. were

      "talking about, the chiel'of the discussion having doubt-
      "Icss passed before they entered the office. Mr, E. at
      " length gave her the note she asked in my name, and

      "she Vv'cnt cut looking daggers at me as she passed.
      " The skip[)er presently retired also, saying not word
                                     I,
      "to me; and not till then did
                                                                       a
                                     throut;h St. John's

      "raillery, who had from the first apprehended the state

      "of affairs, know what had transpired, lioth Durell and

      " he had wondered at my coolness and nonchalance,

      " which was now explained. Thenceforward was more
                                     I

      "economical; and my disbursements, which had not
NE. IVFOUNDLAND.  53

   ^'greatly exceeded my earnings, at length were overtaken        m

  "by them, aiid all was right again. I. was a lesson I      i:·
                                                              I
    " never forgot."
                                                             \^
   The remainder of this chapter shall be formed of a
                                                               !
variety of desultory scraps, referring mainly to the years

1827 and 182S, which T fmd in my father's handwriting.
The> have never before been printed, and they may S'jrve
to com[)lete the picture of his first years in Newfound-

land :--
       " During the first summer, while the skipper (our

   "representative for the modern term 'governor') was in
   " England, the dwelling-house had a narrow escape from
   '·fire. I was standing alone at the office window whicli

   "looked up to the house, just after dinner one day,
   "watching a vivid thunderstorm. Suddenl)- I saw what
   "appeared exactly as if a cannon had been fired directly
   "out of the house chimney. This was the lightning

   "flash, which struck the house, attracted b)' an iron
   "fender, which was set on end in the fireplace of the

  "best bedroom, I saw the wide column of intense

   " flame ; the ap[)arent direction, which suggested the

  "resemblance to a cannon fired tmt of the chimney, was
   " of course, an illusion of my senses. The rei)ort, too,

   "was the short ear-piercing crack of a great gun when

  "fired close by you; nothing like ordinary thunder.
  "There was now a general rush to the house. Newell
  "and Caj/tain iVndrews had been cosily sitting before

  "the empty fire[)lace in the parlour, each smoking his
  "long pipe after dinnei', while the glass of giog was in
  "one case standing on the hob, in the fjther in the

  "owner's hand. The two sitters hail been in a moment

   "jerked half round, though unhurt ; the glasses dashed

  "down, nmch row and terror caused, but wondrously
  " little damage. The electric course could be distinctly
m mmmm
ii: If!
         54 7V/E LIFE OF PII/LIP HENRY GOSSE.
      i
         "traced along the bell-wire half round the room, to the

         "door opposite. TliJ wire had been melted here and

         "there; the gilding on the frames of two pictures

         "on the wall had contracted into transverse bands, alter-
         "natin_,^ with bands of blajk destitute of gt)ld the door

         " had been thrown off its hinges, though these were
                                                    a
                                                                                                 ;
         "unusually massive; and                    few other freaks of this

         "playful character had sated the lightning's ire.

         " St. John thus recalls to my memory one result of this
         "storm: 'Do you recollect Newell's account of that
         "' event (the thunderbolt?) in his letter to I'oole
         ''                                                                                                                               We

                   I
                            II

                                                                    ;

                                         ;/
                                                                                    it
                                                                                                                                  !
                                                                                                                                    ' .'
         "'amused ourselves with its diction, counting the
         " prodigious number of was-cs crowded into the

         "'sentences, " was," and "he was," and " was," etc.,

         "'without end.                    think you coi^ied the letter, and fairly

         " foamed with laughter -- bad boys as wc were
         " My friend John Brown wrote me,
                                                           think, but one

         "letter.  left him ill of consumption and the summer

         "had scarcely set in, when he died at home in Poole. The

         "death of my early friend did not affect my feelings in

         "any appreciable degree. It seemed as             had forgotten
                                                       if
         " him.
                                                          I

                                                              I
                   was much ashamed of this, and, may say,
                   I

                                        ;
         "even shocked but, as was, new scenes, new friend-a
         " ships, had come in, and, what was perhaps more to
         " the point, had, since parted from him, brief as theI it
                   I

         "period really was, changed from the boy into the ))ian.a;it
         " Thus there seemed great chasm between my present
         " feelings, aspirations, anci habits of thought, and those
         " of only few months before and had so happened
         " that this physical transition had been exactly coin-
         " cidcnt with the change of place and circumstances,
         " J(jhn Brown seemed to belong to another era, which

         " had faded away. It was true, in more than one sense,

         "that had migrated to 'The New World."
         I
                                                                        v-,^

I

s

               NE IVFO UNO LAND.                                    55

       " Charley would occasionally invite me to accompany
    " him over to Harbour Grace, about three miles distant,
    " to spend the evening with his family, sleep with him,

    "and return to business next morninfr. His parents

    "were a venerable pair of the aucicn n'<^iine ; all their
    " manners and their furniture told of hi<;h breeding^ and
    "'blue blood.' There was avast oil painting, covering

    "nearly one wall of the dining-room, such as we
    " occasionally see in o'd m.ansions, representing a great

    "spread of fruit, and a peacock, in all the dimensions and

    "ail the splendour of life. Charley had two sisters --
    " Hannah, a sweet, sunny girl, with bright eyes and

    "auburn hair ; Charlotte (Lt tty), a little deformed, very

    " gentle, but retiring, and less attractive. J5oth were
    " very sweet, amiable girls.

    "One day (I think within my first year), having

    "occasion to go over to Harbour Grace, i borrowed a

    "horse to do the ]o\.\rx\cy en cavalier. I think this was

    " the first time I had ever crossed a horse's back, unless
    " it was in going with my cousins Kemp from Holme to

    " Corfe Castle, and then I had not attempted more than

    "a walk. Now, however, I was more ambitious ; and
    " as my steed broke into a gentle trot, I jerked from

    " side to side in a style quite edifying and novel to any

    "passing pedestrians, no doubt; for I had no notion of                    \ I4
    " holding with my knees. The success of the expcri-
    " ment did not encourage me to repeat and didn't
                                  it,
                                         in

                                          I
    "know how to ride till learned in Jamaica,  1S45.
               I
                           a
    "The facilities for reading afforded by the library

    ·' eagerly availed myself of, particularly in novels, of
·1  I
            I
    " which    presently became  great devourer. Several

    "of Scott's, several of lUilwcr's, of D'Israeli's, read but
                                                I

                                                                 ;

    "the American tales of Cooper, and the Irish series

    "published under the noiii de giicrre of 'The O'Hara
                                                                                                                                          T

    56 THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

    "Family,' were the prime favourites. As an example
    "of the absorption of interest with which I entered into
    " these imaginary scenes, I remember that on one
    "occasion this autumn (1827), I was sittintj in my becl-

    "room late at night, finishing a novel, and when I had

    "done, it was some minutes before I could at all recall

    " where I was, or my circumstances. At another time,
    " I actually read through two of the three volumes of a

    " novel at one sitting.

       " It was, if I am not mistaken, in The Collegians*

    'one of the O'llara tales, that I met with the following

    " sentence :-- ' If time be rightly defined as " a succession
    '""of ideas," then to him whose mind holds but one

    '"abiding idea, there is no time.' This definition struck

    " me forcibly at the time ; and all through life I have

    " recurred to            ever and anon, when h;ive read the
            a                                                     is
                    ;                                                             a

                     if it,                                                    I

                                                                                         I
                                                                                                                                       ;
    "ordinary confused definitions of time, in which the

    " motions of the heavenly bodie-: are prominently
    " mentioned. There are indeed the tneasuic's of time

iii " but the essence of time                                       something ([uite distinct
                                       " from its admeasurement.  The sentence have just

    "quoted formed the basis of many discussion betv.eeu

    "St. John and me; and we speculated much upon
    " eternity, as
                             its essence precluded succession. We

    " talked too of Gotl, as the schoolmen had done long

    'before us assuming that to Him there was no succes-

    "sion, but one abiding iKyio.

    "The year 1827 closed, and knew by experience
                                                                  I

    " what  Newfoundland winter was. It was by no

    " means unbearable. The thermometer very rarely

    " descends below zero more than once or twice in the

    "season; snow sets in generally by the end of Se[)-

                               My Gcrulil (iriOin.

il
NEU'FOUXDLAXD.  57

tcmbcr, and bv the middle of November it has be-              '!«

come permanent till April. However, the weather is

generally fine ; we in tlie office kept good fires, took
daily walks to the great gun upon Harbour Rock, or

in some other direction, and contrived to enjoy our-

selves. Mr. Elson had returned in October and

resumed his woiitetl authority, and Newell had sunk
to mere book-keei)er again. It was, I think, in this
winter that St. John urged me to write a novel. 1 at
length complied ; and taking down a quire of foolscap,
began the adventures of one l-^lwin Something, 'a )'Oulh
' about eighteen,' who ' dropped a tear over the ship's
' side ' as he left his native ctnmtry. I passed ni)' hero
through sundry scenes, and, among the rest, into a sea-
fight with a Tunis corsair, in which, I said, ' the Turks
'remained masters of the field.' There was no attempt
at fine writing ; it was all verj- simple, and all very
brief; for I finished off my story in some three or four

pages. St. Joiin read it very scriousl)-, and mercifully
restricted his criticism to the expression ' fit^ld,' in the

sentence above cited, which, he saitl, as the subject was

a sca-\\g\\t, was hardly coinuw il faiit. lie did not
laugh at me ; but I had sen.se enough to know that it

^vas a very poo: affair, and did not preserve it.

 "In the spring of 1S2S, when the vessels began to
return from the ice, I was sent t<j the oil-stage to take

count of the seal-pelts delivered. The stage was a

long projecting wharf, roofed and inclosed, carried out

over the sea upon jmIcs driven into the bottom. I take
my place, pencil and pap( r in haiul. at the oi)en end of
this stage, seated on an inverted tub. Hefore me is a

wide hand-barrow. :\ boat loaded to the water's edge

with seal-pelts is being slowly pulled from one of the
schooners b)' a noisy crew, nioslly Irish. As soon as
     ««HHBHM«H                                                                                    ^

k;                                                                                                 i

it :

                        5S 7V/E LIHi OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

                                      " she arrives at the wharf, two or tierce scramble up, and
                                   "the rest, remaining in tlic boat, begin to throw the
                                   " heavy pelts of greasy bloody fat up on the floor of the

                               "stage. At the same time one of the crew that has
                                   "climbed up begins to lay them one by one, fur down-

                                       " ward, on the barrow ; singing out, as he lays down

                                " each, ' One -- two -- three -- four -- tall}-,' I at each one
                               " making a mark on my paper. I'ivc pelts make a
                                   "barrow-load, and instead of the word 'five,' the word
                               " ' tally' is used, for then I am to make a diagonal line
                                "across the four marks, and this formula is called 'a
                               "tally." Immediately the word 'tally ' ?s uttered by the
                                " loader, which is always with a loud emphasis, I also
                             "say 'tally;' and then two labourers catch up the
                                   "barrow, and carry it into the recesses of the stage for
                                   " the pelts to be skinned ; a second barrow meanwhile
  I " receiving its tally in exactly the same manner, while
                                   " my marking goes on, but on the opposite siue of the
                                "basal line; so that the record assumes a form which
                                   "represents fifty pelts. This is very easily counted,
                                   "while mistake is almost impossible. 1 forgot to say
                                   " that one of the more responsible hands, perhaps the
                                   " mate, also stands by, and keeps a like tally with mine,
                                   " on behalf of the owner and crew.

                                   " Of course this was by no means so pleasant an
                             "employment as that I had been used to in the warmth
                                   "antl comfort and congenial company of the counting-
                                   " house. The dirty, brawling vulgar fellows crowding
                                   "around, uttering their low witless jokes, or cursing
                                   "and swearing, or abusing others, or bragging their
                                   " achievements ; the filth everywhere ; the rancid grease,
                                   "which could not fail to be absorbed by my shoes and
                                   " scattered over my clothes ; so that whenever, at bell-
                             " ringing or in evening, I essayed to join my companions.

III
A'E WFOUNDLAXD.  59

" the plain-spoken roj^ues would welcome me with --·           f5 i|^
" ' Oh, Gossc, pray don't come very near ! you stink so
 "'()f seal-oil!' then, at times, the hitter cold of winter,

"not yet )'ieldin;jj t(j s[)rinL,^ the snowy gales driving in

"on me, and hlowinc; up through the corduroy poles
"which made the floor ;-- all this made mc heartily glad

" when the last schooner was discharged, and I was

"again free to take my place with my fellows.
    " I picked u[), however, curing this occupation, a good

"deal of interesting information. I became familiar with

"the different species of seals; learned much of their

"habits and natural history, and of the ailventures of the

"hunters; and f<irmed a i)retty graphic and correct

"idea of the circumstances of the voyage, and scenes at

"the ice. .\ good deal of this I embodied in a journal,
" which I had contiuuetl to keep ever since I parted from
" home, sending it consecutively to mother, as book after

"book became filled. The one I now transmitted was

"embellished, as I well recollect, with a coloured frontis-
" piece, of full sheet size, folded so as to correspond with
" the leaves of the book. This represented an animated

" scene at the ice, in which several schooners were
" mooretl and several boats' crews were scattered about,

"with their gaffs and guns, pursuing the young seals;

"others pelting them, and others dragging their loads of

"pelts to their boats. Though destitute of all artistic
" power, it was a valuable picture ; for it represented,
" with vividness and truth, a scene which then had

"never been adequately described in print, certainly

"never depicted. 1 am sorry to say that this, with all
"the other records of tlKjse times and scenes, has long
"been utterly and unaccountably lost ; no trace having

"been preserved, except in fading memcjry, of what I

"took so much pains to perpetuate. Many shiftings of
    6o THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

    "homes liavc occurred, and 'three removes are as bad

        as a tiie.

       " I have ah-cady alluded to my painfid susceptibiHty

    "to c^hostly fears. In my imagination, a skeleton, or

    "even a cori^se, was nearly the same thing as a ghost.
    "This spring, the body of a drowned sailor was pickeil
    " up in the harbour, and laid under a shed on our
    " premises, covered with a sail, till it could be buried.

    "My morbid curiosity impelled me to look on it; and

    " Captain Stevens turned back the sail, to show me the
    " face. The corpse had evidently lain long in the water,
    " so that only the greenish-white bones were left -- at least,

    "in the parts not protected by the clothes. I felt a

    "great awe and revulsicjn as I looked at it; and the

    "grim grinning skull haunted my dreams, and would
    " suddenl)- come up before my e)'es, when alone in the

    "dark, for months. It was the hrst time I had ever

    " beheld the relics of poor deceased humanit}'.
       " Among the numerous scraps which had lain, from

    "time immemorial, in my father's great portfolio, there

    " was an engraving b}' Bartolozzi, in his peculiar manner

    " imitating red chalk. It was a Venus bathing, after

    " Cii)riani, -- a most exquisite thing. This 1 had taken
    " possession of, and had brought to Newfoundlaiul.

    "There was a servant girl, named Mary March, living
    " in one of the houses near our premises, whom I used

    "to see occasionally, as she came with her pitcher to

    " fetch water from the clear cold brook that ran along

    " at the end of our platform. Mary was quite a toast
    "among our chaps -- a pleasant, smiling, perfectly modest

    " girl ; but what attracted my eager interest was that her
    " face was the exact counterpart of that of my most

    "          Venus  of liartolozzi's."
      lovel}-

il
                                                                >^''-^i%i i>.^^.

( 6i )

                        cirAPTi<:R III.

             \N p:\vfou N' I )L a D {continued ).

                                              1S28-1.S35.

EARLY in Auij^ust, 182S, Philip Gnssc was sent for by
          Mr. Klson, and told that he must "ct himself rcadv
to rro and take his place in the office at St. Mary's.
This he knew of only as an obscure, semi-barbarous settle-
ment on the south coast of Newfoundland, where, as the
clerks had gathered, the Hrm had just purchased an old
establishment. The young man's heart sank within him
as this command was delivered to him in Mr. I-CIson's dry,
short, peremptory manner. Remonstrance, of course, was
(Hit of the question, but it seemed an exile to the antipodes,
to be severed from all his pleasant companions and en-
vironment, to be shut up in an out-of-the-world hole, for
an indefinite period, since no liint was given of any term
to this banishment. He could only bow in silence, and
rush down to the counting-house, there to pour forth his
sorrows to his sympathizing fellows, not without tears.

    The Plover, a schooner recently purchased b}- Mr.
Elson, was being sent round with a cargo of sup[)lies. On
board this vessel Gosse sailed a few da\'s later, enveloped,
as the ship ran down the coast, in a dense sea-fog, raw,
damp, cold, and miserable. On the second day he saw a
curious phenomenon, which roused him a little out of his
depression. Mounting the rigging some twent}- feet or so
.-'                 62 rilE IE1.1 OF nilLIP HEXRY GOSSE.

                              above the sea-level, he found himself in l)ri;4ht sunshine,
                              with the fojr spread below him, like a jjlain of cotton. On
                                 this surface his shadow was [)rojected, the head surrounded,
                              at some distance, by a circlin<^ halo of rainbow colours.
                           This is the rare Arctic appearance known as the fog-bow,
                              or fog-circle. On the third morning, still sailing in blind
                           fog, tlie vessel got into the harbour of St. Mary's. It
                              proved a dreary, desolate place indeed. There were
                              perhaps three or four hundred inhabitants, almost all of the

                                 fisherman or labourer class, and for the most part Irish.
                              There were two mercantile establishments -- the principal,

                                 which the Carbonear firm had recently purchased ; and
                              another, of much humbler pretensions, kept by a genial,
                             jovial, twinkling little old Ivnglishman, named William

                              Phippard, who also filled the office t)f stipend iar\- magistrate.
                              The manager of Mlson's was one Jnhn W. Martin, a I'oolc
                              man, the son of a certain Mr. Marlin who was a little fiit

                              man, with a merry laugh and a hnid chirping voice, a jest
                                 ever on his lips, as he bustled hither and tliithur, w Iuj had
                             been in Gosse's boyhood one of tlie familiar objects of
                           Poole life. There was nothing genial about his son, John
                             W. Martin, however ; conscc}uential and bumptious in his
                             deportment, he enjoyed wielding his rod of auihorit)-, and
                          soon began to make his new clerk feel it. At the first

                             meal young Gossc ate with his new chief the latter took
                          his intellectual measure. Gosse asked if there were any
                           Indians in the neighbourhood. "What! you mean," said

% Martin, "the abo -- abo -- abo -- rceginees " affecting learn-

                             ing, but pronouncing the awful word with the greatest
                             difficulty. Martin began at once to bore the young man
                             with constant petty tyrannies, which, after the liberty to

                                which he had become accustomed at Carbonear, were very
                             galling. One day on the wharf, among the l.iboiirers, where
                             Gossc was doing some duty or other, Martin took offence,
NE WFO UNDLA XD.  63

and said, " You shan't be called J/;-. Gossc any more ; you
shall be called plain I'hilip." The lad was very timid ;
but on this occasion he thoui;ht he saw his advanta^^e in
the manat^cr's own overweeniuL,^ sense of dignity, and he
pertly replied, " Very well ; and I'll call you plain John,"

which shut his mouth and stopped that move, while the

labourers grinned approval.
   On Suntlays only Philip Gosse was his own master at

St. Mary's. Sometimes, while the summer lasted, he took
an exploring walk on this day. But thcnigh the scenery

seaward was grand, it was not attractive ; the lantl was a

treeless waste, and the young man had no companion to

interchange a word with, lie therefore soon to(jk to the

habit of going round the beach to I'liippard's immediately

after breakfast, spending the whole day there, and return-
ing to his solitary bedroom at night. Phippard had two
daughters -- one married to an linglishman named Coles,
who commanded a little coasting craft, and who lived in
the house ; the other a pretty girl, named Emma, who

insensibly became the young clerk's closest friend and
principal companion. The I'^lson stores and wharf had the
reputation of being haunted. The Irish servants told of
strange lights seen and unaccountable noises heard there

at night, although there was insinuated, on sunshiny
mornings, a sly suspicion that the demon was one Ned
Toole, a faithful servitor and confidential factotum of

Martin's. It was quite salutar). that such a superstition
should prevail ; a ghost is an excellent watch-dog. Martin

affected to despise the belief, but secretly ncnirished it

notwithstanding. Gossc's bedroom was over the office,

and bctw'cen it and the other inhabited rooms there was

a large unoccupied chamber called the fur-room. The
house did a good deal of business in valuable furs --
beaver, otter, fox, and musquash -- and the whole room
i            64 inr. LIFE OF nriLiP nexry gosse.

    I*i 'f(  was hun<^ round willi dry skins, received from the trappers,

             awaitiiij; shipment.  a It  was important that this very costly

             property should be i)rotectcd, and so -- this fur-room was

             haunted. The maid-.servants recounted to the young clerk

             a harrowing tale of an incident which had happened before

             he came. One night one of them told Martin that conver-

             sation was heard in the house, but no one could say

             whence the voices came. He listened, and heard the sound

             as of man's grave tones, rather subdued, and occasionally
             aa
             intermitted. y\fter while   a it  was concluded that  was
                                                                   it
                                                                             a
             the ghost in the fur-room. Martin, therefore, with

             theatrical air of de\ilry, took cocked pistol in each hand,
             marchetl upstairs -- the timid women crouching at his back
             with candle -- and, throwing open the door of the fur-

             room, authoritatively asked, "Who's there.'" Nothing,

             however, was heard or seen nor was any explanation of
                                         it ;
             the mystery attained. Hut one of the girls ([uietly saii. at
                                                                   a

                                                                            ,
             the close, that she thought was only the buzz of blue-

             bottle fly!

             There can be no question that his timidity was increased,

             and his dislike of company which he was not certain would

             be congenial deepened, b)' Philiii Gosse's dreary experiences
             at St. Mary's, One thing he learned which was afterwards

             useful to hiiTi, book-keeping by double entr}', both in prin-

             cipal and in practice. lie sat all day at the desk, mostly

             alone but the work was not nearly sufficient to fill the
             it

                   a
                           ;

                                   it

                                                  ;

                                                                a
                                                                  it

                                                                                     it
                                                                                                                             a
             time, there was no literature in the place, and he was hard

             set for occupation.   His love of animals was known,

             however, and the good-natured fellows in the port would

             bring him oddities. One day a fisherman brought him

             pretty bird, of dense, soft, spotless white [)lumagc, calling

                   sea-pigeon. It was kittiwake gull in remarkably

             fine condition as I'hilip was holding  in his hands,

             gazing on u ith admiration,       suddenl}- darted its long
NFAVFOU.WDLAXD.  65

sharp bc.'ik up one of his nostrils, brin.cjin-^ clown a pouring  lil
stream of blood. With such poor incidents as these, 1S2S

passed c;Ioornily and drearily away. But one mornini;,
soon after the new )-ear liad opened, Martin at breakfast
electrified Gosse by the announcement that he was ijoing

to send the latter to Carbonear. The lad was to travel on
foot across the counlr)-, trackless and buried ileej) in snow,
riiilii) thought not f )r an instant, however, of dai^L^er or
labour, in the joy of _Li[ettin;_j back to companionsiii]) and
home. Old Joe l)\'rnc, a trapi)er and furrier, familiar with
the interior-- a worthy, simple old fellow, and (juite a
character -- was to be his pilot, and to carry his little kit,

his chest remainincj to be sent round the coast b)- the first
spring; schooner.

   Accordin;^d)', the next day, they left in a small boat, and

were rowed \x\) the ba\-, to its extreme point, where Colinet
river enters. Here was Joe's house, and here Philip Gosse
remained for one day as his truest, rec^'aled with delicious
beaver meat, lie declared to the end of his life that no

flesh was so cxcpu'site as the hind quarters of beaver roasted.
An old Irish farmer was living;- near, whose Eni^lish was

imperfect. lie came in to speed the travellinij party, and

wishini,r to describe the abundance of ptarmij^an in the

interior, he assured them that")'i:)U will see a thousand
partridge, and she will look you right in the face." After
a last revel on the delicious tail of the beaver, late in the

afternoon Joe and Philip Gosse started to walk to Car-
bonear, striking due north for the head-waters of Trinity

Bay, some sixteen or seventeen miles distant in a direct
line. Just before nightfall they arrived at a little " tilt," or
rude hut, of Joe's, made in his pursuit of fur animals.

Here they soon built up a good fire and prepared their

evening meal, falling asleep at last in a {o^ of pungent
wood-smoke.
66 THE LITE OF nilLIP HENRY GOSSE.

   TIic second ilay was far more laborious. In man}-

places the snow was several feet deei) ; the foot on being
set tlcjwn would sink to niid-thii^h, and had to be slowly

and painfully dragged out for the next stei). Seven hours'
hard walking only accomplished, by Joe's estimate, f.vc
miles. The over-exertion produced symptoms of distress

in the physical frame of the young man, and he was

utterl}- exhausted when they reached a second and much
poorer tilt. They were now about half-way across the
isthmus. The third day was more pleasant. The weather

was fine, the snow tcjlerably firm, and the elasticity of youth

began to respond to the neccssit)'. A remarkable charac*"cr-
istic of the interior of Newfoundland is a multitude of lakes

or ponds, mere dil; tations of the rivers and rivulets ; they
occur in succession, like links of a chain, or like beads on

a string. These were now hard frozen and snow-covered ;
but their perfect level, and the comparative thinness of the

wind-swept snow upon thein, induced the old trapper to

select these ex[)ansions of Rocky River and its tributaries
where -er their cc'i;rse would adn^it. Some of the larger

pv:;uls wc ( ; sevcval miles in length, and were often studded

w;t!) i lets cK/lied with lofty hard-woods, such as birch and

witch ha/el, form-' of vegetation not met with near the
r jast This country the young man picturetl as probably

full ( f I)eauly and varii^ty in summer.

   O'd Joe was communicative, and in his capacity of
fuiri r and tr.ipper his e.\[)erience was interesting. He
pointed out .lome large rounded masses of snow at tln'

head of (;;ie lako, which, he saii.1, covered a bea\er-house

vh( nee ho Iuk! drawn many beavers. In other phices he

pointed out otter (or, as he pronounced
s                                                                   ".uithor")
                                                               it,
slides, ahva) on the steep slofie of the bank, where the

water, even throughout the winter, remained unfrozen.

"These slides," sa}s my father, "were as smooth and
          NEWFOUXDLAXD.  r>7

 y of     slippery as glass, caused by the otters sliding; on them in                                                      m
   Ile    play, in the following manner :-- Several of these amusing
          creatures combine to select a suitable spot. Then each in
It 111''  succession, lying flat on his bell\-, from the top of the bank
          slides swiftly down over the snow, and plunges into the
house     water. The others follow, while he crawls up the bank at
 ;.s he
          some distance, and running round to tlie sliding-place,
|ior")    takes his turn again to perform the same evolution as
    the   before. The wet running from their bodies freezes on
          the surface of the slide, and so the snow becomes a si;,./.th
   )zcn.  gutter of ice. This sport the old trapper hatl frecjuently
   and    seen continued with the utmost c;igerness, and with every

          demonstration of delight, for hours together." It remintls
          one of tobogganing, although the attitude is ni)t quite the
          same. My father used to say that he knew no other
          example of adult cpiadrupcds doing so human a thing as

          joining in a regular set and ordained game.
             They had made fair progress in this third day, and at

          its end, as there were no more hospitable tilts, they
          were fain to bivouac under the skies. Old Joe, however,

          was equal to the emergency. With the axe that he carried

          at his belt, he promptly felled a numl>er f)f trees in a

          spruce wood, causing them so to f.ill as that their branches
          and leafy tops should form a J. n .' wall of foliage
          around an open area, within which he lighted an immense

          blazing fire, feeding it with *he trunks, which he cut into
          logs, and piled up in stcjrc sufficient f<jr the whole night,
          before he ceased hdjour. Ne.\t moruii.g they trudged on
          again, and while this fourth day was .;till early, they ar-
          rived at the sea in Trinity Ha}'. The long narrow inlet
          at the head was frozen over, and they walked do-.\n
          The ice was solid enough, but fresh water had llowed over

              flooding the whole to the deplli of abinit a foot. This

          also had hx zen over during the night, but so thinly as to
          it,
                                                                                                                      it.
 w  68 THE LIFE OF PHILIP IIEXRV GOSSE.
Ml
    hear tlio pressure of the foot for only an instant. As

    soon as the u'cic^ht of the body came, down went the foot
    through to the ice below. Trud^inj^ tlius throiu^h freezing

    water, while the edi^e of the thin surface-ice cut the skin
    at every step, and this for a distance of two miles, proved

    'die most tryinL,^ incident of the whole journey : but the

    sense of having reached the northern coast sustained them.
    A mile or two now brought them to the point whence they

    had again to strike across country to Conception Bay. The

    distance was still about a do/cn miles, but along a regular

    hoatcn track, and they did it jauntily. Near nightfall they

    leachixl the head of Spaniard's liay, and presently walked
    into the familiar strect.s of the town of Harbour Grace,

    where, at the house of his friend Charley St. John, Gosse

    parted from his trapper i)ilct, and received a cordial greet-

    ing from the whole of the affectionate St. John family. A

    letter from Mr. St. John takes up the tale. " 1 lave you for-
    gotten," he says forty years later (1868), "the night when,

    on your return from St. Mary's to Carbonear, )-ou stopped
    at my father's, and when I kept you awake until near day-

    break relating what had occurred iluring j-our absence, till

    my father had to tap at the partition to stop our clacking

    and laughing.'' And how, wiicn you went over next day,

    the lads were disappointed at finding their bottled ale all
    fizzled down flat and stale " Very shortly after this, W. C.
    in
                            a

                                                                      .-·

                                                                 in
                                                                                                  a
    St. John married, under somewhat romantic cireumstances,

    and thenceforward began to run over to Harbour Grace

    for two or three nights of each week, returning to the office

       the early morning. Still, he was not ciuitc the same to
    his friends as before, and the marriage of clerk without

    special consent was not looked ui)on with favour. Mr.

    IClson, after time, intimated that St. John must seek

    some other emi)loymcnt, and  the auuimn of 1830 he

    ceased to be one of the circle at Carbonear.
                 \'E IVFO UNDLA ND.                       69

It was in the winter of that year that Philip Gossc                       I

became consumed with a passion for poetry, a return to

the feelint]j roused tliree j-ears before by the readin^,^ of

Lara. lie bec;an to devour all the verse that was tc be

discovered in Carbonear, and to form a manuscrij)t selec-

tion of the pieces which struck liim as beinL,^ the best, an

anthology which he patiently continueil to form until

1834. This collection, in two volumes, is now in my
possession, and testifies to the refined, but, of course,

somewhat conventional taste, of the lad. Much reading of

poetry inevitably leads to the writing of        it,    and Philip
                                                      in
wrote the words " Sprigs of Laurel " on the title-page of

a blank volume 'v hich was his intention to fill with lyrics

of his own. lie achieved "Song to Poland," some scrip-
                 it
                       a
                                     a
tural pieces ins[)ired by Byron, blank-verse address to

Spring,   a1     then the laurel grove withered uj) and budded
              '

no more. His genius was not for poetry. Music followed

in the wake of verse afitiorc for making musical instru-
                 a
ments seized the clerks. Under the tuition of a Mr.
                         ;
Tvvohig,   a     carpenter, my father constructed         iSji an

yl'^olian harp and violin, neither of which was unsatisfac-

tory. In the same summer he taught himself to swim.

   \]\) to this time the record of my father's life has been
the chronicle of a child, although by the close of the season

he was actually well advanced                    his twenty-second year.
                 is
In reality, howevi lie was extremely young, unformed,r,
without definition of character, without distinct aim of any
                                   it
                                             in
kind, and lacking, too, the ordinary buoyancy of early man-

hood. He was suspended, as were, between the artlessnes.s

of childhood and the finished shape which his maturity was

to i.dopt. This  probably no rare phenomenon in the

youth of men born to be remarkable, and >Lt placed in

circumstances which arrest rather than advance their de-

velopment. In glancing over my father's diaries and notes,
     nil70
                        rilE LIFE OF             LIP IIEXRV GOSSE.

     find no difficulty in pcrceivin^T that the year 1832 was in
     I
                                                      his life. In
                          it
     several respects the most remarkable        in                                                    ;    he
                                                    it
     commenced that serious and decisive devoticMi to scientific                                        it

     natural history which henceforward was his central occu-

     pation. In he first, as he himself put forty years later,

     "definitely and solemnly yielded himself to God and

     bc;^an that course heavenward, which, throuj^h many devia-

     tions and inan\' haltincjs and nian\- falls, have been
                                                         I

     enabled to ])ursue, on the whole steadfiistb', until now."

     was                this year also that, after Cwc years' absence in
     It

                    in

     Newfoundland, he once more visited his parents and his
     native countr\'. This, however, was but tritlinij matter
                                                      a

     in comparison with the i^n'eat imi)ortance of the change
     which turnetl the soft and molluscous temperament of the

     youth into the vertebrate character of the man. In iS:;2

     I'hilip Gosse, suddenly and consciously, became naturalist
     a
                                                                                                    a
     antl Christian. On the former subject he must now speak
     for himself: --

     "The 5th of May was one of the main pivots of life

'li  " to me. The Wesleyan minister. Rev. Richard Knight.

     " was selling some of his spare books by auction.                                                      was
                                                 a

                                                                        II
     " there, and bought Kaumachcr's edition of Adams's

     " /:ss<tj'S ON the Microscope,              quarto whicli                                              still

     " possess. The plan of this work had led the author to

     " treat largely of insects, and to give minute instructions

     "for tlieir collection and iireservation.          I  was delighted

     "with in\- prize; just condensed and focussed the
                              I
                                           I it
     " wandering rays of science that were kindling in m\-

     " mind, aiul enthusiastically rcsoKed forthwith to collect

     "insects. \\. first proposed onl)- to include the more

     "liandsome butterflies and moths and the larger beetles, of

     'which barren Newfoundland yielded poor store indeed
                                                 aa
     " but not knowing how to make
                                                          I
                                                                                                 ;
                                                        limit, presently

     "enlarged my plan, and connnenced as an entomologist
               Xf.irrOUXDLA.VD.                         71

" in earnest.  Tlie .S"/>('.r ,i^i^i^(js, which I hid taken in

" 1829, was still lying on the sash of the parlour window ;

"with this I bec^fan m>- collection.  On the Ci\.\\ of June

" I took, on a currant hush in the garden, a very fwie

''specimen of a Xi^vy fine butterfl}', the Caniherwell
" ]5eauty {Vaiiissa .liifiopa), of which, strange to sav, I

"never saw another example while I remained in the
" i si a nil.

    "Owing to the long continuance of the Arctic ice o\^

"the coast, the spring of \'^},2 was unprecedcntcdly late ;

"so that my collection liad not gone he}-ond a icw

"minute and inconspicuous insects, before i .->iiled for

" I'^ngland.

"The preface to m\' J'.iifonioloi^ici/ Jouni fr(Mn which
" gather the above particulars, ends with these pro-. 1I,
'I'I'" photic sentences:                             .
                        cannot conchule .               without

"'noticing the superintending Providence, that, without

"'our forethought, often causes the most imi)ortant

"'events of our life to originate in some trilling and
' ap[)arently accidental circumstance -- to be, like our

'"own huge globe, "hung upon nothing"! After )-ears

"'only can decide how much of that happiness which

"'chequers my earth!)" existence may have depended
" 'on the laying out of ten shillings at book sale.' "
                                      a
The arrival of the s[)ring \-essels from Poole hail an-in

noimced the serious illness of Philip's onl\- sister, ICli/abeiii,

l)Ut he had not felt any special alarm, until      the begin-

ning of June news came that her life was in danger, and
that she wished to see her absent brothers once more.

Philip Gosse immediately took  in  the letter to Mr. I'.lson,

who, in the kindest manner, s.iid that he should go home

b}- the next ship, which was to sail in few weeks.a     It
had been distinctly stipulated that this privilege should

be given to the lad during his apprenticeship, and five out
72 THE LIFE OF PHILIP HEiVKY GOSSE.

of the six years had now expired. The anticipation of the
death of one so beloved as Eli/.abeth, and the tedium f)f

waiting for the opportunity to visit her, produced a pccuHar
effect on the youncr man's tnind. As has already been

shown, he was by temperament grave and somewhat

Puritanical. His giddiest flights of spirit had not raised
liim to the customary altitude of innocent youthful be-

haviour, and nothing was lacking but such an incident as

the illness of Elizabeth to develop in him the sternest

forms of religious self-devotion. lie shall himself describe

the course of events in his spiritual nature, and I am the

more ready to print his exact words, because their tcnour

is very unusual, and far enough removed from the co' cn-

tional language of modern religious life: --

     " My prominent thought in this crisis was legal. I

    "wanted the Almighty to be my Friend ; to go to Him
   "in my need. I knew He required me to be holy. He

   "had said, 'My son, give Me thy heart.' I closed with

    " Him, not h}-pocritically, but sincerely ; intending

    "henceforth to live a new, a holy life; to please and
    " serve God. I knew nothing of my own weakness, or
   " of the power of sin. I cannot say that I was born

    "again as yet; but a work was commenced which was

    "preparatory to, and which culminated in, regeneration.
    " I came at once to God, with much confidence, as a
    " hearer of prayer, and He graciously honoured my faith,
    " imperfect as it was.

      "As illustrating the tenderness of conscience then
    " induced, I recollect the following incident :-- The use of
   " profane language, so common around mc, I had always

    " avoided, until the last twelvemonth or so, when I had

    "been gradually sliding into it. One day, some week

   "or two after my exercise with God, I was alone in the

     "office, when some agreeable occupation or other was
NE WFO UNDLA XD.                                                   73

"suddenly interrupted by work sent down from Mr.
" Elson. In the irritntion of the moment, I muttered

"'Damn it!' not audibly, but to myself. Instantly my

"conscience was smitten; I confessed my sin before

"God, and never aj^ain fell into that transt^ression."
On July lo, 1S33, he sailed from Carbonear, in the hx'vj.

Convivial, for Poole. The ski[)pcr. Captain Compton, was

the most gentleman-like of the Elson ca[)tains, a man of

immense bulk, t^enial and agreeable in manners, and ic

made the vojai^c a very pleasing one. Piiilip kept a

journal of this expedition, which still exists and be^rs

witness to his increased power oi observation and descrip-

tion. On August 6 the young naturalist, who w.is now

within sight of the coasts of Devon and Dorset, had ihe

satisfaction of observing one of the rarest visitors to our

shores, the white whale, or lu!ui;a. Late in the evening

of the same day he stepped uu Toole Quay, and rive

minutes brought him to the tamiliar house in Skinner

Street. y\s he knocked at the door, his heart was in his

mouth, for he knew not what tidings awaited him. His
brother answered his knock. " Oh," Philip said, as he

grasped his hand, "is all well.'" for he could not speak
                          " Yes,"
the name of I'^lizabeth.           was the  rei)ly,  " very  well    "
                                                                   !

and the new-comer felt a load lifted from him. Though

still weak, I'Llizabeth was fast recovering, and had been

removed to lodgings at Parlcstone, in company with her

mother, for purer air.

Little did Philip sleep diat night. Awake in conversa-

tion until past midnight, he was up at four o'clock next

morning, and sallied forth, armed with pill-boxes, ready

for the capture of any unlucky insect desirous to experience

the benefits of early rising. During the voyage home his

dreams had been nightly running in the pursuit of insects

over the flowery meadows of Dorset. At length it was .1
74 THE HIT. OF nriLir henry cosse.

reality. He was in a luiinour to he pleased with evcry-
thin^f ; hut even if it had not hcen so, the morning was so

fresh and bracin;^, the hedj:jcs so thickly green, and the

flowers so sweet after the harsh uplands of Newfoundland,

that he coukl not fail of an ecstasy. In later life my father

constantly recalled tliat delightful morning, which appears

to have singularly and deeply movetl liini u ilh il.-. beauty
" I was brimful of happiness," he said in a letter of a }.'car
later (November i6, 1.S53). "']"he beautiful and luxuriant
hedgerows; tlie moss\', gnarled oaks; the fields; the flowers;

the pretty warbling birds ; the blue sky and brigiit sun ; the

dancing butterflies ; but, above all, the unwonted freedom

from a load of anxiety; -- altogether it seemed to xwy en-

chanted senses, just come from dreary Newfouiulland, that

I was  Paradise. low lo\e to recall every little
       ;

         ill

                     ;

                       I

                                   ;I
                                           I
incident connected with that fust morning excursion -- the
                                                 !

                                                         I
poor brown cranefl)', which was the first luiglish insect

fl'*' caught the little grey moth under the oaks at the end of

the last field the meadow where the SatyriifiC were sport-

ing on the sunny bank the heavy fat Miisca in lleckford-

fit.'ld hedge, which in my ignorance called llombyliiis,
                                              a

and the conscuucnt display of entomological lore mani-

fested all that ilay by the famil}-, who frequently repeated
the soimding words ']iomb}'lius bee-fl}-.' "

   The mother ami sister soon returned from Parkstonc,

and the circle around the table Skinner .Street was once
       a
more complete. Philip did not stray three miles fromaa
                                          in
J'oole during the whole of his visit. Jle found little

changed in I'ooic during his 'iwc years' absence. "Our

lane," which iiad been cul-dc-sac, was now a thoroughfare,

by the turning of the old gardens at the end into new-

streets, and there was new Public Library built at the

bottom of High Street. Of this Philip was made free, and

there he read good deal. His time was largely spent in
XEWFOUXDLAXD.  75

entomological excursions, and he threw himself into scien-       tins!
tific study with extreme ardour ami singleness of purpose,     !i i'
 lie found an occasional companion in his cousin, Tom

 Salter, an ardent youiii,' botanist, and he discovered that,
in a youn^; man named Samuel Harrison, Poole now pos-

sessed a local entomoloL^ist. With this latter Gosse a^^rced
to correspond and exchanc,^e dui)licates when he returned
to Newfoundland, and these pledL^es were faithfully kept.
Harrison was the son of the most influential member of

the firm, and probabK- his friendship with I'hilip (lossc
jT^ave the latter a sort of status with Mr. ICls(;n ami the

captains, and invented his pursuit of insects with a certain
consideration, h'rom this time forth, my father's zoological

proclivities were matters of notoriet)', but he does not seem

to have met with any of the ridicule which so unusual an
em[)lo\-ment of his leisure mii^ht be presumed to bring
upon him in a society like that r)f Carbonear.

    On September 20, 1S3J ("the day l)cfore Sir Walter
Scott died," as he notes in his diary), my father's brief

but pleasant sojourn in iMigland ended. lie sailed with

the Convivial, on her return to Carbonear. 1 fc kept no
notes of this vo}-agc, which was both tempestuous and
long, for they did not arrive until the ist of November.
Late as it was in the season, and the Arctic winter already

setting in, he did what he could in collection and in study.

Of course, he met with many difficulties, of which his

personal isolation from all scientific sympathy was perhaps
the greatest, but by degrees man)- of them were sur-
mountetl, and he learned much in the be^t and hardest

school, that of actual observation. lie carefully recorded

every fact which ajjpearcd to be of importance, a habit

which proved of the highest value, lie thus became, not

mcrel}- an assiduous collected- of insects, but a scientific
naturalist. Immediately after his return from I'oole he
76 THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

bcfjan to keep a methodical mcteoroloj^ical journal ; rccord-

injj the temperature thrice a day by a thermometer hunt,'

outside the office window, and, after a few months, rccordins^

the weather also. These records were ret;ularly published

every week in llu- Conception Inxy Mercury, and were the

earliest meteorolojj[ical notes which were issued by any

N e w f( )u n d 1a n d n e w s [) a p e r .
   I'hilip Gosse now held the second place in the office.

His standinc:^ duty was to take a duplicate copy of tlie
Icdf^er, in three volumes, for transmission to tlie firm at

I'oole. This was easy work, for he estimated that he

could have completed  in steady effort, within three
          ;

                        it,
                                  a
                                                            in
months, and that without any distressing fatigue. There

was additional work, such as occasional copying of letters
and routine jobs ami in the times of pressure -- as in the

outfits for the ice and for Labrador, and the settlement
of accounts -- he bore his part. None the less, he enjoyed

an easy time and plent}' of leisure. Marly in 1S33, under

m the influence of the then much-admired apocal)-ptical

                             romances of the Rev. George Croly, IMiilip Gosse achieved

rather    long poem, The Restoration of Israel, which
          a                                                     in in
                                                                           is
            I

                                                      a
scarcely likely ever to be printed. His main and most

absorbing occupation, however, was from this time forth

natural history, and, for the present, entomology               par-

ticular.  have before me large collection of letters

written by Philip Gosse at this periotl, to his family and to

Samuel Harrison in Poole, and to W. C. St. John Har-
bour Grace. They breathe the full professional ardour of

the collector they sujiply scarcely any facts concerning the
          ;

                I

                                                    in
life of the writer, but chronicle with an almost passionate

eagerness the daily history of his discoveries and experi-

ments. With the sudden development of intellect and

conscience which have described as taking place in 1832,

there came the conscious pleasure                        perception, and the
                    A'E IVFO UXDLAND.                                                    77

conscious power to j^ivc it literary expression. I'^rom the

letters before mc I will ^ivc one or two examples. On

January 12, 1.S33, he describes to Sam Harrison an incident
of his late return voyage to NewfountUand :--

       " Our passage to this country was long and rough,
    " and towards the latter part very cold and uncomfort-

"able. An odd circumstance happened while I was on

"board; one of the men coming up horn the half-deck

"found sticking on to his trousers a living animal, which

"the mate brought down to mc, that it mi;,;ht have the

"benefit of m\' scientific lore. The crew, not l)CM'ng much

"versed in zoology, could not tell what to make of he
                                    a
"said, for                                                          a

                                                                        it,
          1'        did not seem to be jackass, nor tomtit,

" nor, in short, any of that specie.* After sagely gazinga it
It '
" at the creature awhile, pronounced   to be scorpion.
                        I              a

                             it,             it
                                it                           a
" was about two inches long, of light-brown colour;
" when we would touch
                                    would instantly turn the

" point of its sting towards the place, as in tlefence,
                                       if

" but ditl not attempt to run. Ib/wever, we soon put an

"end to its career by popping          into a little (iro[) of
                          is

                                  it
"Jamaica, and the fellow            now in the possession of                                    III

"your humble servant, snugly lying at the bottom of a

"phial bottle. The wonder           where or how                                         could
                           is
                                                          it

"have come on board, for thc\- are never found in ICng-

" land.           think must have been in the ship ever since
                    it

"she took cargo of bark in Italy last winter."

To the same correspondent he sa\-s, on May 25 -- and

in this passage         seem to detect for the first time the
                    II
                           II

                                                 a
                                                                                      :

                                                            I
complete accent of that peculiar felicity in description
which was eventually to make him iamous --

"Of all the sights liave witnessed since began the

".study of this delightful science, none has charmed me

" more than one observed this morning. On opening

" my breeding-box,      saw small fly with four wings
                                                                              /.

                                                                       //         4- Mj^
                                                                              c-^ "% M
                                                                      ^W
                       I.I
                       IMAGE EVALUATION                   [              :/. i/i
                       TEST TARGET (MT-3)                                                                    '9/
                                                                                      *^^
                                               \^                                f/x
                                                                                                                                                                         '
                       1.0 IIM IM

                                       Ilia 2.2

                             MI.

                       1.25  U IIIIM.6

              V]e.                                                       #^<^
           //, ^/,
  o                                                                   V           :\
             e-A<9
                                                           #>
      ^A                                                       'C^^^
a,.
                                                           «^ 6^

                   7o  PhotogTdpliic                                  V*!.    r^^
                          Sciences
                                      23 WEST MAIN STREET                ri?
                       Corporation    WEBSTFS'N.Y 14580

                                          (716) 872-.fd03
i/l

 ^
1)11,1n. 'lKinmw'^^^s^nmtmm^mmimmmmm

nilI' 1
78         T/JE LIFE OF                  LIP HENRY GOSSE.

    "just at the moment it cleared itself of the pnpariiun.
    "The wings were white, thick, and rumpled ; the body

    "slender, and about three-eis/hths of an inch in length.

    "I took it gently out and watched its proceedings. It

    " Hrst bent its long antennai under the breast, and then

    "curved the abdomen, in which position it remained. It
    " was some time before I could perceive any change in
    "the wings, but at last they began to increase, and in

    "about an hour they were at the full size, though they

    "did not attain their markings and spots till two or

    "three hours. I now discovered that it is a lace-winged
    " fly {Hanerobiiis), the first of the genus I have ever seen ;

    "and I cannot sufficiently admire the beauty and delicacy
    " of the ample wings, the gracefulness of the little head,
    " and the lady-like appearance of the whole insect. I

    " know not from what pupa it could have come (for

    "though it was evolved the moment I first saw yet
                                                                I
    "was so taken up with the fly that neglected to observe
                                         it                           I it,
                                                                             I
                                               I
                                                    I
    "the pupa-case, and afterwards could not find it), unless,

    "wlixh think probable, was from one of those little
         !I
"silky cocoons, on the inner surface of willow bark, which
"I found on the 19th of March, and whicha
" weevils                                                       took for

                    However,          I  shall soon ascertain, for hive

" more of them."

   Another fragment of this copious correspondence may
be given, from letter of June 21, 1833, as an example of
Newfoundland landscape --
                                      I:

                                                  I
                                                             a
   "Before six this morning, was on the shore of Little

" Beaver Pond, where stood for few moments in mere

"admiration of the day and quiet beauty of the scene.a
" The black, calm pond was sleeping below me, reflecting
" from its unruffled surface every tree and bush of the
" towering hill above, as in perfect mirror. Stretching
" away to the east were other ponds, embosomed in the
                   NE IVFO UNDLA XD.               79

" mountains, while further on in the same direction,
" between two distant peaks, the ocean, with the golden

" sun above (lashed forth dazzHng splendour. The
" low, unvarying, somewhat mournful note of the snipes
it                       a
       a it,"on the opposite hill, and, as one would occasionally fly
                           in
"across the water, the short, quick flapping of his wings,

"seemed rather to increase than to diminish the general

"feeling of repose. The air seemed (perhaps from its

"extreme calmness) to have an extraordinary power ofa
" conveying sounds, for could with perfect ease keep up
"a conversation with Sprague on the other side (not lessI
"than one-eighth of mile off), without raising the voice

"above the pitch used in ordinary discourse."

The entomological work done in 1833 and the personal

record of are so profuse, that the biographer  is  inclined

to wonder where the duties of the counting-house came in.

But I\Ir. Elson was spending the summer in England,

which gave      little more leisure than usual, and the

young man became kind of interesting local celebrity.
                   a

The sons of IMr. Elson had pleasure-boat of their own,
the Red Rover, and she was placed at l'hili[) (josse's
service for visiting the islands. One of the captains,

Mr. Hampton, became an enthusiastic pupil of the young

naturalist, and collected ardently for him in southern ports

of Europe and Africa. ICvcn the townspeople vied with

one another to be on the watch for strange-looking insects
" for Gosse's collection." His desk in the counting-house

stood against one of the windows, and in the window-sill,       V

close to his right hand, he kept his card-covered tumblers,

in which he watched the development and transformation

of many species while at his work. Mr. I'^lson never made

the slightest objection to this, and from these simple

apparatus many  a  fact was learned. In the summer of

1.S33 he began, under the title of Entoinologia Tevrce-uovu-',
Hi

                       80 TI/i: LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

                            to fill a volume with drawings of great scientific accuracy.
                            Some of the figures were magnified, and for this purpose
                            he had brought with him from Poole two lenses, \v'hich
                               he contrived to mount very decently in bone, securing
                            the substance from the dinner-table, and grinding and
                            shaping it wholly by himself. The lens itself was
                            neatly set in puttv ; and this rough but sufficient instru-
                            ment was the only microscope which he was able to
                         procure for many years. It rendered him an immense
                           amount of service in his investigations. He also made a
                           scale for his own use, out of an old tooth-brush handle ;
                           graduating it on one side to tenths, and on the other side to
                           twelfths, of an inch ; and this, in contempt of all modern
                           improvements, he continued to use until the year of his
                         death. His journal for 1833 closes with the following
                         remarks :--

                               ^^December 31. -- One year of my entomological
                          " researches in this country has passed away. It has

                                  " been to me a pleasant and a profitable one ; for, though

                            " I have not been so successful as I anticipated in the
                         " capture of insects, I have gained a good stock of

                                  " valuable scientific information, as well from books as
                               " from my own observations. The season has been, from
                               " its shortness and the general coldness of the weather,
                              "particularly unfavourable to the pursuits of the cnto-

                         " mologist ; several species of insects which I have

                                  " noticed in former years have been cither very scarce
                              " or altogether wanting. I have not seen a single
                              "specimen of the large swallow-tailed butterfiics this

                           " year, nor heard of one, though some years I have
                              " observed one yellow species in considerable numbers.

                       " The Camberwcll Beauty, too, I have not met with.

                              " The claims of business, moreover, have prevented me
                              " from giving so much time and attention to science as
          NE WFO UNDLA ND.           8i

" I could have wished, so that, considering my oppor-
" tunities, I have no reason to complain of want of
" success. Besides the specimens which I have already
" sent, and those which I have to send, to England, I
" have collected in the different orders as follows :--

" Coleoptcra, 102 species ; Hciniptera, 29 ; Lcpidoptera, Jo

"(15 butterflies and 55 moths) ; Nenroptcra, ^^i ; Hy))icii-

'' flptcra, 69; and Diptcrn, 75, making a total of 3S8

..." species, not including the foreign insects received from
" Spain.  I enter upon the coming year with un-

" abated ardour, and with sanguine expectations, trusting

" that, if I am spared, it will prove still more successful

" and profitable than the past."

   The year 1833 closed socially for Newfoundland in
ominous thunders. Ever since the colonial legislation had

been granted, the Irish party had been striving to gain a

monopoly of political power. Party spirit ran high ;

Protestants went in mortal fear, for the Irish everywhere

vastly outnumbered them, and threatening glances and

muttering words beset the minority.  One St. John's

newspaper, llic Public Ledger, was on the Protestant side,

and was edited by a young man of much spirit, Henry

Winton, a friend of my father's. He advocated the

colonial cause with wit and courage, and was in con-

sequence greatly hated. He was, in the course of this

winter, round in the Hay, collecting his accounts, when one

night, walking alone from Carbonear to Harbour Grace,

he was suddenly seized in a lonely spot by a set of fellows,

who pinioned him, while one of their party cut off both

his ears. This outrage created an immense sensation, and

caused a sort of terror among the loyalists. A perfunctory

inquiry was made, but the Irish influence prevented it from

being carried far. It was soon known that the mutilation

was the act of a Dr. Molloy, a surgeon of Carbonear, with
    82 THE LIFE OF PHI I. IP IIEXRV GOSSE.

    whom the clerks at I'Llson's were well .ictjualntcd ; but he
    escaped all punishment. The s^ite of things which pre-

    vailed at that time in Newfoundland was a direct reflection

    of the condition oi' Ireland, at that moment swayed by the

    oratory of Daniel O'Connell. Large contributions were

    being sent home from the colony to swell "the O'Connell
    thribbit," as it was cnlled ; and Newfoundland was fast

    becoming a most unpleasant [lace to live in.
       The year 1834 passed, almost without incident, in

    absorbing attention to nacural history. To understand,

    the difficulties under which I'hilip Gosse laboured, it must

    be borne in mind that no one in Newfoundland had ever

    attempted to study its entomology before ; that there

    were no museums, no cabinets to refer to for identification,
    in the whole colony -- no list of native insects ; that the

    )-oung man was entirely self-taught ; that he was poor, and
    could not buy what, in fact, did not exist if he had had the

    money. In October, i<S34, Captain Hampton brought

    back for him, from Hamburg, a cabinet for insects which

    had been made there b)- Gosse's order and strictly accord-
    ing to his written directions. This was three feet high,

    three feet long, two feet wide, with twelve drawers, and

    folding doors. It was ill planned ; the drawers were not

    corketl, and therefore the specimens had to be pinned

i   into the wood, which was deal throughout ; the substance
    was but slight, and when he came to travel, he found it
r.
    very unsatisfactory.  However, it served its turn, and

    Gosse was too good a workman to grumble at his tools.
    His only written guide was the system of terse, highly

    condensed, intensely technical generic characters out of
    Linnxus's Sysfona Nat/me, as printed in the article "luito-
    mology " in Tegg's London Encyclopwdia. These characters

    he coi)icd out, antl they were of great value. He studied
    them most intently ; was often puzzled, discouraged, but
                  ii'j'im»''imi!m'mnnmi"

NE WFO UNDLA XD.  83

ever returned to tlic attack. He made many mistakes,             \^
which experience gradually corrected. The want of books

cast liim the more upon nature, and so lie struggled on,
constantly increasing his accjuaintance with actual facts,

and laying a solid basis for book-knowledge whenever it

might fall in his path.

   All this time, the religious fervour to which allusion has

already been made continued to keep pace with the

scientific. I'hilip Gosse joined the W'cslej-an .Society, being
led in that particular direction mainl}' by two new friends,
G. E. Jaques and his wife, the former a colonist settled
in the town of Carbonear, the latter an luiglish hul}-. 1 le
presently became very intimate with them, speneliiig his

Sundays at their house, and frequently his week evenings.
This friendship, to which reference will often be made in
these pages, lasted more than forty years, and it should be
noted here that it was mainly owing to the influence of
this estimable couple that my father adopted a view oi his
duty to his fellows which henceforward, though in a fluctu-
ating degree, never left him, and which tfiwards the close of
his life became paramount, namely, his belief that it was

proper to exclude from his companionship all those whose
opinions on religious matters did not coincide with his own.

That I know this to have been the result of intense

conscientiousness and a cmiviction that his dut}' lay in
such isolation, must not induce me to pretend that the
effects of it were not in many ways deplorable, or that it
did not narrow, more than any other of his characteristics,

the range of his sympathy and usefulness. lie, however,
of course, thought otherwise. lie wrote, long afterwards,
" My friendship with the Jaquescs was very helpful to ni)'
spiritual life. It alienated me more and more from the
companionship of the unconverteil x-oung me-n of the
 place ; it was a marked commencement of that course of
84 THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

decided separateness from the world, which I have sought

to maintain ever :;ince."

Although hi.s religious practice then, as ever afterwards,

was rigid and Puritanic to an unusual degree, he had a

seventeenth-century freshness in mingling the human mood

with the Divine. In letters of this period I find, side by

side with outpourings of devotion and aspirations after

godliness, quaint passages of simple humour. Philip Gossc

took his place in the singing gallery at the Wesleyan

Chapel, where his brother William led the instrumental
part with the first violin. " Other chaps," he remarks,
" and a few ladies swell the choir." One evening in the

week they met to practise in the gallery, and on a single

occasion, at least, he records that they all walked to Har-

bour Rock, a commanding eminence overlooking the port

of Carbonear, and clustering there, sang a hymn under the

summer stars before they separated. Two other of Elson's
clerks, who had become " serious," in like manner attached

themselves to the choir of the Established Church, and

practised there in the evenings. Gosse would often join

them, and the party would go home together. The old

parish clerk, one Loader, was a character. He kept a
school, but was quite illiterate. His office, of course, made

incumbent upon him a zealous Protestantism. He would

come to the counting-house, and glancing up at the Roman

Catholic chapel, with a patronising smile on the clerks,
would talk of " the misguided                        "
                               papishes,  ye  know      One
                                                    !

stormy Sunday the clergyman had not ventured over from

Harbour Grace, and Loader thought it a fine chance for

his own ministrations. He ran over to his house, close by,

and returning with a book, mounted the pulpit, and read a

flaring red-hot sermon of denunciatory character against

popery: "Then there was Ilildcbrand, or, more properly
speaking. Firebrand," etc., etc. -- the whole read out in a
NE IVFOUNDLAND.                                                                                         85

miserable, limping style, hut with thumping; emphasis on

the more incisive passages. Sad to say, in spite of his

orthodoxy, poor Loader was a confirmed drunkard. One

Saturday night, as my father and his colleagues were

coming home from their several choir-practice, the snow

being deep, they saw a dark object lying across the ditch.

They went to and, behold
!
    a

                it,

                                                         !

                                          it
                                                                         ! is

                                                                                                          !
                                                                                                                                   ?

                                                                     n
                            was Loader, fallen help-

lessly on his front, happily in such a manner that his face

hung over the ditch. " Why, Mr. Loader,                                                       this you

What's the matter?" "Let me alone!" "Can we help

you, Mr. Loader? You mustn't lie here, you know, Mr.
Loader " " Go along, ye imperdent fellers
                                                                                              Can't you
see Lm -- looking -- for-- something? G'long " They

managed, however, to drag him to his own door, much

against his will, he protesting to the very last that he had
been " looking for something."

Philip Gosse's indentured engagement with the firm had

expired in the spring of 1833. Since then he had remained

on, with no expressed agreement, as copyer, receiving

small salary, besides board and lodging. Hitherto he
a

             ;

                                                          in
                                                               a

                                                                                           a
had formed no plans for the future. In the autumn of

1S34, his friends Mr. and Mrs. Jaques, their mercantile

business in Carbonear not being very successful, were

turning their eyes towards Upper Canada as residence.                                                          1.1

They had met with some flaming accounts of the fertility                                                    ii:

of the regions around Lake Huron, and of the certainty
of success being attained in agriculture by emigrants

settling there. They determined to remove thither and

begin life anew as farmers  W^estcrn forest, Philip

Gosse's intimacy with them had by this time become very
close. He could not support the notion of parting with

them and, moreover, the social gloom which hung over

Newfoundland in consequence of the ever-increasing ran-
cour of the L'ish, was making the colony extremely
86 THE J.] IE OE rillLIP HENRY GOSSE.

distasteful to liim. lie, also, was fired by the hic^hly
coloured reports of the cinij^ration advertisements, and

thought that, as he was j-ouiil;- and strcjii;.;, he was sure to

make a capable farmer. Then, too, there was the charm
of the unknown; of life under totally new conditi(jns ;
the romance of what was then the Far West, of the bound-

less primeval forests.

    These are the only motives confessed in his letters of the
time, but under and behind all these there was another

unuttcred even to himself, but stronj^er than all. He had

pretty well exhausted the entomology of Ncwfoumlland.
It was a cold, barren, unproductive region. He ItMiged to
try a new field. One of the numerous works they read
that winter-- for they all three eagerly devoured everything
about Canada that they could find -- was a pleasant volume
of gossip by a lady, in which she enthusiastically and in

 much detail, although unscientifically, described the insects
 and familiar fiowers of Upper Canada. The account was

 attractive enough to fire the young naturalist's imagination,
 and thenceforth the time seemed long till he could wield
 his buttcrfiy-net in the forests (;f Acadia.

    The vigorous faith with which, he calculated on success

 may be gathered from an extract from a letter to his
 younger brother, dated December i, i(S34:--

       " Now I have a serious proposal to make to you, which
    " I hope and ardently trust will meet not only your
    " a[)proval, but your warm co-operation. I ask by this
     " opportunity mother, father, and Elizabeth to come out
     " to me at Canada, not iminediatdy, but /// a year or tivo,
    " when I have, by God's blessing, got up a home on my
    " estate for them to come to. My plans I detail in my
    " letters to them, and if they accede to my requests
    " you must stay and bring them out. But if they think
     " the undertaking too great, please let me know whether
T 

           NE WFOUNDLAND.  87

"you will be willin;^ to cast in your lot with us. \Vc
" would have all thin_L;s coniinoii ; we could cntomolo^izc
" tof^cther in the noble forest, and, in the peaceful and
" happy pursuits of aj^riculturc, forget tlie toils and

"anxieties of commerce.* Not that (nir lives will be                                 fl .1
" idle, for we shall liave to work with our own hands,
                                                                                     I ,.
" but there will be the i)leasing and stirring consciousness
                                                                                           11
"that our labour is for ourselves, and not for an unkind.

" ungrateful master. The land where I go is e.Kceeding

" fertile and productive, and, with little more than half

" the toil necessary on an Mnglish farm, it will yield tKjt

" only the neces.saries, but even the luxuries of life. I

..." want )-ou to bring no money with you ; yourself \
" desire.  I shall not leave this country until the

" middle of May. I take for granted that you will join

" me ; do not let me be disappointed. Well then, this

"ensuing summer do all )-ou can in procuring insects for
" your cabinet, even of those which you have already, as
" it will probably be your last opportunity of ever get-

" ting English insects. If you have not time to set

" them, never mind, only pin them ; it is not of the least

"consequence, as I can do them again at any length of
" time, and however dry they may have got, . . . Mr.

"and Airs. Jaques know that I am inviting you to jcjin
" us, and they earnestly desire you to come. I have
" learned to stuff birds, and there are beauties in Canada.

" We could make a nice museum."

It was the old story, the familiar and pathetic optimism

of the emigrant, but that they had to comprehend from

sad experience. For the moment, everything favoured the

   * All this unconscious Fourierism curiously foreshadows the coming co-opera-

tive projects in America, ^^'hat my father proposed in 1S34 was attempted
at Fniitlauds by Alcott in 1S39, and carried out, after a fasliion, at Hrook I'arni

in 1S40.
II;

     88 Tiir. LIFE OF rniLiP henry gossf.                           'I

     scliemc. Ill the sprinjr of iS:?5 I'hilip Gossc received
     replies. I lis brother ardently responded ; but the rest of
     the family had no such enthusiasm, and -lOt only refused
     to join the farm colony, but sought stront^ly to dissuade
     Plnli[j from what they did not scruple to stii^matize as

     madness. lie was not dissuaded, however, and continued

     to elaborate the plans by which, with his slender savings,
     he meant to buy a hundred acres of virgin soil. He spent
     pretty nearly all his evenings with the Jatiueses, eagerly
     reading every scrap of information about Canada, forming
     plans, and discussing prospects. One evening, on coming
     home, as Mr. Elson had not quitted the parlour, I'hilip
     Gosse went in and abruptly announced his intention of
     leaving. It happened to be a severely cold night, the
     effect of \\'.'>h was to benumb his organs of speech, and
     he spoke ;.b'-i.ptly, with a stumbling thickness of pronun-
     ciation. l\Ir I .\:0\\ made no remark, received the notice
     with cold 1 ..MS, offered no remonstrance, and expressed no
     sorrow at parting, nor any allusion to his eight years'

     service. It is possible that, from Mr. Elson's point of view,

     Gosse, with all his foreign interests, had ceased to be a

     valuable or even an endurable occupant of the counting-
     house, conscientious as he intended to be. After the
     friendly relations which had existed between them, it was
     none the less unfortunate that master and man should part
     on terms so far from coruial on either side. But Philip
     Gosse had unconsciously grown too large a bird for the
     little nest at Carbonear.
        Ml itiilir^wwt

( 89 )

                          CHAPTER IV.                              -rf! 

                                            CAN ADA,

                                                iS3s-i;^3>^.

ON Midsummer Day, 1835, I'hilip Gossc took a final
           farewell of the little tow 1 .vhich had been his home
for eight years and set of" "ull of sanf:;-i.i.ic anticipation.-,
for a new life of liberty and enterprise. He walked from
Carbonear to Harbour Grace, v hcie the Camilla was lyin;jf,
and went on board of her to sleep that nii^ht, to be joined
next morning by Mr. and Mrs. Jac[ues. Tn the course of
this, his last walk in Newfoundland, he saw in iu'glit what
all those years he had been looking for in vain -- a specimen
of the large yellow swallow-tail butterfly. He gave chase
to it at once, and, after a long run, succeeded in capturing it
easily with his hat, for it was very fearless. In the evening
a boy brought out to the vessel for liim a large cockroach,
of a kind not native to North America, which he liad
picked up in the streets, dropped perhaps out of some
cargo of sugar. This quaint species of tribute was his last
gift from Newfoundland, a country in which he was destined
never to set foot again. He took on board a variety of
chrysalides, caterpillars, and eggs, the premature transfor-
mation of some of which gave him a great deal of anxiety.
How completely he was absorbed in his duties as the nurse
of these insects mti/ be amusingly gathered from his diary,
in which, for instance, in turning for some information
                                                                                                    /

             90 rilE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

             rcgardinr^ thuc important clay on which he landed in the

             new country of his adoption,                     find these words and no
             :
             others --
                              I
                                               I

                                                                                   aI
             ''July 15. -- As this day arrived at Quebec, pro-
             " cured some lettuce for my caterpillars, which they ate
             " greedily."

             The voyage from Harbour (irace to Quebec,                                 com-

             paratively short distance on the map, proved an intolerably
             tedious one, from lack of wind. In the St. Lawrence the

             strong ebb tide continually carried them back during the

             night, running down with such force that was impossible
             to stem without strong breeze up. The only resource
             it
                                 a

                                                                      it
                                                                                          it
             was to cast anchor during the ebb and take advantage of
             the flood tide, which runs upward five hours in every
             twelve. The}' suffered from want of fresh food, and was

             annoying to their appetites to pass close to little wooded
             islands stocked with ostentatious rabbits, and have no

                              chance of rabbit-pie. On the nineteenth day the)- landed
                              for ten minutes on Grosse Island, where the iiuarantine

!i establishment was, and this was an agreeable refreshment.
                           At length their impatience was rewarded, and they pene-

                              trated to the very heart of that land of promise from which

             they anticipated so much. The}' saw in golden light,
                                           a
                                                     it
                                                                 a

                                                                              :
                                                                                         a
             and in these words, which betray his enthusiasm, Philip
             Gossc described his a[)i)roach in letter home --
§                  " On Wednesday last, as we were favoured with                              fair
       !-i!
             " wind, we weighed and set sail very early, proceeding
             " along the fertile and well-cultivated Isle of Orleans,

             "which, as well as the south bank of the river, was

             "smiling in luxuriance and loveliness. When we had
             " passed the end of Orleans we opened the noble

             "Cataract of Montmorcnci, vast volume of foaming
                           in
                                              a
                                                           a
             "waters rushing over cliff of immense height. Wc

             "now came     sight of the cit}- of Quebec, which being
CANADA.                                               91

"on the side of a hill, and gradually rising, like the scats

"ot a theatre, from the lower town on the water-side to

"the upper town, and on to the lofty heights of Abra-

" ham, far exceeded in grandeur even my raised antici-
" pations. When the officers of cjuarantine had visited

" us we went on shore and took lodgings.  In the

"evening we enjoyed a pleasant walk to the Heights."

    The}' had intended to settle, as has alread)- been said, in
the London district of Canada, on the shores of Lake

Huron. ]kit already, at their first arri\-al, their hopes

were dashed. Those in Quebec Vv-ho knew the interior,
and who were sympathetic with their inexperience, gave

an account of that country which was \er)- different from
the roseate descriptions of the advertisements. At all

events, said these new friends, decide TiOthing until you

have at least seen the eastern townships of the Lower

Province. Thither accordingly, after four days spent in

Quebec, they all proceeded in an open carriage, and visited

a partially cleared farm in the township of Compton.

This they agreed to buy, and ten days later they all came
back to Quebec. This excursion, taken in the height of

summer and when everything looked its very best, was

admirably fitted to confirm the party of settlers in their

conviction that they had found a land flowing with the

milk and honey of prosperity. The profusion of butter-

flies, which of course he could not stop to catch, dazzled

Philip Gosse's imagination, so that the important matter

of selecting a scene of residence and occupation for life,

since that was their intention, never once arrested his

serious thought. He wrote long afterwards, in reference
to this settlement at Compton, " 1 felt and acted as if

butterfly-catching had been the one great business of life."

They immediately removed from Quebec, with their

slender store of goods, \.o Coin[)ton, and took' possession of
                                                                                                                                                  /

                 92 THE LIFE GF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

                 their farm. The village was on the river Coatacook,
                                                                a
                                                                                                                       a
                 tributary of the St. Francis, in the county of Sherbrooke,

                 very near the angle formed by line drawn south from

                 Quebec and one drawn cast from Montreal. It was

                 thirteen miles distant from the town of Sherbrooke, and

                 about twenty from the frontier of the state of Vermont,

                 U.S.A. What the farm consisted of, and wliat their labour

                 in may be plainly seen, though still through somewhat
                 it,
                   Irose-coloured spectacles,        the following extract from
                                    :                                                              aa

                                              4, in
                 letter written November             1835, to his friend, Dr. P. E.

                 Molloy, in Montreal --

                 " like my location here very much              a                   seems the

          i                                                         ;

Ij:**                                                                  it
                 "general opinion that our farm was                                 bargain: -- one

                 " hundred and ten acres of land (forty-five cleared),

                 "frame-house,      log-house, frame-barn, young orchard,
                                    a
                                                             a

                 "four tons of hay, etc., for £\o<:i -- .^^50 in hand, the

                 "remainder in two annual instalments.                              It             pic-

                                                                                           is
                                                                                                a

                 " turcsque-looking place, containing hill and dale, hard

                 " and soft wood, and streams of water. The first thing

                 " did was to cut the hay which was on /;/(' allotment.
                 II
                 "This did by hired labour; made chiefly myself.
                          I                                     I
                 " then ploughed    a       field of about six acres, except
                                 I                                 I
                 "three-quarters of an acre, which was done by hired
                 " labour.                                               I
                                    found ploughing rather different from book-
                                                                                it
                 "keeping, but not near so difficult nor so laborious as

                 " had expected. Since then                     have been collecting
                 I

           ^1:1  " stones from the fields, which arc very numerous in

                 " some parts, and dragging them off.                             have had about

                 " six acres of wild land (from which the heavy timber
                 " had been cut before) cleared of logs and bushes, and
                 " am getting them ploughed though intend trying to
                                    ;
                                           :
                                                                       ;

                                                                                     ;

                                                                    ;I

                                                                                                                                              ;;
                 " do part of this myself. My intended next year's crops
                 " will be as follows -- Three acres wheat three acres oats

                 " one acre peas two acres turnips three acres potatoes
                                                                                                                                                                                     *.*»_*ww«.^»«'»'-vaiWfl«>*W*»*i»»*«W*«'

/

                                           CANADA.                                       93

perhaps one acre buckwheat ; eight acres grass ; and

four acres pasture. Sometimes at first, when weary

with labour, and finding things rather awkward, I was

incHned to discontent ; but that soon wore off: the

thought of projected improvements and anticipated

returns, together with the beauty of the country and

freedom from the bustle of the counting-house, have

dispelled the gloom, and I am now as merry as a
cricket all day long. I have made successful applica-

tion for the conducting of one of the Government

schools through the winter, say four months, at the

rate of ^3 per month, besides board. This will help

my finances, though 1 am not compelled to have recourse

to having still few pounds in my pocket-book.
         it,

                ;

                    if
                                        a

                                    is
" You ask we have to work severely                  think may
                                                    I

                                                                  :

                                                                I

                                                                       it
                                                                               is

                                                                                      I
say no our labour occasionally Jiard, but not severe--

not nearly so hard to learn as anticipated. As our

minds were set on the Upper Province,                                             hard to

draw comparison between our expectations and the
         I
              a

                    I

                             it

                           I is
realization, as                so different from our anticipations                       ;

1 but think may say we are not disappointed. On

no account would change my acres for my place at

Slade, Elson, and Co.'s desk. Society here             is                         almost

wholly Yankee.' Their manners are far too forward'

and intruding for our English notions, still cdl are not

so there are some very agreeable and good neighbours.
I
        ;much regret that you did not come here to reside the

winter. Pardon me tor saying you could have boarded

much more cheaply in the village than               I  take for

granted you would in city like Montreal, and perhaps
                                           a

realize nearly as much practice. We shall eagerly look

forward to the promised pleasure of seeing you in the

spring, all be well.                          think you will find advan-
           if

                                     a

                                I

                                                                              it
tageous to cultivate small farm in addition to your
v-a

       94 T//£ LIFE OF PHILIP HE.VRY GOSSE.

         "professional pursuits: suppose          it         were only twenty

         " acres, would materially aid your domestic economy.
           a

               ; it
                                     a

                                          a
           "And now, as you have 'drawn me out' by asking

         "about entomology, pardon me           if           mount my hobby
                                                  I

         " for few moments. Since my arrival, have enriched
                                                             I

         "my cabinet with great number of new and splendid
         " insects indeed, to naturalist, this country holds out

         "a charming field of exploration in all branches of
         " natural history. My agricultural labours are not so

         " severe or so engrossing as to prevent my having some

       "time to devote to the pursuit of my interesting science,
       " of which
                    do not fail to avail myself When was
                   I                                         .'
       "in Quebec,    aI     made the acquaintance of one or two
                                                                 I
       "members of the Literary and Historical Society, who
                                                                       if
       "introduced me to their museum, and promised to pro-
                                                                               I
       I"pose me as corresponding member. (A correspond-
         "ing member must be non-resident, 'a\\^\ pays )io fees.)             II I
                                             a

                                                   I
                                                          I
       " have written to Quebec since                        have been here, but

       " have received no answer, so suppose the promise has
       " been forgotten. Perhaps you have become acquainted
y i'i
       "with some of the members of tlie Natural History
       " Society of Montreal
                                             so, would you be kind enough
                              ;
       "to inquire
                                if
                                                 if
                    if       person residing here could be admitted

                          a

       " as corresponding member, and                        so, what qualifica-
           a

       "tions would be required, what fees, etc.                have col-
       " lectcd many duplicate specimens of insects which

       "had intended for the museum at Quebec, but                   tliey

       "would be received at Montreal, should prefer sending
                             if
       "them there. Perhaps
                                     it

                                               I
       " too much, to ask                    would not be troubling you

                              there are at present any entomo-

       " logical members, and whether they are scientific.

       "should like very much to have some scientilic friend

       " in this country, with w hoin        I    could correspond.

       " hope )ou will excuse my boldness in asking so many
         wuu                                                    HH I'mm- 

                                                                                                 Itt^

CANADA.       95

   "favours at once, especially as I have not had the hap-      :"'                                    >i^

    " piness of bcinjj able to confer any."                      ft*. '
   In addition to what is said above, it may be explained

that the hundred and ten acres which formed the farm

were divided by the high-road into two portions. The one
consisting of fifty acres, but having a frame dwelling-house
and barn, fell to Mr. Jaques ; the western section, of sixty
acres, having a log-hut, an ai)ple-orchard, a young maple-
sugary, and four tons of hay, Philip Gosse took for his.
This statement, however, gives mucli too favourable a
notion of the enterprise. Only about a third of the acreage
was cleared and in cultivation, and the whole farm,

although originally of good land, was sadly neglected and

exhausted by the miserable husbandry of its former pos-
sessors. The new tenant bought a horse and a cow,
stabling them in the log-hut. His first labour was to get

in his hay, and then he undertook to plough about five
acres, himself both holding and driving. He got three
acres more cleared of bushes and underwood, and ploughed,
by hired labour. These eight acres were all his tillage
land at first, and he divided them, as he had proposed,
between wheat, barley, peas, and potatoes. In all the
farm work he was ciuite unaided by the Jaqucscs, the
notion of all toiling together, in an atmosphere of refined

intelligence, fi)r a common purse, having broken down at
the first moment. The two laborious little farms had to

be worked independently, and Philip Gosse paid a modest
sum as a boarded lodger. In August they got into their
house, and one of Gossc's earliest acts was to paint the
outside of it with a mixture of skim milk and powdered lime.

   The Jaqucscs, in particular, were soon disillusioned. Mrs.
Jaques, who had been brought up as a lady, and who was
then nursing a baby, found it almost intolerably irksome
to carry out the entire labour of the house herself, but the\-
w

lit

     96 T//E LIFE OF PHILIP IIEXRY GOSSE.

     could afford no servant. The two men, also, found the

?: i practical drud^^cry of the farm work very different from

     the idyllic occupation which it had seemed in fancy, and

     through the pleasant telescopes of hope and romance.

     Their hands grew blistered with the axe and the plough ;
     their backs ached with the unwonted stooping and strain-

     ing ; no intellectual companionships brightened their

     evening hours ; their neighbours, few and far between, were

     vulgar and sordid, sharp and mean ; they saw no books,

     save those they had brought with them. So far as my

     father was concerned, this painful isolation from the outer

     world of man, though disagreeable, was not harmful. It

     thrust him more and more on the society of nature.

     Entomology had been his pastime ; it was now his only

     resource, and what had been a condiment and the salt of

     life grew now to be its very pabulum. The toil at the           f/
     plough was harsh and exhausting, but not nearly enough

     so to dim his intellectual curiosity. I lis mind, the tendency

     of which was always to flow in a deep and narrow channel,
     concentrated all its forces in the prosecution cf zoological
     research. In summer, as soon as his labour in the fields

     was over, he would instantly sally back to the margins of

     the forest, insect-net in hand, all fatigue forgotten in one

     flapping of a purple wing. His entomological journals,

     continued throughout the whole of his residence in Canada,

     are a memorial of his unflagging industry and success in

     the pursuit of science. It was these journals which later

     on formed the basis of his first published volume, The

     Canadian Naturalist of 1 840.
        The toil would have been less difficult to endure, if the

     returns had been commensurate. But in these, as in almost

     everything else (except the butterflies), the emigrants were

     grievously disappointed. Their neighbours described their

     first season as abnormally unpropitious ; frosts came un-
         CAXADA.  97

usually early in 1.S3'"), so that the unripe corn-crops were
frozen antl spoiled. From \vhate\er cause it might bo, and

penuriously as they lived, the)- presently found that they
were not making botli ends meet. ICxisting as they did in

wretched poverty, it was depressing to find that, even so,

their toil was insufficient to maintain them. They soon

became convinced that they had made a serious mistake

in swerving from their original mtention (^f choosing the

Upper Province, but still more in buying a wasted and

exhausted farm. It is true that about half of IMiilip

Gosse's acres were as yet virgin forest, which he might

have reclaimed antl cultivated. Ikit they consisted, for
the most part, of " black timber" -- that is to say, the species

of pine, sjiruce, mid fir which indicate low and swampy
soil, unfit for ploughing. I'crhaps if he had inore i)er-
severance, or a little capital, lie might have turned this into

meadow. Ikit his personal strength and skill were not

equal to the huge effort of clearing forest-land, and he soon

ceased to have the power to hire even the pt)orest labour.

He was accustomed, long afterwards, to reflect with

bitternes.s on what he might have done if they had kci)t to
their plans, and struck for the shores of Lake Huron. Ikit
bearing in mind the conditions of the experiment, I cannot

feel that the result wcnild have been much better. No

doubt the land they could have bought in the North-west

would have been far more fertile than at Compton, but it

was clothed w ith heavier timber, which they would have

been obliged to fell even before they could build a hut to          ^1%

cover their heads. The labour would have been fir more

severe, the life even more recluse and savage. But the

real fact is that my father had no natural gift for agricul-
ture ; he was not one of l->merson's " doctors of lainl,

skilled in turning a swamp or a sandbank into a fruitful

field."  The thoughts that came to him at the plough w ere

                                                                li
                             98 THE LIFE OF PHILIP HEXRY GOSSE.

                                dry thouc^hts ; there was no fresh flavour of the cp.rth about

                        them. If it had not been for the blessed insects he must

                                have died of ennui.

                              It was not, however, for a loncf while that Philip Gossc

I! realized his disappointment. The rose-colour was in no
                                hurry to rub off. In September, I.S3 5, he writes home to a
                                friend in I'oolc, relapsing into the old familiar vernacular,
                           " I am now become such a farmer that I believe I could

                                smack a whip with ere a chap in the county o' Dorset."
                                ITe was full of enthusiasm for the natural beauties of the
                                Canadian autumn. In the same letter he writes : " The

                                    trees arc now beginninj:^ to fade in leaf, which causes the

                                forest to assume a most splendid appearance. The foHaL,^c

                                is of the most gorgeous hues ; the brilliant rich crimson of

                                the maple, the yellow of the elm, the orange and scarlet of

                                other trees, set off by the fine dark green of the beech and

                                the nearly black of the cedars and pines, give a beauty, a

                                splendour, to the landscape which cannot be conceived by

                                those who have not seen it." The following extract is
                             from a letter to his father, dated June i 1, 1836 :--

                                 " I have to work with my own hands. To be sure, I

                                    "have not felled many trees yet, except for fuel ; nor is

                              "it necessary, as I have several large fields which have
                                 " been many years in cultivation. However, if you could

                                    " peep at me, you would haply see me at the tail of the
                                     " plough, bawling at the top of my vcjice to the horses ;
                                 "or casting the seed into the ground ; or mowing the
                                     " seedy grass ; or pitching the sun-dried ha\- to the top
                                     " of the cart. The country is a lovely one, especially
                                 "at this most charming season ---foniiosissimiis annus --
                                     "when the ground is covered with grass and flowers, and
                                     " the woods adorned with masses of the richest foliage,

                            "enlivened by birds of sweet song and gay plumage. I

                                     "have seen the beautiful Tanagra rubra, with his coat
                          CANADA.                              90

"of brilliant scarlet and dccp-bluish wings and tail. The

" riiby-throatcd humming-bird, too, begins to appear,
" with its loud luim as it sucks the nectar of some

"syngenesious flower, its fine eyes darting hither and
" thither, its wings invisible from their rapid vibration,

"and its throat glowing in the sun like a flame of fire.

"Then the woodpeckers, with their caps of deep scarlet ;

" the pine grosbeak, with its pink and crimson plumage ;

" and others, qiios nunc, etc. You asked me if I had shot

" any turkeys or deer ; )-ou know not how good a shot
" I am. I have shot at ascpiirrcl three times successively,

"without doing him any 'bodily harm,' without even

" the satisfaction of the Irish sportsman who made the

" bird  ' lave that, any  way    '  for  the  squirrel  would  not
                               ;
" leave the tree, but continued chattering and scolding

"me all the time. However, wild turkey is not found

"east of Lake Eric. Deer come round in the winter,

"and sometimes get into our fields, and cat the standing
" corn in autumn ; I have seen some that were shot by

"a neighbour, but they were does and liad no horns.
" They looked much like our fallow deer, but larger.

"The reindeer or caribou, as it is called, and the moose

"occasionally, but rarely, are taken. I have seen a few
" Indians, belonging to the .St. Francis tribe : some of

"them encamped within a few miles of us last winter ;

"but they are a poor, debased, broken, half-civilized
" people, not the lordly savage, the red man of the far

"West ; not such as Logan or Metacom of I'okanoket."

He was not, however, entirely thrown upon nature for

intellectual resources at Compton. Teachers of the town-

ship schools, which were held in the winter, were in demand,

and he found no difficulty in obtaining an engagement fur

the dead months of each of the three seasons he resided

in Canada. The teacher rcceixed free boartl and £io for             4
    ion THE r.iFE or ririfip hf.xry gosse.

    tlic season of twelve weeks, which Philip Gossc found a

    very timely alleviation of Iiis expenses, thouc^h the occu-

I!  pation was unplcasing to his taste and irksome to his rapid
    habit of mind. Hut the ever-present stimulus of scientific

    investigation ke])t up his spirits, and there began to grow
    up within him a new sensation, the definite ambition to

    gain scientific and literary distinction. The first en-

    couragement from without which came to him in his

    career, the earliest welcome from the acailemic world,

    arrived in the early spring of 1S36, in the modest sha[)c of
    a corresponding membership of the Literary and Historical

    Society of Quebec. This was quickly followed by a
    similar complim.cnt from the Natural History Society of

    Montreal. These elections, indeed, conferred in themselves

    no great honour, for these institutions, in those early

    colonial days, were still in their bo}'hood, and too inex-

    perienced to be critic.'i.l in their selection. It was none the

    less a great gratification to the young man. 1 le contributed

    papers to the Transactions of either society, sending to

    Montreal a Lcpidoptera Comptoiiicitsa and to Quebec an

    essay on The Tciiipcyatitrc of Nczcfoniic/iaiid and Xotcs on
    the Comparative Forzvardncss of the Spring in Xeivfonndland

    (·i.nd Canada. He also sent to the new museum at

    JMontreal a collection of the lcpidoptera of Compton.

    All the while lie was keeping his copious daily journal of

    observations, a diary which lies before me now, and from

    which I extract one day's record as a sample of the rest :--
          " Angnst TO, [1835]. -- I took a walk before breakfast

        " to a maple-wood, where I spent a few hours very
       " pleasantly. There \\as one large but quite decayed

       " tree, whose trunk was pierced with very many holes,
       " and in almost every hole were the remains of a Sirex,
       " almost gone to dust -- a large species somewhat

       " resembling Sircx gigas. There were also remnants of
     CAXADA.                                     loi

"many hectics, amoncj which was a Biipirstis, Hkc on^.- I

" cau^dit at Three Rivers, and several hri^i^ht red beetles
"new to me, which h.ave some characters of Liicaiiiis.

" There were many oval cases, as larj;e as pi;^eons' c^j^s,

"containin^tj cxii-i'iu'' of some beetle, and in one I found a

" Scaralxciis, as that of Sth inst., complete thou!:;h decayed.
" In another rotten tree I found several /////, some of

"which were of j^n<;antic size. While in the wood, I

"heard a loud hum, ami lookinrj round saw what I took

I" to be a h'U\q,"e insect, but viewin;^ it more intently,

"saw it was a luunminL^f-bird of an olive coloiu', poisinj.^
'itself before some tubular flowers, and inserting" its bill

'for an instant, then whisking to another like lij^htnini; ;
" while I stood motionless, it came and sucked (lowers
" within a )'ard of me, but on the least motion was off
" to a distance, I saw the star crane-fly of Newfound-

" land. On cominc^ home I found to my sorrow that,

" havinfT put the larj^je chafer of x'cstcrday into my store-
" box, pinned but not dead, he had f^ot his pin out of

"the cork, and had been amusinL^ himself during my

"absence, carrying his pin about the box and biting
" other insects. He has spoiled a pearl-border fritillary,

" a tiger-moth, and, what I regret most of all, he has bitten

" two of the wings off the great Ifcincrobiiis of 30th ult."

During the winter of 1835-3C, he made his first serious

attempt at book-making, T/ie Ii)itoi)iology of Nezvfoiuid-
laiid. The manuscript is still in existence, for, though he

completed he made no attempt to find publisher for it.it,
                                        it a
Indeed, his lack of systematic knowledge, and of the then

present condition of zoology, rendered        probably -what

would have been considered by London savants as unfit

for publication, although the amount of actual observation

recorded at first hand, occasional anecdotes, and descriptions

of habitats around Carboncar constitute       a  store from
103 r///r L/FE OF piriup hemry cosse.

which, to this day, a more orderly work on the insects of

Newfoundland niij^ht, no doubt, with j.n-eat propriety be

enriched. The main value of this lengthy i)roduction was

the familiarity with the use of the pen which it supplied.

It is a main feat for an unfledged author when he succeeds

in setting Explicit at the bottom of a body of manuscript,

lie has learned the lesson of literary life, not to grow

weary of well-doing. The unlucky Rntovioloi^y of AVa--

? ? foitiiiiland was a mere preamble to a far more im[)ortant
                              occupation, that cjf collecting materials for a work, the

pecuniary success of which was to be an ci)och in my

father's life, and to make him an author by profession.

This was his Canadian Naturalist, " The whole plan of
this work occurred to me," he says in a letter of 1S40, " and
was at once sketched in my mind, one day as I was

walking up to Tilden's, the road that led along from \wy

maple grove westward through the woods. It was a lovel)
spring day, the iith of May, 1H37, the day before my

brother arrived. I had a large amount of material

already in my entomological journal, and thenceforward 1

kept my eyes always wide open for every other branch

of natural history.        It was Sir Humphrey Davy's

Sahnonia ; or Days of Fly-FisJdng, that formed my model

for the dialogue. The work remains a vivid picture of

1 n what chiefly engaged my thoughts during my three

Canadian years." lie ceased, with this wider ambition, to

be merely an entomologist ; he became a naturalist in the

broader and fuller sense.

During the first eighteen months his letters home were

still sanguine, and, despite tue discomforts and limitations

of the life at Compton, he continued to urge the members

of his family to join him. In May, 1837, in fact, his younger

brother came, but stayed only six months, and returned,

bitterly disenchanted, to England. I do not, indeed, find it
                               C^tNADA.                           103

quite easy to comprehend my father's condition oi mind

throuijfhout this year, lie CDiitiiuies, in spite of all dis-

appointment, to importune his father, mother, and sister

to "be ready to come out and live under the protection of

my \vinL,%" and talks, so late as the autumn of iS^;, of

having "some idea of j^ettincj^ out the materials of a house

in the follo\vin,ej winter, U) be erected in the south-west

corner of my Let^horn l-'icld." \'cl he had already, in July

of the same \ear, advertised his farm at Compton for sale,

not failiuL; to mention in the terms his "garden of rare
                   "
exotic  flowers       for  he  hati enclosed  a corner  opposite  the
                 ;

house, and had cultivated with success the seeds and plants

which his brother had brought from I'oole. and others that

he had collected from friends around. As this season closed

in, and his crops, which he had sanguinely persuaded
himself were better than those of his neighbours, proved

to be lamentable failures, his thoughts, unwillingly a* first,

but soon more and more, began to turn to some other

scene and some other occupation for the living which

seemed to be obstinately denied to him in Canada. The

disastrous visit of his brother was the last straw, and the
back of his optimism was broken at length. During the

autumn he was vexed and disturbed by having to appear

in court to give evidence in a criminal case ag.iinst one of           Ii

his few neighbours ; and for some weeks he was laid up                   4

with acute rheumatism. On November 4, 1837, he wrote

a very melancholy letter to his sister Elizabeth, and,

after upbraiding and yet excusing Jiimsclf for having in-

duced his brother to make so untoward an expedition, he
continues --

   "For myself, I have lately been somewhat brought

" down by sickness : nothing very alarming, but sufficient
"to disable me in a great degree from labour; in conse-
" quence of which I have become very backward in my
    nil104                     LIP IIE.VRY GOSSE.
              T/f/i LIFE OF

                                    " work, such as getting^ in my crops and ploughing. I

f " bcHcvc my complaint to be an attack of rheumatism,
                                    " brought on by a chill taken during a daj-'s work in the

    "field amidst heavy rain. ]k\sidcs this, however, wiiich

    "was trifling, thf)ugh painful, I have sulTcrcd from a

    "general debility of body, with a depression of mind,

    "from which I am not yet freed, though I am recovering.
    " Could any employment be obtainctl at home ? I am
    " tired of more than ten years' exile, far from friends and

    "kindred. I have been thinking that I might do well

    "by establishing a school in Poole, or in some of the

I "neighbouring towns. Is there any opening? Would                                             w
                             "a school at Parkstone do? I should be very glad if
    " you would let me know by the first spring vessel. If

:i  "         t^'^^  ^^^ '^"y  encouragement,  I will endeavour  to

       y*^^'

    '· sell my farm, and, please God. embark for Poole next

    " fall. I believe I am competent to take a respectable

    " academy, teaching all the ordinary branches of

    " education, mathematics, book-keeping, Latin, and the

    "rudiments of Greek and navigation. I should be glad
    "of a change of fond, for I live on buckwheat and pig's-

    "mcat."

    About the same tiinc he urged a former Newfound-

    land companion, who had just got a clerk's situation in

    i'hiladclphia, to inquire what chances there were for

    him in that cit\% either mercantile or scholastic. And

    in the ensuing winter he had made up his mind ; for he

'iU wrote to this same friend on February 5. 183S, as                                          !'JI
                               follows :--

                                   " My i)urpose is to sell m)' fiirm at an)- sacrifice, and
                                   " take the first opportunity of the Hudson navigation to

    "proceed south. My eye is towards Georgia or South

    "Carolina, as I understand persons of education arc in
    " demand there, both in mercantile and academical
   CANADA.                                         105

   "situations. I believe, however, that I shall take

   "Philadelphia in my course, and if anythin^^    can be
   "done there, I shall not proceed further."      antl on
   This scheme soon ripened into accom[)lishment,

   March 22, 1S3S, ha\in[4' realized the farm and stock as
   best he could, he left Canada for the United States, his

   friend Jaques driving- him in his waggon as far as Bur-

   lington, on Lake Champlain.

   This is the moment, perhaps, briefly to recapitulate the

   results of the three years which had elapsed since he left
   Newfoundland. As a tnonetary speculation, he had df)ne

   deplorably. He was twcnt\--ei;^ht years of ai;c, and he was

   not pcjssessed, when all his property was told, of so many

   pounds, hy his change from C'arbonear he had greatly

   increased his toil ; he IkuI lived much mcjn; meanly ;r.ul on

   a coarser fare, had been mt)re poorly clad, and had suffered

   in general health. To set against all these losses there

   were two or three considerations. The mercantile house

   which he had left in Newfoundland had, during th.ese three

   years, nipidl}' fallen into grave difficulties, and had broken

   up, the clerks being dispersed to seek fresh employment.

   The state of society in the colony had by this time, through

   the ever-increasing turbulence and lawlessness of the Irish     f ;·

   population, become almost unbearable for I'rotestants.

   But the great, the onl)', counterbalance to the wretched

   disappointments and privations of these yccU's in Canada

   was the constant adxance in scientific knowletlgc and range

   of mental vision, wli'di was checked, if at all, only during

   the physical trouble of the last si.x months.

   From the distressing correspondence of this period, with

   its patient record of poverty, fatigue, and deferred hope,

   I turn gladly to the professional journals, with their
   unflagging note of triumph, and I permit mj-self one more

   extract. It is no: thrilling, perhaps, but I take it as an

I
                                                                                           ^

                                                                                           /

           106 THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

           example of that extraordinary power of retaining the results

           of minute observation which made my father unique

           among the naturalists of his time, and to find parallel to
                                                    it
^:\ 1 ··Av. which was then necessary to go back to Gilbert White ofaa
           it

                 :
           Selborne --

           " On September            1S37, and my brother visited the
                                  a 5,
                                       a

                                           I
           " Bois Brule. We went up by Bradley's Brook, and on

           "the bank found new thistle, with crcnated leaves.
                               I

           "The first quarter of mile lay through                       very rough

           " slash, where we had to climb over the fallen trees and

           " through the limbs and, to make worse, these were
                                  ;

           " concealed by the tall wickup * plants with which the

           "ground was absolutely covered, and as the seed-pods were
           " just bursting, every movement dispersed clouds of the

           " light cottony down, which getting into our mouths and
           " nostrils, caused us great inconvenience. Presently we

           " descended the stee^) bank, and walked, or rather

           "scrambled, up the rocky bed of the stream by means

           " of the stones which were above water, though, as they

'1 I       " were wet and slimy, we occasionally wetted our feet.

           " Thus we went on, sometimes in the stream, sometimes

           " among the alders and underwood on the banks, for

           " about mile and half.                   met with many specimens of
           *I                     a
                            a
                                          I

                                                 I
           " fruits and seeds which               had not [found] before, espe-

           " cially the orange cup-flower, the handsome scarlet fruits

           " of the white and the red death, bright blue berries, etc.

           " In pressing through the brush, got my ch^thes be-
                                                    I

                                                           I
           " daubed with a nasty substance, which discovered to

           "proceed from thouNands of the Aphis la)iii^cra, which
           " had crushed. They were so thickly clustered round

           "the alder branches as to make solid mass, half an
                                                    a

                                                                     a
           " inch thick, covered with ragged filaments of white

           Or " wickaliy," tho Icatlier-plant (Diira f'alKsln's],       sliriib common in

           the Canadian woods, and cuvcrcd  in  spiin;^ with .sniall yellow blussonij.

                                                                                           \
                                                lippppiiillii

«

                    CANADA.                     107

   "down. The insects were much larger than most of the
   " genus, and of a Icad-grcv colour.

      " We were getting nearly tired of the ruggedness of

   "our path, when we suddenly came upon a new and

   " very good bridge across the brook, made of sound logs,
   " which connected a good broad bridle-path, from which

   "the fallen logs, etc., had been cleared away, and which

   "had been used for the purpose of drawing out mill logs.

   "As its course seemed to be nearly parallel with that of

   "the brook (about south-west), we preferred pursuinga
   " as being much more pleasant and more easy of travel.
   "The sides of the road were lined with the stumps ofI it

   "large spruces and hemlocks which had been felled theit,

   "previous winter, and the road itself was strewn withI
                                              I
   " the chips of the axe-men. The course lying through
   " cedar swamp, the ground was mossy, and in some I it
   a
                                                                          it,
   " places wet  ;  here the scarlet stoneberry {Coriins

   " Canadensis) was abundant, as well as the berries
   " mentioned before. The former was ripe, and we ate

   " very many they arc farinaceous and rather agreeable.
               ;
   "We followed this path till appeared almost intermi-
   " nable, though its tedious uniformity madeit
                                                seem

   "longer than really was, as suppose we ditl not walk

   " more than a mile and half (jn  when saw by the

   " increasing light that we were approaching a large

   " opening.
      " We now pressed on and found that we had reached

   " the Hrule, which was not a clearing, as had expected,                     .a

   " but covered with stunted and ragged s[)ruce, from                         "\'^^

   "eight to twelve feet high, exactly resembling the small

   "woods of Newfoundland on the borders of the large

   " marshes.  I    found also the same plants, which now

   " saw for the hrst time in Canada. The ground was

   "covered with the same spongy moss, with shiubs of

                    ICJ
ic8 T/J£ LIFE OF nilLIP HENRY GOSSE.

" Indian tea {Lediiui latif.), gould {Kabiiia r!r.'(ca and

"/C aiigiistif.), and other Newfoundland plants, and, above

"all, numbers of that curious plant, the indian cup or
" pitcher plant {Sarracciiia), in flower, the leaves beiuLj

"all full of water. I brought L miic specimens as well

" of other curious flowcs. The road merely touched

" the edge of the l^rule, and went straight on, entering
" the tall woods on the other side, emerging as I under-
" stand on the Hatley road, about a mile or two further.

"We went a little way into the Brule to sec if there was

" any clearing, but could perceive no change in the
"
          dead, lialf-burnt  spruce,  and therefore  returned.
   ugl}^

" This singular piece of ground con.sists of some

" thousands of acres, and is said to owe its origin to the
" beavers, which were formerly numerous, damming up

" the streams, which, spreading over the flat land, killed

                               "tlie growing timber. It is a resort of wolves and other
Pi "wild animals, though wc perceived no sign of life in

iI ; ' '
"the stillness which pervaded the solitude; nor indeed

"in all the journey, with the exception of one or two
" little birds which were not near enough to identify, and
" a few insignificant insects in the forest.

" Having satisfied our curiosit)', we began to return as

"we came, until we arrived at the bridge, when, instead of
" retracing the course of the stream, we crossed the bridge,

"and continued to pursue the road, which for some dis-
" tance led us through towering spruces and hemlocks
" as before. On a sudden we found the sides lined with

"young maple, birch, beech, etc., which met overhead
" at the height of about twelve feet, forming a very

" perfect continued Gothic arch, or rather a long series of

"arches. This long green avenue was the most pleasant

"part of our walk, and the more so as it was quite
" unexpected. Wc presently opened upon a large field
          CANADA.                    109

"which had been just mown, but which I had never

" before seen, nor could I recognize any of tlic objects

" which 1 saw. Tlicre appeared to be no outlet thrf)u,L^h
" the woods by which it seemed to be environed. There
" was the skeleton of an old locj-housc, without a njof in

"one part, and a fDortion of the ficUl was planted with
" potatoes. W'c at len_c,^th saw a path throui^h these
" potatoes, and we walked on till, coming to the brow of

"a hill, we [)erccived the river, with Smith's mills, and
" the rest of that neighbourhood. Tlie road ai)pearcd to

" lead out towards Mr. Bostwick's, but we took a short

"cut, and came by the back of Webster's barn, ami so
" by Bradley's mill, and home. I forgot to observe that
" we were much surprised in going up the brook, about

" a mile up, at coming upon a ruined building, which had

"been erected over the stream, of whicli the timbers were
" fallen down, and some of them carried some distance

"downwards by the freshets. I supposed it must have

"been a mill, but wondered at its situation so far from

" any road. I have since been informed that it was a

" sawmill, which was built by Messrs. S. and I). Spafford,

" and that there was a good road to
          P.                         which went
                               it
"through
                                                                                       ;

                                                               it,

                                                                                                                                                                               :;,

                                                                                                                .ii
          (). Barker's south-west fiekl but being now

"overrun with bushes, escaped our notice. The mill
" has been disused near twenty years."
                                               mim mm «Mi

                                                                                  ( no )

                                                    CHAPTER V.

                                                                                ALABAMA.

                                                                                                             ICS38.

                THE only piece of valuable property which Philip
                                            Gossc took with him from Canada was the cabinet
                                 of insects which he had had made years before in Hamburg,
                                 and which was now tightly stocked with the selected species
                                 of six years' incessant labour. The space in it was so
                                 limited that he had been fain to use not merely the usual
                                 floor of each drawer, but the tops as well, and even the
                              sides. As has been said, the thing had been a cheap affair
                                 at first, and none of the drawers being lined with cork, the
                                 pins which fastened the insects had to be insecurely thrust
                                 into the deal wood itself He had scarcely started from

fi Compton on Mr. Jaques's light travelling waggon when he
                                     began to suffer from a mental agony which can scarcely be
                              exaggerated. His poor shaky cabinet, with its frail con-
                                 tents, jolting over the hard-frozen roads, rough and desti-
                                 tute of snow, began more and more to give forth a rustling
                                 and faintly metallic sound which told him onl}- too clearly
                                 that the pins were coming loose ; and soon he sat there,
                                 in a condition of misery bej'ond speech or tears, the witness
                                of a catastrophe which he was absolutely powerless to
                                avert, watching in a wretched patience the cabinet, in which
                                the delicate ca|)turcs of his last years were being ground to
                                    dust.
                                  ALABAMA.                   Ill

   His was a temperament whicli couUl not, however, for

   any length of time be depressed. After three years of

   confinement to a dreary Canadian township, he was now

   seeing the world again, and, what was important, going

   southwards, to warmth and sunlight.             As they drove

   through the numerous villages of Vermont, he was capti-

   vated by the pretty, neat, and trim houses of wood, brightly

   painted, and as different as possible from the gaunt log-

   houses of Compton. In the woods he saw for the first

   time glades full of the paper-birch (Mr. Lowell's "birch,
   most shy and lad\-likc of trees with its dead-white bark,
                                          "),
   so unlike the gloss)' and silky surface of the common
                                           I
   birch. One nitdit they heard "from the most sombre and

   gloomy recess of the black-timbered forest the tinkle of
                is
   the saw-whctter. The unexpectedness of the sound struckas

   me forcibly, .'Mid, cold asa   a I it  was, stopped the horse for
   some time '.o listen to it. a
                                          In the darkness and silence of

   midnight the regularly recurring sound, proceeding too

   from so gloomy                 spot, had an effect on my mind,

   solemn and almost unearthly, yet not unmi.xed with

   pleasure. Perhaps the mystery hanging about the origin

   of the sound tended to increase the effect.     It        like the

                                                         is

   measured tinkle of cow-bell, or regular strokes upon      a

   piece of iron c]uickly repeated." It su[)posed that theis

   saw-whctter     bird, but believe that the author of this              11

   sound, familiar to New ICngland woodsmen, has never been

   positively identified.

   Late on the third day the travellers reached Burlington.

   The vast and frozen lake, huge expanse of snow, crossed

   in every direction by dirt)- sledge and sleigh tracks, was             li
   dreary and uninteresting. Jaques immediately returned,

   and Philip Gosse was left in this remote Yankee town,

   without  a   single acquaintance in the wide world, and

   utterly depressed in spirits. The same night, since there

1
         I ..Hi I l^ffiWI

         112 77//? ///·/? C/^ PHILli HEXRY GOSSE.

%I       was nothinj^ to tcm[)t liim to stay at lUirlington, he took

         his place in the stage-coach,            rou^^^^h sort of leathern
                                   a
                                               a
         diligence, which carried  third seat hung transversely

         between the front and back seats. A middle-aged woman

         occupied one seat, and Gosse the other, and thus they
         spent the night, swinging dully along the frozen road with-

         out a word passing between them. In the middle of the

         night, at some village where the concern changed horses,

         riiilip Gosse got out for some refreshment dizzy with
                           it,

                                                                                     ;
         broken sleep, he laid his purse down on the bar counter,

         with seven dollars in and stumbled back to the coach

         without perceiving his loss. The uncouth stage-coach dis-

         gorged him at Albany in the ciuiet of an early Sunday
         morning. He instantly embarked on the steamer, and was

         running all that day down the beautiful ranges of the

         Hudson. Jiut curiosity was almost as dead in hini as hope.

         He spoke to no one on board, he formed no plans and

         took no observations onl)- at the Palisades he woke up to
         some perception of the noble precii)iccs under which they
                       a
                                   ;

                                                           a it
                                                                                                        a
         were passing. He had not even the wretched excitement

         of examining the shattered contents of his insect cabinet,

         for the stage-coach had peremptorily refused to take that

    1:,  piece of furniture on board, and         had been left at

         liurlington.

         In the evening he reached New York, landed on

         crowded wharf, and in Liberty Street, the nearest thorough-

         fare, sought out sordid hole, in which he took one night's

         lodging and shelter for his boxes. lie made no attempt

         to explore New York. His slender pittance was fast melt-

         ing away, and he had many a league to traverse yet

         before he could hope, in ever so slight measure, to recruit

         it. In the morning, therefore, without going up a single

         street, he steamed across the broad Hudson, and took the

         railway, the first he had ever seen, across the flat sands
ALABAMA.  in

of New Jersey. Before noon on March 26, he had crossed                                                  :ii
tlic Delaware and had set foot in Philadelphia.

   In the Quaker city he had an old friend, one of his
former fellow-clerks at Carbonear, Mr. W. V. Lush, settled

in the office of the American Colonization Societ\'. This
\-ounL,f man carried him off to his own l)oardin_i,''-house,

where Gosse also took lod^i^nngs, and .staj-ed ver\' pleasantly
for above three weeks. In this establishment were several

other younc; fellows, comrades of Lush's, who received the
new-comer acrreeablv. Tiic loncf solitary \-ears in Canada,
however, had set an indelible mark on the face and

manners of the naturalist. He found it impossible to join
in their gaiety of conversation, and they asked Lush
privately if " Gosse was a minister," beint; struck with his
fluent f^ravity in monologue and lack of capacity for small-
talk. It was in Philadelphia that lie first enjoyed the
sympathy and help of genuine men of science. At tlie
museum in Chestnut Street, he met Mr. Titian R. I'eale,
a local zoological artist of considerable eminence, who

charmed him at once, and sur[)rised him by his deferential
civility and his instinctive recognition of tliis grim-featured,
unknown youth as one destined to be '"somebody." Mr.
Peale was just then starting as the artist of an exploring
expedition to the South Seas, under Lieutenant Charles
Wilkes, and he was particularly interested in the exquisite
drawings of insects which Philip Gosse had brought frf)m

Canada. A more distinguished man of science was Pro-

fes.sor Thoma.s Nuttal, the botanist, whom he discovered
in the herbarium of the Academy of Natural Science. In
his diary my father calls him "venerable," although he was
little more than fifty at the time. By Professor Nuttal's
invitation, he attended an evening meeting of the society,
and met many of the American savaufs. The distinguished
Philadelphian zoologist, Dr. Joseph Leidy, then a boy of

                                                                                                     I
                                                                                                                                         f

       nil114
       IIIE LIFE OF    UP HENRY GOSSE.

       sixteen, tells nic that he recollects my father on one of

       these occasions -- proof that his personality, unknown as
       a
                 ahe had IjeL-n, awakened some general attention. The

i:.i society and its visitors sat aroiunl table in the great hall
ii \  of the museum, candles dimly and ineffectually lighting up
M 'if                  a
                                                   a
       the space. In the gallery, just above their heads, sat the

       skeleton of inurdercr, riding the skeleton of horse, the

       steed galloping, and the ghastly rider flourishing his up-

       lifted hand with an air of great hilaritx'. I'art of the social

       entertainment consisted in looking over some fine coloured

       plates of American fishes, just out among which Gossc
                       ;

       recognized, with interest, the large, richly coloured sculpen

       {Cottiis), so common in the clear water round the wharves

       of Carbonear.

          It seems to have been suggested to him by one of the

       savants of Philadelphia that he would find useful field
                                               a

       for his energy in the state of Alabama; and this gentle-
       man -- ]\Ir. Timothy A. Conrad, the conchologist -- was so

       kind as to give him an introduction to a friend of his at

       Claiborne, which afterwards prov^ed useful. On Sundays,

       while he was in Philadelphia, he went to the Dutch

       Reformed Church, in Sassafras and Crown Streets. There

       was no pulpit there, but wide raised platform with chairs.
                    a

       The Rev. George Washington Bethune, an eloquent and

       genial man, who died much lamented in 1S62, walked to

       and fro as he discoursed, in the manner since adopted by
       Mr. Spurgeon. Put Gosse's thoughts in Philadelphia were

       almost exclusively occupied with the memories of Alex-

       ander Wilson, that greatest of ornithologists. Wilson was

       at that time his main object of enthusiastic admiration,

       and he occupied himself in visiting every spot which bore

       reminiscences of the noble naturalist.  Here was his

       residence in yonder house he " kept school " here were
       ;
                                                                                                     ;
                                                                                                                                      ;
       the birds which his own hands had shot and skinned
ALABAMA.  I '5

 here were the very scenes described in his delightful         m

 volumes ; and the younj,^ man made conscientious pili^rini-    %

 aj^cs to the meadows below the city, to the marshy flats
of the Schuylkill, to the rushy and half-submerged islets of
the Delaware, to Thompson's Pcjint, the former residence
of the night-heron or qua-bird, and to the notorious Pea

I'atch, resort of crows in multitudes. lie found an old

man who had personally known the ornithologist, although
Wilson had at that tunc been tlead twenty-three years ;
but although Wilson had been a constant visitor at
his house, the old man could relate little about him that
was characteristic. One thing he said was sufficiently
memorable. "Wilson and I," he said, "were ah.vays

disputing about the sparrows. lie would have it that the

sparrows here were different from those in the old country.

I knew well enough they were just the same, but I coidd
not persuade him of it." It is scarcely necessary to say
that the American si)arrow is wholly distinct from the
English.

    The delay in the hospitable city of l'hiladeli)hia was,
however, not altogether the result of his admiration for the

museums or pleasure in the associations of the past. It
was due to the difficulty he found in obtaining transit to
the South. At length he engaged a passage in the lV/ii(e
Oak, a small schooner bound to the port of Mobile. He
sailed on April i8, and the vo)-agc, a very picturesque and

interesting one, occupied nearly a month. They were two

da)'s getting down to the Delaware l^ay, for they were

constantly running aground on the spits and banks which

lay under the mirror-like surface of the river. At last,

after loitering in the mean fishing village of Delaware City,

they were off down to the oceati. It was exceedingly

cold, although they were in the latitude of Lisbon, and
ice a quarter of an inch thick formed on deck. At first,
                                                                             I

%           Ii6 THE LIFE OF nil UP IlEXRY GOSSF..

     I::.-  riiilip Gosse was very miserable. lie was the only pas-
   \ ,1
            serifjcr, and the skipper was a churlish, illiterate fellow,
 .'(I,      with a crew of the same stamp as himself The fact that
            Gosse was a " Britisher " was (piite enou'^^h to warrant
            them in the perpetration of a score of petty incivilities, just
            short of actual insult. "The conversation," he saj's, "was
            of the lowest sort, and it was not the smallest infliction
            tjiat every nic^ht I was compelled to hear, as I lay in
            my wretched berth, the interchancje of obscene narratives
            between the skipper and his mate, before I could close my
            eyes in sleep. Dirt, dirt, was the rule everywhere ; dirt in
            the cabin, dirt in the caboose, dirt in tlie water-cask ; dirt

            doubly begrimed on the tablecloth, on the cups and
            t^lasses, the dishes and plates that served the food ; while
            the boy who fulcd the double office of cook and waiter
            was the very impersonation of dirt." The cal)in was a
            filthy hole, hardly large enough to stand up in, redolent
            of tar, grease, fusty clothes, mouldy biscuit, and a score of
            other unendurable odours combined, sucli as only those
            can imagine who have been the tenants of a small trading
            craft. The single berth on cither side " in dimensions and

            appearance resem.bled a dog-kennel more than anything
            else, the state of the blankets being, thanks to the grave-

            like darkness of the hole, but partially revealed, to sight at
            least." The only resource was to cat with as little thought
            as possible, to see as little as possible, and to be on deck-
            as much as possi!)lc, and this last habit was furthered b\-

            the glorious weather which set in soon after they were
            well out to sea.

                For the first {aw days he was horribly sick, and spent
            the time in his little, close, dirty cabin, with nothing to
             relieve the tcdivun of the voyage, But on the 24th lie
             came on deck to find that they were in the latitude of
             Savannah, and had entered the Gulf Stream. He fished
                                                                         BR mem ^1

I

                       ALABAMA.                 117

up some of the gulf-uccd and amused himself with
examininjf it :--

       " Many of the stems and berries were covered with, a
   " thin tissue of coral, like a ver)- minute network ; many
   " mall barnacles (Lc/as) were about it ; sonic shrimps
   " t^f an olive colour with bric^ht violet spots ; small crabs,

   "about half an inch wide, j-ellow, with dark-hrDwn spots
   " and ^nottlin[,^s, one with the fcjre-half of the sliell white ;

"some small univalve shells, and some curious, soft,
"
  leather}' thin;^^s,  almost  shapeless.  I put all the animals

" I could collect into water, and watched their motions.

" One of the small shrimps swam near a crab, which

'instantly seized it willi his claw. With this he held it
" firmly, while with the other claw he proceeded very

                     "deliberately to pick off small portions of the shrimp,
                     " beginning at the head, which he put into his mouth.

                  " lie continued to do this, maugre the struggles of the

                     " shrimp, sometimes shifting it from one claw to the
                     " other, until he had finished ; he picked off all tin-
                     " members of the head, and the legs, before he began t(j

< . " cat the body, chewing every morsel very slowly, and
                     " seeming to enjoy it with great gusto ; when only the
                     " tail was left, he examined it carefully, then rejected
                     " throwing from him with sudden jerk."
a
      it

                                               aa
                                                                                                  ;
                                                                           in a

                                                                                              it,

                     ;i
                                                                                                            ;,?
Within week after the sharp frosts already mentioned,

the vertical rays of the sun were making the deck almost

too hot to touch. But to one who had languished so long

in sub- arctic climates, this was blessed change. On they

swept through the meadow-like Gulf Stream, ploughing

their noiseless way through the yellow strings of sargasso-

weed, or accompanied by splendid creatures unknown to

the colder waters of the North. Rudder-fish, with pale

spots, would pass in and out beneath the stern  shoal of

porpoises would come leaping round the bows, the cool-
m

                           iiS T//E LIFE OF ririLlP IFENRY GOSSE.

I

     iiL'ss of the moonli^fht, and start off again togctlicr into

     the darkness. A sliark would play about the ship, with its

     beautiful little attendant, the purple-bodied pilot-fish. The

     exquisite coryphencs, or sailor's dolphins, were the ship's
     constant companions, their backs now of the deepest azure,

     almost black, and then suddenly, with writhe, flashi'ig
                i
                                                                                  a
                                 with silver or gleaming with mother-of-pearl, lounging
1 i through the water with so indolent an air that to harpoon

                              them seemed child's play. One of the crew, however,

     trying this easy task, fell off the taffrail with a splash.

     On Alay they caught the welcome trade-wind blow-

     ing from the cast, and this fresh breeze carried them

     cheerily in sight of the West Indies. They rapidly passed
     the southern ptjint of Abaco, one of the Bahamas, and

     Gossc saw for the first time on its precipitous shores the

'i^  fan-like leaves of the palm tree. While in sight of Abaco

     two beautiful sl(joi)s of war passed them, beating out, anil

     a little schooner, all of which hoisted the British flag at

     the gaff-end. It was three years since the exile had seen

     this pleasant sight, and he hailed with deep emotion the
     colours of that " meteor Hag " which has " braved thou-
     sand years the battle and the breeze." Next ^.'xy the
      White Oak had an excellent run, and rushing before the
                                                                                     ;
                                                                                                         a

                                                                                                         is
     freshening trade, threaded an archipelago of th(;se count-

     less " kays," or inlets, which animate the I'lorida Reef
     " The water on this reef," says the journal, "is very shoal,

     which strongly indicated by its colour instead of the
     is a
                   is

                                         it
                                              is
     deep-blue tint which marks the ocean, the water here of

     bright pea-green, and the shallower the water, the paler

     the tint. To me                              very pleasing to peer down into

     the depths below, especially in the clear water of these

     southern seas, and look at the many-coloured bottom, --

     sometimes   a  bright pearly sand, spotted with shells and
                   a
     corals, then     large patch of brown rock, whose gaping
ALABAJ/.l.  no

clefts and fissures are but half hidden by the wavint;-

tangles of purple weed, where multitudes of shapeless
creatures revel and riot undisturbed." Almost through
one day their course bore them through a fleet of " Portu-
guese men-of-war," those exquisite mimic vessels, with
their sapphire hulls and pale pink sails, whose magic navi-
g;\tion seems made to conduct some fairy queen of the

tropics through the foam of perilous seas to her haven in

an island of pearl.

   All these "lorious sights in halcyon weather did not,

liowever, last long. The ship was already within sight of
the last kay of the long reef, when a violent storm of rain

and a westerly gale came on. They were gkul to drop

anchor at once between Cayo l^oca and Cayo Marcpicss,
two green little islands of i)alm trees and .sand. The crew
set themselves to fish in the rain, and soon pulled out of

the water plentiful fishes of the most e.xtracM'dinar}- harle-
quin colours, vermilion-gilled, ainbcr-banded, striped like
a zebra but with vio'et, or streaked with fanta.stic forked

liLihtnings of i)ink and silver. Next morning, May 5, broke
in radiant sunshine, and as the wind continued foul, the

captain proposed to go ashore and take a peep at Cayo
15oca, a suggestion which Philip (}os.sc warmly seconded.
The sailors rowed for a long white spit of sand, and the

naturalist leaped ashore, and rushed into the bushes

brandishii'g his insect-net. lie expected U) hnil this fust

specimen of West Indian vegetation studded w itb. brilliant
tropical irisects, but he was disappoint '. The bushes had
thick salme leaves, and insects were vet, rare. Gosse pre-
.sently turiicd back to the >hore, and fou'.d the corals and
madrepores more interesting than the entomology. But
the wind had veered, and he was forced, reluctantly, tcj
humour the captain's impatience to return to the ship. A
little white butterfly danced away to sea with them, flat-
mmm  ^                               mmm

120 7y/£ Z/F£ OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

tcred a moment up the side of the vessel, and tlien flew
gaily back to her home in Cayo li(jca.

When they were fairly '\x\ the Gulf of Alexico, creeping-

past the Tortugas, numbers of sharks were swimrr.lng

round and under the vessel, at-csap inied by a multitude

of what they at first supposed to be y'JUiv^^ ones of the
same species. As one or two rose to the surface, however,

they turned out to be rcmoras, or sucking-fish. The men

struck first one and then another of these curicnis creatures

with a barbed spear, and secured them alive.  These
specimens my father thus describes :--

"They are ab(nit two feet in length, very slender,

"slippery, not covered with scales, but a sort of long flat
" prickles, concealed under the skin, but causing a rough-
" ncss when rubbed against the grain. The colour is blue-

"grey above, and whitish beneath ; the tii)s or edges of

lU "all the fins, and of the tail, light blue. The tail is not
"wedge-shaped, but slightly forked.  The mider li[)

"projects beyond the upper, so that the mouth opens on

" the upper surface, as that of the shark does on the

"lower. The sucker is a long oval, slightly narrower in

" front, having a central, longitudinal ridge and twenty-
" four transverse ones, which can either be made to

"lie down flat, or be erected, not however perpendicu-
" larl}-, but inclined backward ; the pectoral and ventr.d

" fins are of the same shape and size, as are the dorsal
" and anal. . . . While at liberty they were in close
" attendance on the shark, one or two on each side,

"generally just over his pectoral fins, and keeping their

" relative position, turning as he turned ; sometimes they
" ai)peared belly upward, adhering to the fin of the

"shark, at others they seemed loose. Numbers, how-
" ever, were in their company without so closely follow-

' ing them. Now, in captivity the sucker adheres to

                                                                1
                                   ALABAMA.                            121

   "everything it touches, provided tlic surface will cover

   "the orc;an, apparently without the volition of tlie

   "animal, and so strongly as to resist one's endeavours

   " to drag the fish up, without inserting something under
   " the sucker.
                     I have cut off the sucker of one for
   " preservation."

                         Next morning the captain speared a dolphin {Corypliaiia
; I, psittacns), and Gossc eagerly watched for those changes of

   colour which are popularly supposed to attend the death

   of these creatures. lie was not disappointed. When the

   expiring animal was first brought on board, it was silver)^

   white, with pearly refiections ; the back suddenly became
   of a brilliant green, while the belly turned to gold, with
   blue spots. This was the only change, except that all

   these hues became dusky after death. They cooked tin:

   fish, and found it firm and [lalatable. Little occurretl in
   the last tedious days of the voj-age, beyond a terrific

   tropical storm. Once a sailor hooked a king-fish, three

   feet long, silvery blue, with opaline changes, and had just

                                             like dog, and
   dragged it in, when a shark leaped at     it,
                                                          a
                                                              a

                                                                    a
   drew his fangs through the body. They were happy at

   last when, on the morning of May 14, after voyage

   of four weeks, long, low tongue of land, with light-
                  a

                     is
                          a

                              it,
   house at the end of announced their arrival at Mobile

   i^oint. The bay               dilTicult one to enter at last, about
                                             a;
                                                              is
   thirty miles up from the gulf, on turning sandy cape,

   covered with pine trees, the city of Mobile came into sight.

                    Philip Gosse's last entry in the diary of his voyage thus;

I worded --I
                           " Drawing so near to the time on which hangs my
                        " fate, my means nearly exhausted, and uncertain what

   "success       may meet with,             have been all to-day
                                   I
                                                              sickness of
                                                           a
   "oppressed with that strange faintncss,

   " heart, which always comes over me on the eve of any

I
              22 THE LIFE OF FillLIP IIENKY GOSSE.
              I
                  "expected conjunction. The pilot left us when \vc got
                 I
                  "within the bay, up which wc arc rapidly sailing with                a
                  " fair breeze, .'n delightful weather."

                    Ic was conscious of great depression of spirits as he

              walked thai; evening through the streets of the city of

              Mobile. TliC experiment, indeed, which had brought him

              so far from all his associations was bold one. lie had no
                                                                   a
i1                                                                                 it
              certainty of any welcome in the strange, crude country
m il
           1  into which he was about to penetrate, and                                came upon

'I            him wi*:h a sliock that he liad but one letter f)f introduction,

If            in his jlet, and that given to him by stranger. Next
1                                                                  a

          i ,,lt                                                   distressing feeling had worn off. lie was
                                                               ',
              morninj.

              glad to be o\< ore again, and he spent the grcuter part of

              the ihiy in roaming abcjut the woods in the vicinity of

              Mobile, where he found great numbers of interesting in-

              sects. Near the shiM'e he met with impenetrable hedges

              of prickly pear, studded with its handsome flowers and

              purple fruit. The latter he rashly tasted, to find his

              mouth fillf'il wiHi an agony of fine spines, which gave him

              infinite toil and pain to tear out.

                  There was nothing to detain him in Mobile, and that

              same evening he took passage in the Juin/Ztr, one of the fine

              high-pressure steamers which thronged the Mobile wharves,

              fifty years ago, far more abundantly than they do now, since

              at that time the commerce of the cit\' almost promised to

              rival that of New Orleans. After voyage of two nights
                    a
                          a

                                           It

                                                                               a ;i
                                                                                                a

                                                                                           a

                                                          I
              ami day spent in foi owing the interminable windings of

              the Alabama river, a voyage through country which had

              no towns or villages, and scarcely sign of life, except at

              the occasional wood-}'ards in the forest, the vessel arrived

              at King's Landing.                                   so happened that fellow-passenger

              on board the Fanner was the Hon. Chief Justice Reuben

              Safifold, jurist then of great eminence in the South, who

              had done good service in the Indian troubles, and had for
i!

    ALABAMA.                                                                                                                          12-

    many years been a member of the Ici^islaturc of the terri-
    tory of Mississippi. Now, in advancinLj life, he was scttlini;-

    in that estate at Dallas, Alabama, which was henceforward
    to be his residence, and the place of his death in 1847. To
    this dignified and agreeable personage, whose polished

    manners formed a charming contrast to the rough tones he

    had lately been accustomed to, Philip Gosse showed his
    open letter of introduction to the planter at Claiborne,

    which Air. Conrad had given him. It fortanaiely hap[)ened

    that Judge SaffoUl was seeking a master for a school com-
    posed of the sons of his neighbour proprietors and him-

    self He instantly engaged Philip Gosse, and when the

    steamer reached King's Landing, which was the nearest

    point on the river to Dallas, the latter stopped there ; Mr.

    Saffold proceeding a liicle further on business, and pro-

    mising to meet him at his own house ne.xt da\'.

      An hour before dawn he was landed at the foot of a

    long flight of steps which descended from a large cotton
    warehouse. His trunks were thrown to him, and the

    steamer wheeled awa)- in the darkness. Mr. Satfold's house

    was ten miles distant, and how to find it he knew not. lie

    groped along a path up into the forest, and presently came

    to a clearing with several houses in it. He made his way to

    the door of one, where a rascally cur kept up a pertinacious

    barking, and he knocked and shouted to no purpose. .At
    length, at another house, the cracked voice of a negro

    woman replied. He told her he was on his way to Pleasant
    Hill, and asked her t(j get him some breakfast. All sound

    within the house died awa>', till he knocked and shouted

    again, always to receive the same answer, " Sah                                                                                   Iss,
    !
                                            !
                                                                                !

                                                                                                                                 .''
    sail " At last, when patience was wearing away, the old

    woman appeared, went to another house, and began to
    shout, " Mas' James Mas' James " But Master James was

    even more impassive than she had been herself, and made
          124 THE LIFE CF PHILIP IIEXRY GOSSE.

  i       no answer at all. At length, after prodigious waste of
                            a
i         time, and as the soft daylight began to flood the air, aa

          little white boy of twelve years of age appeared at thea
                                                         a
          door. This was Master James, the son of the manager,
                                                                    a
          who rubbed his eves, stated that the negro woman and

          himself were the only persons on the premises, and

          tumbled back into bed. The woman then raked in the

i tt^     ashes and prepared Gosse some breakfast, his luggage all
       I
          this while remaining on the lowest step at the margin of
          the river, l^ut before the meal was over, Master James
          strolled to the threshold, blew long blast upon a conch,

          and, on the simultaneous appearance of dozen negroes

          out of the woods, sent some of them down for the visitor's

          trun.cs. While Philip Gosse waited for them to reappear,

          in the balni)- air of the wood-yard, several fox-squirrels
          dc.->:^ .ulcii and chased one another from bough to bough

          of the nearest oaks, pair of summer redbirds {Tanagra

          <cstiva) were flirting almost within reach of his hand, and     ;a
          flock of those delicate butterflies, the hairstrcaks {77u:c/(f),

          came dancing to him down glade in the forest. Under

          these picturesque conditions he gained his flrst impressions

          of Southern life.

            At the pace of one mile an hour he spent the remainder

          of the day  a in  reaching Dallas. The road lay through

          the romantic forest, descended into cool glens, where

          hidden rivulets ran brawling under bowers of the profuse

          scarlet woodbine, emerged in high clearings where brilliant

          flowers, in veritable bouquets, thronged the angles of the

          fences. lie passed fields where negro slaves, the first he

          had seen at work, were ploughing between rows of cotton             r

          he hurried through neglected pastures where turkey

          buzzards were performing, none too soon, their scaven-

          ger's duty on too-odorous carcase he feasted upon wild
                            ;

          raspberries and luscious Virginian strawberries and, at
                                                                       ;
ALABAMA.  12:

last, late in the afternoon, arrived at Dallas, where he was
hospitably welcomed by the family of Judge Saffold,
and in particular by his son, Reuben Saffold, junior, who
was to be his pupil. Tliis \-outh, who was of a charming
modesty and courtesy, had been at college, and had
learned the rudiments of Greek.

   At Dallas Philip Gosse spent several agreeable days while

arrangements were being made for his school to be opened.
This house was large, but rudely built, and furnished with
an elegance which conirastcd with its rough architecture. In
this respect, no doulit, it was not distinguislicd from other
residences of wealth}- planters at the time. What more par-
ticularly struck Philip Gosse was the gorgeous furniture

which Nature itself, in the rich June weather, had provided
for the front of it. The wide passage, with rooms on either

side, which ran through the house, was completely em-

bowered with the lovely Southern creepers ; the twisted
cables of Glycine friitescciis flu ng their heavy branches of 1ilac
blossom about the walls, antl wherever space was left

it was filled with more delicate forms of prf)fuse bloom,

with the long pendulous trumpets of the scarlet cypress-

 vine and of the intensely crimson quamoclit, sweet-briar
 that made the hot air ache with perfume, and dc-c])
 Vermillion tubes of the Southern honeysuckle, in which

 great hawkmoths hung all through the twilight, waving

 their loud-humming fans, ami gorging themselves on
 sweetness. " Here," he says, in a letter from Dallas, "par-
 ticularly at th(; close of evening, when the sunbeams

 twinkle obliquely through the transparent foliage, aiul the
 cool breeze comes loaded with fragrance, the family may

 usually be seen, each (ladies as well as gentlemen) in that
 very elegant position in which an ;\merican delights to sit,
 the chair poised upon the two hind feet, or leaning back
 against the wall, at an angle of forty-tive degrees, the feet

                                                                     iff
     125 THE LIFE OF FHlLir I/EXRV GOSSE.

     upon tlic hic;hcst bar, the knees near the chin, the head

     pressing against tlie wall so as now and then to push the

     chair a few inches from                   the hands (but not of the
                                it,
                                              a
                                                                              a
     ladies) engaged in fashioning with pocket-knife piece

     of pine-wood into some uncouth and fantastic form."

     He was not, however, to spend his time lolling and

     whittling on the verandah of Dallas. The neighbouring

     village of Mount Pleasant was chosen as the site of his

     school, and lodgings were found for him      the h.ousc of
               a

                                                                        in

                                                                         a It

                                                                                                              aa
     planter,             Mr. J^ohanan, in the hamlet itself.  was

     rough frame-house, standing in the middle of                                large

     yard, which, with the combined screaming of stark-naked

     little black children at play, the squealing of pigs, the

     gobbling of turkeys, the quacking of Muscovy ducks, and

     the cackling of guinea-fowls, was scarcely an abode of

     Itpeace.             possessed splendid example of that flowering
               a It         a
                                           it
                         atree of the South, the Pride of China, and wild cherry,
                                                  a
                                                                 a
     the fruit of which was so tempting that all the noises were

     not able to scare away from the persistent attentions of

     the red-headed woodpeckers. The school-house was little

     further off, couple of miles outside the limits of the village.

     was queer little shanty, built of round, unhewn logs,

     notched at the ends to receive each other, and the inter-

     stices filled with clay. There was no window, but as the

     clay had become dry had been punched out of several of
                            it

     these spaces, and the light and air admitted. The wooden

     door stood open night and day. The desks were merely

11'  split and unsawn pine boards, unfashioned and unplaned,

     sloping from the walls and fastened with brackets. The

     forms were split logs, and the only exceptions to the ex-

     treme rudeness of all the fittings were neat desk and
                                               a

     decent chair for the schoolmaster. The pupils were as rude
     as the building. Most of them, he writes, " handle the long

     rifle w'th much more ease and dexterity than the goose-

                                                                                                                  1
ALABAMA.                                            127

quill, and arc incomparably more at home in ' twisting' a

rabbit or treeing a 'possum, than in conjugating a verb."
But they proved to be decent latls, and a great affection
sprang up in time between them and their strange, insect-
collecting, animal-loving master. They grew in time to

form a volunteer corps of collectors, and their sharp eyes       m

to be most useful to the naturalist.                             I) I

   The school-house was situated in a very romantic spot.              W

A space of about a hundred \-ards square had been cleared,

with the exception of one or two noble oaks, which had
been preserved for shade. "On every side we are shut in

by a dense wall of towering forest trees, rising to the
height of a hundred feet or more. Oaks, hickories, and

pines of different species extend for miles on every hand,

for this little clearing is made two or three miles from

any human habitation, with the exception of one house
about three-quarters of a mile distant. Its loneliness,
however," Philip Gosse writes, " is no objection with me,
as it necessarily throws me mc^-e into the presence of

free and wild nature. At one corner a narrow bridle-

path leads out of this 'yard,' and winds through the
sombre forest to the distant high-road. A nice spring,

cool in the hottest of these summer days, rises in another
corner, and is protected and accumulated by being en-
closed in four sides of a box, over the edges of which the
superfluous water escapes, and, running off in a gurgling
brook, is lost in the shade of the woods. To this ' lodge
in the vast wilderness,' this ' boundless contiguity of shade,'
I wend my lonely way every morning, rising to an early
breakfast, and arriving in time to open school by eight

o'clock."                                           of his
                                                    at six
   It is possible to recover something of a record  grilled
typical day in Alabama. It opens with breakfast

o'clock ; the " nigger wenches " bringing in the
I2S THE LIFE OF riTILir IfEyRY GOSSE.

cliickcn and the fried pork, tlie boiled rice and the

hominy, the buttered waffles and the Indian bread. A

I httle nc;;ro-b(5y is continually waving a hir^c fan of
                                  peacock's feathers over the food and over every part of

the table, Breakfast once over, Philip Gossc seizes the

butterfly-net which stands in the corner of the room, and

wliich lie always carries, as other sportsmen do their .i;un,

and he sallies forth, startlint^ the mocking-bird that is
hopping and bobbing on the rail.s of the fence. He

gives himself plenty of time t(^ chase the zebra swallow-

tails across the broatl discs of the passion-flowers, to lie in

wait for hairstreaks fin the odorous beds of blossoming

horehound, or to watch the scarlet cardinal grosbeak, with

his negro face and his inountain crest, leap whistling up

and up in the branches of the ]:)incs like an ascending

flame of fire. He reaches school, however, in time to open
that " a/jua niatcv" as he laughingly stx'les
                                        in             by eight
                                               is
o'clock and for no less than nine hours of desultoryit,
a
      ;education, mingled with plaj- and idleness, he responsible

        isfor the troop of urchins.

                                  ;l^ut five o'clock comes at last, eventhe soundless

depths of an Alabama forest, and he dismisses his wild

covey of shouting boys, following more sedately in their                                   4

wake. Twilight falls apace, and in little hollow where
                                     a
                                           a
the oaks and hickories meet overhead, barred owl flits

like ghost across the path, and the air begins to ring

with the long mellow resounding whoops of the negroes

on the plantations, calling home the hogs at sunset.   It

may be that two or three of these pachydermatous grey-
hounds, with their thin backs and tall legs, are rooting

and grazing close to the path. From mile off will bea

faintly heard the continual unbroken shout of the distant

negro. Each hog will instantly pause, snout in air, and

then all  bustle and, each anxious to be first at home.
r 1^                                                                      fmm

         AL.4B.lv. I.             I2g

they scamper off on a bee-line for the villacjc. And so

I'liilip Gosse, too, ;^ocs home to sup|)er, and to bed hi a

room with ever\- window open, but hitticed to kee[) out the
bats and birds. Ik'fore i^'oinL,^ to sleep, perhaps, he will ^it
a few minutes at the window, while the chuck-will's-widows

call and answer (vom all tlirections in the woods, with their

mysterious and extraordinary notes clearly enunciated in

the deep silence of the ni_L,dit. Gosse tried on many occa-

sions to see these stran^^e birds, but they are extremely
shy, althou;^di so neiLjhbourly and familiar ; nor was he

ever successful, althouijh he wearied himself in the

search.

Mount Pleasant proved to be an excellent centre for

entomolot^izing, and in particular there was a little prairie-

knoll, about a mile from Bohanan's house, which was one

mass of blue larkspurs and oran-^e milkweetl, and a
marvellous haunt of butterflies. I-'rom this small hill the

summit of an apparently entllcss fcjrest could be seen in all

directions, broken only by curls of white smoke arising

here and there from unseen dwellinj.,^s. Here he would

find the blue swallowtail (yPnpilio phanor), with its shot

winj^s of black and azure, vibrating on the flowers of the

milkweed ; the black swallowtail {Papilio astcriiis), an old

;<I- friend from Newfoundland ; the orange tawny Archippus ;

the American Painted Jieauty {Cynthia ilnntcra), with its

embroidery of silver lines and pearly eyes ; and, most

gorgeous of all, the green-clouded swallowtail {Papilio

Troiliis), over whose long black wings is dispersed a milky

way of grass-green dots and oraT^To crescents. The

abundance of these large species  jk him with ever-

recurring wonder In a letter of July he says: "An eye

accustomed only to the small and generally inconspicuous
butterflies of jur own country, the Pontiic, Vanesscc, and

IIij)J?archicE, can hardly picture to itself the gaiety of the air
                                                                       K
130 THE LIFE OF PHILIP /fEVRV GOSSF

licrc, where it swarms witli larc;c and brilliant-hucd swallow-  1

tails and other patrician tribes, some of which, in the extent
and volume of their wings, may be compareil to large bats.

These occur, too, not by straggling solitary individuals ; in

glancing over a blossomed field or my [)r;'irie-knoll, you

may sec hundreds, including, I think, more than a dozen
species, besides (Jthcr butterflies, moths, and '"·<" There

reinains, as the principal memento of these   .ths in the

south, still unpublished, a (juarto volume entitled Iliitouio-

logia Alabamensis, containing two hundred and thirt)'-threc
figures of insects, excjuisitely tlrawn and coloured, the

delightful amusement of his leisure hours in the school-

house and at home. J lis powers as a zoological artist were

now at their height. He had been trained in the school of

the miniature jjainters, and he developed and adapted to

the portraiture of insects the procedure of these artists.
His figures arc accurate reproductions, in size, colour, and

form, to the minutest band and speck, of what he saw

before him, the effect being gained by a lab  is process
i>f stippling with pure and brilliant pigm
                                                  It has

always been acknowledged, by naturalists who have seen

the originals of his coloured figures, that he has had no

rival in the exactitude of his illustrations. They lost a

great deal whenever they came to be published, from the
imperfection of such reproducing processes as were known

in riiilip Gosse's day. The Eiitoinologia Alalniiiih'iisis,

however, is one of those collections of his paintings which

remain unissued, and it is possible tliat it may )'ct be pre-
sented to the scientific world by one of the brilliant methods

of reproduction recently invented.

    When he first [)rocecded to Canada, he had described
himself as a very bad shot ; but practice had improved him,

and he was now by no means unskilful. He exercised his

rifle considerabl\- in Alabama, in forming a collection of
                iI

                    ALABAMA.  i;,i

xl swallow-                       birds, and particularly of woodpeckers. He lest himself in       V
 tlic extent                      the forest oiu' day in June, and in a dense part of the
 lari;e bats.                     woodland, from tin; midst of a tall clump of dead pines,
                                  he heard a note i)roceedinjr like the clan;.^ of a trumj>et,
^icluaIs ; in                       rcsoundiufr in tlie deep silence and wakin;.^' all the forest
-knoll, \'()u                     echoes. These extraordinary souiuls came fiom a pair ol
n a dozen                         ivorj'-billed wood[)eckers, the larc^est and most s[)lendid of
                - ·{ all the ricus tribe. ricits principalis is a huge fellow,
^.·' There
 .ihs in tlie                       nearly two feet long, glossy black and white, with a tower-
d Eutouio-                        ing conical crest of biight crimson, and. what is the main
                                  distinction of the sjiecies, a polished and lluled beak, four
hirt}--thi'ee                     inches long, which looks as though it were carved out of
oiired, the                       the purest ivory. With this pickaxe of shell-white bone,
he school-
artist were                         the bird hews away the dead wood as it hangs openly on
e school of                       the perpendicular trunk of a tree, its head thrown back
adapted to                        and its golclen-\-ellow eyes alert for insects. It is far from
 se artists.
:olour, and                         being comiiKjii, and i)' father was glad to secure these
at he saw-                        specimens, which were in fine plumage. Other wood-

 is process                      peckers were nearer to his daily haunts. One evening a
                                 boy came to him aiul told him of a gold-winged wood-
     It has                      pecker {PichS an r, it us) nt his very door. The schoolboy
                                    had found a deep and coiiimodious chamber dug out in the
 have seen                       decaying trunk of a pine-tree in ^\v. Bohanan's peach-
as had no                        orchard. In the Lwilight the pair of marauders set forth,
\iQy lost a
1, from the                      carrying a ladder with them. /\fter throwing uj) a few-
ere known
\xbaiiiciisis,                     stones to frighten out the old bird, she sudtlenly rushed
ings which
-et be pre-                    out, and left the coast clear. "The boy," I'hilip Gosse
t methods                        writes, " pulleil out one of the callow young, whicli I gently
                               examined. It was nearl}- fledged ; the )-oung feathers of
 described
Qvcd him,                          the wings being very cons[)icuous from their bright golden
jrcised his
[lection of                    colour. It was not pretty -- young birds scklom are. I

                                   soon put it back again, and then, whether the rest were

                                   congratulating it (mi its return, or what, 1 don't know, but
                                 if \-ou had heard the odd snoring or hissing that the family
1' .

! I.;!'

                                     132 THE LIFE OF FHILIP HESRY GOSSE.

'.     Vq \)\ up for some lime, you would have thought the whole
       nation of snakes had been there in parliament assembled.

       The anxious mother soon flew in again when we had

       removed our ladder, gratified, no doubt, to find no murder

       done."

       He had r.o opportunity for making many excursions

       while he was at Mount Pleasant, and, iiideeil, the general

       monotony of the thinly peopled country did not greatly

       invite  traveller. On one occasion (June  he rode to
       a
                    a

                                       a;

                                    it
                                                                a

                                                                            a
                                                                                                2)

                                                                                                                                           ;

                                                                                                  a it
       Cahawba and back, and saw something of the central dis-

       trict of Alabama. Cahawba had then until lately been the

       capital of the rjtatc and the scat of government                                                                                       had,

       hovvever, decayed so rapidly, that the legislature had

       removed to Tuscaloosa, Montgomery being as yet little

       place of no importance. The town of Cahawba stands on

       point of land between the Alabama river and the

       Cahawba river  was, even then, very desolate looking

       collection of  few stores,  lawyer's office or so, and

       two or three houses of business. Even the "groceries," as

       the rum-shops were called, seemed, as the visitor went by,

       to spread the hospitality of their verandahs almost in vain.
       To reach Cahawba from Mount Pleasant had involved
                                                                          a
                                                                                     aa
       long riile through the dense pine forest, with hardly

       bri\ak save where the path dipped down, thnjugh glade

       of thickly blossomed hydrangea, to some deep and treacher-

       ous "cn^ek" or rivulet. The road led at last to the shore

       of the broad Alabama, and there seemed no way to cross.

       A shout, however, soon brought two old " nigger fellows "

       into sight, slowly pushirig flat ferry-boat across. There
                      aa
                              a

                                   in
                                                a

                                                                                           in
       was no inn or house near by to put up his horse so the

       traveller took him into littl*" \','ood, accorthng to the prac-
       tice of the country, and tied him to tree.

       The squirrels form, proininc:nt feature of forest-life

       the Southern States. Deep the woodlands they are not
                                                                 milliiuwiJw.iiiiwmBHg»»i»^

                        ALABAMA.  133

to be observed, but they abound close to the liouses of the      I

planters, seeming to prefer the neit^hbourhood of man. .Vt       Hi
Mount Pleasant, the larc,'e fox-scjuirrel vas most abundant,
                                                                 ! I;
chatterin:^, barkin[(, and grunting impatiently all day long,
until a shot from tb.e riile brings hini " i)rotractcd repose,"

and prepares him to appear on the planter's dinner-table.

A little further away, in the s\vam[>s, and hidden under the

pale and ragged tufts of Spanish moss that stream from

the branches, is the sleepier and less attractive Caroline

scjtu'rrel, also excellent in the form of pie. While my

father was in .\labama the squirrel question was one of

great importance in local politics. These delightfully

amusing anim.als are, unfortunately, wasters of the first

order; they are in the cornfield morning, noon, and e^^,

from the time that the grain is forming in the sheath to

the moment wiicn what remains of it is housed in the barn.

While riiilip Gosse was at Mount Pleasant, a fellow from

the North sent round an announcement that he would

lecture in a neighbouring village, and that the subject of

his discourse would be to reveal an infallible [ireventive for
the thefts of the squirrels. The announcement attractetl

great curiosity, and planters assembled from all sides. A

deputation started from Mount Pleasant itself, and Phili])

Gosse, thinking to hear what would be of interest to a

naturalist, was of the j)arty. A considerable entrance-fee

was charged, but verj- willirgly [)aid. .Vt last the room

was full, the doors were closed, and the orator ai)peared on

the platform. lie began by describing the depredations

of the squirrels, the difficulty of coping with them, and

\arious other circumstances with which his audience was

familiar. He was a plausible fellow and seemed to have

mastered his subject.    At last he a[)proaehed the real         ''
kernel of his oration.  " You wish," he said, " to hear my                  'll

infallible preventive, the absolute success -f which I am
                                                                      i^f

       134 THE LIFE OF FlIlLlP IIE.XRV GOSSE.

       able to guarantee. Gentlemen, 1 have observed that the

       squirrels invariably begin their attacks o/i the oittsidc nnv

       of corn in the field. Omit the (nitsidc roi^>, and they
                                       "
       won't  know wk.cre  to  Ixgin      The money was in his
                                      !

       pocket ; he bowed ami vanished by the platform door ; his

11 I   horse was tied to the post, ne leaped into the saddle and
       was seen no more in that credulous settlement. The act
  \.
       was one of extreme courage ;is well as impudence in that
%
       land of ready lynching ; but \ny hi^ner was wont to say
   1i
       that, after the first murmur of stupefactic-  ntl roar of

       anger, the disappointed auilience dissolved ito the most

       good-humoured laughter at themselves.

       Ar>other serious depredator, and one of a more sporting

       size, was the bear. Orie night in August, a negro boy

       rushed breathless into Mr. Hohanan's house, inarticulate

       with importance, and managed to splutter out, " Oh, mas'r,

       mas'r ! big bear in corn-patch ; I see 'im get over." All

       at once was bustle ; bullets were cast -- " a job," says my
       father in the letter describing this event, " that always has
       to be done at the moment they ar(> wanted" -- and the

       planter and his overseer erei)t out with their rilles <:o the
       field. Ihit it was too late. The prints of Bruin's paws were

       all (wer the place, but he iiad prudently retired. Bears are

       very scldon. seen in the woods, being shy and nocturnal in

       their movements. A curious case happened, however, while

       Philip Gosse was in Mount Pleasant, of a planter who was

       riding into the forest to search for strayed cattle, and who,

       suddenly seeing a huge bear start up before him, could

       not refrain from giving it a lash with his cow-whip of raw

       hide. To his dismay, the beast showed a disposition to

       fight, but turned tail at last, when the thought struck the

       I)lantcr that )ie might possibly drive it home, like a re-
       fractory bullock. He actually succeeded in doing this-

       whipping the bewildered bear for six miles along one of
                           ALABAMA.

the cattlc-[)aths, till lie came close to his own house, when
his son came out and put the weary bruin out of its miser)^
\ !*h a rifle. M\' father was not an e\'e-witness of this

rcl venture, which I record with all reserve.

   On August 14 he was, however, persona!l\' en;^a_ged in
a sportini,^ affair, which it may be amusini^^ to read, de-

scribed in his own words, in a letter dated the next

mornini;.  There had been t,n'eat complaints of the rob-

beries committed on the estate of a neighbourinL,^ planter,
Major Kcndrick, by the opossums, and I'hilip (josse was

courteously invited to stay at the house and takx' part in

the nocturnal expedition :--

   "About half-past nine wc set (Uit, a goodly and
" picturcs(}uc cavalcade. There was, first, my worth}-
" host, Major Kcndrick, a stout sun-burat fellow of six
" feet two, as erect as a sundial, grizzled a little with
" the labours of some sixty years in the backwoods of
" Georgia, but still hale and strong, with as keen an eje
" for a wild cat or a 'coon as the stalwart nephews by his

"side. His attire would be deemed peculiar with you,

"though here it is the approved thing. A Panama hat.
" made of the leaves of the i)almetto, split fine, low in the

"crown, and very broad in the llap ; a ' hunting shirt,' or

"frock, (^f pink'-striped gingham, open all down the

"front, but girded with a belt of the same; the neck,

"which is wide and open, is bordered with a frill, which

"lies upon the shoulders; loose trousers, of no describ-

"able colour, pattern, or material; short cotton socks,

"and stout half-boots, of domestic manufacture. Such

"is the costume of our 'king of men,' and all the rest of

" us approach as near to it as we may.

" But      who  are ' the  rest of  us  '    \\ h\-, the two strap-
                                          ?

" P'"S yc'Uths who call the planter uncle, Zachariah and             \\^
" Bill, each emulous of his patron's stature and accom-
136 THE LIFE OF nil LIP HENRY GOSSE.                             %

   " plishmcnts ; Jones, the overseer, a wiry fellow, ori^nn-
   " ally from the far cast (Connecticut, I believe), but

   "grown a Southerner by a dozen )'cars' experience in
   " negro-driving ; and the humble individual who pens

   "these lines, who begins at length to be known by his
   " proper name, instead of ' the stranger.' We five were
  " mounted on very capital steeds, and behind and around

  "us marched on foot (jur sable ministers.
     " It was a lovely night. The sky, almost cloudless, had

  " a depth of tint that was rather i)urple than blue, and

  "the moon, near the full, was already approaching the
  " zenith. A gentle breeze, warm and balmy, breathed in
  " the summits of the trees, and wafted us the delicate
  " perfumes from leaf flower, and fruit, from gum and

  "balsam, with which the night air is commonly loaded.
  " Bright as was the night, however, it was thought requi-
  " site to have artificial light, especially as wc should have
  " to explore some tall woods, whose gloomy recesses the
  " moon's beams were quite insufficient to illuminate. The
  " knots of the pitch-pine answer admirably for torches,
  " being full of resin, and maintaining a brilliant flame for

  "an hour or more. The cdare of broad red light which

  "these flambeaux cast on the leafy walls along which we
  "rode, and the beautiful effect produced on the sur-
  " rounding shrubs and intervening trees when the torch-
  " bearers passed through some narrow belt of wood, or

  "explored some little grove, was highly novel and
  " picturesque ; the flames, seen through the chequering
  " leaves, played and twinkled, and ever and anon
 " frightened a troop of little birds from their roost, and
 " illuminated their plumage a.s they fluttered by.

    " At length we reached the melon-patch, and having

 " dismounted and tied <3ur horses to the iianging twigs
 " of the roadside trees, we crossed the rail-fence to beat
ALABAMA.  ir,

                     "the ground on foot. It was a large field, entirely
                       "covered with melons, the long stems of which trailed

                       "over the soft earth, concealing it with the coarse foliage
                       " and the great yellow flowers of the plant ; while the
                       " fruit, of all sizes, lay about in boundless piofusion, from
                       " the berry just formed, to the fully matured and already
                       " rotten-ripe melon, as large as a butter firkin. Abundant

                       "evidences were visible of the depredations of our game,
                       " for numbers of fine ripe melons la}' about with large
                       "cavities scooped out of them, some showing b)- their
                       " freshness and cleanness that thcv' had been only just
                         " attacked, while others were partial!}- dried and dis-
                       '' coloured by the burning sun. Moths of various species

                      "were collected around the wounded fruit, some of them

                     "(which I should have prized for my cabinet, if I had
                      " had time and means to capture and bring them home)
                      "inert and bloated with the juices which they had been
                      " sucking ; others fluttering by scores around, or attracted

                    "by the light to dance round the torches.
                          " The party had dispersed. I accompanied the planter

                      " to the edge of a wood at one side of the patch, while

                      "the young men took up similar stations at some
^ "distance. The object was to intercept the vermin in

                      "their retreat, as, on being alarmed from their repast,

                      "they at once make for their fastnesses in the loft\^ trees.

              "A negro, with his pine-knot, stood at each station,

                      " illuminating the hoar)' trunks of the great trees.
                         " Meanwhile the f)ther servants were sc(juring the fieki

                      " with the dogs, shouting and making as much noise as

                      "possible. Again the twinkling lights looked beautiful,

                      "and the sound of the negroes' sonorous voices, raised
                        " in prolonged shouts with musical cadences, and now

                     "and then a snatch of a rattling song, the favourite
                     " burden being how a ' big racoon ' was seen --
                                                                                                          s

              I3S 7//£ LIFE OF PI [.IP IlEXRY GOSSE.'
                                      11
                                             " a-sittin' on rail,'
                                                a
                 " fell very pleasantly on the car. Occasionally the bark-
                 " ing of the curs L;'a\'c token that game was started and,a                 ;
                 " presentl}-, the approach of the sound towards us was                             ;

                 "followed by what looketl to be white cat scani[)crin;4-                    a

                 "towards the very chestnut-tree before us, closely pur-;
                    a
                 "sued by one of the mongrel curs. AI)' friend's fatal
 I< :         '  '' rille turned the creature over as soon as seen but thea;
                 " very next instant another appeared, and scrambling up
5it      i;l
                 "the fissured trunk, made good its retreat among the
  'E:l,I,         " branches.                                                                          ;

m-                  " In the course of an hour another was shot, one was
                 " caught and worried by the dogs, and some half dozen
i' !              " others were just glimpsed as they scuttled past us, the
                  " light fra- an instant revealing their grey bodies, but too
                  " briefly to allow an aim. We heard, by the reports of

                 "our distant friends' rifles, that they had their share of
                  " success and when we assembled at the edge of the
                  " field, half dozen opossums and a racoon were thrown
                  " across the crupper of one of the beasts. The appear-
                  " ance of the latter had been curiously in accordance
                  " with the negroes' song for one of the young men,
                  " creeping quietly along the fence, had seen the furry
                  " gentleman sittin' on rail,' and looking with out-

                  " stretched neck and absorbed atte:Uion into the field,

                  "wondering, doubtless, what all the uproar was about.
                  " His senses were not so locked, however, as not to be
                  " aroused by the gentle footfall of our )-oung friend
                   " before he could raise his rifle, the racoon had leaped
                   " from the fence, and scoured up an immense sycamore.
                   " seemed hopeless case but young Zachariah,
                   " ve.xed at being done by 'coon, continued to peer up
                   " into the tree, hoping that he might get another glance
                   " of the animal. Familiar with the habits of the wild
              It

                                         a
                                                                      a

                                                                                          ;
                       ALABAMA.                                      139

"denizens of the woods, the youth directed his patient
" seaixhing gaze to the bases of tiie great boughs, well

" knowing that in the fork of one of these the wily crea-
" ture would seek shelter. At last, lie saw against the
" light of the moon, what seemed the head of the racoon

"projecting from one of the greater forks, and steadily

"watching              distinctl\- saw         move. The fatal ball
I                      It

                  it,                 a it
                                            I

                                                            is
" instantly sped, and down came the creature, heavily

" i)lumping on the ground.
   " had seen racot)ns before, )et looked at the car-
" ease with interest. \'ou probably are aware that
                                                                it
"an animal about as large as fox, to which                              it
                                                                            is
                                                                liears

"some resemblance.     seems, however, larger, from the
" fulness of its thick and soft fur, and
                                                                more heavy-
" bodied. Its gre)' coat, black and white face, and bushy

"tail, alternately banded with black and light grey,

"entitle  it  to admiraticjil while the opossum, clothed in
                       is
                            a

                                      ;
" rough wiry hair, of dirty greyish-white hue, with                  a

" long rat-like tail, an\'thing but prepossessing.
" The torches were extinguisluxl, and we sauntered

"slowly home. The opossum which had been worried
" by the curs was not by any means dead when we

"reached the house, and had an opportum't)- of wit-
" nessing the curious dissimulation which has made theit,
" name of this animal proverbial. Though, left alone
" for                    I                                      it if
       a  few moments, the attention of the bystanders                  if
                                it,
" apparently diverted from          it ; it    would get on its legs                 it

"and begin to creej) slily away >et no sooner was an.

"eye turned towards         than               would crouch up, lie

"along motionless, with all its limbs supple, as just
"dead; nor would any kicks, cuffs, or handlings avail
"to produce the least token of life-- not the (jpening of
" an eyelid, or the moving of foot. There was, dead
" evidently, )'ou would say,             if a
                                               you had not detected                      i\y
  If                                                                                                                         4

  r      I^O 77/£ LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.
      t
         " the moment before in the act of steah'ng off. The
    n    " initiated, however, can tell
k                     is                                                     real dead 'possum from

 ·i \    " one that     I

                                 is
                                       it,

                                                                          a
                      shamming, and the overseer directed iii)-
         " attention to the last jcjints of the tail. This, during

         " life, prehensile, used to catch and hold the twigs like

         "a fifth hand; and even in the hj'pocritical state in

         " which saw the coil of the tail-tip was maintained.

         " whereas in absolute death this would be relaxed per-

         " manently. The propriety of correct classification was

         " impressed on me during my examination.                                          inadver-
                                                                             ;
                                                                               '

                                                                                   aI
         " tcntly spoke of as singular creature but creature,
                      it
                              is '

                                   a
         "or rather 'critter,' much too honourable                                         term for

         " such an animal, being appropriated to                                      cattle. The
         " overseer promptly corrected ni)- mistake.
         " sir, not critter, but varmint.' "                                          'A 'possum,

                   is

                     It

                           is
                              a

                                 is
                                                        a
         This letter  written, as will be observed, in capital

         spirits.     evident that his first months in Ahibama

!J|      were very happy ones, and yet there were elements of dis-

         conifort which did not fail to become accentuated. He

         had not been reccivetl ungenerously on the contrary,
                                                                             ;
                                                                                                                          a

         rough a'.vJ tolerant hospitality had desired to make "the
         stranger " feel at home. Wvx Philip Gosse was not emi-

         nently pliable to social jx'culiarities. lie was proud of his

         pure enunciation, and was careful not to adopt an American
         accent-- his " I^ritish brogue " was in consequence brought

         up as cliarge against him nor could he throw aside
                   a                                       ;                               a

                                                                       it
         latent jingoism, as v/c should call                                 to-day,it     patriotism
                                                                                        a
         that was apt to become truculent because was in exile.
         In Alabama the jealousy of the " British " was almost

         humorously prominent the expression of contempt for
                      ;

         luiglish opinion was so constant as to suggest an extreme

         sensitiveness to that opinion. But I'hilip Gosse was almost

         as thin-skinned on this point as the planters themselves,

         and he found the continual dro[)ping of ignorant prejudice
            itssss iiiiUiiiMiWiiIJi» !iw.i.iiijj.'-fiii>-^

AL.IBA.VA.  141

very trxin^. On one occasion, when the [)apci-s announced       1\li-
some trifling factory row in Paisley or Ghisgow, a wealthy
neii^hbour hastened to condole with liim on the fact that      ii
" the Scotch were throwing off the l^ritish yoke," for the
ignorance of lun-opean life was such as to make the picture
in Martin Chuzz'cwit, twelve years later, seem in no degree
whatever a caricature. " The universal notion here," says

my father in July, 1838, "of Scotland, Ireland, and Wales,

is that they are conquered provinces, on a par with Poland,
kept in a state of galling servitude by the presence of a

powerful 'P cish ' army." Nor was it ever supposed that

the confident prophecy that America would shortly "whip
the British " could be otlier than pleasant to the young
English schoolmaster. Let those who are ready to con-
demn such crudity reflect how often, even to the present
day, well-bred Americans in this country have to endure
with silent politeness sentiments from ourselves which are
scarcely less crude in their lorant misconception.

   There was, however, a much more serious reason for
discomfort. The population was gallant, cordial, easy-
going, and hospitable ; but underneath the agreeable sur-
face of life there was an element of lawlessness which
created in a stranger a painful sense of insecurity, livery
man was a law to himself, and to curb the j)assions was not
understood to be a part of the science of life. What first

opened my father's ej-es to the conditions of .Alabaman
society was a little circumstance which occurred after he

had been a UKMith or two at Ahnmt IMcasant, in tlic ne.xt

village. A travelling menagerie hail airix'cd there ; but, in

some way or other, its proprietor contrived to offend an
overseer, who, without scruple, called some of his com-

panions together, and rolled the caravans over the edge of
a steep ravine into the creek below. The}' were broken
before they reached the water, and the iron cages, full of
\ jI   142 7//A LIFE OF PHILIP IfEXRV GOSSE.

 w.    beasts, were scattered on ever)' hand. I^'ortunatcl)- tlic)-
       were too stronij to burst, but the houlincjs and roarings of
   M   tlic lions and tii^crs were sonielliini; horrible to listen to.
MIf M  The loss of property was ver\' serious ; the aimless cruelty

       thus passionate!)' inflicted on a cjuantity <jf innocent
       animals was more serious still. lUit the proprietor of the

       menaj^erie knew that he had tio redress, and he soui^dit
       none. ScarceK' less dauntiuLT than this occurrence, was a

       duel in the neiLjhbourhood, in which the combatants
       almost literally hacked each other to pieces with bowie-
       knives ; and in many cases of vendetta, what the bowie-

       knife spared, the rifle devoured.
           Closely connected with these discjuieting elements in

       society was that central fact in Southern life, the institution
       of slavery. Philip Gossc was not a humanitarian. The
       subject of slavery was one which had not troubled his
       thou'dits in coming t(j the South ; he had been aware of its
       existence, of course, and he supposed that he hrul dis-
       counted it. lUit he found it more horrible, and the discus-
       sion of it more dangerous, than he had in the least degree
       imagined. He was looked upon, as an luiglishman, with

       a peculiar jealousy, as a person predisposed to question

       "our domestic institution," as it was called. He soon had
       unt[uestionable i)roofs that his trunks were surreptitiously
       opened and his letters examinetl, obviously to ascertain

       whether his correspondence touched upon this tenderest
       of themes. 1 le had, howev^^r, warned his friends, and lie was

       careful himself to be most guarded upon this subject. It
       was not until he was in act of leaving the country that he
       dared to put pen to paper on this theme. " What will be
       the end of American slaver)' " he asks, and the cjuery was
       one to v.hich in 1838 there seemed no answer. "There
       are men here," he proceeds, " wIkj dare not entertain this
       question. They tremble when the)' look at the future.
J
                                                                                                                                                       .·"
                                                                                                                          It
                      ALAIiAMA.                      M:

is like .1 Inline deadly serpent, which is kept down I)\ it,
incessant vigilance, and by the strain of every nerve and
                                                                                                          11^
muscle ; while the dreadful feelini; is ever prcsmt that,
some day or other, it will burst the wei;.;ht that binds
and take fearful retribution."
It

             in a
       was September, however, when the bustle of cottoii-
jiickiuL; made an unusual strain upon the native laziness of
the neL,n-i), that (josse was niaile physically ill b\- the ruth-

Ics.: punishments which were openly intlicted on all siiles
(jf him. The shrieks of women under the cow-hide whip,

cynically plied in the very court}-ard beneath his windows
at night, would make him almost sick w ith distress and

impotent anger, and have heard him describe how he
                   I

had tried to <.i\.\i^ up his ears to deaden the sound of the

agonizing cries which marked the conventional [)rogrcss
of this ver}- peculiar " d(jmestic institution." With the

Mctliodist preachers and other pious peo[)le with whom he

specially fraternized, he would occasionall)- attemjjt, very
timidly, to discuss the ethics of slavery, but alwa\-s to find

in these ministers and professors of the gosi)el exactl)- the
same jealous)' of criticism and determination to ajjplaud

existing conditions, that could characterize the most dis-

solute and savage overseer, as he sat aiul flicked his boots

with his cow-hide on the verandah of rum-shop.       Aly
father saw no escape from this condition of things.  He
                                 is                                11 \^k
                                            a
was obliged to admit that skives seemed indispensable in

Alabama, and that "free labour   out of the cpiestion."

J^ut sickened him, and had much to do with his abrupt
it                 a

departure.               it                    a
   From the day of his arrival he had kei)t copiousit

scientific journal, but in September this begins to fall <:iff,

and early in October ceases altogether. I'^)r the last

three months of his sta\- in iMabania there scarcely exists

any record, except private diary which painful reading.is
             144 THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

             At no time was I'luli'i) (iossc ready to admit that connec-
             tion between the pliysical and the spiritual well-bein<^ of a

             man, tlic rehition between bodil)' health and mental health,
             which to man\' of us may seem one of the finest lessons

             which life has to i^ive. It was very strant^e that one of
             such infinitely delicate and accurate pcrcei)tions in observa-

             tion of animals and plants, one to whom the movements

             of a butterfly and the conscience of an orchid were almost

             prcternaturally obvious, should be unable to adai)t the
             same habit of observation to humanity and to himself.

             l>ut it must be said that he was never a very subtle judj^'c

             of man, and always a very bad critic of himself There

             were many conditions of his life in Alabama which pre-
       iI
             disposed him to melancholy and physical depression, and

             against which he should have been upon his guard. This

             social isolation, the repressed indignations of his patriotism

             and of his humanity, his narrow resources and hopelessness

             of improvement, were enough to cast him down in spirits.
             But in addition, the autumn in those hot, damp countries

             is exceedingly distressing to a stranger ; the neighbourhood

             of the swamp is deadly, and the decay of the monstrous

             body of vegetation almost fatal to organic elasticity. Un-
             happily, however, in a manner I need not dwell upon at

             distressing length, my father, who would have hit with

             luminous directness on the cause of such symptoms in an

             insect or a bird, saw in his own condition nothing less

             serious than the chastisement of God on one who was

             sinning against light. The more wretched he felt, the

             more certain was he of the Divine displeasure, and the

             more did he lash his fainting sfiirit t thi ask oi icligious

             exercises. His diary is full of se  .idings, penitential

    ^f|      cries, vows of greater watchfulnc   · the future ; id it is

,   ^  lawi  downright pathetic to read these cnasioi .^, and to know
    f        that it was quinine that the poor sou; wanted in its

!
}
j

t1
                ALABAAfA.                '4=;

innocent darkness. He bcii^an to wish to return to Eiit;l.uul,

but put the thout^ht behind him, as evidently a temptation
of the devil, because it would please him to return, h'or

the first time in his life, he was in a ihoroui^hly morbid
condition of mind.

   Towards the middle of November his apathy and

j;loom deepened into positive illness. lie Ijct^aii to suffer

from a very violent and almost unceasintj headache. On
December i he writes --

        " Hy medicine and care my headache is at len,c;th

   "relieved, though not yet removed. It has been ac-

"companietl by great prostration of mind and body,

"but though I have not been capable of much

..."devotional exercise, I have been enabled to fix my
"mind with filial confidence on God.  I have seen

"the absurdity of deferring the work of re[)entance and

"conversion to a sick bed, which is very ill adapted
" for such work. ]\Iy school has closed, anrjther geutlc-
" man having beer engaged to succeed me ; in this, too,
" I see the hand of God."

From this last statement it would almost seem as

though, in consequence of Philip Gossc's failing health, ho

had been arbitrarily superseded, but of this I find no other

record. Vov the next fortnight the entries in liis journal      'I'i

are tinged with the deepest melancholia. On December
16 he says --

       " From the representations of Brother Mearnc (the

"presiding l^lder of this district) and Brother Nose-
" worthy, and their persuasions, I have given up the

"thought of going to England, believing it to be my

"duty to labour here. I am not convinced by their

"reasons, but I fear that my will stands opposed to the

"will of God."

But a few dajs later he was persuaded to go off for a

                                      L
    TT

                                                                                                                              'E

i                 nil146                      LIT HENRY GOSSE.
                  77/E LIFE OF
)1
1             i^
:                 visit to Ikothcr Nosewortliy at the town of Sclma. The
      *·:
             >    riJc did liim good, ..":nd the ch;inge of air also. He was

                  bustled up by the activity of Quarterly Meeting. On the

                  25th he writes, "The Methodist Society at Selma                                          in
                  a

                             I
                                                 I

                                                                           a
                                                                                                is
                                                                                                                        a
                  much livelier state than ours, and have had some profit-

                  able sca-ons, though find too much of narrow bigotry

                  with all." He came bad: to Mount Pleasant persuaded
                  that he had c;dl to be a Wcsleyan minister in Alaoama,

                  and convinced that he was to spend his life there preaching

                  and visiting.

                  What happened lext know not, but suppose that
                                              I

                                                                                                T

                  the visit to Sclma had quickened !n's s'^'ses, and showed

                  him that life in iVIount Pleasant -.vas impossible, since                                                \

                  exactly four days after this conclusion to stay in Alabam.a

                  for ever, he fiumd to have packed up all his boxes and
                                 is
                  cabinets, if) ha\e been up to Dallas to say farewell toI

                  the Saffolds, and to be positivel)' on board steamer on
                                                                                                   a
                  the Alabama river, in the highest [)ossible spirits, and                              a
                  bound merrily for Mobile. He ate part of splendid
In
                  turkey for his Christmas dinner on board the steamer, his

                  curious objection to everything which in any way sug-

                  gested the keeping of Christmas as festival not having as
                                                                                       a
                  yet occurred to him. The voyagu down the river from the                    a

                  upper countr}' occu])ied two days and night, considerable

                  dela}- being caused by frequent stoppages to t.d<e in cargo,
                  until the vessel was laden almost to the water's edge with
                  l)ales of cotton. " looked with pleasu'-e on the magnificent

                  scenery of the heights. There  is                                    something," he writes,

                  "very romantic in sailing, or nithcr sliooting, along

                  between lofty precipices of rock, crowned with woods at
                  the summit. Owq such strait we pas.^^ed through to-day

                  (December 30) just at sunrise the glassy water, our
                  vessel, and ever}'thing near still involved in deepest
                  ;
                                                                                    ;
                  shadov/ the grey, discoloured limestone towering up on
                       ALABAMA.                                                            M7

each side ; while the trees, and just a streak on tlie toj)-

most edge of one cliff, were bathed in golden light from

the newly risen sun."

He was greatly amused by the way in which the crew

stowed the cargo. The cotton had Leen already screwed

into bales so tightly that further compression might seem

impossible. Ikit ulieii the stowed bales in the hold ueri'

in contact wilh the upper deck, another la)'cr had to be

forced in by jjowerful jack-screws, worked by four men.

When the end of the bale was seen set against a crevice

into which a thin board could scarcely be pushed, it might

api:)car impossible that it should ever get in ; but the screw

was continually turned, and though the process was a slow

one, the bale would gradually insinuate itself The men

kept the most perfect time by iiicans of their songs.
" These ditties," --says the curious " chiel " who hung above
the cotton-bales "making notes," -- "though nearly meaning-

less, have much music in them ; and as all join in the

perpetually recurring chori.s, a rough harmony                                       i.-^  pro-

duced, by no means unpleasing.         I      think the leader im-
                                           I
provises the words, of which                have taken down tlie

following specimen he singing one line alone, and the
:                                                                                                il >!
                    '                                                                               %M
                        1

                                    ;

                               I
whole then giving th.e chorus, which          is  repeated without

change at every line, till the general chorus includes the
stanza --

I" think iie;ir the black-cock say,    !I !
                                                         !!
     I   J'i<\- tlw rini^(> fur meay
                                                                                 ;\
   They shot so hard, could not stay
           Fire the rini^o fire away                                                             i! i  -ft

    So spread my wings, and llcw away

          J'ire the rins^v^ etc.
      took my llight, and ran away;

          J'ire, etc.
   All the way to Canaday,

            ///f, etc.
               148 T//E LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

-              To Canad.iy, to Canaday,
               All tlie way to Canaday.
1
               Oin'ral Jackson gain'd the day;
   ^1          At New Orleans he gain'd the day ;

\,                  IKini::;o ! riiv^o ! hlazc mvay
 K-                 Fire the rin,i:;o ! fin away ! ' "

Jili ^            Later on the last evenin^^ of the year 1838, he entered
            1  Mobile, where lie liad to stay a week before proceeding to

i              Enc^land. At Mobile he found his noor shattered insect

t              cabinet from Canada, lying in a warehouse in a shocking

I'Jh           condition, but with the contents not so hopelessly destroyed

               as he had every reason to fear that he should find them.

               It was pleasant to gaze on his captures, after having been

               parted from them for nearly a year, h'lom Alabama he
               carried home about twenty specimens of the skins of rare

               birds, and a few fur-pelts. In cash he Anmd that he was,

               when lie had paid his passage to luigland, even poorer

               than when he left Canada. So poor was he that he wa.-i

               obliged, immediately on his arrival in Liverpool, to part

               with his furs and skins hastily, and therefore at a wretched
               price. His entomological collection he sold, for a fair

               sum, to the well-known insect-buyer. Mr. Melly. As a

               matter of fact, however, the rolling stone returned to

               England, after an exile of eleven j-ears, with practically no

               m.oss whatever on its surface. He was completing his

               twenty-ninth year, and life still seemed wholly inhospitable

               to him. He had not chanced yet on the employment for

               which alone he was fitted, but he had Ui consciously gone

               through an excellent apprenticeship for               was on his
                   a
                                                                it.

                                                         It
               return voyage to England in Januarj', 1839, that Philip

               Gossc began to be professional author.

               DH
                                                                msmsmm^-i

( 149 )

                          CHArTER VI.                           im

                             LITERARY STRUGGLES.                           'Ih,

                                           1839-1844.

 TN his diary of January 4, 1839, Thilip Gossc has rc-

  J- corded : " I spent an hour or two in walking through
 the pubh'c burial-ground of Mobile. Many of the epitaphs
were ridiculous, but some very touching. I felt my sjjirit
softened and melted by some of the testimonials of affec-

tion, and I could not refrain from tears. Then I went on

board the ship /sane Xriutoii, lying in the bay, and so bade
adieu to American land, probably for ever." This melan-
choly note is not inappropriate to mark what was in fact a
great crisis in his career, while the prophec>' in the last
words was actually fuMUed, since though his activity in the
Nc\V World was by no means at an end, he was never to
set foot on the American continent again.

   Asa part of the fresh religious zeal which he had roused
in him.self during his latest weeks in Alabama, he be-Mii
on board the Isaac Xcicton the practice of speaking on
the condition of their souls to those into whose company
he was thrown. This habit he preservetl, with varying
intensity, till the end of his life, and in process of time it
became easy and natural to him to exhort and to ex-
amine. But it was difficult enough at first, and nothing
but an overwhelming conviction that it was his duty would
have enabled him to overcome his reluctance. He was
       '    ·so T//E LIFE OF rniLIP HENRY GOSSE.

 I          shy, and disliked addressing strangers ; he was sensitive,
            and hated to take a liberty. But he had convinced him-
 I          self that it was his duty to God to speak of sacred matters
            " in season and out of season," and he persevered in the
¥·          same indomitable spirit which forced Charles Darwin, in
            spite of sea-sickness, to continue his experiments on board
         \  the Beagle. In later years, I remember once quoting to
            my father, in self-defence under his spiritual cross-ex-
 m          amination, Clough's --

                       " () let mc love my love unto myself alone
                          And know my knowledge to the world unknown !
                          No witness to tlic vision call,

                          Ikholding, unhehcld of all ;
                          And worship thee, with thee withdrawn, apart,
                           Whoe'er, whate'er thou art,

                          Within the closest veil of mine own inmost heart."

            " MclUnuous  lines,  enough   "  he  replied,  "but that  is not

                                         !

            what God a':ks from a converted man. It is not the luxurv

            of meditaticni and the cloister, but the unwelcome effort to

            spread a knowledge of the truth."

              The entries in his journal of the voyage of Januar\-,           \
            1839, arc naive and pathetic ;--

                   " We have had much rough, cold, wet, and uncomfort-

            "able weather, but I have called the crew together, oi''

            " Sabbath d^ys (but not so often as I ought, having

            "suffered from extreme reluctance to disturb them), to

            " hear the w ay of salvation. They listen with decorum

            " and attention, and perhaps fruit may s[)ring up after

            ..."many days; and if not, I have not failed to be well
            " paid even in a present blessing.             I made an

            " opportunity of speaking to tlic captain ^>w the subject

            "of religion. He is an amiable and well-informed man,

            "a [irofane swearer, and one who seems to entertain
            "considerable contempt for godliness. . . . The captain

                                                                              J
                                                                                          WR

                 LITERARY STRUGGLES.                      lit

'"continues to profess infidel sentiments, but kindly pei-
" mits his people to be assembled, .'ind himself listens

"respectfully."

   The voyaL,fe to luii^land occupied five weeks, and during
that time Gosse worked hard at the manuscript of his Cana-

dian Natnralist, contriving to finish  so far as   could
              ;
be finished, before the ship entered the Mersey. In some
                it in
respects the voyage was [)leasant, but the whole vessel was
                                         in
stuffed witii cargo, cotton-bales being piled even in tin;
                                      I in
cabin, leaving scarcely room to creep in and out. lie used
                                                          is
to recline on the top of these soft bales, reading natural     a it,

histor\^ and                                               ifparticular Walsh's Ih-azil, which he had

found on board, and which fascinated him. At last luig-                   it
                                                                                 it
land was again his home, after twelve years' e.xile. He was
                                                                                      in
furnished with ample and fervid introductions from his
                                                                             A
dear friends the Jaqueses  Canada to their relatives in                                          ^1^;

Liverpool, and by them he was hospitably entertained for

a fortnight. These kind people became sufficiently in-

terested in him to perceive his talents and to deplore his

poverty. They set themselves, with such slight means as

lay at their hands, to find suitable occupation for him.

letter addressed to Mr. William Clarke, k^{ I,iver[)ooI, wJio                                 1' ! !
                                                                                                   I :: i
had obtained for I'hilip Gosse the refusal of the office of

curator at some museum, -- know not what or where --

may here be cpioted in full. It        very characteristic

document.

                                                                                              \

           To Mr. William Clarke, Liverpool.

"Mv DKAR Sir,              " Wimborne, April 25, 1S39

            "I know not    what terms to express,         an

"ade(|uate manner, my sense of your most undeserved                                           II
" kindness
                 really oppresses me. As          were not                                        K.

"enough that you loaded me with the kindest atten-
        I ;I  1 12 Tirn LIFE OF FinLIP IIFXRY GOSSE.
^m
              " tions during m)- pleasant sojourn in your fricndl}'
              " family, )-ou arc still caring for \wy welfare, and devising

              ·'schemes for my benefit, now I am far a\va\'.  It is

              "pleasing to know that though out of sight, I am not
              " out of mind. Do not think me ungrateful if I cannot

              "avail myself of j'our very obliging proposal. I am

              "pained that your goodness should be thrown away ;

              "but I am really not qualified for the situation of

              "curator. I do not know the art of stuffing birds and
              " beasts ; and, though I have some acquaintance with
              " natural history, I am totally ignorant of mineralog}-.
              " which, I observe by the advertisement, is rccjuired.
              "Attendance, too, is recjuired from 8 a.m. till 9 p.m. --

              "thirteen hours a day ; and the whole time to be devoted
              " to the duties.

                 " There arc other reasons why I should hesitate to
              " fill suchi an office as that. I should fear that I should
              " be thrown into sit'iations in which I might find it diffi

              "cult to keep that purity of intention which I value

              "more than life ; and likewise, that my opportunities of
              " being useful to my fellow-men, especially to their

              "souls, would be much curtailed. I view this transient
              " state as a dressing-room to a theatre; a brief, almost
              " momentary visit, during which i^reparation is to be

              " made for the real business and end of existence.

              "Eternity is our theatre: time our dressing-room. So
              " that I must make every arrangement with a view to

              "its bearing on this one point.
                 " .Again I repeat m\' gratitude for your kindness ; ami

              "pray God to reward you a thousand-fokl, for I am
              " utterly unable. Should it ever be my lot to revisit
              " Liverpool, I shall gratefully renew my acquaintance

              "with you ami your dear family. I have heard nothing
              "from Mr. Jaques since I iiave been here --have you?
T                                                                               -|i--!iiWiijiiLwiip«wiy.u,.u.,.,,.'j.<^i,""pj<»»i.

              LITERARY STRUGGLES.                        153

J "M)- kindest wishes and most respectful rct^ards wait on
                    " Mrs. Clarke, and my love to the dear young folks-- espe-

   "cially dear Henrietta, and William, and Charley; and

   " indeed I'^inily, too. There, I have named all ; for I
   " can make no exception.
   " yours and theirs !      May every happiness be

              " Believe me to be, dear .Sir,

                         " Kindly and sincerely )'ours,

                                   "P. II. GOSSE."

      The excuse for not accepting seems, even from his own
   point of view, curiously inadequate. The position of curator

   at a j)rovincial museum is not commonly looked upon as

   one of peculiar temptation to worldliness, and the writer

   was, besides, reduced to a poverty so extreme, that one might

   suppose an independent spirit, such as his, would leap at

   any honest way of getting a Ivelihood. Hut the fact

   appears    to be that he believed himself called to the                        ( ,;
   ministry,   and that his full intention was to become, if                           I
   possible,  a Wesleyan preacher. His efforts in this direc-
                                                                                il l
   tion also, however, were met with disappointment. The

   rough discourses wliich iiad :ervcd in Alabama were not to
   the taste of the Methodists of Liverpool, 1 le wrote : " The

   large antl fine Wesleyan chapels of Liverpool, the fashion-
   able attire of the audiences, and the studied refinement of

   the discourses, so thoroughly out of keeping with ni)- own
   fresh and ardent feelings, distress me. I mourn over the

   degeneracy of .Methodism." And Methodism, in her turn,

   looked very coldly at this vehement colonial critic of her

   manners.

      Early in March, 1S39, he went by railway and coach to
   Wimborne, in Dorset, where his mother was now re.-.iding
   with a younger son. Here Philip remained for three

   months, taking at first a prominent place as a local
Ii '                    154 THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

               -;s      prcaclicr in Wimbornc itself aiul in the ncii,'hbourin^f vil-

           '1 J         lages, and frequently sui»i)lyini^ the pulj)it of the minister
                        at the Cc)ngregational c'.iapel of the town. The fervour of
                    81  religious zeal with which he had left Alabama now, how-

                        ever, began to abate. Many little things had occurred
                        which tended to diminish his ardour. His purpose was
                        still to seek acceptance from the Methodist Conference as

                        a travelling preacher. Hut much of the enthusiasm which

                        had prompted him to undertake this ftnm of employment

                        had evaporated by the summer, and, to his surprise, he
                        was conscious of not being disapjiointed when, on applica-
                        tion, he found that he was past the limit of age at which
                        candidates for the regular ministry are received. He was

                        not destined to be a Wesleyan preacher after all.

                           Why he lingered so long at Wimborne it is not easy to

                        say. Perhaps it was connected with an episode which must

                        be recounted in the exact form in which he has chosen to
                        preserve it among his notes :--

                               " The widow of a deceased Wesleyan minister, residing
                           " in Wimbornc, Mrs. Button, had two unmarried

                           "daughters, to the elder of whom, .Amelia, an acconi-
                           " plished, pious, and winning lady, older th.m I, and
                           " much pitted with the small-pox, I at once formed a
                           "very tender attachment. It was as tenderly returned ;
                           "but \.\\z prudent mother made her sanction contingent
                           " on my obtaining some permanent sdurce of income,
                           " which at present was wholl}- /// niibibiis. This was not
                           "readdy obtained. Amelia's years could not well brook
                           "delay: another suitor interposetl, a Wesleyan minister
                            " in full employ ; she accepted him, and I was left to
                           " mourn. And mourn I did, sadly and deefily ; for my
                            " love for her was very earnest. I could not, however,
                            " blame her decision."

                            The conduct of Amelia Button was as proper as that of
                   LITERARY STRUGGLES.                                        »33

I^dmund Gibbon under similar circumstances. She sighed

as a lover, but she obeyed as a daui^liter.

   It was no time, however, for Pliiiip Gosse to be dallying

with the tender passion. His fortunes were at their lowest                         H
ebb, and the summer of 1839 inarks the ilarkest point of
his whole career. It was a hai)py thought that niatle him                          ii-

turn, at last, to what should long ago have engrossed his

attention, the field of literature. In the fervid and unwhole-                     11^

some condition of his mind, he had set on one side th<--

manuscri[)t of his Canadian Naturalist. It was only by a

fortunate accident that, in his full tide of Puritanism, he had

not destroNX'd        was now his one and only chance for
                   it.

                        a It

                                in
                                       a
the future, and London was the sole field into which he

couKI, with hope of harvest, drop the solitary seed.
                                                            7,

                                                                             is A
constitutional timidity and that fear of Lontlon which

sometimes so strong                       sensitive countryman, held him
shivering on the brink.
ovit on coach for the                     At last, on June  i!^;-,*;), he set

in                       metropolis. While he had been
            a

                a
Dorsetshire he had earned just enough to prevent his

being positive burden u[)on his people, partly by preach-
ing for absent ministers, partly by teaching the elements of

flower-painting.   1  le thought to continue the second branch

as lucrative profession in London, his own drawings
a

being, as his Canadian and Alabaman specimens showed,

of an exquisite merit. But his ignorance of London and of

lif(^ were c[uitc extraordinary. His first lodging                            the
                                                            a
town was cpiaintly chosen, since, in consequence of some                a in

literary reminiscence or another, he selected Drury Lane

as the scene of his operations, and took                    chcaj) but

infinitely sordid lodging on the east side of that noisy

and malodorous street. His room was an attic,                                 few

doors north of Great Queen .Street, and the [)resent writer
vividly remembers how, in his own boyhood, his father,

walking briskly towards the Hritish Museum with Charles
                    IS6 r//E LIFE OF Fill LIP HE.VRY GOSSE.

                    Kingslcy, stopped to point out to his friend and to the

                    boy the grimy window from which, in the dreariest hour

                    of his h'fe, he had looked down upon the roaring midnight

                    debauchery of the Drury Lane of fifty years ago.

                        l'hih'[) Gossc's resources were now reduced to a few
                    sliilh'ngs. Driven by dirt and noise out of the Drury Lane

                 ]  attic, he took refuge in another, a little quieter and cleaner,

 w-                 in Farringdon Street, at the summit of the house then

     '              devoted, in its lower part, to the sale of Morrison's pills.
11
                    The young man's only friend in London was the cousin
         
              i     mentioned in an earlier chapter, Mr. Thomas Bell, a dentist
              1
              i     already eminent in the profession, a naturalist, the publi-
              1,
              ti    cation of whose British Qiiadnipeds in 1S37 had given him
                    considerable reputation, and a prominent member of the

                    Royal Society. On June 15, 1S39, I'hilip Gosse writes to
                    his sister, I'^lizabcth Green :--

                           " Mr. Bell has very kindly offered to read my manuscript

                    "and give his opinion ; he is going to sliow it to his own
                    " publisher, but thinks that it will need some alteration
                    " before being i)ublishcd. I want to get some permanent

                    "means of subsistence, and one object of my writing
                    '' now is to ask what you think my prospects would be of

                    "teaching drawing (the fuier branches, such as flower-
                    " painting, etc. -- }-ou know my manner) among the
                    " aristocracy and gentry of .Sherborne, and whether you

                    "think there would be sufilcient chance of success to
                    " make it worth my while to come down and canvass the

                    " neighbourhood } . . . If you write home, give my

                    " love. I do not like to write there until I know what

                    " my chance is here. Things look dark at present and

                    " hopeless enough, but they may brighten. Do not fail
                    " to write immediately; but rather put it oft" a day, than

                    "go about it in such haste as not to make half a letter.
                              "
                    " Adieu
                             !
                   LITERARY STRUGGLES.                »57

The manuscript here mentioned was Tlic CiviaJian

Naturalist, which pleased Mr. liell so much that he
recommended it stron;^Iy to Mr, Van Voorst, tlic dis-

tinguished i)uIjHsher of scientific wt^rks. I'hilip Gossc's

j)ride made him conceal his real state from Thomas Hell,

and though tlie latter knew his cousin to he in neeil of

employment, he diil not suspect that he was in such bitter

straits. Mr. Van Voorst ai)pointed a day for the young

author to call on iiim. Meanwhile the shillings, nursed

as they might be, were slipping, sli[)ping away. Tlie

practice of going once a day to a small eating-house had

to be abandoned, and instead of it a herring was eaten as

slowl)' as possible in the dingy attic ir. h^arringdon Street.
Meanwhile, the response about the " aristocracy atul gentry

of Sherborne" had been discouraging in the extreme.
" Nothing to be done in Sherborne," was the answer ;

"better staj- where you are." At last the day broke on

which Mr. Van Voorst's answer was to be given, and with as

much of the gentleman about him as he could recover, the

proud and starving author presented himself in Paternoster
Row. He was ushered in to the cortlial and courteous

Mr. Van Voorst. He was no longer feeling .xny hope, but
merely the extremity of dejection and disgust. The wish

to be out again in the street, with his miserable roll of

manuscript in his hands, was the emotion upi^ermost in

his mind. The i)ublisher began slowly: "I like your

book ; I shall be pleased to publish it ; I will give you one
hundred guineas for it." One hundred guineas ! It was

Peru and half the Indies ! The reaction was so violent

that the demure and ministerial-looking jouth, closely

buttoned up in his worn broadcloth, broke dcnvn utterly

into hy.sterical sob upon sob, while Mr. Van Voorst,

murmuring, "My dear young man! my dear j-oung
      "
man      hastened  out to  fetch wine  and  minibter  to wants
     !
^' ! '                                                                                                                                               '
\I
           «58 7//E LIFE OF Pin LIP HENRY GOSSE.
    11
           which it was beyond the power of pride to conceal an)-
  I!       longer.

 ri-:t\ ·      Mr. Van Voorst, in venerable ap^e, is still living as I write
           these words. I trust that I may be permitted the pleasure
%\         of assuring him of the gratitude which the family of his
           old friend feel and must ever continue to feel towards him.
           Since Otway dedicated his Soldier's Fortune to Richard
           Ik'ntley in i6Si, many things have been said by authors
           about publishers, and sometimes not in so amicable a spirit
           as that of Otwa}'. Tlic relations of the two professions
           have even, at times, so it is whispered, become i)ositively
           strained. But between John Van Voorst and Philip Henry
           Gosse there was sealed, under the circumstances I have just
           described, a bond of business friendship which held them
           together for nearly fifty years, without a single misunder-
           standing or even momentary disagreement.

               From this time forward, Phili[) Gosse had an aim in life.
           The form of literary work wnich he had adopted, or, rather,
           which had at last furced him to recognize its claims, was
           not a very lucrative one, and he was still, as will be seen,
           curiously unready in taking to literary work. Nevertheless,
           he had now 'nade a successful start, and there was Mr. Van
           Voorst in Paternoster Row always ready to listen to a
           reasonable suggestion. Mr. George Loddiges, the once
           famous florist, was also a useful acquaintance gained through
           Thomas Bell. He w.is charmed with Philip Gosse's draw-
           ings of American flowers, made him free of his own admired
           series of orchid-houses and nurseries, and recommended
           iiim to seek employment in ladies' schools, as a teacher of
           flower-painting. In the winter of 1^39 I find that Gosse has
           removed into the suburbs, to a lodging at Hackney. He
           writes, with his customary cheerfulness -- for these letters
           never show the slightest petulance or ill-humour under
           failure -- " Day by day, I trudge wearily through the streets.
                                                                                           zszs^.

                      LITERARY STRUGGLES.                                            >50

willi m\- t)rirt folio uiulcr tnv arm, scck-inc: to show in\-

drawings of flowers and insects. I f^et many praises, but

little cmplo)-ment.   I have, however, obtained several

civ^af^ements, in private schools and families. I make

frequent visits to the Hritish Museum, and am especial!)-

studyin^j the lari^'e mammals. I have matle careful draw-
ings of the giraffe on the '^Id staircase, and the hippopota-

mus and rhinoceros at its f(H)t. The other day I met a

Chinaman offering a glazed box of C'iu'nese insects, stuffetl

as full as it could hold. I could not resist the extravagance

of buying as he wanted but small sum for                                             have
    in                a
              it it,                        a
                                                                           it.
                                                                                  I
thrown away all but few of the choice lepidoptcra, and

have made quite air-tight." This treasure accompanied

him all subse([uent wamlerings to the very end.
   On I'Y'bruary 2^j, 1840, The Canadian Naturalist was

jHiblished, the first of the long series of m\' father's works.

It  was very favourably received, aiu! sold firmly, though

rather slowlx*. Tlie fc;rm  it     which   was written was
                               in         it

                                                   a
somewhat unfortunate, for consisted of series of con-

versations between an imaginary father and son, '"during

successive walks, taken at the various seasons <.^{the year,

so that  it  may be considered as in some degree kind of
                                                                a

Canadian Naturalist's Cahiidar." The presentment of

facts was by no means helped by the snii)-snap of the

dialogue, and the supposed father was found most enter-                                            4h It    iWl
                                                                                                           )
taining when he talked with least interruption from the                                                     ''»'
                                                                                                            Hi
\'oung intpiirer. The book was adorned by large number
                               a
of illustrations, engraved in                                a
                                   vcrj' refined and finished

manner on blocks drawn in most cases by the author

himself, and in all designed by him. In T/ic Canadian
Naturalist, imperfect as was as final expression of
                      it

                                              a
                                                           a
his peculiar genius, Philip Gosse opened out new field of
literature. In the eighteenth century, amid the careless

pedantry of such zoologists as I'cnnant, had been heard
        I         160 7//£ Z/i^iT O/^ nilLIP HENRY GOSSE.

   i              the clear note of Gilbert White. Twenty years later,
                  Alexander Wilson had begun to issue the eight volumes of
Ii                his magnificent Aiucrican Ornitliology. In 1825 Charles
                  Watcrton had published his sensational Wanderings.
!  '          i   These three works are the only ones which can fairly be
1             '  said to have preceded 'f/h! Canadian Naturalist in its own
                  peculiar province, and of these Waterton's, at least, had
           H      little but a superficial resemblance to the new departure in
                  natural liistory. It was from Wilson that Philip Gossc
m:                had learned most of the zoological art of his book, but it

I                 was his chief advantage to have oecn held long away from
                  masters and teachers (-{ all kinds, and to have been forced
                 to stutly nature for himself In his preface he said,
                  modestly enough, that "the author is fully aware how very
                  limited is his accjuaintance with this boundless science [of
                 zoology]; having lived in the fu'-off wilds of the West,
                 where s\'stems, books, and museums are almost unknown,

                 he has been compelled to draw water from Nature's own
                 well, and his knowledge of her is almost confined to h.er

                 appearance in the forest and the field."

                     lie very soon made himself fully familiar with all that

                 systematic zoologists had arranged and tlecided. 1 le
                 became a learned as well as a practised n.iturali^t. ]!ut
                 the unacademic freshness of his earl)- habit of mind
                 remained, and gave its pleasant tincture to all his subse-
                 quent work I lis function continued to bo, as it had
                 begun by being, that of one who calls his contemporaries
                 out of their cabinets and their tlissecting-rooms into the
                 woods and seashore, and biiis (hrm observe tlv" living
                 heart of Xa'aue. Since iu's time, such ap[)eals ha\e grown

                 more and more frequent, until they have begun to seem

                 commonplace. All can raise this particular flower now, but

                 it was Philip Gosse, in a very marki d degree, who first found,
                 or at least first popularized, the seed. The moment was

                 f;->*'^»?ii
                                                                    r¥m*m-~^

              1. 1 TERA R Y S TR L'G G L ES.  ir,r

one in wliich, throuf,'hout tlie world, a fresher air was bciivj^

blown across the fields of bioloL^y and natural history.
Captain Fit/roy had just published that account of the

cruise of the /n'ai^/r in which the t,n-eatest of all bioloLjists.
Charles Darwin (my father's senior by one year\ made

his first public appearance ; while in '''«ew ]MV_,dand one

whom, from a purely literary point of \'iew, it is more             ir

natural to compare with Philip Gosse, Henry Thoreau,                   ,ii

had just made that weeks \-oya;^e on the Concord and                       W
Merrimac rivers which he was to describe some ten j'ears                      i

later. The j^rcmis of ali ti-at made Gosse for a i^eneration
one of the most pupular ami useful writers of his time are

to be found in 77/(' Caitadi(XU Natiir'ilist,~-\.\\c picturesque

enthusiasm, the scru[)uious attention to truth in detail, the

quick e}e and the respmisive brain, the happy _!_;ift in direct

description. The pa,L;es devoted to the red s<juirre!, "that

fantastic little i;entleman, willi as man}- tricks as a mon-
      "
key      the  disqui.s.tion  yM\ tiic h.ird-wootls of Lower
     ;

Canada ; the episode of the skunk, -- these may be taken

as tsq)ical exanq^les of the felicitous characier of the best

pa.s.sai;es, minified, it is only fair to say, with much that,

from wiiut of literary exqx.rience, was put toi;ether without
skill. C^ne passai^e may be cpioted here -- a lirief descrip-

tion of the phenomena of a Canadian winter tempest :~
       lirk to the wind ! how it liowls and whistles throu.i^h

   " tln^ tops of the trees, like a close-reef ·j;a\c throu_L;h
   " the shrouds and ropes of a ship at sea. Now it sinks
   " to a hollow mo. in, then sii^^^s a^^ain, utterin;.;' sounds

   "which one nii;;ht fancy those of an J'lolian har[). The
   "leaves fly from those few trees which still retain any,
   " autl the lon;4 !.;re)- moss streams from the t()[)S of the
   "scathed liemlw':k'., stretchuiL; far (jUi upon the blast,

  "like sis^Mials of distress. Do j-ou hear that crashin.,^
   " roar .' Soni'; mighty tree lui^ bowed tt) its deslin\ .
-"                                                                                                                                               T
     .[

         i6: 7///i LIFE OF PHILIP LIEXRY GOSSE.

         " VVc are in dan^^cr uiitil we can get out (jf the [)fnxiniit>'
         " of the forest. Yonder one prostrate across the road,
         " which has faUen since we passed an liour a^o sec how
         " has crushed tlie fence, and torn uj) the ground of
         it                                                         :
                          is
                                                                           It
                                                       is
         '· t'lc field on the opposite side! There tluinders                         is

         "another!      They arc falling now on every side; and
         " the air      thronged with pieces of bark, shreds r)f
                        and I)roken branches, descending.
         " trce-inoss,

         "appalling to hear the sluieking of the gusts, ami the

         "groaning of the trees as they rock and cliafe against
         " each other, while they toss their naked arms about, as
         " in agony.''
         It
             if

                          a
                                             <

                                   f
         The record                             the next two years  very slight one.
                                                                    is
                                                                         a
                                                                                   a
                                                                                                       in
             was period of obseiu-ity ami povert}', borne with an
         almost stoic patience. I'liilip Gosse was still, what indeed

         lie never wholly ceased to be, timid, reserved, little disposed

f. \     to fo'in new acquaintances or to cultivate old ones. Th(>

  In     success of his C<vi!hii<m Naturalist made                  rip'ple

         scientific society, and more ambitious man would have
                                                a

         fell that his foot was on the ladder and have made his

         ov.'ii ascent secure. Hut that was not rhilii) (jossc's way.        a
         He was not easily to l.)e persuaded (jf his powers, and,
         without making the .smallest effort to secure work of

         serial or journalistic kind, such work as would have been

         easily within rcacli of his elegant and active pen, he fell

         back on his flower-drawing and his el-mentary teaching.

         He was not, at tliis time, in good heath. The miasma

         of A.abania was prolnibly still hanging about his sj-stem.

         His rare letters of this epoch, though always resolute and

         patient, have melancholy tone. He says to his sister
         aI

                       a
                                a
                                   is

                                                        a

                                                                                                                                              :
         Elizabeth, early in 1840, after brief visit to Dorsetshire

         " Now am in London again, lonely and depressed, and
                                                friend -- at least, without cicar friends.
         almost without

         What sad word                          'farcvveH'l Hut, by-and-by, there

w
' mm                                                             li

LITERARY STRUGGLES.                               If':.           M:

will he a state wlierc the sound of farewell, n )\v familiar a>  f

a household word, sh.dl be alto;^cther unheard of and

altogether unknown.  May  wc     meet  there   "

                                              !

   In his drear)' lotlc^inp^s, his thou,ghts went back to the
haunts of his boyhood in Newfoundland, "the beautiful

little silver lakes that sleep amonj^ the spruce-covered
mountains, -- I mean a mile or two in from shore. I should

like c\'cecdin,c^ly." he writes (April 25, 1840) to his brother
William at St. John's, "that you should transfer some views
to paper for me, if they were but sketches ; the very lovely

one from Pack's farm in Carl)onear, and the same from

Elson's flagstaff down Little Heaver Pond, Black Duck

Pond, etc., with the hills of h^-eshwater in the distance,

and the sea peeping out between the peaks. Another

from that high round hill on the left haiul of the Harbour

Grace Road, looking in towards Lady Pond, ruid o\'<:r

many other ponds. I-'rom Mosquito Point there is a nobh'
coast view -- Carboncar Islaiul in the foregroimd, jjrec!i

and woody; behind, the gradually receding headlands of

the north shore, becoming more dimly blue until Boccalao

is almost invisible. Give my love to all my Hay friends, if

you have the opportunity, and don't forget my request to

gather flowers, sprigs of bushes, etc. ; it is very little

trouble, when you are walking, to gatiicr what you see,

and when you come home, just shut them into a book. I

flatter myself you will do it."

In the summer he was himself applied to to take some

views of the neighbourhood of .Sherborne, to be lithographed

for a history of that town, but was not a liUle incensed, on

the publication of the book-, to find the name of a better-

known artist appended to them, instead cf his own. He

complained to the publisher, but obtaineti neither reply nor

redress. He was still staying close to Slicrbornc, when

his only sister, Elizabeth Green, after a brief illness, diet!
il  I154 THE Lir-L OF HI LIP HEXRY GOSSE.

    on July 2^), 1840. The loss of Mrs. Gicen loft liim
    more lonely than ever, for .she was one of the few persons
    to whoni he was attached. In the course of this summer

    he was once more reduced to such straits that he had
    almost determined to "ac^^ain cross the Atlantic, either
    back to the Southern States, or to the West Indies ; for,"

    he says, " I cannot live thus. I c^et no new pui)ils, and am
    losing money. In the States I can be sure of ^200 or
    ;{i'350 a year, but it is such an e.xile. I should seek a
    school as before, and at my leisure L;et up the material of
    another book." This idea of a school, either in I'-nj^land
    or America, had long been haunting him, and early in
    1840, as his own acquaintance with Greek was but
    elementar}', he set himself to a close and earnest stud)-,

    with grammar, lexicon, and Delectus, reading thirty pages
    a da)', until he became, what he remained, a tair Greek
    scholar. In June he ran down to Colchester, to incjuire
    about a school advertised for sale, but with no result. In

    September he arranged with a retiring schoolmaster in
    London Lane, llackne)-, to take over his fixtures antl
    three jiupils. His printed announccmcit to the gentry of
    the neighbourhood now lies before me, a fadetl scrap of
    elegant satin paper. It is worded so quaintly, and carries
    alxjut it such an old-world air, that I cannot refrain from
    reprinting it :--

                                  ACAD KM V.

         "Mr. p. H. G()S.SL: respectfully announces to the

       " inhabitants of Hackney and its vicinity, that he intends
       "to oi)en a Classical and Commercial School for Yountr
       "Gentlemen, at the large and commodious .School-room
       "in London Lane, in the rear of the Temperance
        " Hotel ; where, by assiduous attention to the morals,
        " comfort, and intellectual progress of the Pupils intrusted
                                                                                                                              HBKE^SKT,

               LITERARY STRUGGLES.                                          ir,'5

"to his care, he hopes to merit a share of public

"patronage. The School will commence on Wednesda}-,

"the 30th September, 1840.                     i, Retreat Cotta^-^es,
" N.B. -- Mr. G's residence is at No.

                                 " Ilaekiievr

The school was not quite a com;ilcte failure ; indeed, it

enjoyed a mitigated degree of success. I'hilip Gosse's

ideas of education were as free as his science from

traditional rule. But in his wa\- of teaching there seems

to have been something of the freshness of his natural

observation. From a letter written at this time I extract                                                                                y:

a passage which is not unworthy of prescr\ation as the

cfjntribution of an unbiassed inind to the problem of

education :--

   " I am a friend to bo}-s'  getting their    lessons (the
" mere words of them) well     fixed in the     memory ; I
" once thought it enough if the sense were secured, but
" on considering how little boys in general reflect on the

"meaning of what they learn, and how often the

" verbatim words stick indelibl)' to the memory in after
" years, I attach a great value to the mere learning of

"words -- that learning them thorougiily (not hamn^er-
a
              is,

                                                             it,

                                                                                                                           '
" ing and stammering, and fingering the buttonhole, with
'I"'Stop minute, sir!'
                        could say just now, sir!
" and so forth) -- to say nothing of the vast incrca.sc of

"the powers of memory, as of every other intellectual
" faculty, by its habitual exercise. Consider, too, how

"very much of school learning                  matter of mere
               ;
                       ;

                                      is

                                                     a
                                                                         ;
" abstract memory -- conjugations, declensions, lists of
" heteroclites and exceptions, conjunctions, prepositions,
" adverbs, in grammar names of places, distances, and
" bearing.s, in geography dates in history tables in

"arithmetic; in all which, and many others, no assist-
                                                                                           i

           166 7//E LIFE OF PHILIP IIEXRY GOSSE.

           " ance wlialcvcr is derived from tlic uiulerstatuliii;.^ :

           " tluy arc matlers of mere memory, and if ^ot at all,
           "must be got by heart, and that thoroughly. With
           " respect to spelling, you argue against yourself. You

           " ' have known lads of tolerable cai)acityspell wretchedly;'

           "so have 1, and men and women too, hundreds of them ;

           "and what does that prove, but the total inefficiency of
           " the mode by which they \\c\(i preicndtd io be taught --

ll         "the common mode of columns ? Did }'ou e\er knt)\\
           "one who had been trained (not for half a >c,ir, but
   ' I 1^  " through iu's education) by writing from dictation, to
           " spell wretchedly ? I ha\e found in spelling that the
ii ll
           "great antl most common difficulty consists in not

           "knowing how to elect a words of every moment's use,

           " which superficially sound alike but differ in import : ' as
           " ' -- has ; '                                                     ' weal --
                           ' which  -- witch    '  ' were -- where    '
                                              ;                     ;

           "wheel       ;  ' ' air-- are -- hair -- hare --  hear -- here --  ear -- e'er
                           etc., etc. Now dictation,          by showing      the rcla-
           "' -- ere,'

           " tion and connection of words, shows when one form

           "should be adopted, and when another. I allow this
           " knowledge is very commonly gained without dictation,
           " but how is it gained .' Not by learning from a spelling
           " book, /;/ no single instance, but by what is cciuivalent
           "to dictation, by observation in [jrivate reading, till the
           " individual acquires a practised, an educated eye. That

           "there may be an advantage in learning the definitions

           "of words, I am not [jrcparcd to deu), but that is an

           "exercise quite distinct from spelling."

           I le had the habit of teaching the elements of geography

           by making his boys draw the pattern of a piece of the

           carpet, then a ground-plan of the school-rooiu, with all its

           furniture, then the garden, with the relative portions of

           house and road, until the notion of the principle on which

           a map is made was insensibly gained, and then, and not
           LITER AK Y S TR UGGL ES.  ir,7

till then, lie would proceed to the gcot;ra[)hy of larj^e areas.
Whether this idea, which proved exceedingly efficacious in

the case of his own pupils, has been often carried out in
schemes of education, I am not aware. So far as ni\-

father knew, it was orii^inal to him. In the summer of
1S41, as he was growing ver)' weary of solitary lodgings, he
took a small house, called W'ootlhine Cottage, close to the

school, ami brought his mother uj) from Dorsetshire to

keep it for him. It stood surrounded by a pretty little

garden, full of perennials in geometric beds, with thick          : I,

box edges, h'lom this house he would frequently, in the

warmer months, start with all his bo}'s on cntomologizing
excursions, commonly to the borders of h'pping Forest,

.ind he began a collection of I'jiglish butterflies which

^oon comprised most of the local species. All this while

he was busy enough, since he still had a few j)upils in

tlower-painting, and exercised his leisure to the full in

scii'iitific and literary sfuily. These )-ears make little show
in the record of his life, but they were full of intellectual

energy. He was making up R)r time lost in Canada and

Alabama ; he was fitting himself to compete on equal
terms with men who had been better equii)pcd than he in

starting.

More than anything else, however, he was training antl

cultivating b\- ceaseless miscellaneous notes his powers of

observing and recording natural facts. To print the

multitudinous records of small scientific observations which

he accumulated fi)r his own use would be tedious ami

useless to the general reader. Vet some example ought,

perhaps, to be given here as a specimen of his process of

self-education. I select at random, and transcribe from the

almost microsco[)ic  writing in  faded ink, owe little scries of
                     one brick   out of the immense edifice
consecutive notes,
of his records :--
       i68 7//£ LIFE OF nilLIr HENRY GOSSE.                              ,'
                                                                         1
              '^February \S. -- Ilavinj^cauj^ht some water insects, and
   \i
          "put them into water with a little duckweed, I found a
 i:       " few Cyclopidac among them. One was a largish plump

mI        "fellow, which under the lens presented a very pretty
          " a[)pearancc, being of a pellucid white, brightly shining
          " in the light, like a polished egg. On the i6th I put
           " this, with two little ones, into a clear phial, with water

          "and a little duckweed; neither had eggs. The next

          ·'day I could sec no more of one of the little ones ; but

          "to-day the remaining little one has a capsule of eggs
          " on each side the tail, projecting.

             ''February 19. -- This morning, while I was looking at
          "the C>clopid;e, the large one suddenly darted at the

          "little one, and they had a tussle; immediately I per-
          " ceived that nearly the whole of one capsule of egg.s was
          " gone from the little one, about five eggs only remaining

          "on the right side, attached to a portion of the ovary.

          "1 dare say the former one was devoured. In the after-

          "noon, on looking again, I sec the large one has got
          " two projecting ovaries attached.

              *' February Jo. -- To-day the small Cyclops was desti-
          " tutc of eggs, and with a lens I found many little
          " creatures, e.xceedingl)' minute, darting hither and

          "thither, nothing in form like the parent, but much like
          " mites, with four projecting feet and two antenn;t.

              " February 22. -- The larger Cyclops still carries her
           " egg.s, but the smaller has accjuired another double

          " series. I fancy them to be of a i)aler grey, when first

           " extruded.

             " February 24. -- This afternoon I see the large Cyclops
          "is divested of her ovaries, and the water now swarms
          "with the little quadrupedal young."
          It is noticeable, in dealing with these scientific diaries,

       that although they were not intended for publication,
                   LITERARY STRUGGLES.                  ir,9

literary furni is never ncjijlectcd in tlicm. The extrcino

clearness of obsLTvatioii found its natural expression in

perfect lucidity of lauL^uage. The consequence was that

in future years, the naturalist had need to transfer to
if,                                          a
               it                                        a
                                                                        a
manuscript In's old notes on any particular species, lie

could do almost without revision, and thus save great

deal of labour.                              class-leader

   All this time he had continued to act as

and local preacher among tlic \\'esle)-.in Methodists.
There still exists a manuscript book of skeleton sermons

j-reached b)' him in tiie chapels around London, from
1839 to 1S4J. He has attached to a note, written forty

jears later: -- "This vcjlume possesses some interest, as
                   is
showing how very poor and crude ni)' theology was at thatit

time." He was, in fact, approaching  a  great crisis in his

religious life, to be marked, in the first place, by his formally

severing his connection, early in 1843, with the Wesleyan

Societ)-. The present writer entirely without competence                   I'
to deal with this particular phase of religious conviction,
which, however, he does not feel at liberty to ignore. T(j

misrepresent       would be even worse than to neglect   it,
a
               it
and succinct account of will be found printed, in
                   it

J'hilil) Gossc's own words, in an ai)pendix.* We may return                I
to the more external features of his career. The school,                       :;

which had for awhile promised well, began to fall off;

several of the elder and more interesting pupils ceased to

attend, and were not replaced by others so that, by the
                                        ;

end of 1843, the number of scholars was reduced to eight.

A far more lucrative and interesting source of income

was, however, opening up to Philip Gosse at last. In the

\ spring of 1843 the Society for I'romoting Christian Know-

ledge wanted an Introduction to Zoology. Professor

                   Appendix II.
          l-o 7 //A ///·/; Of- rniijp hexry gos.se.

          '1 lioinas Hell, who was on the cotiiiiiittcc, \v;is dcimtcd to
          ask Mr. Van \'(jorst who would l)c a suitable person to
                                                                         "
    ^ 'i  write such a book.  " Why  not    your  cousin,  Mr.  Gossc
                                                                       ?
\,
          was the rei)l)', and IVll at once assented. With his

          ordinary diffidence, however, Philip Gosse was far from
          ready lo believe that he was competent to \\\\\'\\ the task,
          and it was with diuiculty that he could be [jcrsuaded to

          undertake it.

             At this point Philip Gosse's career as a man of letters

          may properly be said to open. He had reached his thirty-

          fourth year not only without distinction, but without

          t,MininLj any confidence in his own powers. Ills practical

          trainin;^ had been excellent, but he needed to be pusheil

          into active literary work. At last the impetus had been

          ,^iven, and henceforwanl to write fcjr the public became
          the natural and obvicnis thint;' for him to do. lie had no

          sooner acce[)ted the commission which the Society offered
          him, than the plan of his work assumed form in his mind,

          lie entered upon it with a timidity which soon .L;ave wa)'

          to enthusiasm, and he [jursued it expeditiously with cver-

          incrcasiiiL^r zeal and interest.  In this and future relations
          with the Society my father
                                            invariably met with great
          consideration and courtesy.
                                             lie had scrupulously felt

          obliged to let the committee know that he was a noncon-

          formist, but they desircil that that matter might never

          again be alluded to. For the two volumes of the Intro-

          liuction to Zoology., the Society paid him £A70.             It

          was composed in less than a year, without interfering in

          au}- wa\' with the author's other pursuits. It was therefore

          the cause of valuable augmentation to his small niL ns of

          subsistence.

             The preparation of these volumes took Gossc a great
          deal to the Natural History Department of the British

          Museum, and he began to form acciuaintanceships which
                                                                     "·wr"

                      i.rri.RARY strlggi.es.  i:i

     ripened into v.'iluablc friendships, lulward Newman had

     been one of the first to \\cIconie with enthusiastic appre-

     ciation the pecuUar qualities of the new writer, and he hail

     not only reviewed 'J'/ir Canadian Xatnraiist, but had souL;hl

     out its author as a contributor to his own perioth'eal, 'J'/ic

     llntoniohv^ist.  1 le was introduced by Xrunian in 1^4^ to

     Edward 1 )i)ublcda)-, a naturah'st of _L;reat promise, a httle

     youn;^^er than I'hiHp Gossc, and these two formed a frieml-

     ship eminently profitable to each of them, which oidy

     terminated with the premature death of the entomolo;^'ist

     in 1S49.     luluard Doubleday, like his new friend, had
     travelled
     returned   in .Xnuiica as a collectiiiL; naturalist, havin;,,'
     obtained   laden with treasures in \'^^'/. in iSv; he had
                the position of assistant at the 15ritish Museum,

     and was put in chari^e of the lepiiloptera. When I'hilip
     Gossc first became intimate wi:h him, he had just arraiu,^ed

     the national collections of moths and butterflies in iin

     admirable manner. In company with lulward, Gosse made

     frequent pilj^aimages to the home of the Doubleda} s at

     I'-pping, where the widowed mother and the more eminent
     ami tiic elder of the two brothers, lleni'v Doubledav --

     probabl)' the t^reatest cntomolot^ist whom I'.iv^dand has
     produced -- involved a demure and noiseless Ouaker home
     in an atmosphere of camphor. ]5ut Gtjsse never came to

     know Henry Doubleday, whom he found reser\ed and

     ilispiritiuLj, so well as the mercurial Mdward, with whom he

     formed one of the warmest and mo>t easy friendships of
     his life. It was throui;h the Doubledays, if I mistake not.

     that Philip Gossc was encouraged to become a contributor

     to the Proceedings of the Roj'al Society. The fu'st of liis

     lengthy series of papers read before that body was a Note

     on an Electric Centipede, published in this year, 1843.
        Other associates of tliis period were Haird, Whympcr,

     Wcstwood, Adam White, and the Grays. Dr. William

,1
   
                            IMAGE EVALUATION                              //
                            TEST TARGET (MT-3)
                                                                      y. W.r
                                                                                     Va
                                                                             fA

                            1.0 m IM
                            I.I
                                               36
                              *Z f
                                                   IM
                                             li

                            1.25          LL     11   1.8
                                                     1.6

                    v:

e.             /}.      /,
             (^
    'c5.

^1

    '^i/       j%'

               .^

                 7o         Photographic
                               Sciences
                                                 23 WEST MAIN STREET
                            Corporation          WEBSTEP ;V.Y 'J580

                                                      (716) 872-4i03
                        £><

          tr*^

^
JWfM P   172 77//r Z//'.^ (O/r FHILIP HENRY COSSE.

   I     l^.iird, a bioloc^ist of some distinction in his time, had been
   1^    an assistant in the British Museum since 1S41 ; Whymper,
   1!    the jM-incipal water-colour painter and en_L,n-avcr of scientific
   ;- ,  illustrations in that generation, was an habitnc of the
         scientific departments of the Museum, in which John
 \.      Edward Gray and George Richard Gray already held posi-

 I-      tions of considerable influence. Of the brilliant, affec-

 [;      tionate, and eccentric Adam White, little now remains in
         memor}', but if he was the least distinguished, he was far
h        from being the least beloved. Of the whole group of
         }'Oung naturalists, then all full of ardour, and already either
A " '
 1' 1    famous or on the road to fame, the only one who survives
         is the venerable John Obadiah Westwood, now in his
ji ! .;  eighty-sixth year, but still Hope Professor of Zoology at
         Oxford, who in 1843 was already eminent for his Ento-
         mologists Text-Book of 1838 and his British Butterflies of

         1 841.

             Association with those and other scientific friends

         effected a rather sudden expansion in Gosse's social nature.
         The resc'Ved and saturnine young man, absorbed in his
         own thoughts, developed into the enthusiastic companion
         in and sympathizer with the studies of others. The

         journc}' from Hackney to the lirilish Museum began t(
         l)rove a tedious waste of time, and towards the close of
         1843 he moved further into London, renting a small house
         in Kentish Town, No. "Ji, Gloucester Place, the last, at that
         time, on the northern side of the street, recently built,
         having beliind it a long "garden " of heavy clay soil, mere
         broken meadow not yet subdued. Hither he and his
         mother removed, and soon he invited his aged father -- who
         was now quite an invalid, and in his seventy-eighth year--
         to come up from the West of England and join them.
         Behind the garden of this house, there stretched away

         waste fields to the north, and here, one night in the early

\
          LITERARY STRUGGLES.  «73

summer of 1S44, Philip Gossc, for the first and last time in

his life, was "run in" by the police, lie had fastened a

buU's-cye lantern to a tree, and was anxiously watching for

the advent of insects, when the would-be capturer was
himself suddenly captured, on suspicion, by a couple of

active constables. He had no great difficulty in explaining
that his conduct, if eccentric, proffered no real danger to

society.

  A little before Christmas, 1843, \Vh\-nipcr suggested to

him that he should write a book about the ocean. There

was a sudden access of public interest in the new and

mysterious theories of deep-sea fauna. Sir James Ross

had just returned from his epoch-making voyage in the

Pacific Ocean, and had brought up li\ing shell-lisli from

what then seemed the astounding depth of a thousand

fathoms.  It ai)i)eared that a general treatise on tlu;

I)opular zoology of the deep sea might be acceptable, ami

i'hilip Gosse proposed to write one for the Societ\' for

Promoting Christian Knowledge. The committee were

delighted with the idea, and asked him to prepare a sample
of his method. He did so, and wrote a little essay of

which onl\' half a dozen copies v/erc printed for the use of

the committee. The work, as it finally appeared, did not

contain this fragment, which has never been published. I

print it here as a characteristic specimen of the st)le of
the author at this period :--

      "Waiving our privilege of breathing the thin and
   " elastic air, let us descend in imagination to the tleplhs
   " of ocean, and explore the gorgeous treasures that

   "adorn tiie world of the mermaids. We will choose for

   "our descent one of those lovel>' little grtnips which
   "speckle the Pacific, the wondrous labour of an insig-
   " nificant polj-p. The sun is no longer visible through
   " the depth of the incumbent sea ; but a subdued
.it        17\- THE LIFE OF PHILIP IIEXRY GOSSE.

       \I        grccnisli lii^ht, soft and uniform, sufficiently reveals the
                 wonders of the scene. We find ourselves at the foot of
 m^              a vast i)erpendicular cliff, the base of a coral island,
                 entirely composed, to all appearance, of glistcnin^r
                 madrepore, of snowy whiteness, but, in reality, perhaps
                only encased by it. Every part of its surface is seen,
                 on close examination, to be studded with minute
                 orifices, from each of which projects a little fleshy
                polyp, which spreads its six green arms, like the rays of
                a star, waiting for prey. On touching one, though ever
                so slightly, it contracts its arms and withdraws. Many
                other corals rise around us, most of them assuming thi;
                form of stony trees or shrubs, of singular variety and
                 beauty, some crimson, some grey, some white, some
                black, while the rocks at our feet are almost covered
                with brainstones of vast size, mushroom-corals, and
                other madrepores, of the most grotcscpie forms.
                 Enormous sea - fans wave their netted expansions
                slowly to and fro in the long heavy swell of the sea,
                embraced here and there by the slender branches of
                the jointed corallines. The beauty of form and colour
                displayed by these productions is contrasted with the
                sober hue of the sponges, which, in endless diversity,
                overspread the bottom of the sea. Their forms are no
                less fantastic than those of the corals, and resemble
                vases, or tables, or horns, or tubes, or globes, or many-
                fingered hands ; while from the larger orifices on their
                 surface, as from so many mouths, they pour forth
                incessant streams of water with untiring activity. The
                vegetable productions, however, display little of the
                variety which marks their sisters of the upper world ;
                but the dull yellow bladder-weed and other fuci creep
                 among the rocks, and the brown sea-thong and fea-

                thery conferva wave amidst the coral branches.
V

   LITERARY STRUGGLES.  '/3

     "All this forms the scenery, as it were, of our novel

   "position. Ikit these dim reeesses are not solitudes;
   " the water teems with life to an extent utterly unknown

   "to the sunny earth above. Minute crustaccous animals

   "swarm in every part, and t,a-latinous animalcules so
   " abound as almost to touch each other. Beautiful

   "shells, whose loveliness, however, is partly concealed

   "by their leathery skin, i;lide slowly over the rocks;

   "the paper nautilus darts by in its graceful but fragile
   " habitation , and the giant cla.m oi)ens its immense
   "valves to feed in security in the shelter of yonder

   "cavern. The loggerhead turtle, however, explores tlie

    "caverns for his prey, within whose formidable jaws

    "even the stony shells of the great conchs are crushed
    " like a walnut ; nor is the depth of ocean inaccessible to
    " him who urges his arrowy course through the waters
    " with the swiftness of a bird upon the wing. We are

    "tempted at Hrst sight to believe that these slimy rocks
    " give birth to the most brilliant flowers ; so close is the
    " resemblance borne by the expanded actini;e to these
    " lovely productions of the garden. W'c can almost
    " identify the aster, the anemone, ihe sunflower, the
    " daisy, the cactus, the carnation, and other favourites of
    '' the parterre, in these fleshy animal-flowers that

              " 'The dark unfathom'd caves of ocean bear.'

      " The water is now become our atmosphere ; in which

   "the place of the feathered tribes is supplied by the no
   " less varied tribes (jf fishes, which cleave the waters

   " with a flectness emulating that of the most favoured
   " inhabitants of the ujipcr air. The gemmed and glitter-
   " ing mail in which many of these tenants of the deep
   " are arrayed, rivals the hues of the parrots or the
   " iiumming-birds. The labrus, which has just shot past
·^'JP

                176 r//E LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

                " US, is a notable example ; possessing- in its silver}-
                " body, yellow head, and crimson tail, an undoubted

                "claim to beauty of decoration ; nor are the gleamin;:^
                " hues that flash from the pearly sides of that troop of

                "coryphenes, as they play in the changin^r light, less

                " channinjT.  Now they have caught si<^dit of j-onder

                "shoal of timid little flying-fishes which are making

                " their way to surface, to seek a momentary refuge in
                "another element, -- and away tiicy dart, pursuing and

             '  " pursued.    And here comes stealing by, the fellest

       i1       "tyrant of the deep, the ^rim shark, attended by his
                " fidiis Achates, the little pilot-fish, in a livery of brown
mw
                "and purple. The very countenance of this grisl}-
                " monster, the expression of settled malice in his eye,
                " inspires an involuntary horror, scarcely increased by
                " a glimpse of the serried lancet-like teeth which arm
                " those fatal jaws.

V'  i            " It is night. Yet darkness has not fallen upon the
                scene, for the wliolc mass of the sea is become imbued
m               with light. A milky whiteness pervades every part,

                slightly varying in intensity, arising from inconceivably

                numerous animalcules, so small as to be separately
                undistinguishable, but in their aggregation illuminating

                :;he boundless deep. Among them are numerous
                swimming creatures, of perceptible si7x and greater
                luminousncss, which glitter like little brilliant sparks ;
                and when a fish swims along, its path becomes a bed

                of living light, and we may trace it many flithoms by
                its luminous wake. Some of the larger creatures also

                are vividly illuminated ; the medusae, which by day
                appear like circular masses of transparent jelly, now
                assume the appearance of cannon-balls heated to
            LITERARY STRUGGLES.     177

"whiteness; and yonder sun-fish  seems like a threat

"          of living-  fire."
  ^dobe

The composition of the book of which tliis little essay

was intended to be a specimen was the principal occu])ation
of 1844. He was paid ^"120 for the copyright of The

Ocean, which was published early in 1845, while the author

was away in Jamaica. The success of this volume was

surprising, and first opened the eyes of Philip Gosse to the

fact that he had in him the making of a popular author.

Edition after edition was sold out, and of all his subsequent
works few showed a more steady vitality than The Ocean.
It was the jjopularity of this book, and regret that he had

parted with the copyright, which set him meditating on
schemes of publication which should be more lastingly, if

less immediately, lucrative ; but some j-ears passed before
Philip Gosse took the management of his books into his

own hands.

TJie Occn)i is a volume which has probably reached a

more varied circle of readers than any of my father's

books. It is not the most read or best liked of them, but

is the one which has perhaps enjoj-ed the widest cir-

culation.   It is eloquently written, and in freedom of

style marks an immense advance on The Canadian                 'iIs
Naturalist. The opening chapter deals with the general
features of ocean, treated poetically and sentimentally; the
writer then turns to the subject of which he as yet knew
little at first hand, but which was presently to absorb
him entirely, the fauna and flora of the shores of (jreat

Britain. The succeeding chapters deal successively with
the Arctic seas, the Atlantic, the Pacific, and the Indian

Oceans. The book is copiously illustrated by Whymper
and by the naturalist himself; the natural history subjects
being drawn on the block by Gosse and cut b)- Whymper
in a way \v'hich often does great credit to each artist. The

                                 N

                                                               vi;:
m^       I7S T//E LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

   :, r  drawing of the wliitc shark, on p. 2S4, is a capital instance
         of this double skill. With the warm reception of T/w

         Ocean, in 1845, Gossc may be said to have begun to be

         distinguished ; but wlien fame f(nind him, he was far away

         in the tropics. A new chapter of his career had opened.

             Early in 1S44, while he was chatting one da)- with his
         friends in the insect-room of the British Museum, lulward
         Doublcday suggested that I'hilip Gosse would do well a.s
         an insect-collector in the tropics. Demerara was origin-
         ally proposed ; then Jamaica, as being less known to
         naturalists, and, entomologically, absolute virgin ground.
         The British INIuscum had almost nothing from Jamaica,
         nor was anything known of the natural history of the
         island since the days of Sloanc and 15rowne. Gosse
         jumped eagerly at the suggested proposal. He had
         already had some experience in Newfoundland, in Canada,
         and in Alabama, and the prospect appeared to him delight-
         ful in the extreme. He immediately began to prepare.
         He read up all works which touched upon the zoology ot
         the West Indies, made drawings of desiderata, especially
         of orchids, butterflies, and humming-birds, constructed

         collecting-boxes, and gradually bought the necessary

         materials.

             Doubleday introduced him to Hugh Cuming, of Gower
         Street, as an agent for selling the collections to be
         made, and this gentleman, himself a successful collector,
         gave Gossc some useful instructions. He also took him
         down to Kew Gardens, where he began that life-long
         acquaintance with Sir William Hooker, which was to be
         of such lasting profit and pleasure to him. His latest
         occupation of a purely literary nature, before starting, was
         to write for Messrs. Harvey and Darton a Christmas
         annual, which appeared the ensuing winter under the title
         of Glimpses of the Wonderful. This little volume, gaily
                                f^mmmim

LITERARY STRUGGLES.                      >79

illustrated in the taste of the time, was a "pot-boiler," if

ever tliere was one, and the author, thou-h he had not

scamped liis perfunctory task, dechncd to allow his name

to appear on the title-pa^t,a\  In the autumn the elder

Mr. and Airs. Gosse were removed from Kentish Town
to a little house at the Oval, Hackney. On October

20, 1844, their son sailed from the Thames on board

a vessel bound for Jamaica. Just about the same time
two other youn^i^r naturalists set out on collectiuL,^ expe-
ditions, Hugh Low for Borneo, and David Dyson for
Honduras, both having made like agreements with Cumin---
to be their sole agent.
              ( i8o )

        %  i                           CHAPTER VII.
I1 ^i
                                                     JAMAICA.
i!
                                                    T 844- 1 846.

              IN 1770 Gilbert W'liitc of Sclbornc wrote to Daincs

                    Barrincton : " A siijht of the JiiriDuiincs of that hot

              and distant island of Jamaica would be a great entertain-
              ment to me." Seventy-four years later the ornithology of
              that ancient colony remained, as Bell has said, scarcel>-

              better known than it was in White's time. It was now

              to be carefully and indeed exhaustively investigated, with
              the result that since Gosse's visit but few new facts of any
              importance have been added to knowledge. He spent
              eighteen months in Jamaica, during which time his atten-
              tion was mainly, though not exclusively, directed to the
              birds of the island. When he arrived, the ornithology of
              Jamaica was in a chaotic state ; when he left, nearly two
              hundred species of birds were clearly ascertained to belong
              to the island fauna. Of mammalia, reptiles, and fishes
              he was able to add twenty-four new species to science.

                 The voyage out was not a remarkable one. From the
              zoological point of view its interest culminated in the
              observation, in mid Atlantic, of a very rare, if not absolutely
              undcscribed, cetacean. There seems to be very little
              doubt that the troop of large dolphin-like whales which
              sported about the vessel for nearly seventeen hours, on
              November 22 and 23, was identical with the toothless
                     JAMAICA.                                iSi

whale of Havre {DclpJiinorJiytKhus niicroptcrus), of wliich

at that time a solitary specimen, washed vi[) at the mouth
of the Seine, was the only one ilcscribcd by an\- naturalist.

A little further on, off the west extremity of Puerto Rico,

a shoal of the other species of this rare genus, Delphino-

rliyntcJiiis rostratns, or the rosy-bellied dolphin, fell uiuler

Philip Gossc's observation, and he thus had the opportu-

nity, in the course of the same voyai^e, of seeing two

cetaceans, closely allied, neither of which had, probably,

been observed alive by any existing zoologist.          After

entering the West Indian seas, the flying-fishes became

abundant, and he had the opportunity of closely examining

their habits. 1 le writes at last, under date of December 4,          ;;:;!
as follows :--
                                                                     Hi
      " I\Iy first sight of Jamaica was one that I can never

   " forget. . . . During the forenoon the mountains of

"Jamajca were seen, and gradually grew more distinct
" as we neared the island. Yet the cloudiness of the day

"prevented my having any satisfactory view of it until
" evening. About sunset, I was standing forward, when

" one  by  my  side  said, ' Look  at  the  Peak    '  I looked
                                                  !

" intently, directing my gaze to the neighbourhood of the

"horizon, where I supposed it was to be seen ; but nothing

" but the dull white clouds met my eye.           ' Up  there     '
                                                               !

"said my informant ; and his finger pointed up into the
" sky ; and there indeed was its noble head (perhaps

"elevated by refraction), a conical mass, darkly blue,

"above the dense bed of clouds that hung around its

"sides, and enveloped all beneath its towering elevation.

"Yet it is situated far inland, and was then full f(;rty

"miles distant from our ship. l)ut night soon fell, and,it,
" as we were somewhat anxiously watching for the light

" on Point Morant, I had the pleasure of first seeing it
" from the main rigging. We were soon abreast of and
I'l               B

                                                                  in\m
                                                                                    aIfe
                                                                                                                                   a
                                                                                                                                                               a
                     nili8a                    LIP IIEXRV GOSSE.
                             77//-; L//-E O/'

                     " as wc passed on before an incrcasini^r breeze, that
                     "tempered tlie tropical heat with its refreshing brcatli,

                     "we saw the coast dark and high only few miles off.

                     "Many lights were seen in the scattered cottages, and

                     "here and there hre blazed up from the beach, or

                     "torch  the hand of some fishermen was carried from

                     "place to i)Iace. My mind was full of Columbus, and of
                     "his feelings on that eventful night when the coast of

                     "Guanahani lay spread out before him, with its moving

                     " lights and proud anticipations. With curiosity and
                     " hope, somewhat analogous (parva coii/poiicre iiingiiis), did

                     "I contemplate the troi)ical island before me, its romance

                     "heightened by the indefmitencss and obscurity in which

                     " lay.  was on deck several times during the night,
                     it

                                          1
                                               ;
                                                            ,
                                                                 i

                                                                                                         in
                     "and in the interv.ls was still engaged,                                                dreams, in

K ^t                 "endeavouring to :>. uf rate the darkness of the shore."

       *             At daybreak ncxi mo"', "'ng they were off Port Royal,
              i
                     but becalmed th( "in .eisure to enjoy one of the most

                     brilliant views in the world, the blue crystal sea, the white

                     city of Kingston, the majestic Peak, towering eight

                     thousand feet into the azure sky, and contrasting, in its

                     uniform tone of blue, with the purple ridges of the lower

                     mountain ranges. Three black pilots boarded the vessel

                     about nine, but was noon before gradual breeze sprang
                     I
                                    it

                                       it
                                                  a

                                                                                        ;

                                                                            aa
                                                                            it
                     up and carried them in to Port Royal. Gosse was put
                     ofashore at the wharf, and walked
                                                                                         ^o the I'alisades, the

                     long sandy spit which makes  sea-lake of the ample

                     harbour of Kingston.
                             " found barren enough but all was strange, and

                        " to feet which for nearly two months had not felt the

                     "firm earth, even run along the beach was exhilarating.

                     " The graceful cocoa-nut palm sprang up in groups from
                     " the water's edge, waving its feathery fronds over the
                     " rippling waves that dashed about its fibrous foot.
                           y.LVA/CA.                     183

"Great bushes of prick!)' pcrir and other cacti were

"t,rro\vin^ on the low suinniit of the bank, coverin;:^ lar^^e
"spaces of ground with their impenetrable masses,

"presenting a formidable arra)- of s[)ines ; as ilid also a

"species of acacia that grew in thickets and single trees.

"All along the line of high water la)- heaps of seaweeds,

"drying in the sun, among which was particularly

"abundant a species of !\idliia, closely resembling the
" pretty ' peacock's-tail ' of our own shore, though less

"regularly beautiful. Sponges of various forms, and

"large fan corals, with the gelatinous flesh dried on the

"horny skeleton, were also thrown up ')n the higher

"beach ; and I found in some abundance a coralline of

"a soft consistence, and of a bright , vass-green hu". . . .

" Shells were very scarce on thi- sea-bear^'      Several

  :>pecimens of a brilliant little fish, the ckfctodeii, were
"swimming and darting about t^ie nnrrow but deep

"pools; they were not more than an i uh in length,                'm
" marked with alternate bands of black and golden->eIlow.
                                                                  h
" In the vertical position in which they >wim, with the           !l

"       of  the  observer  looking    down  upon  them,  they              ,
  e)'e
" appear to bear the slender proportions of ordinary fishes ;

" and it is only by accident, as in turning, or on capturing

" one, that we detect the peculiar form, high and vertically

   "flattened, of this curious genus."

   Next day (December 7), they got under way at daybreak,
and, avoiding Kingston altogether, sailed for Alligator

Pond, a dreary little settlement surrounded by heav)'
drifts of sand, where Gosse became first personally intro-

duced to the exquisite //W/Vt^/z/Vi' butterllies, and to a mango

humming-bird {Laiiipornis porpl-yrunis), flashing his ruby

gorget in the sun while probing the sulphur-coloured

blossoms of the prickly pear. The vessel stayed several

days in the neighbourhood of Alligator Pond, and the
^             184 THE LIFE or Pin LIP I/E.VRY GOSSE.

           i  1:1                                             \'(Hing natur.'ilis*- took advantage of this fact to make every
                                                             a
                                                              (lay fresh excursion inland with his net. A planter, ]\Ir.
       
                                                              llalTcnden, of Xcw l'"orest, hearincf of the arrival of an
m\->-i
                                                              English savant, hospitably invited him to dine and sleep

                                                              at his house, and sent horse for him. The estate was
                                                                                  a
                                                                                                           ;
                                                              some miles up the valle)-, and the hf)use one the most
                                                                                                              a in
                                                              splendid colonial st\-le. The balcony offered         view of

                                                              great breadth and iTiagnificence the eye rf)amed over

                                                              many miles of open savannah. " Ikit the most striking

                                                              feature was an enormous mountain rising immediately in

                                                              front of the house, covered to the summit with dark woods
                                                                                                              a
                                                                                                                                             ;
                                                              so steep and towering that, as la}' in bed in lofty room,I
                                                                could but just see a little i)ortion of the sky in the upper
i
                                                              corner of the window." The top of this mountain was Mr.
                      !I

                                   I
                                                              Haffcnden's coffee-plantation. While Gosse was staying

                                                              at New Forest, he occupied himself in collecting specimen

                                                              blossoms of the various exquisite orchids, especially
                                                              Ih'oiightonia and Brasavola, which grew about the rocks in

                                                              the forest. The negro groom who had been sent to

                                                              accompany him was bewildered at this behaviour, and

                                                              at'terwards confided to Mr. llaffenden that the "strange
                                                              buckra had taken ihe trouble to 'g^ct parcels of bush "

                                                                 The Caroline had landed her mails and principal pas-
I                                                                                 hi
     ;!
                                                                                                                       a

                                                                                                              It

                                                                                                                                            !
                                                              sengers for Kingston at Tort Royal, and was now ver\'

                                                              leisurely, chielly at night, creeping from port to port round

                                                              the south-western coast of Jamaica.             was not until

                                                              December 19 that she reached the point at which Philip

                                                              Gossc had determined to leave her, that port of Savannah-

                                                              le-Mar which lives  literature in most brilliant and

                                                              paradoxical fragment of l)e Ouincey. In entering the

                                                              harbour, the ship suddenly struck upon the reef that

                                                              divides the former fn)m the expanse of Blueficlds Bay.

                                                              This might have proved fatal accident, but she did not
                                                                                  a

                                                              strike heavily, and, after two hours' arduous exertion, the
                                 JAMAICA.                                           I8s  1i

                      ship was off a^c,Min. When inorning broke, they were
                      runnhig into Savannah-le-AIar through a very narrow-
   ; channel, the coral reef almost touching them on either

    side. Gosse mounted a little way up the shrouds, and saw

    the beautiful bay beneath him, so calm, pure, and trans-

    parent that it seemed simply like gazing down through a
    broad sheet of plate glass. After some days in the
    deplorably dead-and-alive town of Savannah-le-Mar, the

    captain of the Caroline lent Gossc the cutter to Bluefickl.^,

    the house of a ]\Ir. ami Mrs. Coleman, Moravian mis-

    sionaries, with whom he had made arrangements to lodge.

    Several kindly faces were waiting to welcome him on the

    beach, and the good-natured negroes compe-ted for the

    honour of taking his boxes and cases up to the mansion.

    Bluefields, which was now to be his home for eighteen

    months, is marked on the maps as if it were a town of some

    importance on the coast-road froin Savannah-le-Mar to

    Black river, on the south-west shore of Jamaica. In point

    of fact it                  or was, but solitary house one of the
    It                           in a
                                                 a
                           is,
                                                                                 ;
    oldest and largest of the planters' mansions in the pros-

    [)crous times, but already,                         1844, fallen into partial decay

    in the midst of what was called "ruinate" plantation.                                i

    figures in literature in the pages of that very spirited                                  !
                                                                                                      i',1
    and entertaining novel. Ten/ Crii/i^/es Lo^, which gives an
    unsurpassed picture of what Jamaica was in the opening
    years of the century. The gaiety and opulence of Michael

    Scott's Jamaica had, however, given ace to commercialpi

    dejection within the forty years that preceded Philip

9   Gossc's visit. In 1844 the beautiful sugar estates through-
    out the island were half desolate, and the planters had
1\                                                                                       !i >
    cither ceased to resiilc in their mansions, or had pitifully

    retrenched their expenses. With all this had come a spirit

    of pietism, and Bluefields,                         particular, seems to have been
                                a

                                                    in
    the centre of missionary activity, in the hands of the                               ^^1

                                                                                         fy
                                                                                                        '
                                                                                                    '

^
         mmmmmmm

         iS') T//E LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

         Moravians, which radiated into all parts of the county of

         Westmoreland.

               On board the Caroline Philip Gossc had made the

         acquaintance of            Mr. and Mrs. Plessing, German
                        ;a
         Moravians, who were coming out to Jamaica to be em-a
         ployed as missionaries. Their account of Blucficlds had
                                            a
         struck him as singularly attractive to the naturalist, whilea

         the religious views of the Moravians, which were quite

II: I'!  novel to him, exercised                 fascination over his religious

         curiosity. On arriving at Alligator Pond, therefore, the

         Plessings had written to know whether he could be received
         at Bluefields as tenant, and without waiting for reply --
                                                                a
                                                                        a
         since Plucficlds was large enough to admit regiment of
         tenants -- they proceeded on their leisurely voyage thither.

             Had they waited for an answer, the rei)ly would ha\'e been

         a in  the negative for Mr. Coleman and his wife were both

             dangerously ill, and in no position to receive guest. In
                                                                a

         that climate, however, in                 very large house, and sur-

 rounded by willing negroes, the responsibility of a hostessf
                             may be minimized, and Philip Gosse took up his abode in

               suite of lightly fin'nished rooms without disturbing the

             Colcmans.

                The i^osition of Bluefields was one not only of excep-
             tional beauty, but of singular convenience to collecting

             zoologist. It lies little above the sea, on gentle sloj^e,
                                a                               it, a
                                                             a         a
             with steep woods rising to the back of
                                                                              a
                                                                and noisy

             rivulet, always exquisitely fresh, brawling under its bam-

             boos and guava trees down to the sea through the heart of

             the estate. Behind the house, ride of four or five miles

             leads to the summit of the lofty Bluefields Mountain, from

             which the south-western coast of Jamaica           is
                                                                                   in
                                                                seen as a

             map from South Ncgril to Grand Pedro Bluff, with " the

             sparkling Caribbean Sea stretching away to the far, far

             distant horizon "  in  the direction of Cuba. On his first

                                                                                       \
                                                                                          I

bL A-,
y.Lif.i/c.1.  I87

                     ascent, tlic naturalist was charmed with an unexpected            i
                     scene on the very brow of the mountain, for this is culti-        ].;

                     vated as a garden of allspice, and around each tree a         1»

                     group of negro children were plucking the aromatic twigs          >5
                     in clusters, while flocks of green parrots and parroc^uets           's!

                     were shooting from bough to bough, and screaming dis-

                     cordantly as they went. The very I'cak itself is densely
                   covered with primal forest, "all," as he sa}-s, "in the rude
                     luxuriant wildness thai it bore in the days when the glories
                     of Hiese Hesperides first broke upon the astonished
                     e)-es of luu'opeans."

                         In every direction the neighbourhood of Dlueficlds

                   proved to be a rich field for zoological investigation. The
                     mountain-forest rose on one hand ; the seashore, with its
                     wall of mangroves, was stretched upon the other ; while
                   close around the house the grove of avocado-pear trees, a
                     dozen acres of open pasture, the low walls festooned with
. creepers, the valley of the rivulet, the orchid-nurseries on
                     the trunks of the straggling calabash trees, all formed so
                   many happy hunting grounds at the very threshold of
                     home. Gosse's first anxiety was to send something of
                     value back by the Caroline, on her return voyage. Without,
                     therefore, settling down to any very systematic labour, he
                     hastily set about forming a small collection of the Oiici-
                     dinuis, Aiigrccaiiiis, aiul other orchids wliich he found
                     growing in the angles of the calabashes, and in gathering
                   land-shells, of which he sent back a cabinet of seven

                   hundred and fifty specimens. These, with the addition of

                       a few birds, sponges, and ferns, being desiKitched, he had
                    time to turn round and consider himself at home.

                      He found himself unable to take the whole trouble of
                    collecting without much loss of time, and therefore, on
                    January i, 1845, he engaged a negro lad of eighteen,
                    Samuel Campbell by baptism and Sam by name, to give
^
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               -''
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  i
'.'.\  iSS THE LIFE OF PIIIIJP HEXRY GOSSE

Vi     him his entire services for a salary of four dollars a
       month. This arrangement continued until the naturalist

       returned to England, and proved eminently successful.
       He says :--

              " Sam soon approved himself a most useful assistant
           " by his faithfulness, his tact in learning, and then his
           " .'.kill in practising the art of preparing natural subjects,
          " his patience in pursuing animals, his powers of obser-
          " vation of facts, and the truthfulness with which he
          " reported them, as well as by the accuracy of his
          " memory with respect to species. Often and often,
          " when a thing has appeared to me new, I have appealed
          " to Sam, who on a moment's examination would reply,
           " ' No, we took this in such a" place, or on such a day,'
          " and I invariably found on my return home that his
          " memory was correct. I never knew him in the slightest
           " degree attempt to embellish a fact, or report more than
           " he had actually seen."

           Sam became so intelligent and serviceable, that, at length,
       he could be trusted upon expeditions of his own, and he
       added not a few specimens, and some of them unique, to

       the general collection.
           I'or a long time, almost the only breaks in the tranquil

       life at IMueficlds were occasional visits to Savannah-le-

       Mar. i\{lQ.x the silence of the week, Saturday would

       present a scene of unusual bustle, and not less than one
       hundred persons would assemble at sunrise on the beach

       at IMuefields, a population drained from many square
       miles of the interior. Three or four canoes, laden with
       fruit and vegetables, are slowly packed for the market of
       Savannah-le-Mar, and but little room is left for the legs of

       any would-be passengers :
               " The jabber is immense ; a hundred negroes, many of

           " them women, all talking at once, make no small noise ;

                                                                           M.
                                                                mir

JAMAICA.  iSg

   " and the wliitc teeth are perpetually shininj; out in the    \
   " sable faces, as the merry laugh -- the negro's own
   "laugh --rises continually. The figures of the women,        {,4 ' i
   " many of them nc^t ungraceful, though plump and
   "muscular, are picturesque, clad in short gowns of
   "showy colours, and wearing the peculiarly set handker-
   " cliicf for a head-dress, in form of a turban, often also

   "of bright hues, though in most cases white as snow.

   " They move about amongst the bustle, crowding up to
   " the canoes to stow their ware ; tucking up their frocks
   "still higher as the depth of water increases, regardless

  "of displa>-ing their bronzed legs. At the edge of the

   " water, on whose mirror-like surface the mounting sun

   "begins to pour torridl}-, the little children sit, sucking
   " cane or oranges, while the elder ones play about them,
   " helping to augment the noise. "

   It was during one of these occasional visits to Savannah-

le-Mar that he received the news of his father's death.

Almost immediately after Philip's departure for Jamaica,

the old gentleman had been seized with an ailment which

defied medical skill ; it proved fatal on November 26, 1S44,

while his son was crossing the Atlantic. Mr. Thomas Gosse

was serene in mind to the last, and died api)arently without

pain, and almost without a sigh, conscious, but entirely
tranquil. He would, in eight months more, have com-
pleted his eightieth year. The onl}' thing which fluttered
in the calm of his resigned cheerfulness was the memory
of one of those hopeless works in prose and verse which

ho had so vainly urged upon the publishers for more than
h;df a century. His latest words referred to an epic poem,
The Impious Rebellion, that he thought he had, on one of the

last occasions upon which he walked out, left for inspection
with Messrs. Blackwood, at their London agents'. He was

doomed, however, to live and die ineditcd, and when his
\\            190 THE LIFE OF PirH.ir JIEXRY GOSSE.

Ir.           heirs inquired for The Iii/pions Rcbdlion, behold ! as rare
              thinq's will, it liad \aiiishcd.
     ' 1 '
                  IMiilip (if)s.sc's Hfe at Hlucficlds now took an ahnost
il'i'         meclianical uniformity. The house was, as lias been said,
              a well-built mansion ; it was raised, in the colonial fashion,
      hL..*-  high above the ground, so that its dwelling-rooms were
              reached by climbing an exterior staircase. The naturalist
              had no return of those malarial symptoms which had
              troubled him in Alabama. His health in Jamaica was
              very good, at all events during the first year, and his
              spirits excellent. He attributed his good health in great
              measure to the tonic watc s of the Paradise River, the
              foaming and brawling rivulet which danced through the
              estate on its way to the ocean. In a hollow of the lime-
              stone rock, under a little cascade, he was in the habit of
              taking a long cool bath every day at noon, under the
              shadow of the bamboos, lounging here for half an hour at
              a time. On one occasion, he was 'lying motionless, just
              beneath the surface, when he observed that a vulture v.-as
              beginning "to descend in circles, swooping over me, nearer
              and nearer at every turn, until at length the shadow of
              his gaunt form swept close between my face and the light,
              and the rushing of his wide-spread wings fanned my body

              as he passed. It was evident that he had mistaken me for

              a drowned corpse ; and probably it wa. the motion of
              my open e)-es, as I followed his course, that told him all
              was not quite right, and kept him sailing round in' low
              circles, instead of alighting." Mere, too, in languid passages
              of the day, I'hilip Gosse would sit and fish for mullet with
              pieces of avocado pear, or grope for crayfish with a fish-pot.

                 These, however, were his idler moments, and in such he
              did not very often indulge. He would commonly set forth,
              about daybreak, in company with Sam, riding into the
              forest, alighting to gather shells, orchids, or insects, and
JAMAICA.  191                                                                                                                                                                                   m

                 pausiiif; to shoot birds. .\t first, lie was fain to borrow a                                                                                                                     fu-

                       i^nin when he could, but after a month or two, as he saw

                    the paramount importance of makini; a special study of
                    the birds of the island, he bought himself a L,nm, and was

                 never without 't. lie was disappointed in the insects, and

                    especially in the butterflies, which he found, at all seasons
                  of the year, to be far less numerous than he had antici-

                    pated. Ikittcrflics could be obtained but casually, and
                    moths were still mcjre rare. He had brouj^ht with him, on

                    purpose, a bull's-eye lantern, so useful an instrument in
                    the hands of northern entomolo<;ists, but allhou;_;h he

                      repeatedly tool: it out after niL;htfall, searchinc,^ in every
                    direction, he never made a single capture in Jamaica by
                    this means. There were one or two local exceptions
                    to this general scarcity ; a certain mile on the road above
                    Content was alive with insects, and most of the specimens

                    Go.sse secured were captured in this one locality, which did
                    not appear to differ in an)- other way from all neighbtjuring
                      places where no beetles or butterflies could be found.
                    When he was at home, or during the periods of troi)ical
                    rain, he was actively engaged in dr^-ing and packing his
                    plants, preparing his birds, wrapping u]) his orchids, cleans-
                    ing his shells, and putting all these captures into a proper
                    condition to be sent off to his sale agent in London. He
                    made seven successive shipments to JCngland during his
                    stay in the island, and all of these arrived in favourable
                    condition. He had become very atlroit in the preparation
                  of specimens for transit by .sea, and, except in orchids,
                    suffered few and inconsiderable losses.
^ It might be supposed that a missionar)' station was not
                    a favourable centre for the pursuit of scientific enterprise.
                    But this was not the case. Gossc's .sympathies were with
                    the Moravians, and their gentle manners won his affections.
                  To collect " bush " and " vermin " was, no doubt, eccentric ;
1
                                                                                                                                               ll I
                                                                                                                                                                                       % n .],:·
                              192 THE LIFE OF PHILIP IIEXRY GOSSE.

                                 but, then, the whole habit of life at the Moravian settlement
                                 was averse to rule and tradition of every kind. In this
                                 collection of odd, pietistic, and irregular white men, sur-
                                 rounded by an emotional crowd of affectionate and half-
                                 converted blacks, nothing was considered irregular, except
                                 regularity. They were exceedingly averse to anything
                                 which savoured of formality, even in their religion, and one
                                 or two of the leaders, after the lengthy Sunday services,
                                 would go out with their guns on horseback for the purpose
                                 of " testifying " against any supposed sanctity in the Lord's

                           Day as a day. If on their side they never criticized or

                                    disturbed the naturalist, he on his was much interested in

                              their form of Christianity. It is true that some of their
                                 oddities puzzled him. He notes in his journal, after the
I! first meeting at which he was present, which lasted six
                              mortal hours, "the great weariness of body which so long
                                 a sitting induced prevented me from enjoying the occasion
                              nearly so much as I had anticipated." Ikit he soon fell
                                 into their ways, and consented to help them in their
                           services. It was presently proposed that he should preach
                                 each alternate Sunday at a coffee plantation called Content,
                                 fifteen miles east of Bluefields, high up in the mountains.

                                 This proposal fell in well with his scientific projects, for
                                the fauna and flora of Content differed very considerably
                                 from those of Bluefields, and represented a less marine atmo-
                                sphere and a higher altitude. There was a little cottage
                                at Content, romantically perched on a mass of bare rock
                                under the shadow of the mountain, and here he made it a
                                practice to lodge for three or four days every fortnight,
                                shooting and collecting in the vicinity. In this way he
                                would ride far into the interior, sometimes staying all night
                                at a hospitable planter's house, and becoming thoroughly
                             acquainted with the aspect and the products of this part of
                             the colony -- never before or since, perhaps, visited by any

                                                                                                                                                                           mm
JAMAICA.  19'

one accustomed to express his observations in words. His                                              f
Natwalisfs Sojourn in Jamaica is full of exquisite descrip-
tions of the varied and picturesque scenery of the interior
of the island.

   His most dclicjhtful memories in later years were asso-

ciated with one particular series of scenes, which he visited,

perhaps, more often than any other. A lonely road led

over the shoulder of Blucfields Mountain to a half-de-

serted coffee plantation called Rotherhithe. Philip Gosse

was frequently accustomed to rise two hours before dawn,

and, sitting loosely in the saddle, to ride slowly up this
romantic ascent by the light of the stars, " listening," as
he says, "to the rich melodies poured forth by dozens
of mocking-birds from the fruit trees and groves of the

lower hills," managing to arrive at the brow of the moun-
tain at sunrise. Then he would leave his horse, and,
" throwing the bridle over his neck, allow him to graze on

a little open pasture until my return," while he would

pursue on foot the road towards Rotherhithe which has

been mentioned. This was the haunt of several rare birds
of peculiar interest --of the eccentric jabbering crow, of the
solitaire, and of the long-tailed humming-bird. It was
fascinating, in intervals of labour, "to sit on a fallen log

in the cool shadow, surrounded by beauty and fragrance,

listening to the broken hymns of the solitaires, and watch-

ing the humming-birds that sip fearlessly around your

head, and ever and anon come and peep close under the

brim of your broad Panama hat, -- as if to say, ' Who are
you that come intruding into our peculiar domain ?'"

   One great difficulty which Philip Gosse met with was
the absence of all scientific sympathy in Jamaica. He
could not hear of any other naturalist, native or imported,
who was working in earnest at the fauna of the island.

At length, however, his inquiries were rewarded by news of

                                                                                                   O
   nI:                                                                  f

1^4 £   nil194
   1^   r//E LIFE OF  LIT HEXRY GOSSE.

te!     a gentleman at Spanish Town, a magistrate and leading
        planter of the name of Richard Hill, who was understood
        to shoot birds and to preserve their skins. To him, then,
        wholly without introduction, Philip Gosse had the happy
        inspiration to write in the autumn of 1845, and the result

        was such as to make him wish that he had written a year
        earlier. The following was the very agreeable reply which
        he received :--

                                     " Spanish Town, November 6, 1845.

           "Dear Sir,
                    " On the receipt of your letter, I took down from

        " my bookshelves TJie Canadian Naturalist, and finding

        "the same 'P. H, ' preceding your name there, as in
        " your letter, I perceived that you were already known
        " to me. 1 acknowledge with pleasure the receipt of

        "your communication, and, as an earnest of my desire

        "to assist in turning your time to profit during your
        " sojourn among us, I send you a list of the birds of this
        " country, both migratory and stationary, which are

        "common to us with Central and Northern America.

        "As I have set them down from the list of the prints of

        " Musignano, you will be in no uncertainty as to the

        "objects to which I direct your attention. The advan-

        "tage of this list to you will consist in the number of

        "birds with which j'our North American experience
        "will make }'ou intimately acquainted. I have added

        "another list containing what may be considered our

        " peculiar ornithology. I have given with this such of
        " the scientific names as I can determine with cer-

        " tainty.

            " My peculiar walk in natural history has been con-
        " fined to birds, with the view of illustrating that branch
        " of our local history ; in other departments my ac-
T

I

   JAMAICA.  I9S

   "quaintancc is only general. Our vertebrate animals           :H
   " consist but of the agouti, Dasyprocta ; and the aleo,                i
   " a dog now extinct, but common as a domestic coin-
   "panion of the Indians at the tiine of the discovery.
   " You will find that it was a curly-haired, brown variety
   " of the Mexican terrier, now so generally known as
   " the favourite lap-dog called the Mexican mopsy, the
   " Mexican being the white woolly variety. Our reptiles

   "are not numerous, but they arc new to the naturalist ;

   "the alligator and the pretty changeable anolis, with the

   "dilatable gorge, being almost the only ones yet de-
   " scribed to TZuropean readers. Our fishes have scarcely

   "been made the subject of investigation. Dr. Parnell,

   "of the British Museum, who was in this island some

   " four years ago, attended, however, exclusively to this

   "field of inquiry, in conjunction with the reptiles. On

   "your return to Europe, you will be able to determine

   "from your own observations in these two departments
   " of vertebrata by the ascertained species in the British
   " Museum.

       " I have nearly completed a scries of papers on the

   "migratory instincts of birds, with a view of illus-
   " trating our ornithology, intending, after the manner of
    " Alfred de Malherbc in his Fanne Oniithfllogiqiic de la
    " Sicile, to describe what was particularly our own, and
    " to direct attention to the published descriptions already

    "known of those that were common to us and the
    " neighbouring continent.

       " In onv Jamaica Almanac, from 1840 to 1843 inclusive,
    "you will see all that I have published on our local
    " natural history, if I except some few papers on

    "insects in the Royal Agricultural Society's Reporter.
    " I write you hurriedly, having our quarter sessions
    " sitting, and with little time at my disposal ; but I
I'/j THE LIFE OF PHILIP IfEXPY GOSSE.

   "sliall not fail to renew my intercourse with you, if
   "you should in any further communication desire it.

         " With much respect, pray believe me to be, dear sir,
                                    "Very faithfully yours,

                                          "Richard Hill."

This was the opening passage in one of the warmest

and most intimate friendships of my father's life, assidu-

ously cultivated long after his departure from Jamaica,

and not wholly interrupted until the death of Mr. Mill. In

185 1, when sending the preface of his Naiiinxlist's Sojourn
ill Jamaica to the press, Philip Gosse wrote that he con-
sidered it " one of the happiest reminiscences of a visit

unusually pleasant, that it gave him the acquaintance of a

gentleman whose talents and acquirements would have

done honour to any country, but whose excellences as a

man of science, as a gentleman, and as a Christian, shine

with peculiar lustre in the comparative seclusion of his
                  "
native  island       and  he insisted,   in the face of his friend's
                ;

modest entreaties, in appending the words " assisted by

Richard Hill " to the title-page of each of his own Jamaica

volumes. They did not meet till 1846, on an occasion

: t which shall presently be described.

    In October, 1845, Gosse had occasion to visit the north

coast of the island of Jamaica, his friend Mr. Deleon
offering him a seat in his gig. lie had thus the oppor-
tunity of crossing the country twice, and of seeing the

interior to advantage ; but he found     from the scientific
)
  t-
     .

                                                                              it
                                                                                                          it,

                                                                                                                                   a
                                                                                                                                             a
point of view, disappointing. They pa..:ed, among otiier
things, the remote plantation of Shuttlewood, remarkable

from the circumstance that was here that bag of grass
seed, brought from Africa to be the food for cage of

finches, was emptied out upon the fertile soil, and in due

time became the nucleus from which guinea-grass, one of
JAAtAICA.  n?

the best pastures in th? West Indies, spread to all parts of        i
Jamaica. The approach to the town of Monte^^o liay was
very fine, and so clear was the atmosphere that tlic high-      A
lands of Cuba, ninety miles away, were seen faintly on the
                                                                ;( 1
north-western horizon. Philip Gosse was the guest while

at Montego Hay of !\Ir. and Mrs. J. L. Lewin. With this

gentleman he had already correspontled on zoological ques-
tions, and had obtained useful notes from him. The

naturalist's experience in the north of Jamaica was sufficient
to persuade him that he had done perfectly right to settle
in the southern district of the island. He found the fauna

and flora in the country of St. James distinctly more scanty
.ind le ^ >aluablc than in his own Westmoreland and St.
Elizabeth. This was the most extensive of many excur-
sions which he took from the central stations of Hluefields

and Content, sometimes riding out until nightfall, and

trusting to the never-failing Jamaica hospitality to supply
him with a bed.

   For a whole year his health was excellent, and even
when Sam got the fever in consequence of their explora-
tions m damp hot hollows of the forest, his master escaped
scot-free. Towards the end of December, 1845, however,

after stalking yellow bitterns for a day or two in the
morass, and ending up with several hours spent knee-deep
in the deep mud of the fcetid creek, getting pot-shots at
pelicans and kingfishers, both the white naturalist and the
black one were laid up with a very sharp attack of fever.
Four days later, they were both down in the creek morass
again, shooting snipe and ground-doves, but from this time
forth Philip Gosse was liable to violent headaches and
sickness at quickly recurring intcvals. He consequently

began to put his house in order, cataloguing his captures

and preparing to leave the country.
    On March 3, 1S46, he rode with Sam to Savannah-le-
w              198 T//-E LIFE OF nilLIP HENRY GOSSE.

            i  Mar, and took berth on board the steamer Earl of Elgin,
               which was coasting eastwards. After a day's pleasant
  .J .1
          1    steaming along the south shore of Jamaica, they got into
               Kingston Harbour at nightfall. The tossing of the Ca-
               ribbean Sea was exchanged for the smooth surface of the
               land-locked harbour, over which a flock of gulls were

               flying and hovering. He proceeded to a noisy hot hotel,
               where the contrast with the still cool nights of Blueficlds,
               scarcely broken by the note of a bird or a bat, kept him
               awake till near morning, or at least till long after a riotous

               party of billiard-players had finally decided to break up.
               He rose early and walked about the dirty and unattractive
               capital of Jamaica. Having despatched a note to Mr.
               Richard Hill, in Spanish Town, to announce his arrival,

               he paid some calls, and drove out a little way into the
               country, to find, on his return to the hotel, that Mr. Hill

               had instantly responded to his summons, and was in the
               parlour waiting to welcome him. This was the first meet-
               ing of the brother ornithologists. The next day Mr. Hill
                did the honours of Kingston, and in particular took Gosse
                to the rooms of the Jamaica Society, where they examined
                together Dr. Anthony Robinson's drawings of birds and

                plants. The specimens in the town museum were S.<:.\\ anil

                in wretched preservation, yet the objects in themselves
                mostly good. l?y the afternoon train the friends left
                Kingston for Spanish Town, and spent the evening in

                examining a large collection of drawings of birds, made
                by Richard Hill himself

                    Philip Gossc's brief stay at Spanish Town was made

                extremely pleasant to him by the assiduous hospitalities

                of Richard Hill. On the loth, in company with Mr. Hill

                and a young collector, Mr. Osborne, who had been invited
                to meet the English naturalist, Sam and the latter
                ascended Highgatc, a peak of the Liguanca Mountains,
mmmmm^mag^m^''''SFsmgssssssars!S3SS.

JAMAICA.  199

about three thousand feet above the sea. From this point        ' V\

there is a famous view, which has several times been

described ; not only does the sinuous southern coast of

Jamaica He spread out before tlie spectator, but the
northern sea, near Annotto Bay, can also be seen shining

between the peaks. The ascent occupied six hours, and

when another hour had been spent in searchinj^^ for shells

and insects, it was time to take shelter for the night in a

house under the brow of the mountains. Here the tem-

perature was delightfully cold, and the travellers were even

glad to roll blankets around them in their beds. Ne.Kt

morning they gazed again on the magnificence of the

unrivalled prospect at their feet, but soon after sumisc it

was necessary to start for Spanish Town. He thus
describes the drive back in his journal (March i i, 1846) :--

       " We returned by a different route, skirting the sum-
    " mits of the Liguanea Mountains, and passing through
    " smiling plantations, in order to descend into the
   " romantic parish of St. Thomas in the Vale. After a
    " while, \vc crossed and rccrossed, many times, the
   " winding Rio d'Oro, and at length entered the magnifi-
   " cent gorge called the Bog Walk (i.e. bocaca.z, a sluice),
    'through which runs the Cobre, formed by the union of

   "the ISegro and the D'Oro. The road lay for four
    " miles through this deep gorge, by the side of the river,
   "e.'.id afforded at every turn fr^sh scenes of surpassing

    ' wildness, grandeur, and beauty. The r&ck often rose
    " to a great height on ,ach side, leaving only room for
    " the rushing stream which seemed to have cleft its

    "course, and the narrow pathway at its side. Somc-
    " times, across the river, the side of the ravine receded
   "in the form of a very steep but sloping mountain,
    " covered with a forest of large timber, and so clear of
    " underwood, that tne eye could peer far up into its
\       200 THE LIFE OF FIIILIP IIEXRY GOSSE.                           '^
                                                                        ^i
  \ A.      "gloomy recesses. Here and tlierc the course of the
           " river was dammed up by islets ; some of them mere
   W}\      " masses of dark rock, others adorned with the elegant
            " waving plumes of the graceful bamboo. But the most
            " remarkable object was the immense rock called
            " Gibraltar, which rises on the opposite bank of the
            " river, from the water's edge, absolutely perpendicular,
            " to the height of five or six hundred feet ; a broad mass

           "of limestone, twice as high as St. Paul's."
           At nightfall the same day, their carriage drove into the

        streets of Spanish Town. Two or three days later, the
        friends began a revised list of the birds of Jamaica, the

        discoveries of each being able to fill up gaps in the expe-
        rience of the other ; and this was the occupation of each

        successive evening. On the 17th they finished their list,
        making out 184 species of birds more or less clearly. Sam
        was all this time actively engaged on daily excursions,

        usually alone, and he rarely failed to bring hoir.e at night
        at least one interesting rarity. The next day the fri'jnds
        betook themselves to Kingston, and in the rooms of the

        Jamaica Society carefully compared their list of birds witli
        that in Robinson's manuscripts. It should here be ex-
        plained that Dr. Anthony Robinson, a surgeon practising
        in Jamaica in the middle of the eighteenth century, had
        left behind him a very valuable mass of information on

        the zoology and botany of the island, )\hich had been

        preserved, in five folio volumes, in the archives of the
        Jamaica Society in Kingston. " The specific descriptions,
        admeasurements, and details of colouring," Philip Gosse
        wrote in reference to these collections, " are executed with

        an elaborate accuracy worthy of a period of science far
        in advance of that \\\ which Robinson lived, and accom-

        panying the manuscripts are several volumes of carefully

        executed drawings, mostly coloured." On March 23,
          mmmsasim                                           Sfc-\ '

          yAM.l/CA.                                  201

P]iilip Gossc, accompanied by the     ever-faithful  Sam,
took leave of his hospitable friend,  and started    from
Kingston in the coasting steamer      T/w ITave.
                                                       An

easterly breeze from Port Royal carried them roughly

but swiftly back to Blucfields, the captain making a

special exception in the naturalist's favour by dropping
the two passengers at Blucfields, instead of carrying thcin
on to Savannah-le-Mar. No one had ever enjoyed this
privilege before, and the wanderers were welcomed with

as much bewilderment as delight. They had been exactly

three weeks away from home, three weeks which formed

a delightful oasis of intellectual excitement in I'lulip

Gosse's monotonous existence. He had left Blucfields

dispirited and poor))- ; he returned in buoyant health and

spirits.

s% He once more fell into the regular and monotonous life
of the collector, riding out to shoot every day, sending
                                                                                                                                 ni 1:1
Sam, and other lads whom he had trained, into the forest

for plants and insects, and spending his evenings in pre-

paring his captives for the transit to England. On

June 1 8, 1846, he rather suddenly determined to bring
his stay at Blucfields to a close, and sent to the bay to

engage a passage for himself and Sam on board a sloop, or

drogger, which was just starting for Kingston. Mis parting
with the kind and faithful Colemans was a pathetic one,

and when he set foot on the vessel, he turned "to gaze for
the last time at a place where I have spent so many

pleasant months." The voj-age occupied seven dreary

days, mitigated by a daj' agreeably spent on shore, at
lilack River, with some friends. He had the pleasant

consciousness, while knocking about under Bedro Bluff,

that the English packet, which he had hoped to catch, must

be then just leaving Kingston. On the morning of the last

day (June 26) he had a curious and very embarrassing
                                                                                             ^

             ?02 THE LIFE OF rillLIF HENRY GOSSE.

      t\     ex[icriencc. While lyinc^ in the berth of the h'ttle clo^'^
             cabin, he was awakened by severe twinc^c in the sidj of
       I ;!  his neck on putting his hand to tlie place, he took hold
             it
t
                      ;
  V:r.
   V                                a
         '                                                       a

 |l                                                                       it
             of some object which was so firmly fastened to the flesh
\'M :
             that required  sharp tug to make                                 et go. By the

             dim light of the cabin-lamp he discovered that he had

             caught, fortunately by the tail, a large scorpion. The

             pain was sharp, but perhaps not greater than that of             a

             wasp-sting the wound swelled rapidly, but, being rubbed
             with rum by the old skipper, speedily healed. " One of
             the most curious of the results was numbness of some of
             ;

                            if

                                                              a
                                                             in
             the nerves of the tongue, perceptible the papillce of the

             surface, which felt as dead."

             They entered Kingston Harbour that night, and finding

             that, as he anticipated, he had missed the packet, Philip

             Gosse took lodgings in the town, not altogether displeased                      ·
             to be forced to see something more of the capital of

             Jamaica. Next day he engaged   berth on board the
                                            a
                                                                  9.
             steamer Avon, which was to sail on July                          Me met

             Richard Hill, b)' a fortunate, accident, that same afternoon,

             and received from him the welcome news that the Jamaica
             Society had resolved to entrust him with the Anthony-

             Robinson manuscripts to take with him to Europe.

             He went up then and there to the society's rooms, and

             secured these valuable papers. After fortnight, divided
                                               a

             between Spanish Town and Kingston, and much spoiled

             by the distress of an ulcerated leg, he at length said fare-

             well to his friends and to Jamaica, Richard Hill waving

^:l          adieu to him froai the quay at Kingston, and another

             friend. Dr. Fairbank, kindly accompanying him, for com-                         .
             pany's sake, so far as Port Royal. His last glimpse of

             Jamaica was the twinkling of the lighthouse on Point
             Morant. Next day, at daj'break, the mountains of Hayti

             were visible, and " during the whole day we ran along the

                                                                                             l^
                                                                   «-^.r

JAMAICA.  203

i,n-cat promontory of Tiburon, the ancient province of             it

Xavagna, once the happy domain of the beautiful antl                t;il
                                                                    \v
unfortunate Princess Anacaona." On the following morn-
                                                                            I'!
ing, when lie came on deck, the Avoti was putting off mails
in the land-locked harbour of Jacmel, in Ilayti. "There                  it*

had been rain in the night, and the shaggy hill-tops were          !
                                                                   1 "'1
partially robed in fragments of cloud, undefined and                   " *1
changing, which contrasted finely with the dark surface (jf

the forest. Inland the mountains in the morning sun
looked inviting ; and I noticed that they displayed the
same singular resemblance to crumpled paper, as those in
the eastern part of Jamaica."

    The Avon steamed across to Puerto Rico, and ran, all

through the 13th, along the northern shore of that island,
" the land thickly strewn with cultivated estates, spotted
with clumps of trees, and presenting a very beautiful

appearance, contrasting in this respect with both Jamaica
and Hayti, whose forest coasts display little trace of culti-

vation, and look rude and uninviting." Soon after noon,

the Moro, or fortification which protects the town of San
Juaii, \\as in sight, like a white wall projecting into the sea,

and four hours later the steamer moored under it.
       " The town, walled and strongly fortified, reminded

   " me, with its turret-like houses, and little balconies to
   " each window, of engravings of Spanish cities ; and

   "when I went ashore and wandered through the streets,
   " ladies in black mantillas, opening and shutting their
    " fans as they walked, solemn priests in black robes and
    " shovel hats, the children, the men, X\\c posadas (taverns),
   " everything had such a novel character as I had never
    " before seen. P^or, in all my travels, I have never before
   " set foot in any other country than such as are inha-
   " bited by the Anglo-Saxon race. After partaking of a
   " little nicety in a posada, and seeing the paved parts of
         204 THE LIFE OF PHILIP IIEXRY COSSE.

         " the town, I and a single companion who had separated

         " from the main party found that we could not ^et a
         " boat for less than four dollars, for about fifteen minutes'

         " rowing.  The steamer, however, was under way, and

         " we had no alternative but to pay and found that
                                             it,
                                                  a

                                                       I
         " my afternoon's stroll had cost mc half guinea."

         The reason of his separation from the others was that

         they had all trooped into the cathedral, where Philip

         Gosse's strong conscientious objection to the Roman

         Catholic forms of worship made      impossible for him to
                                        it
                                              it

                                                                                      it
         follow them. To the end of his days he never, on one

         single occasion, entered what   was his uncompromising

         habit to call "popish mass-house."
         A

                             a
                little before daybreak next morning, the steamer got
         into the Danish harbour of St. Thomas. Though

         rained hard until after sunrise, and the mist enveloped the

         hills, yet the beauty of the town, rising from the sea on                        ·

         the sides of three conical mountains, could not be con-

         cealed. Gossc walked little way into the bush, and
                                a

         captured fifty-two insects, almost all of them new to him,

         among which were some fine and curious Ctircu/ionidie

         and Lotigicorns.       In the evening he took another pleasant,

         though rather fatiguing walk, and saw the Slip, "a noble

         work on which the largest ships can be hauled up and

         repaired." Next morning he again cntomologizcd     the
                                         a

                                                                          in

                                                                                                                                         ?
         bush, and captured fifty-four insects. He saw all the
         sights of St. Thomas, visited the Moravian mission, " called

         on Mr. Nathan, the Chief Rabbi, very friendly and gen-

         tleman-like man," and went back to the steamer to sleep.

         At sunrise on the iCth, they quitted the beautiful harbour

         of St. Thomas, having received many new passengers, and

         steamed north for Bermuda. These two slight excursions,

     '\  at San Juan and St. Thomas, were the only occasions,
't;      during the whole of my father's life, when he stepped on

         land that was not Anglo-Saxon.
yA.VAICA.  20q                                                                      f
                                                                                       i
                        On the 20th the Avon arrived at Bcnnuda, where the
                  traveller "admired the Ene^lish-lookin^ beauty of the
                    islands, divided into fields and strewn with pretty white
                  houses." Off the small island of Ireland, the goods and

                      passengers were transferred to the steamer Clyde, and the

                    Avcvt made her way back to Ilavannah. Scarcely had the
                    former vessel started eastward on the following day, than
                    Philip Gossc was attacked with violent headache. The
                    symptoms of brain fever rapidly dis[)layed themselves, and
                    for a fortnight he was very dangerously ill. On August
                    4 he was permitted by the ship's doctor to creep up on
                    deck for the first time, and to enjoy the pleasing sight of
                    the Land's End, dimly visible at a distance of twenty-five
                    miles. Next day, still very weak and wretched, yet
                    steadily gaining strength, he was put on shore at South-
                    ampton, and enjoyed a long sleep in an hotel bed. Xc.\t
· morning (August 6, 1846) he took an early train for
                    London, reached his mother to find her well, and had the

                    satisfaction, in unpacking his specimens, to discover all
                    uninjured. Moreover his living birds, which some kind
                    person on board the steamer had attended to during his

                    brain fever, were in good health, only two, the blue pigeon

                    and the mountain witch, having died.
                      My father's single episode of tro^iical life had now closed.

                 It had been in ever)'' respect a signally successful one.

                    Those theoretical zoologists who had encouraged him to

                    go out to Jamaica were satisfied, and far more than satis-
                   fied, with the practical result of his labours. Tlie chronicle
                    of his life in Jamaica is monotonous, because it was so

                 crowded with scientific incident. lie stuck to his work,

                     and not a single week-day passed in which he did not add
                     something to his experience.
                                                                                T

              ( 206  )

 3'-f                               CHAPTER VIII.
     \I
                                    LITERARY "V.VORK IN LONDON.
[i 5 '
        'l i                                        1846-- 1 85 I.

IpV           THE record of the next two years is scanty. They
                        were spent in close retirement and in almost incessant

              literary labour. Philip Gossc came back from Jamaica
              considerably altered and matured ; from a belated youth
              he had slipped rather suddenly into premature middle age.
              The climate of the West Indies, his solitary conditions
              there, coinciding with a period of life which is often critical,
              liad their effect upon his person and his temperament. It
              may be well, at this point, to give some description of the
              former, which underwent no further perceptible change for
              many years. He was under middle size ; slight, and almost
              slim, when he had left England, he returned from Jamaica
              thick-set and heavy- limbed, troubled with a corpulence that
              was not quite healthy. His face was large and massive,
              extremely pallid, with great strength in the chin, and long,
              tightly compressed lips ; decidedly grim in expression, but
              lighted up by hazel eyes of extraordinary size and fulness.
              These eyes, which have been compared (I suppose more
              with regard to their luminous character than their shape)
              with the eyes of Lord Beaconsfield, were the most obvious
              peculiarity of the face, which was, nevertheless, chiefly
              remarkable, to a careful observer, for the tense and exalted
              nature of the expression it habitually wore. Nothing was
LITERARY WORK IX I.OXDON.  207

more common, even among my father's own family, than                            II
for a person who approached him with the design of asking                       it
a question or making a remark, to hesitate, scared by his
apparent austerity. No one can doubt that, without in-
tending to be so, he was often not a little awe-inspiring.
This was partly caused by his introspective habit of mind,
self-contained in meditation ; partly also by his extreme
timidity, which found a shelter under this severe and
awful mien. \'ery often, when the person who approached
him wondered whether those oracular lips would fulminate,
the oracle himself was only speculating how soon he could
flee away into his study and be at rest. The air of

severity was increased by the habit of brushing his straight
black hair tightly away from the forehead ; it was occa-

sionally removed by a cluud of immeasurable tenderness

passing across the great brown lustrous orbs of his eyes.
His smile was rare, but when it came it was exquisite.*

   That his standard, both for himself and others, was high,
and that his manner towards an offender could be formi-
dable, it would be easy to prove. At this juncture one
striking example may suffice. One of the difficulties of
the Moravian mission at Bluefields had been the unalter-

able prejudice against treating the negroes as exact
equals with white men and women. It was especially
hard to overcome the feeling of shame and repulsion with
which West Indian society regarded the idea of niixetl
marriages between whites and blacks. To the Moravians,

however, it appeared that no difference should be made

when the Church had received members of the two races

   * A very remarkable accidental portrait of my father, as he looked when he

was about sixty years of age, exists in the museum at Brussels. I'hilip (losse

might have sat for the man, holding a crimson missal, who kneels in the lelt-

hand wing of the triptych, by IJernard van Orley (No. 40 in the Catalogue),
except that the nose is too large and flat. The eyes and mouth, the general
form of the face, and the colour of the skin are marvellously identical.
                        >'.w"rt«!

                        208 THE LIFE OF rillLIP HENRY GOSSE.

                        to a like communion, and a certain person, apparently to

                        gain prestige with the body, had expressed himself willing

                        to marry a converted negro girl, and had gone through the

                        ceremony of betrothal at liluefields. But on his returning

                     )  to England no more had been heard of him, and Philip
              I
       II               Gosse was commissioned to remind him of his promise.

 It                     He did so immediately on his own arrival in London, and

  i..f                  received a flippant reply.  To this he returned the follow-

m                       ing answer :--

                        "t have received your note of yesterday. I cannot

                        "say that it would give me any pleasure to see you,
                        " knowing as I do your behaviour to Sistei Stevens. I
                        " desire to write in a humiliating sense of my own failure,

                        "yet in faithfulness I must say that the whole affair,

                        "the breaking of a solemn engagement, the coolness

                        "with which you could crush a sister's happiness, and
                        " above all the insincerity, I had almost said the duplicity,
                        " which has marked your whole course in renders any
                                                    a

                                                                            it,

                                                                           I
                        "communion with you out of the question.                 cannot

                        "help believing, with almost moral certainty, that even
                        " when you recorded your betrothal before the Church at

                        " Bluefields, you had not even the slightest intention of

                        "returning to fulfil it. And when the tenor of your

                        " letters began to intrude painful suspicions on our
                        " minds, and Coleman and myself felt constrained to-
                        " wards you, your replies (at least that to me) insinu-
                        "ated that you were still unchanged in intention, and

                        " that your health was the only obstacle. But when

                        " read cannot help adding ivith indignation) in your
                        I

                                 (I

                                            a
                        "late letters to Sister S. your heartless breach of

                        "promise,              breach which would evoke the scorn of

                        " every worldly man of honourable feeling, and which

                        " in court of law would be visited with heavy damages,
                        a
                     LHERAKY IVORK IN LOXDON:                        809

I saw at once how cf^rc^iously our love and confidence
had been misplaced. I know not the nature of the

purification of which you speak, but if this is the fruit

of desire not to know it.
 " Perhaps you may think am severe
a                    ;                              write not in
       it,                                       ;
        I             it, I
                            I                     I
              it,                                          if
                                 it
                                                                 it
bitterness, but in grief. To me the transaction seems

very sliocking one and               it is  not the least painful

trait in that you can write of so lightly, as                        were

an everyday matter.       trust the Lord may trouble

your conscience about     which had much rather see
                                     ;I
than your present complacency to Ilim               I  leave you.

                          " Remaining

                       " Yours in much sorrow,

                                            "P. H. GO.S.SE."

   The conditions under which Philip Gossc had gone out
to Jamaica, and those under which he now returned, may
be gathered from the following letter addressed to the
well-known collector of natural objects, Mr. W. W.
Saunders --
I'
                  :"My dear Sir," Dalston, August   I          1846.
                                                           8,
                     "Your favour of the i6th of April, acknow-

ledging the receipt of the first consignment of woods,

was received in due course. In May shipped another
                                            III
lot of specimens, and that vessel, understand, has

been here some little time. That did not write by

'her, giving you an account of the consignment, was                        i.

owing to the fact that believed myself on the pointI
of sailing for England by the steamer and, fully ex-
                                                 ;

pecting to be in England long before the specimens,

intended to wa-itc to you from London.                 was, how-

ever, strangely disappointed of two successive packets,
          2IU ·///; /.//'/; OF riiii.ip hexry gosse.
          y
                                                                       liavc
                 It I

                           is
                                           a

                                        II
                                                           in

                                                               I
          "and am now only just anivctl by the Clyde.

          "taken some pains to ascertain the botanical names of
          " the woods, but have not succeeded in all cases. Wliat-

          "evcr little personal trouble have been at in procuring

          "these woods, beg you to consider has been undertaken

          ^^con aniore.  but very small return for the kind-

          "ncss you exhibited towards me  so very promptly

          " advancing me aid when was rather short of cash.

          " Any allusion to pecuniary remuneration, direct or

          " indirect, for this, will only grieve my feelings, so that
          " you will permit me gratefully to decline it. The
          " expenses ictually incurred have no objection to your
          I

                               a
                                  it
                                                 I

                                                                   if
M         "refunding, though will be pleasing to me you will                                               1
          " accept this also. But as yo'i might fmd this disagree-
il ;;
          "ablc, enclose little note of the expenses incurred in
  I? I;
          "procuring and shipping the specimens. Should you
   l!
          "have an opportunity of seeing Mr. John A. Ilankey,
i iI
          "I beg that you will present my compliments to him,
    iV.i
          "with cordial thanks for his politeness in allowing niy
   p' ,
          "specimens of natural history to pass freight free."

          appears from this letter, and from other documents,
          It

                        a
                                                             a

                                                                                                        a

                                                                                                 it
          that, eminently successful as the Jamaica trip had been,
          had not led to any definite addition to Gosse's means of

          income. He had supported himself with independence in

          the West Indies, and he had brought back, in addition to

          his sales, collection of miscellancou- objects for which he

          slowly found purchasers; but Ik l-ad no security for the

          future. The British Museum pnjposcd another excursion,

fii       this time to the Azores, and he made some preliminaries

          towards starting in the winter of 184G, bor.ght              Portu-

          guese grammar, learned the mode of arriving at I'^iyal

          from Madeira, and began  list of Azorean desiderata.

          But the scheme fell through, mainly because an abundance
                                                                  V

             LITERARY llORK /X I.OXDO.V.                     311

of literary work immediately came in his way, and pro-

mised to be quite as lucrative as a tropical excursion and
much less laborious. He was very properly anxious,

moreover, to ^Mve due literary form t(j the ornithological

discoveries which he had made in the \\ \.'.t Indies, and

before he had been a month in London, he bcj^an to write

for Mr. Van Voorst his volume on The Birds of Jamaica,
which he completed in the foUowin^^ March. This was
one of the most important and compendious of his works,

and he temi)ered the strain of its composition by coin-
pilini(, at the same time, for his old friends the Society for

Promoting Christian Knowledge, a volume on The Monu-

ments of Ancient Et^ypt, which, however, was not published
until Novcinber, 1847. This book professes to be no more
than "a plain treatise for plain people," and Philip Gosse

had no first-hand knowledge of archieology.            He was,

however, helped in writing it by two distinguished I'^gyi^to-
logists -- Dr. Samuel Birch, of the British Museum, and

the Rev. G. C. Renouard, Rector of Swanscombe, in Kent.

It of course, long since obsolete, but ran with esteem
is,                                 it
                                                     it, i,
               of
through several editions.

The Birds          Jamaica was published on May            1847,

and was received with great respect by the world of

science. lie says, in one of his letters, speaking of this
book, " It sells rather slowly, but every one praises
                                                             and

has been well reviewed in Germany." The [)ublication
it
          a
of The Birds of Jamaica raised I'hilii) Gosse's reputation

with bound, and among those ornithologists who took

this opportunity of making his personal acquaintance, and

gave expression to their admiration, were prominent Sir

William Jardine, the Vicomtc du Bus, John Gould, and

D. W. Mitchell. The book filled  a  gap in the existing

records of science, and contrived to please two classes of
                   it

readers, since, while its scientific definitions were accurate
I t'          212 THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

If            and detailed, no observation of habits and no characteristic
              anecdote was omitted to fill up the portrait of each
       \      successive bird. The only complaint which was made by
              the reviewers was the entire lack of illustrations, the
k         II  absence of which was presently explained and removed,
          I   as we shall see in due course. On the title-page of T/w
      *       Birds of Jamaica the words "assisted by Richard Hill,
         i    Esq., of Spanish Town," succeeded the name of the author,
    f:   '    although greatly against that modest gentleman's wish,
              and the publication was delayed by the fact that every
X             sheet was sent out to Spanish Town to be read in proof by
              Mr. Hill. The Birds of Jamaica once launched, Philip
'W i          Gossc innncdiately began, in a quiet way, that labour in
              the popularization of science which was ultimately to form
              so large a proportion of his life's work. Once more the
              S.P.C.K. suggested to him that a series of small volumes,
              strictly accurate from a scientific point of view, but giving
              zoological facts in a form easily to be comprehended b)-
              the public, would be of great service to the 'general reader.
              Nothing of the kind existed, and he gladly undertook to
              open such a series. He began the Mammalia in June,
               1847, and it was published a )-car later, having occupied
              but a small part of those months. It was copiously illus-
              trated with woodcuts designed by the author and by
              j. W. Whymper.

                  In the spri-ig of 1S47, while stooping to dig up gladiolus
              bulbs from, the grass-plot of his friend, Mr. William 15ergcr,
              my father was suddenly conscious of pain, apparently
              caused by a strain to the liver, and from this time forth,
               for fifteen years at least, he was more or less continuously-
               subject to what was supposed to be dyspepsia, often very
              acute in character, and causing great depression of spirits
               The fact that he was constantly reading and writing,
               and th.it he took no exercise of any kind, except a little

                                                            1 ,'iiIiL.
   LITERARY WORK IN LONDON.  213                                       '·VI
                                                                        If*;!
   work in his i;arden, did not improve matters. In the
                                                                               ' 
   record of his career at this time, his rolii,nous h'fe must not
                                                                         f
   he omitted. After hi.s return from Jamaica in 1S46, he
   was for some time connected with no body of Christians,
   Ijut in April of tlie following >'ear he joined a few other
   persons, alm.ost all of them educated n-ien, in forming at
   ]Iackne> a meeting of the communion then recently
   united, throughout England, under the title of " Brethren,"
   or " Plymouth Pirethrcn," as the\' were usuall) called,
   apparently from the circumstance that their central meet-
   ing was at Bristol, which, likx- I'lj-mouth (where for some
   time they did not exist), is in the west of ICngland. The

   tenets of this body are perhaps well known. They may be
   best described by a series of negations. The Brethren

   liave no ritual, no appointed minister, no government, no
   hierarchy of an\' kind ; they eschew all that is systematic
   or vertebrate ; their manner of worshi[) is the most
   socialistic hitherto invented. Their positive tc:nets are an

   implicit following of the "---xt of Holy Scripture, the

   enforcement of ailult baptism, subsequent upon conversion
   and preliminary to the partaking of the Lord's Supper in
   both kinds, the loaf of breatl and the cu[) of wine being
   passed from hand to hand in silence, every Sunday

   mornnig.

       Whether this intercstmg sect still exists in an>'thing

   like its early simplicity I cannot sa\-, but I think not. It

   is at all events certain that it verv soon suffered from a

   violent split in its own corporation, if such \ 'ord may be

    used of a conglomeration of atoms, and that its obscure
    meetings became a byword for bigotry and unlovely

    prejudice. But in its beginning, and when Philip Gosse

    and his friends first gathered round a deal table in a bare

    room in Hackney, this Utopian dream of a Christian
    socialisj7i, with all its simplicity, muvi^tt^ and earnest faith,

1
n            214 7y//r z//rz;' c/^ philip iiexry gosse.

      :      was one at wiiich those who knew human nature better

     \i      might smile, \mt wliich was neither ignoble nor unattractive.
             These early IJrcthrcn had at least one strong poi :t.
      t      The absence from their ritual of an^- other book thre\v
             them upon the study of the ]?ible, and the tact that most
 ill:        of the founders of the sect were educated and, perhaps it
             may be added, somewhat eccentrically educated men,
li           made their exposition of the Scripture deep, ingenious,

      ·  -1  and unconventional.
                 One result of these new religious ties was the formation

             of fresh scruples with regard to any action of a worldly
             kind. The Brethren held that it was the dut}' of the
             Christian to le.ive all revenge to God, to bow to injury
             and insult, and, above all, on no occasion to use any form
             of words stronger than affirmation. In the autumn of
              1847, while I'hilip Gosse was looking into the window of
             a i)rint shop, at tiie C(jrner of Wellington Street, Strand, a

             boy picked h's pocket (jf a silk handkerchief .\ i)olice-

             man saw tlic tliief, caught him, and dragged him to liow
             Street, where the victim of the theft was asked to prose-
             ci'te ; "but I," says mj- father in a letter recording the
             incident, " from lirethren's noticMis of grace, refused, and
             they would not restore nu: the haiulkerchief" Soon after-
             wards, while his mother, he, and the servant-maid were all
             out at meeting one Sunda\- morning, the house was broken

             open and robbed. .A watch, some niiwiatures, and other

             x-aluables were stolen. The police came to make inquiries,
             Ijut, for conscience' sake, the owner refused to take any
             steps in pursuit. I should add that the extreme punctilio
             of whicli these trifling occurrences are examples was after-

             wards modified ; but my father always retained a great
             repugnance to the i)rosccution of individual criminals,
             though very severe on crime in the abstract.

                 Among tliose who met, with this austere siniplicit}-, at
                                                                            wm

LITERARY WORK LY LO.VDON,  215

the meeting-room at H:icl;ncy, was a lady of American                           I ;\
parentage, equally remarkable for her outward charms and
her inward accomplishments. Of this lady, destined to                            it

take so large a part in the life t)f Philip Gosse, her only
son may be permitted to give at this point a more
particular account. Although Miss ICmily Bowes was
born in luigland, on November 10, iSof), both her father,
William ]5o\ves, and her mother, Hannah Troutbeck, were

iiostouians of pure Massachusetts descent. Iler people
had t.aken the ICnglish side in 1775. When "the lioston

teapot bub!)led," her father-- who had been t!ul\- bai)tized,
as befitted a good Ikostonian, by Dr. Samuel Cooper, at
Brattle Street meeting-house -- was hurried away by his
parents, whose ner\es the "tea-party" had shaken, to
North Wales, where the family settled in the neighbour-
hood o^ Sncjwdon. But William Innves, with his undilutetl

Massachusetts blood, had been forced to be a loyalist in
vain, for, once grown to man's estate, to JJoston he went

back for a wife, and secured a New ICnglander as true
as himself in Hannah, daughter of the Rev. J(jhn Troutbeck,
fornierl)- King's Chaplain in Boston, U.S.A. Mrs. Bowes
was born in i;6S, close to (lovernor Winthro^j's house in
South Street, Boston. She lived \.o be eight)'-three, and

the w-iter of these Knes has been seated in her arms. Jii
Dr. O. W. Holmes's words --

 " Siie 'lad heard the muskets' rattle of the Ai)ril riiniuiii; battle ;
    Lord IV'iv-y's hunted soldiers, she could see their red coats still,''

and, when he thinks of her, her grandson thrills with .1
divided patriotism.

   Through her father, Miss B)0wes was directly descended
from one oi the most distinguished families of New
luigland. Her great-grandfather, Nicholas Bowes, of
Boston, born in 1706, graduate of Harvard, and for twenty
years minister iif New Bedford, mariied Lucy Hancock,
1

   n6 THE LIFE OF PJIILIP HENRY GOSSE.

   aunt of the famous Governor John Hancock, wliosc sit^na-
   ture stands so bit^ and boid on the Declaration of American

   Independence. Succeeding liowcses liad intermarried into

   good Massachusetts families -- Whitneys and Stoddards
   and Remingtons -- and had thus preserved to an unusual

   extent the purity of their local strain.

   Miss Emily l^owes had suffered from severe vicissitudes

   of fortune. Her infancy, and that of her two younger

   brothers, had been spent in moderate circum.stanccs ; but

   her father, who had a splendid capacity for the dispersion

   of wealth, had ' >an\vhile inherited a large pri^perty and

          ncarU  le last penny. Almost the onl)-
   spent  is it,
                               a
   advantages which \\.- .xcrucd to his daughter from the
                                                                           vl
   few years of their opidence, were comprised in the very

f complete and extensive education which .Mr. Howes, proud
                                   of her intellectual gifts, had provided her. .She was not

   onl\- taught all that girls at that tune were supposed

   capable of learning, but, at her own desire, e.xcellcnt tutors
                                                                               a
   had been engaged to ground her in Latin, in Greek, and                                                                        '^\

   even in Hebrew. She had great force of cl..iraeter and

   rapidity of action. When the crash came, her brothers

   were at that critical age when to i)ursue education                         little

   further the only means by which what has been learned

   can be made of any service in the future. Emily Bowes

   imdertook the training of the boys, and when the time

   came for the eldest to go to college, she devoted the

   interest of her own small capi; to his maintenance there,

   and went out as governess iiiat she might adtl to that                                     ^

   scanty sum. A governess she remained until her brothers
   -- excellent young men, but with none of her force of
   mind -- were starteil in life, and then, with deep thankful-

   ness, she retired from work to the irksomeness of which

   she ])referred the most straitened independence. At the

   time that my father became acquainted with her, she was
                                                                                     mmm

LITERARY WORK IX LOXDOX.  217

                     livinj:^ in a very quiet way, keeping house in Clapton for           ' ,j
                       her aL,^ttl parents.
                                                                                            m
                       Emily Bowes was in her forty-third year when Philip
                     Gosse first met lier, but she retainetl a remarkable appear-             'A
                   ance of youth. Her fic^ure was slim and tall, her neck of
                     singular length and grace ; her face small, with rather

                     large and regular features, clear blue eyes delicately set in
                     pink lids, untler arched and pencilled auburn evebrows ;

                     the mouth very sensitive, with something of the e.xpres.^i'm

                 of Sir Joshua's little "Child with tl.e Rat-Trap;" the

                     whole face surmounted by cc)i)ious rolls and loops, in the
                     fashion of the period, of orange-auburn hair. In earlier

                     life the complexion had been brilliant, but almo.st the only
                     sign of the passage of years, in 1X48, was the pallor of the
                     skin, which was, nKjreover, badly freckled. But for her

                   complexion she would still have been a \er\' prett\- woman,
                   of the type admired by the painters of to-day. She wa.s

'A painted several times, antl in particular there existed of lier
                     a very amusing full-length oil portrait, by G. V. Joseph,
                   A.R.A., which represented her in a pink satin dress, at tlie
                     age of six, bareheaded and barelegged, on the top of
                     Snowdon in a storm, with forked lightning playing behind
                     lier This was hung, in its da}', in the l<.cyal ^Academy, and
                     was stolen, alas ! a few years ago, by a person wIkj certainly
                     could obtain very little satisfaction from a theft which left

                     our family sensibly poorer.
                      Miss luiiily I'xiwes was one of those who had accepted

                     the views of the Plymouth lirethren, anil as there was '-io

                     meeting of these Christians in Clapton, she was in the

                     habit of walking over to Hackney on Sunday mornings,

                     usually lunching there, and returning home after the

                     evening meeting. In this manner she naturally formed
                   the acquaintance of Philip Gosse, who was immediately
                   attracted by her wide range of knowledge and by her
        : r-  2lS THE LIFE OF PHILIP HE SPY GOSSE.

 i            literary tastes. She was the author of two Httlc volumes
              of published poems of a religious cast ; she was almost as
   !^« i      great a lover of verse as he was himself. She was sympa-
1):;          thetic, gentle, quick, eminently intelligent. He, on the
              other hand, little accustomed to the company of any
  4           woman but his aged mother, felt himself awkward with

              girls. lie had no small-talk, no common change of con-
              versation. The charm of lunily licnvcs la}' in the maturity
              of Iicr mind, the gravity of her tastes. Yet it was quite

              abruptly, and without premeditation, that he took the step

              of asking for her hand. It was on Sunday evening,

              September 17, 1S4S, that the sudden resolution took him
              as he was abi'i't to say farewell to her at her garden-gate.
              When he rcllectcd that he had j)roposed marriage to her,
              and that she '\. ! nc*- 1ejected him, there was a moment of

              intense remorse. lie was too poor, he reflected, too little

              likely to make a pro[)er competence, to have the right to
              link another life to his uwn. Ikit she was accustomed to

              poverty, she Icjved him ahead}', she believed in his future,

              and she was eminently careless about luxur}'. They were
              betrothed, and, after a short dcla}-, the}' were married at
              Tottenham, on November 22, 1S48, from the hcjuse of the
              late Mr. Robert Howard, whose venerable and beloved

              widow still survives as I write these line.

                 It is necessary, however, to go back a little to resume

              an account of the literary activit}' of 184.S, winch was very
              considerable. We ha\-e seen that the reviewers complained
              of the want of hgures to accom[>any 77/6' /)/n/s of Jamaica.
              In January, 1848, Philip Gosse sent out circulars [)roposing
              to publish by subscription a folio v(^lume of lithographic
              dia^' -igs, coloured by hand, if desired, of one hundred and
              twenty species of Jamaica birds, very largely new to science.
              This work was to be issued in monthly parts. The

              response was so immediately favourable, that in March he

                                                                             J
    LITERARY WORK I.V LOXDOX.                                    219

    began to make the drawings on the stone, anc' he Laboured

    away so assiduously-, in spite of other work, that the book,

    an exquisite portfoHo of pkates, was given to the pubhc, as
    Illustratio)is of the Birds of Jainalca, in April, 18.19.
    Unhappily, however, the priee at which he had under-

    taken t(j bring out the coloured illustrations was so low

    that there was, through an error in his calculations, a

    slight loss on every copy subscribed for, and if the

    demand for the book in this condition had been great,

    he would ha\'c been in dreadful straits. This \vas a

    lesson for which he had hini.^elf alone to thar.k, and

    he never made that particular error again.

    In February, 1S4S, he began his I-irds, the second volume

    of the popular series for the S.P.C. K., and being now more

    prosperous, and secure of plenty of tolerably remunerative

    work, he moved from the incomr.odious little lunise in

                  RichmcMid Terrace, to a plcasanter dwelling, No. 13, Tra-
. falgar Terrace, iJe Heauvoir Square. At this time he was

    greatl)' excited b)' the neu's of the Revolution in h'rauce,

    and the rapid spread of revolutionary sentiment tlirough

    Europe, with the Chartist demonstration in Lcjndon on
    \\\April 10. "
                    this," he writes, "greatly excites our hopes

    of the near Advent    "  and  from  this time forward,  for  nearlv
                        ;

    forty years, each political crisis in Ivurope reawakened in

    his breast this vain hope of the sudden coming of the

    Lord, and the rapture of believing Christendom into glor\-

    without death. This minute and realistic observer of

    natural objects possessed one facet of his soul on which

/ the rosy light of idealism never ceased to sparkle, lie
                   was a visionary on one side of his brain, though a

    biologist on the other.

    in June, 184S, he suggested to the S(Kiety for Pro-                      ·Hi

    moting Christian Knowledge that he should write them a

    History of the Jews. They accepted the proposal, but he

11
       "HP  220 77//-; L//-Ji OF Pin LIP HENRY GOSSE.

     1      found the task a more difficult one tlian he had antici-

  i'        pated.  It hun;^ around his neck Hke a wcii^ht, and it

II':        was not until 1850 that he published what is perhaps the
            most perfuncton- of all his lon;_^ei- writings. Three, if not
     '\
            f(jur, editions f)f this work were, ho\ve\er, exhausted. In
    V''
            July the Maniinalia was issued ; and in September he was
V
            already beginning, for another firm of publishers, his
            J\^pular British Ornithology, a work intended as a sort of

            bird-calendar for the instruction <)[ young naturalists, a

            guide for use through the ICnglish bird-)-ear. This book,
            which is illustrated by a variety of exquisite coloured

            plates, drawn and lithographed hy the author, was pecu-

            liarly the labour of his betrothal, since he wrote his first

            page the day before he proposed to Miss lunily Bowes,
            and the last on the night preceding his marriage. In

            designing and colouring the illustrations, he mainly drew

            from the specimens in the liritish Museum. Even in work

            so modest as this was, he was unwilling to copy the

            observations of others whenever it was in his power to

            gi\'e an impression of his own, and he was in the habit

            of remarking that, however hackneyed an animal may

            seem to be, the labour of describing or copying it minutely

            at first hand will reveal some characteristic in it which has

            escaped previous observers. This                     no doubt, far less
                                   a
                                                            is,
            true to -day, when the illustration of natural objects has

            been carried to so great pitch of perfection, than was
                                                                 it
                                                                          a
            fifty years ago, when all but the best illustrations were of

            very rough character.

            From Tottenham, on November 22, 184S, he brought

            home his bride to the little house in Trafalgar Terrace

            witiiout so much as    a  single day's honeymoon.    He

            immediately took up again the suspended task of The

            History of the Jews,\^\\\c\\\\o\\Q.v^x, occupied him for many
            more months. The next year was one of extreme seclu-

I
     >
LITERARY WORK IN LONDON.  221

sion. To Pliilip Gossc, secure of tlic sytnpatlictic presence    I
of his wife, there was now no need of entertainment away
from home ; but to the new wife the strain of the change       %
was not a small one. ICmily Bowes had been of an emi-
nently modern temperament -- lively, sociable, talkative,

accustomed to see movini^ around her a cloud of female
friends. She soon found that visitors were not welcome to

her husband, that fresh faces disturbed iiis itleas and

awakened his shyness. His ideal of life was to exist in an

even temperature of domestic solitude, absorbed in intel-
lectual work, buried in silence. For hours and hours Mrs.

Philip had no one to speak to but the servant-maid or her
formidable mother-in-law, who, possessini^ no intellectual
resources herself, looked with suspicion on those who did.

P2mily Gosse's only refuge was in her husband's stud}-,
which no one but herself might enter, and where she
would sit for hours and hours, fretted by the unwonted

restraint, in a silence broken only by the regular whisper
of the pen on the paper or of the pencil on the stone.

She possessed great command over her feelings, and she
was very intelligent and .sensible, liefore long, she had

the approach of other cares and busier interests to occupy

 her ; but for the time being the strain was very real, the

 sudden cloistered seclusion from the open world very
 trying and distressing. She fell back upon her studies,

 and began in an elegant Italian hand, in the bright blue
ink of the period, to annotate an interleaved copy of the
 Hebrew Bible, which still exists to testify to her industry.

    On February i, 1849, the /vVvA-, in the S.l'.C.K. series,
 was published ; and on the 9th of that month the author
 began the volume called Reptiles. In this same I'Y^bruary
 the Popular British Ornithology was published, and on
 May 9 Philip Gossc began to write his Text-Book of
 Zoology for Schools. The composition of this volume
      mm      222 77//^- /.7/'£ or rim. IP iikxry gosse.

           I  not pulilishcd until iS^r.le'd to a very important crisis in
              liis intellectual career. I Ic had hitherto taken but a super-
    Ti        ficial interest in the lower forms of life. In order to write

m 'i          the first chapters of his Text-Book, he found himself obliged
              to study what was known of these form.s, and the fascina-
 ir           tion of invertebrate, and particularly of microscopic natural
              history, suddenly took hold of him. He determined to
 mi           study these forms at first hand. Early in June he bought
              a microscope, and this purchase revolutionized his whole
I 1'          life. He instantly threw himself, with that fiery energy
              which characterized him, into the literature of the subject,

              and particularly into Pritchard's still classical History of
              tlie Infusoria.

                 On June 1 1, 1849, he made his first independent exami-
              nation of a rotifer under the microscope, and the date may
              be worth noting as that of the opening of one of the most
              important of all the branches of his labours. The extreme
              ardour with which he took up subjects sometimes wore
              itself out rather rapidly. He grew tired of birds ; after-
              wards he grew tired of his once-beloved sea-anemones.
              But in the rotifers, the exquisite little wheel-animalcules,
              whose history he did so much to elucidate -- in these he
              never lost his zest, and they danced under his microscope

              when he put his faded eye to the tube for the last time in

              18S8. A \veek after June 11, he was already deep in

              observation of Step/iaiioeeros, that strange and beautiful
              creature, whose "small pear-shaped bod)% with rich green
              and brown hues glowing beneath a glistening surface, is

              lightly perched on a tapering stalk, and crowned with a
              diadem of the daintiest plumes ; while the whole is set in
              a clouded crystal vase of quaint shape and delicate texture."
               He was seized with a determination to collect on a lar^e
              scale. From a wholesale glass factory in Shoreditch he
              bought an army of small clear phials, and rose at three
I

   LITERARY IVOR A' LV LONDON.  223

   a.m. next inoniinc^, walkinc^ to the TTampstc.id Ponds for
   dirty water which mic,fht prove to contain sp.irks of life,

   Ic.'ipincj, twinkUn^^, and kickinjj, under the microscope.

      Almost immediately he bei^an to correspond with the
   leaders of microscopic science at that time, with John
   Ouekett and with liowerbank, neither of whom, however,

   ifhad given any special attention to the Rot era. lie pre-

   sently fixed in his garden a set of stagnant open pans or

   reservoirs for infusoria, which, from the i)revalence of
   cholera at the time, were looked u[)on with great suspicion
   by the neighbours. \\\ the midst of all this, and during the
   very thrilling examination of three separate stagnations of

   hempseed, poppy seed, and hollyhock seed, his wife pre-
   sented him with a child, a helpless and imwclcome ap[)ari-

   tion, wliose arrival is marked in the parental diary in the
   following manner :-- " E. delivered of a son. Received
   green swallow from Jamaica." Two ephemeral vitalities,
   indeed, and yet, strange to say, both exist ! The one
   stands for ever behind a pane of glass in the Natural

   History Museum at South Kensington ; the other, whom

   the green swallow will doubtless survive, is he who now

   puts together these deciduous pages.

       The absorbing devotion to the microscope, which now

   began to be the dominant passion of IMiilip Gosse's life
   was distinctly unfavourable to the prosecution of paying
   work. During the second half of 1849 he produced com-
   paratively little of a marketable character, although at no
   time of his life was he engaged more closely or on labour

   which demanded more intellectual force. lUit w'iat he

   was doing was noted with full appreciation in the .vie:itific

   world, and he was regarded with greater seriousness than
   ever before. On November 14, upon Ijowerbank's pro-
   position, he was elected a .icmber of the Microscopical
   Society, at whose meetings he forthwith became a regular

i                                                                 n

                                                                  -U :.
                       224 r/r/-: LIFE OF ririLip [tESRv gossf.

                       attendant. This was a much-nccdcd rcfrcslimcnt and
                       stimulus in his monotonous life. lie was, meanwhile,

                       makinj^ very rapid progress in his investigation of the

                       Rotifcra, a class at that time, and for    many years after-
                       wards, but little understood or studieil.    In i<S49 the one
                       published authority on these creatures,
                                                                  the book which --

            :          as Hudson and Gosse have put it in their great monograph
                       -- "swallowed up, as it were, the very memory of its pre-
%
                       decessors," was the Die Infusionsthieichcn published at
   h
                       Leipsic b\- Ehrenberg, in i<S3.S. Philip Gosse found it
In                     impossible to proceed without knowing what Ehrenberg

If                     had said, but unfortunately the Prussian savant wrote only

                 11i-  in (icrman, a language with which the English naturalist

                       was not acquainted. Emilj' Gosse, however, knew German

                       enough, and during the winter of" i(S49-5o he borrowed
                       the precious volume from the council of the Microscopical

                       Society, and they turned Ehrenberg into I'lnglish between

                       them, Gosse's feverish anxiety to know what Ehrenberg

                       wis saying acting on his language-sense, for the moment,

                       like a sort of clairvoyance. It was long his intention to

                       publish this translation of P^hrenberg, which his wife and

                       he soon completed, with illustrative notes and additions of

                       his own, but he did not find any opportunity of doing this,

                       and the version remains inedited.

                          It becomes necessary, however, to write when --

                                 " A life your arms unfold

                                 Whose crying  cry for gold,"
                                 4,

                                                                               i.s
                                                                            a

                                                                                                                              a
                       and with the opening of 1850 Philip Gosse so arranged his

                       days that the book-making should occupy the mornings,

                       and the afternoons and evenings only be given to the

                       microscope. The Handbook of Zoology was finished on

                       February  and the very next day Sacred Streams,

                       volume describing the natural history and the antiquities
I

   LITERARY WORK IN LONDON:     225

   f'f the rivers mentioned in the Bible, was begun. This
   was com[)lctcd early in Auf^ust, and was instantly suc-
   ceeded, without a day's interval, by the volume called
   Fis/ics, in the S.P.C.K. series. The last three months of
   the year were occupied in the composition of a work far
   more important than all these, A A^itiiralisi's Sojourn in
   Jamaica, which was a record of his stay in that island,
   mainly printed from the copious manuscript journal which
   he had preserved. Hitherto he had not known what it
   was, since his first success, to have a book rejected ; but

   this, which is certainly in the first rank amonf^ his orit^inal
   volumes, was returned to him by Mr. John Murray, only
   to be accepted, to their ultimate advantage, by Messrs.

   Longmans.
       The second year of married life was much more com-

   fortable than the first had been. Mrs. Gosse was occupied
   by the care of her child, and her husband was neither
   so self-contained nor so isolated from outer sympathies
   as he had been. In 1850 he was elected an Associate
   of the Linn^ean Society, and he greatly enjoyed the
   meetings of this, as of the Microscopical Suciety. He
   was taken out of himself by being more and more sought
   as an authority on zoological matters, and the life of
   eremitical seclusion which he had chosen to adopt was
   broken in upon by a variety of human interests. The
   circumstances of the pair, moreover, were considerably less
   straitened. His books were not ill paid for, and they

   had become so numerous that the little sums mounted up.
   In July, moreover, Mr. and Mrs. Gosse were called down to

   Leamington to the death-bed of an aunt, who left them a
   legacy. This was trifling in amount, but the interest of
   it was enough to form a pleasant increase to an income
   so small as theirs had been. The pinch of poverty was
   now relaxed, for the first time in Philip Gossc's life,

                             Q                                      ^1!
                  226 7///i Z//"/; 0/' rillLIP HENRY GOSSE.

                  although industry and thrift were still necessary to insure

                  anything like comfort.

                    A laljour wliich belongs to the year 1850, and which

                  mvist not be left unrecoided in the chronicle of his career,

                  was his investigations inio the genus of Rotifcra called by

                  Ehrcnherg Noioiumata.    The German savant had left

i. 'i*            Notommata        an unwieldy and heterogenous condition
                  a                                                                                             it, ;
      I
                            it in
                  I'hilip Gosse now directed his particular attention to

                  and in succession of papers, read before his two societies,

                  lie reduced      to well-defined proportion::.. These, and

                  his monograph, in the A)i)ials and Alagazinc of Natural

                  History, on the new genus Asplanchna^ which he flis-

                  covered in iiS50 in the Serpentine, attracted    aa great deal
                                                                      long series
ill               of attention from specialists, and opened up       During the

       1          of siiviilar contributions to exact knowledge.
           *
               i  latter part of the autumn he was once again in daily

                  attendance at the Natural Ilistory Departments of the

                  British IMuseum. On October 10 he was fortunate enough

                  to be leaving the central hall at the very moment when

                  the winged bull from Nineveh was being brought in.

i'^               Thirty years later m.y father met, for the first time, with

    I;

                  Dante Gabriel Rossetti's striking poem, The Burden of
                  Ninevehy recording the same experience --
                                         AI I
                               " Sighing,           it

                                                                                               :
                                                                                                             ;
                                           turned at last to win

                               Once more the London dirt and din

                               And as made the swing-door spin

                               And issued, tliey were hoisting in

                                           winged beast from Nineveh."

                     It was interesting, and greatly interested Philip Gosse

                  to think, that in the little crowd that watched the bull-god
                  enter his last temple, he had unconsciously stood shoulder
                  to shoulder witli the brilliant young poet, those two,
                  perhaps alone nmong the spectators, sharing the acute
                  sense of mystery and wonder at the apparition.
LITERARY WORK uV LOXDOX.  227

                     In November much reading of Jamaica notes caused a              ri
                   revival of intense desire to revisit the West Indies, resulting;
                  rather suddenly in a positive desit;n to visit the Virgin          1%
                   Islands and Tortugas. ]5ut once more the scheme came to                      *
                                                                                     ·  Viv,i'  ,
                   nothing, Mrs. Gosse's health precluding the possibility^ of          .1;
                 her siiaring so painful a romantic ent(;rprise. Philip Gosse        M     \!
                 was one of those people who find it exceedingly difficult to                   >
                   speak of what li-^s closest to tlieir hearts, and he sometimes
                                                                                                U.
                   preferred to convey his intentions in writing, even to those

                     who were around him. I find a letter addressed on this

                   occasion by my father to my mother, announcing to her
                   his final determination not to start for the West Indies ;

                   this letter being, apparently, handed to her in the house.
                 In it he begs her not to refer to the subject in conversation,

                   nor to midce the slightest effort to change his plans. The

                   letter is worded in terms of the most devDted affection, and

                   that he wrote it at all is a proof of the almost impassioned
                   loncring which had seized him to revisit those luminous

             archipelagos. If Mrs. Gosse had been strong enough to

                   bear the journey, she could not have left her mother, who

                   was dying, and who passed away on January 14, 1851.
 Mr. Bowes had preceded his wife by six months ; he died,

                 in his eightieth year, on June 10, 1850.
                     The year 185 1 was notable for the publication of no

                 fewer than four of Philip Gosse's works. In the month of
                March his Text-Book of Zoology for Schools and his
                Sacred Streams, the Ancient and Modern Hislory of the
                 Rivers of the Bible, were issued. In TY^bruary he began
                   Fishes, the fourth volume of his series of manuals of
                   zoology for the S.P.C.K., and this was published in
                 October of the same year. Moreover, on October 17,
                appeared A Naturalist's Sojonni in Jamaica, a i)roduction
                   of far greater importance than any of these, a handsome

                   volume adorned with lithographic plates designed and
, ·am "HI"  22.S 77/z," /.//-A o/" nriur henry gosse.

 l!         coloured by ilic author. In the preface to this work, Philip

.;          Gosse took up a position which was new to the world of

            zoologists. " Natural history," he boldly declared, "is far

            too much a science of dead thinc;s ; a necrology.      It is

            mainly conversant with dry skins, furred or feathered,

            blackened, shrivelled, and hay-stuffed ; with objects, some

            admirably beautiful, some hideously ugly, impaled on pins,

            and arranged in rows in cork drawers ; with · "couth forms,

            disgusting to siglit and smell, bleached and shrunken,

            suspended by threads and immersed in spirit (in c' Jice
            uf the aphorism, that ' he who is born to be hanged will

            never be drowned ') in glass bottles. These distorted
            things are described ; their scales, plates, feathers counted ;

            their forms copied, all shrivelled and stiffened as they

            ;>.re ; . . . their limbs, members, and organs measured, and

            the results recorded in thousandths of an inch ; two names

            are given to every one ; the whole is enveloped in a

            mystic cioud of Gra;co-Latino-English phraseology (often
                                                                "
            barbaric  enough)  ; and this is natural  history
                                                               !

            The tradition thus scornfully condemned was that which

            it was the writer's peculiar function to break through.

            Antl he was not, like so many reformers, ready to tear

            down without having any fresh materials or the design for

            a new edifice. This is how, in the elegant preface to the

            Natnralisfs Sojourn, he describes the science of zoology as
            he fain would see it conducted :--

               "That alone is worthy to be calletl natural history
            " which investigates and records the condition of living

            "things, of things in a state of nature; if animals, of
            "living animals: -- which tells of their 'sayings and

            " doings,' their varied notes and utterances, songs and

            "cries; their actions in case, and under the pressure of

            "circumstances; their affections and passions towards

            "their young, towards each other, towards other animals,

JL
LITERARY WORK LV LONDON.  IZq                                    ^

   " towards man ; their various arts and devices to protect         i^
   "their progeny, to procure food, to escape from their
   "eneir.'cs, to defend themselves from attacks; their             m

   "ingenious resources for conceahnent ; their stratagems
   " to overcome their victims ; their modes of bringing
   "forth, of feeding, and of training their offspring, the
   "relations of their structure to their wants and habits ;

   "the countries in which they dwell; their connection
   "with the inanimate world around them, mountain or
   " plain, forest or field, barren heath or bushy dell, open
   "savannah or wild hidden glen, river, lake or sea :-- this
   "would be indeed zoo/([i^y, viz. the science of /iviiii^
    " creatures,"

   At the time when these words were written many of

the animals of Europe, and, in the persons of Wilson and
Philip Gosse himself, the birds of America, had found
biographers, but little indeed was kriown of the mass of
species distributed throughout the rest of the world, and
of the lower orders of life, in their living state, practically
nothing. It was Gosse's privilege to inaugurate this
species of observation, .ind to live to see the actual study
of living forms take its place as one of the most important
branches of scientific investigation. The public was
instantly attracted by the freshness of this new manner
of writing. The books Philip Gosse had been composing

for the Society for Promoting Christian Knowledge had,
in accordance with a strange whimsey that long prevailed
with the council of that Society, been sent to none of the
reviews. Their sale, accordingly, though it had been con-

siderable, had not been aided or gauged by the publicity
of the journals. . / Niitiira/ist's Sojourn iti Jamaica, of

course, was sent to the newspapers by Messrs. Longmans,
and it received a welcome from the press which was some-
thing (juitc new in Philip Gosse's experience. One of the
                     nil230          LIP HENRY GOSSE.
                     /-//Z: L/FE OF

 I'll i              best notices was written, as the author had reason to

  vM^' ;             beh'eve, by the distinc^uished ornithologist, Dr. Stanley,
                     Bishop of Norwich, who sang the praises of the book
s I*
                     wherever he went.
     II
                        In all quarters the freshness of the new mode of obser-
              'j !1
                     vation met with instant appreciation, nor were zoologists
if' ' I j;           less forward than the ireneral reader in commending the

fr 1                 novelty of attitude. Charles Darwin and Richard Owen
                 l"
                     were among those who expressed their approval of this
 1 :^
                     bright, fresh, and electrical mode of throwing the window
 If                  of the dissecting-closet wide open to the light and air of

         I :]        heaven. The latter wrote (November 29, I'^^SO" "Mr.

r'if''               Gosse is a very true observer and a very beautiful de-
                     scriber of what he sees. His book, all about tilings I am
                     so very fond of-- birds and fishes, crocodiles and lizards,

                     butterflies and crabs, both in and out of shells, to say
                     nothing of sea and sunshine -- has made me quite long for
                     a holiday in Jamaica." .About the same time Philip Gosse
                     formed the accjuaintance of the amiable and charming

                     James Scott Bowerbank, who was then already at work
                     upon his great monograph on the sponges. He occasion-
                     ally attended those delightful gatherings which the hos-
                     pitality of Bowerbank collected around him, and the two
                     naturalists corresponded closely for several years. Philip
                     Gosse was not perturbed by the fame thus suddenly thrust
                     upon him, and he resisted the knnd attempts which were
                     made to " lionize " him. He was pleased at his success,

                     and grateful to those who assured it to him ; but he re-
                     mained at home. Save that he was elected to the council

                     of the Microscopical Society, and served in Lhis capacity,
                     he scarcely made the smallest change i*'. the even tenor

                     of his existence.
                        In the summer his views regarding the Roiifcrn received

                     momentary modification, and his interest in these animal-
LITERARY WORK LV LONDO.V.  231

cules was increased, by his mcetiiif^ with Dujardin's           1 . S
in^^cnious work on the Systolidcs, as the French savant
called the rotifers. Gosse studied Dujardin with groat

care, and was at first inclined to lay much stress on his

criticisms of Ehrenbcrg, but this view ultimately gave way
to a confirmation of his faith in the solidity and value of

the observations of the Prussian naturalist. In this year,
i(S5i, Philip Gosse published in the "Annals of Natural

History" his Catalogue of Rot ifera found in Britain, a list

which extended f;ir beyond any previous cataloofue of the
kind, but yet looks meagre enough now in comparison with
the results of later investigations. By the side of these

apparently conflicting labours he was engaged, throughout

the year iS5i,on another and very distinct work. Since
the occasion when he had watched the winged bull of

Nineveh being brought into the British Museum, his

imagination had constantly been occupied in trying to
rebuild that mysterious and sinister Eastern civilization,

the character of which it is scarcely too much to say had

then recently been discovered by the excavations of Botta

and Layard at Nimroud. The splendid folios published,
in Paris and London respectively, by these intre[)id arch;e-
ologists, had excited, in conjunction with the discoveries t)f
Rawlinson, interest throughout Europe. To allay his own

curiosity, and with no idea of competing with these
masters of the field, Philip Gosse prepared at odd moments

throughout 1S51 what proved at last a bulky volume on
Assyria ; Iter Manners and Custojns, Art,s and Arms, which
the S.P.C.K. published early in 1852.

    With the close of 1S51 we reach another critical point in
 the career of the subject of this memoir, and we may
 review for a moment the results of these five years of

 incessant labour. Since Philip Gosse had returned from
 Jamaica in the autumn of 1846, he had completed thirteen
      nmmrnum

 mt            232 T//E LIFE OF Pirn. IP HESRY GOSSE.

il             distinct works, a row of volumes cnoui^h in themselves to

 fI            form the whole bagi^age of many a literary traveller. Of

  i"           these, four had been compilations of an historical and
               archaioloj^ical cast, undertaken solely on account of their
m              semi-religious subject. Six others were handbooks of
               zoological information -- " pot-boilers," as they might be
               called in the slang to-day -- but all of them conscientiously,

               minutely, and eloquently written, and brought up in every
               case to the momentary limit of the ever-advancing tide of
               the scientific knowledge of the age. There remain the
               three Jamaica volumes, and if these alone had been
               published during these five years, it may be that their
               author's fame would have been quite as flourishing as it
               was. These were genuine contributions, not only to
               zoological knowledgj;, but to the new methods of natural
               history, the methods which their author now so openl)-
               defended. Then, of a less public character, there were
               those technical monographs read at the Proceedings of the

               Royal, and printed by the Linna^an and Microscopical
               Societies, in which the new naturalist showed himself just

               as competent and as accurate in measuring, defining, and
               copying cabinet specimens as had been any of the old
               closet savants whose exclusiveness he deprecated. On

               all sides, the author of so many and so incongruous
               writing.s, he had widened the field of his experience, and
               he was now rapidly advancing along the pathway to dis-

               tinction. A sudden event changed the entire current of

               his being.

                  The life he had led for these last five years had been
               cloistered and uniform in the extreme. Nothing could ex-
               ceed the monotony of his daily existence. As he became
               better known, social opportunities had not been lacking ;
               invitations had reached him which, had they been accepted,
               might have led to others. But he accepted none of them.
IT                                                                 ^i ^'

    LITERARY WORK IN LONDON.                         223                   :;'»'
                                                                               -r
    lie was shy, he was poor, he <jrudgcd the time which such

    visits would consume ; but above all these considerations

    there was the inherent dislike, constantly on the increase,

    of being compelled to adopt the artificial manner of general

    conversation. During these five years his social exercises

    were strictly limited to occasional visits, mainly in the

    daytime, to a few scientific friends, such as Edward Double-

    day and Adam White, and to such a limited circle of

    religious companions as straitly shared his own peculiar

    convictions. He stayed at home at his study-table, writing,

    drawing, or observing, every week-day, and on Sunday he

    took no rest from his labours, for he usually preached one,

    if not two, extempore sermons. The monotony of this

    round of life was perhaps even more deleterious than it.;

    severity. He gave himself no holidays of any description.

    With the exception of a few days in the summer of 1M50,

    spent at Leamington in attendance u[)on the death-bed and
    the funeral of a relative of Mrs. Gos.se's, he was not out of

    the neighbourhood of London, even    for one day, from

    August, 1846, until December, 1S51.   His most adven-
    turous excursions had extended no
                                         further than Kew

    Gardens, Hampstead Heath, and the Lsle of Dogs.

    Such a strain could not be kept up indefinitely ; the

    wonder was that his constitution sustained it so long. In

    November he began to be the victim to persistent head-

    ache, and early in December, after starting to go to the

    13ritish Museum one morning, he became violently ill,

    and returned home in a state of great depression antl

    alarm. His brain seemed to have suddenly collapsed, and

    he supposed, himself to be paralyzed ; but the doctors pro-

    nounced the symptoms to be those of acute nervous

    dyspepsia. They attributed the illness mainly to his seden-

    tary existence, and they insisted that he should leave town

    at once, and be much in the open air. He himself wrote ;
            nil234
                     r//£ LIFE OF  LIP HENRY GOSSE.

            " Sitting by the parlour fire, doing nothing,  is is  dreary work
                                                                  I
            and not much mended by traversing the gravel walks
            it                                                             is ;
                 is

            of the garden in my great-coat. There                 nothing par-

            ticularly refreshing in the sight of frost-bitten creepers and

            chrysanthemums.  To walk about the streets in the

            suburbs, or even in the City, dreary too, when there
                                   is
                                                 is
            no object in view, nothing to do, in fact, but spend the

            time. But, after all, the dreariness           in myself: am

            thoroughly unwell, overworked, and everybody says there

1 if      f : must be rustication." On December 15 his wife and he
                                              started for five days' ramble in the Isle of Wight, hoping
    *
       1'!  that this modest excursion would meet the requirements

            of the case. But the symptoms of congestion of the brain

            returned. It was impossible for the patient to read or

                                                  write, and to put his eye to the microscope was agony.It
          i' The last day of the year 1851 raw the whole family in bed,

                                              each distressingly ill in his or her v, ay. Old Mrs. Gosse had
                                              before this gone into separate lodgings of her own.

                                              was determined that the establishment at Hackney should
                                              be broken up, and that the invalids should go southward
                                              and seaward. On January 27, 1852, they started for

                                              South Devon.

'ii'
                                                                                    ,1 f.

                                                                                    lis

                       ( 235     )

                       CHArXER IX.

                 WORK AT THE SEASHORE.

                       1S52-1S56.

AT the present time, when the principle of the marine
                                 commonplace,                            difficult
aquarium has ioccome           a
                                  it

                                                             it
                                                                     is
to realize that forty years ago     had occurred to no one

that might be possible to preserve marine animals and
it               living state under artificial conditions. In

              a
plants in
1850, when Philip Gosse was first engage in the study of
                                    J

the Rotifcra, he had noticed that by allowing aquatic weeds,

such as vallisncria and iiiyriophylliivd, to grow in the glass

vases of fresh water in which he kept his captures, both

Infusoria and Rotifera would live in captivity, and even                            lii
breed and multiply. This observation was the first germ
                                                                                       t!
of the invention of the marine aquarium, and towards the

close of 185  1      occurred to him to apply this principle--

the supply of oxygen from living plants under the stimulusit

                   if
of light --to the preservation of animals in sea-water. lie

reflected that         seaweeds, alga:, in the more delicate

varieties, could be induced to live in vases of sea-water,

they might assimilate carbon and give out oxygen in such

proportions as to keep the water pure and fit for the support
                                 due time to be the case. To
of animal life. This proveda

                             in
carry out the scheme was matter of experiment, but the
idea was already ripe before the Gosscs -- " wife, self and

little naturalist in petticoats "--proceeded to Devonshire.

                                                                                    f
               nil236       LIP HENRY GOSSE,
               THE LIFE OF

fr                His choice of that particular county was made partly
               because of its warmth in winter, partly because of its geo-
          11.  graphical position at the gates of the populous Atlantic,

ti             but also for a reason which would have occurred only to
m
               a practical naturalist. The researches of a littoral zoolo-
               gist are carried on with most success at spring tides. In
               many parts of the English coast the lowest water occurs
               at about six o'clock in the morning or evening, a time
               inconvenient in many ways, and particularly to an invalid.
               In Devonshire, on tht; days of new and full moon, the
               lowest tide is near the middle of the day. After great
               hesitation as lo a point at which to begin, Torquay was

               finally chosen, although the doctors considered it too re-
               laxing for a nervous disorder. On January 29, 1S52, the

               family arrived there, and immediately proceeded to the
               village of St. Marychurch, about a mile and a half to
                north, an ancient but not picturesque assemblage of white-
                washed cottages and small shops, close to the sea-cliff, but
               out of sight of the sea. This place had the advantage of
                a considerable altitude above Torquay, which slumbered
                among its groves of arbutus, by the side of its land-locked
                azure bay, as in a warm th, and had alarmed its feeble
                visitors by the relaxing quality of its atmosphere. St.
                Marychurch lay open to the east, on a level with the tops
                of the cliffs, and enjoyed, on clear days, a refreshing view

                of the purple tors of Dartmoor away in the west. It was
                little in Philip Gosse's mind, when he first stepped up

                the reddish-white street of St. Marychurch, that in this

                village he would eventually spend more than thirty years
                of his life, and would clo.se it there. For the present his
                stay was transitory. They took lodgings at Bank Cottage,
                a little detached villa in the main street.

                    After the long imprisonment within the gloom of
                London, Philip Gosse's eyes were acutely sensitive to the
           WOKK' A T THE SEASHORE.                                                       237

pleasure of country sights. The coast of South Devon is

I^ccuh'arly brilliant in colour ; the weather happened to be

superb, and the unex[)ected beauty of every object on
which the sun lighted was almost intoxicating. His

journal is full of rapturous ejaculations of delight. On

the very first afternoon he went down through the em-
bowered hamlet of ]5abbicombe " to see what promise the

beach might afford." That beach is now familiarized and

vulgarized ; carriage-roads wind down to
                            ;                              where break-

                               it
                                     is

                                                      it,
neck paths used to descend                all given up, with but

small trace of its ancient wildness, to the comffirt of

nursemaids and trippers. l?ut in those days no bathing-

machines had invaded its savage coves and creeks. De-

scending at Babbicombe, and climbing along the beautiful

arc of alternate rock and shingle to the further extremity
of the beach at Oddicombe, he discovered on that first

afternoon  feature of extraordinary charm,                                               natural
           a
                                                  a

                                                                                      a
basin in the face of the rock, veritable little bath where

one might conceive the Nereids indolently collecting to

gossip at high noon as they plashed the water with their

feet :--

" Climbing and crawling around the face of the rough
"I"cliff," he writes,
                        found delightful little reservoir,
                    a
" nearly circular,                     a
                        basin about three feet wide and
                                                                                                                  'f
" the same deep, full of pure sea-water, quite still,                                                             )

" and as clear as crystal. From the rocky margin and

"sides, the puckered fronds of the sweet oar-weed

" {Laviinaria saccJiarma) sprang out, and gently droop-
" ing, like ferns upon
                        wall, nearly met in the centre
                        a
                                                  a
                                                               a

                                                                                                               ;
"while other more delicate seaweeds grew beneath their                                                            !
" shadow. Several sea-anemones of kind very different                                                                V

" from the common species, more flat and blossom-like,

"with slenderer tentacles set round like                   fringe, were

" scattered about the sides."
    238 7V/£ LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

    This tidal basin became one of the most constant of hi.s

    haunts, and he nourished a jealous and almost whimsical

    affection for    sufferint^ from  constant fear that its
                   it,
                                                       a
                                                                               a

                                                                                                                                  !
    crystal beauty mit;ht be profaned. Every day the high

    tide renewed its freshness, and then, retreating, left the
    basin to settle into glassy calm. " Procul, o procul cstc "

    my father used to murmur, affecting the airs of lapwing

    v/hen idle men or lads approachetl the scenes of his
    devotion. Strangely enough, this exquisite little freak of

    nature survived, untouched, for nearly twenty years after

    its discovery. At last, one day when my father climbed

    up to look into  behold some thrice- wretched vandal
                   a
                        it,

                                                    !

                                        it

                                                   a
                                                                   a
    had chiselled    channel on the seaward side, not very

    deep indeed, but enough to destroy its unique regularity

    of form.. He never went to again.

                                Early in February he began to feel marked improve-
i ment in health. He bought hammer and chisel, and

    spen.t many hours every day in chipping off fragments of

    rock bearing fine seaweeds and delicate animal forms.

    These he preserved in vases and open pans, and thus
    began to carry out his dream of a marine vivarium. He

\i  found the under surfaces of the pebbles on Babbicombe
    beach singularly rich in those fantastic and gem-like

    creatures, the nudibranch moUusca, of which he set about

    forming a considerable collection, in correspondence with

    Alder and Hancock, the historians of those graceful sea-

    slugs. With the very first dawn of convalescence, he

    returned to his literary work. He started in March fifch
                                                                      p' a
    volume of the scries of handbooks for the S.P.C.K., 's                 t'

    time on the Molliisca and before this he began to
                     A
                        ;
    daily observations into the shape which finally ash ^d                                                                           e
    the dimensions oi Natiiralisfs Rambles on the Devonsnu

    Coast.

      It was singular that on wholly untrodden ground, and

i
IVORK AT THE SEASHORE.                   239                   i

without previous experience, he immcch'atcly fell into         ' :l
the ways of a collector of marine objects, discovering
                                                                fI
almost by intuition wiiat species were and what were not
suited for artificial preservation, and how the sensitive        r ;I

varieties of plants and fixed animals were to be transported     V
without injury. Nevertheless he was not entirely satisfied
                                                                 I'i
with St. Marychurch as a centre ; it suited him zoologi-
cally, but not medically. His headaches returned, and the      i

soft luscious air seemed to leave him constantly weaker.
In March he tried Brixham, on the south side of the bay ;

but this was warmer still, and not so favourable for collect-

ing. At the end of April he determined to try the northern
coast of the county. The prevalence of a heavy surf upon
the shore below St. Trlarychurch, in consequence of an

undeviating wind from the east, had prevented him from
being as successful as he had hoped to be. Still he had

gained great experience, and had added many new species

to the English fauna. Among the sea-anemones, in par-

ticular, which had hitherto been greatly neglected, he had
already secured several novelties. Two beautiful species,
now widely known to zoologists, rosea and nivca, Philip

Gosse had the good fortune to discover on the same day,

April 20, the one on the south, the other on the north side

of the limestone headland called Petit Tor. These were

his latest trophies there, for in the course of the following

week the family transferred themselves to Ilfracombe, on
the Bristol Channel, then already a summer resort of some

local repute.                            The air of North

   The change was instantly beneficial.

Devon proved much more exhilarating, and the rock-pools
even richer than those of the Oddicombe district. He

found the angular basins in the slaty coast densely fringed
with seaweeds, under whose lucent curtains lurked an
immense and luxuriant variety of zoophytes of every
         ai^li!

      m\                   240 77/y? L/FE OF riTILir IIEXRY GOSSE.

      m                    ilcacription. In the Dcvonshirr Coast he has given an

                           eloquent account of his successive discoveries, and of the

                           ardour with which he threw himself into the work of

                           exploration. The beautiful Devonshire cup-coral {Caiyo-

                           pJiyllia Sniithii) hail loni:; been known as a skelctoii in the
                           drawers of museums he was fortunate enough to find
                           II
                               It

                                         Ia
                                                                           ;

                                                                it

                                                                  Ia
                                                                                                                                    :
                                                                                                                   a
                                                                                                                 it
                           in profusion, throwing upwards its globose white tentacles,

                    ;! I'  and covering with its fawn-coloured fle.sh the granular plates

                           of its coral structure. In September he made discovery

i-'i i      · ih           of cxtraordniary interest, an*^' ai manner so characteristic
                           that give hi.^- own account of the incident --
                 i
                                  " was spring tide, and the water had receded
                              " lower than had seen since had been at the place.

                              " was searching among the extremely rugged rocks

                              " that run out from the tunnels, forming walls and

                           '* pinnacles of dangerous abruptness, with deep, almost

                           "inaccessible cavities between. Into one of these, at

                           "the very verge of the water, managed to scramble
                           "down; and found, round corner, sort of oblong
                                   a

                                      I

                                                       a

                           "basin, about ten feet long, in which the water remained,

                           "a tide-pool of three feet depth  in  the middle. The

                           "whole concavity of the interior was so smooth that       I

                           "could find no resting-place for my foot  in  order to

                           "examine it; though the sides, all covered with the

                           " pink lichen-like coralline, and bristling with laminariic

                           " and zoophytes, looked so tempting that walked round
                                   it
                                           a

                                                                      I

                                                                         I
                           "and rouml, reluctant to leave it. At last                fairly

                           "stripped, though was blowing v.ry cold, and jumped

                           I"in. had examined good many things, of which the
                           " onl}' novelty was the pretty narrow fronds of Fliistra
                                a" c/iartacca in some abundance, and was just about to

                           " come out, when mj' eye rested on what at once saw
                                                                 I

                                                                                  a
                           "to be madrepore, but of an unusual colour,               most

                           " refulgent orange."
                        «wi-»T*^www

WORK' AT THE SEASHORE.               241                                                       i

   It proved to !)c InilanophyUia, a fossil coral, the exist-                                    :I

ence of which, with ?a\ actinia-like body of richly coloured                                 II

livin<; flv\sh, had never been suspected.
   This episode may be taken as an example, not merely

of the discoveries in science which Philip Gossc was now
cuiistantly makinj^, but of his manner of life. He was
accustomed every day at low tide, if the hour was at all
convenient, to go down to the shore, and for several hours

before and after the lowest moment to examine the weedy

rocks, the loose flat stones under which molluscs and crus-

taceans lurked, the shallow tidal pools, and the dripping

walls of the small fissures and caverns. It was extra-
ordinary how wide a range of anini.al life was included

within the tidal limits. After some hours of severe labour,

he would tram[) home with his treasures, arrange them in
dishes and vases with fresh sca-\vatcr, and then proceed

to a scientific examination of what n-as uni(iue or novel.
The notes taken in this wa)-, with the lens in one hand

and the pen in the other, were transferred bodily to the
pages of A Natiiyalisfs Raniblc on the Devo)isliire Ciast,

which was rapidly taking form. lie was particularly

ardent in his study of the sea-anemones, a group which

he was presently to take under his special patronage. lie

had no thought as yet of the generic distinctions which

he was to introduce later, and throughout 1H52, and for

some years to come, what were afterwards distinguished

as Siigaytia, Bnnodcs, and the rest, were classed in (-ne

vague genus, Actinia. The examination of the sea-anemone

was pushed, this summer, to the length of a gastronomical

test. A few specimens of the gross strawberry sj)ccics,
crassicornis, were boiled and catni. II is account of this

courageous experiment runs as follows : --
       " I must confess that the first bit I essayed caused a

    "sort of lumpy feeling in m)* throat, as if a sentinel tlicre

                                                                                          R
                '

                        nil242                      LIP HENRY GOSSE.
                                      T//£ LIFE OF

                           " guarded the way, and said,                 slian't come here.' This
                                                  II
                                                                     '
                                                              It
                        '  "sensation, however, felt to be unworthy of a philo-
                           " sopher, for there was nothing really repugnant in the

                           "taste. As soon as had got one that seemed well

                           " cooked,  I  invited Mrs. Gosse to share the feast she
                                                                                                                                  ;;
                           " courageously attacked the morsel, but am compelled
                                                                        I

                           " to confess that  it  could not pass the vestibule the

                           "sentinel was too many for her. My little boy, however,

                           " voted that "tinny \actinia] was good,' and that he 'liked
                           '"'tinny;' and loudly demanded more, like another Oliver

ii " Twist. As for me, proved the truth of the adage,
         ^                 '

If I'i                      II
      >
                                            a
      I                                               le

                                                        I
                                                                      I

                                                                                                                              ;'
                           " n'y que premier pas qui coute for my sentinel

                           " was cowed after the first defeat.          left little ·'a the -lisli.

                           "In truth, the flavour and taste are agreeable, somewhat

                           " like those of the soft parts of crab (May 21, 1852)."

                           In July Ph'lip Gosse made an interesting excursion of

                        a  wt'^k's duration to Lundy Island. The description he

                        presently wrote of this curious and remote fragment of

                i       the Ik'tish empire ajipeared in sciial form in the peri-
                    ,;

     1. :|      11 t1   odical called T/ic Home Friend, and was long afterwards

             ;     i    reprinted in Sea and Land (1865). For the Societ\- for

                        Promoting Christian Knowledge he wrote this time, in

·'i''                   conjunction with his wife,       little anonjMnous volume
                                                    a
                        called Seaside P/easiires, consisting, in reality, of foura

                        essays on Ilfracombe, Capstone Hill, J^arricane, and the

                        Valley of Rocks, describing in                  graceful manner the

                        antiquities and scientific attractions of the iieighbourhood.

                        Of these essa)-s the fourth was wholly written b)- l^nily

                        Gosse. Meanwhile, with her constant help, he was pre-

                        paring the Dcvonshiiy Const, and,  in           spite (jf all the exer-

                        cise in the open air, the ozone from the seaweeds, and

                        the exquisite freshness of the oceanic winds, both husband

                        and wife were overtaxing their nervous strength. In

                        August both of them were ill with iieadache, and able to

                                                                                                                                      I
                                                                           ;i I

   IVOR A' AT 7 HE SEASHORE.           243

J 0.0 little or nothing. He was soon well again, writing mono-
                graphs for the Microscopical Society, corresponding about

\ his captures with Johnston, AKIer, Bowerbank, and Iv.lward
                 Forbes, drawing from specimens under the microscope,
               and recording his discoveries in exact form. At last, in

   November, the weather grew too cold for collecting on

   the shore in comfort, and the health of neither husband

   nor wife was what it should be. l"he\- determined to go

   back to London for the winter, and, after an absence of
[
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     /nearly ten months in Devonshire, they took lodgings at
                                                                                                                                                                                                                     ' ·ii
                                                                                                                                                        "16, Hampton Terrace, Camden ToAvn.

   One reason for coming back to London was the desire

   to carrv on a stage further the invention of marine vixaria,

   which iiad been occupying the mind of Philip Gosse all

   through the }ear. On May 3, after some slighter experi-

   ments, he had i)ut about three pints of sea-water, with
   some marine plants and animals, into a ctjnfectioner's

   show-glass, which was aboiit ten inches deep b)- five and
   a half inches wide. This was the first serious attemi)t

   made to create a marine aquarium. Withviut changing

   tliJ water otherwise than by adding a little to su[)pl}' loss

t  from evaporation, this vase was kept fresh, and its contents
   health)', for more than two months ; when the experiment

   came to a close, in conse([uence of lack of experience.
   The [);inciple, however, upon which the preservation of

   marine animals in captixity could be maintained was now

   discovered, and it was merel}- a question how to bring it

   to perfection in practice.  Curious!)- enou^^h, another

   naturalist, Mr. Robert W'.uinglon, of Apothecaries' Il.dl,

   liatl, quite inde[)emlenll)-, been occui)ied with a similar

   series of experiments. \n October, 1S32, my father heartl

   of this, and inunediately corresponded with I\Ir. Warington.

   This gentleman, it then a{)pearei.l, had carried the viv.uium

   to a greater pitch of el.iboration, but had as yet onl)-
                                  244 THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

                                         applied himself to the preservation of fresh-water animals
                                     by means of the exhalation of oxygen by living water-
                                     plants. I'hilip Gossc at once supplied him with particulars
                                         of his own experiments with marine forms, and when he
                                         returned to London in November, he brought Mr. War-
                                     ington a small collection of living seaweeds and animals
                                         which were successfully ensconced in one of that gentle-
                                         man's vivaria. There v/as no sort of rivalry between thes i
                                         earnest and amiable investigators, but a little later on,
                                         when the aquarium had become a fashionable thing, Philip
                                     Gosse was accustomed to say that if it was needful to
                                         dispute about an invention which was virtuall)- simul-
                                         taneous, it might be said that W'arington had invented
                                         the vivarium and he the marine aquarium.

                                         Little time was lost in making a practical use of the
                                     experience of the summer. Early in December, with the
                                      active co-operation of the secretary, Mr. D. W. Mitchell,
                                         a large glass tank was set up in the Zoological Gardens,
                                     in Regent's Park, and stocked by Philip Gosse with about
                                     two hundred specimens of marine animals and plants
                                         brought up from Ilfracombe two months before, and still
                                         in a perfectly healthy condition. The Zoological Society
                                         soon found that this tank, in the new 1^'ish House then
                                         just erected, was exceedingly popular, and they determined
                                          to make the newly invented aquarium a feature of the
                                      Gardens. They projected a series of seven tanks, and in
                                          order to fill them they made a proposition that Gossc
                                         should go down again to th.e seaside for the sole purpose
                                      of collecting specimens. This suited him very well. He
                                          found that it was absolutely needful for his health that
                                          he should not work much indoors, but be out in the fresh
                                          air for a great part ot each da)-, aiul he agreed that so
                                          soon as the spring began he should go down to "he coaT^t
                                          of Dorsetshire.

"i?::!
IVOR A' AT THE SEASHORE.  245

   By the last da\-.s of 1852 A N'atitralisfs Raviblc 011 the  i :i

Dnwnshirs Coast was finished. lie was determined that,           II
                                                                 ««
now that the pubh'c liad begun to denand his literary
work, he would get the profit of it himself. He there-

fore arranged to be his own publisher, and the book-
was accordingly set up for him by a firm of printers

in Bath. It was eventually sold, on :ommission, by Mr.

Van Voorst, whose name appeared on the titlepagc. The
volume was expensive to produce, for it contained a large
number of coloured plates ; the subject, the marine zoology
of an English county, treated in a desultory style, with a
mixture of antiquities, gossip, sentiment, and poetry, was
one entirely novel, the success of which might well be
dubious. My father, however, was willing to try the ex-
periment, and he was amply justified. In these da)-s,
when the business details of literature attract so much

popular curiosity, it may perhaps be of some interest \.o
mention that the net profits of The Dcvtuis/iin' Coast ex-
ceeded <^75o, no poor sum in those days for one small
volume to bring to the pocket of its author. The book

was published in May, 1S53.
   In February of that year Phili[) Gosse was asked to

lecture. lie had never attempted such a thing, but he

said he would willingly make a few remarks about sponges,
the siliceous skeletons of whicli he was studying at that

moment in correspondence with Bowerbank. He accom-
panied the lecture with some large drawings in chalk on
the blackboard, and the success of the experiment, which

was novel at that time, was such, that he adopted lecturing
as a branch of his professional labours, and became a very
pop"lar lecturer during the next four or five years. On
April 8 the family once more left London, and settled in

lodgings at Weymouth, in Dorsetshire. Here they con-
tinued to reside until December of the same year, when,
     mi246         LIP IIEXRV GCSSE.
     77/E LIFE OF

w    as before, bad weather and exhaustion drove them back
     to London. These were eight months of intense and con-
1!^  centrated activity out of doors, during which comparatively-
     little purely literary work was done. The mode in which
     these months were spent is fully described in that chatty
     and delightful record, The Acjiiariiim. It was much less

     desultory and amateurish than the way in which the pre-
     vious year, in Devonshire, had been occupied. I'hilip
     Gosse now clearly understood what objects he wished to
     secure, and the way to secure them. Almost every evening
     he sent off to the Zoological Gardens in Regent's Parle a
     package of living creatures, the " bag " of the da}-, and
     sometimes this would mean seventy or eighty specimens.
     His first care was to secure seaweeds, carefully selecting

     those which were in full health, and, by preference, the
     finer ami cleaner varieties, firmly affixed to rocks. He
     became an adept in chipping o," just as much of the rocky
     support as the roots recjuired, and no more. To these he
     would add such specimens of the littoral fauna, annelids,
     sea-anemones, shells, nudibranchs, and crustaceans, as he

     found, by experience, had the best chance of surviving

     the journey, and these he packcJ, as a rule, not in water,
     but swathed in wrappings of wet seaweed.

         Mis principal exercise, however, at Weymouth, was
     dredging in the bay. He declared that Ovid knew more

      about the arts of dredging than any later naturalist, and
      used to point, by way of [)roof, to a passage in the

     lia/iiiitiioii, which he took the liberty of paraphrasing
      thus :--

              " When you the dredge would use, go not away
                 Far out lo sea. Mind that your haul be made
                  According to your liottoni. Where the ground
                Is foul and ledgy, he content to fish
                With hook and line, liut wIku upon the sea
!

                     WORIC AT THE SEASHORE.                          247      I

      The mornin.iT sun casts shadows deep and long                            .f
      From lofty W'hitenose, -- over with your dredge ;                            \
      When 'nealh your keel the verd:uit sea-grass waves,                           ?
      The keer-drag try for nudibranchs and wrasse."

   The man with whom lie Jinbituaily sailed was a fisher-                            %.
                                                                                     .l'!!
   man of the name of Jonas Fowler, who was glad to be
   hired day after day, and who took a pride in association                           %f
   with the naturalist. " Me and Mr. Gosse " were a pair

   of knowing ones, in the eyes of Jonas, whose portrait has
   been painted thus by his companicMi :--

      · There is nobody else in \Ve)'mouth Harbour that

   "knows anything about dredging (I have it from his
   " own lips, so you may rel\' on
                                            it)    but /w familiar
                                                        if is
                                                ;
                                                                           a
   "with the feel of almost e\ery yard of bottom from

   "W'hitenose to Church Hope, and from Saint Aldhelm's

   "Head to the l^ill. lie follows dredging with all the

   "zest of savaii/ and reall}' does cue's heart good
              a      o'

   "to hear how he pours }-ou out the crack-jaw, the;
                             if ;
   "sesquipedalian nomenclature.            'Now, sir,  you do
                                    I
                                        it
   "'want i^astivc/urna, can just put down your dredge
            aa
   '"upon lot 'em we'l! bring               i  p   three or four on
                  '
   "'stone.'         I'm in ho[)es we shall have a good cribella or

   "'two off this bank, we don't get choked up with them

   '" 'ere ophiocovias' He tells me in confidence that he has

   "been sore puzzled to find a name for his boat, but               aa

   "he has at length determined to appellate lier 'The
   " Tiirritclla', -- 'just to astonish the fishermen, )'ou know,
   "'sir,' -- with an accompanying wink and chuckle, and

   "patronizing nudge in iii)- ribs."
   Every haul of the dredge was an excitement and

   delight. Its results were widcl\' different, according to

   the nature of the bottom. Rcnigh stones, sand, shells,

   even broken bottles, would form the base of the matter
   dragged up -- no fragment of all this to be lightly thrown
248 THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY Co 3E.

away witliout examination, since it might contain star-
fishes, urchins, the tubes of serpiilic, dchcate nudibranchs
and ascidians, and many other attractive captives for the
aquarium. The univalve shells might be inhabited by
soldier-crabs, with their charming guardian, the crimson
Adainsia, or cloak-anemone. Skipping among the stones
might be tiny fishes and pretty painted shrimps and
prawns of various genera ; the long arms of spider-crabs
might wave mysteriously above the mass ; sometimes the
most gorgeous of the denizens of the British seas, the
sea-mouse, with its refulgent silk, would glimmer, like a
fragment of a fallen rainbow, through the mud. The keer-
drag on the sand would bring ground-fishes, weavers, soles,

and rays, rare sea-anemones, and the hump-backed yEsop
 prawns, with their lovely clouded tones of green and
 scarlet. The great advantage of dredging, for Philip
 Gosse's purpose, was, not merely that it supplied him with
 forms not attainable along the shore, but that it produced
 the maximum of results, in the way of number of speci-
 mens, with the minimum of labour.

     His keen enjoyment of this healthy and invigorating
 existence was suddenly interfered with in the month of
 July by a deplorable misunderstanding with the Zoological
 Society. He had succeeded in obtaining specimens in
 much greater numbers than were necessary for Regent's
  Park, and he was now sending them also to the Crystal
  Palace and to other proprietors of aquaria in the neigh-
 bourhood of London. In doing this he broke no pledge,
  written or spoken. On the contrary, he was acting strictly
  in accordance with the principles which he had always
  maintained. When, in the Annals of A'atiiral History for
  October, 1852, he had first mooted the question of marine
  vivaria, he had suggested that " such collections should be
  formed in London and other inland cities," and this desire
VVORA' AT THE SEASHORE.  249

was repeated, with enlart^cd details, in the Devonshire       t!
Coast. When ho submitted his phm to the Zooloijical
Society, in November of the same year, and offered to
supply living specimens at a fixed rate, not the least
stipulation that he should limit his supplies to that
society was made or hinted at. Indeed, so far was any
such thing from his intention, that he mentioned his plan
for bringing out a parlour aquarium for sale. He was not
the salaried servant of the Zoological Society, and its
council had no more right to forbid him to sell specimens
elsewhere than to prohibit the tradesman who glazed their
tanks from selling glass to any one else. Ikit the fact
indubitably was that the notion of the marine aquarium
having suddenly seized the public, the tank in the l'"ish
House had proved to be an exceedingly paying attraction.

It was, perhaps, not in human nature that the secretary

should with equanimity see the same advantages offered
to rival and imitative establishments. No doubt it would
have been possible to make an arrangement by which
Philip Gosse's services would have been exclusively
retained for the Zoological Society. But in default of

such an arrangement, to turn suddenly from blessing to
cursing, and angrily to denounce his want of consideravion
for the society, was scarcely wise and certainly unjust.

    When, in 1852, the state of his health seemed to renc.er
precarious the continuance of that kind of work by which
Philip Gosse had hitherto maintained himself, he looked
with hope to the scheme of the marine aquarium, as to
a possible means by which he might obtain a livelihood
without much mental labour indoors, and when his pro-
posals were entertained by the Zoological Society, he
congratulated himself. But he never considered this en-

gagement as more than temporary, and he principally
looked forward to parlour aquaria, supplied by him with
             250 THE LIFE OF nilLIP HENRY GOSSE.

             animals in tlic hf)i)c that these inii^ht be extensively
             patronized by wealthy amateurs. Hence it became an

             object with him to be widely recognized as the man who

             had been the first to give attention to the subject, and

             who possessed unique experience in  it           On his side,
                                                      is it.
             from a business point of view, he was disa[)pointed that

             the Zoological Society had not permitted some slight

             allusion to his name to appear in connection with the

             numerous descriptions of the new vivaria which were com-

             municated to the public prints. Relations had certainly

             become strained on both sides, and               impossible, with

             the correspondence before me, to exculpate the Zoological

\i           Society from some lack of justice, as well as generosity,

  4aW.-f J   in the matter. By the intervention of Professor Thomas

      } :;r  15ell, however, civilities were resumed, but Philip Gossc

             ceased to supply the Zoological Gardens in Regent's Park

             with specimens nor was the dispute brought to close
             ;                                                a

             until fourteen months later.

             Partly owing to the worry involved this dispute, hein

             began in August to suffer again from violent pains in the

             head. lie went on, however, very assiduously collecting

             animals, the public having thoroughly awakened to the

             interest which attached to the vivaria. In i)articular, the

             Surrey Zoological Gardens, at the Crystal Palace, were

             abundantly stocked by Philip Gosse. In September he
             writes from Weymouth " We have not at present any
             a
                        in

                                                                   :
                                                                                                                           5,
             thoughts of leaving this place. Perhaps we may remain

             here all the winter." He was busily occupied in construct-

             ing small tank for himself, and this was set up, filled with

             living creatures, and started as an article of drawing-room

             furniture, the Weymouth lodgings on September 1853.
             This, the first private marine aquarium ever made, still

             exists in my possession.

             The Devonshire Coast had been published, as wc have

·,i^
WORK A T THE SEASHORE.  2U                                       r fI :'

seen, in May, and had enjoyed a brilliant success. Letters                     >[
of compliment, questions, and suf];[^estions poured in upon
                                                                 ''!·i
the author, and amon^; the Hood of correspondence there

floated to his door one missive from a str.inL;er who was
dcstinetl to become a beloved and intimate friend. In

July, 1S53, Philip Gosse received his first letter from the

Rev. Charles Kingslc\-, a younc; poet and novelist already
distinguished, and full of enerj^y aiul intelligent curiosity-.
In his first letter, Kingslcy urged my father to try Chn-elly
as a hunting-ground, and suggested that tlic}' should
meet in Devonshire. To this Philip Gosse did not re-

spond in his habitually cautious tone, but warmed u[) into

an infectious enthusiasm. "How i)leasant it would be,"
he wrote, "to have such a companion as }'ourself in

the investigation of those prolific shores!" He adds:

" I have sent up to London this summer nearly four
thousand living animals ami plant.s. Of course many

rarities and some novelties have occurred in such an
amount of dredging and trawling as this involved. Be

assured, my dear sir, I shall esteem it a favour and a

privilege to continue the correspondence you have com-

menced." Charles Kingsley became, almost immediately,
one of the most ardent, and certainly the m<jst active, of

his allies.

   In September Philip Gosse began to write the volume
now known as The .Iqiiariinn, but entitled, until it was
actually in the press, 'J/ic Miinic Sea. This was a record
of his deep-sea adventures off Weymouth, and a full de-
scription of the theory and practice of the marine aquarium.
The confirmed ill-health, or rather feeble health, of Mrs.

Gosse, and a return of his own brain-trouble, combined

with the cold and gusty weather of December to disgust
them with Weymouth, and just about the time when it

had been proposed that they should join Kingslc)- in
         35a r//£ LIFE OF nil IP IIKXRY GOSSE.
                is
                                                      I.

                                                                               a
         North Devon, the latter proceeded to Tcjrquay, and the

         Gosses came up to London. Tlicy took small house in

         Huntingdon Street, Islington, and this became their home

         for some years.

         There  not very much to record regarding the year

         i(S54. Gosse worked much at the Rotifcra, and he estab-
         lisiied several marine tanks, which he suijplied with animals

         and plants from Torquay and Weymouth. ICdward h\)rbes,

i C. Spencc Bate, and Charles Kingslcy were his most

Is constant correspondents, and the latter threw himself with
                               his customary splendid energy into the po[)ularization of
                               the marine aquarium. In December, 1S53, Kingsley had
                               written from Livermead, on Tor Bay, to know whether he

         could be useful in sending "beasts" up to town. Gosse

         replied with eager gratitude, and supi)lied him imme-

         diately with     hamper of suitable wicker-covered jars.
         a

           ;

                     a
                         is

                                                                       '

                                                         a

                                                                                                   '
i These Kingsley promptly returned very successfully packed
         with desirable specimens, and  brisk correspondence of

         this na'".ure went on all through the first six months of

         1854. On j\Iay 30 Gosse writes to Kingsley: "My most

         charmirg tank    now thirteen weeks old, and contains

Kn nearly hundred species of animals, and perhaps twice
                                  that nuMibcr of individuals, all in the highest health and

         beauty. They include four fishes, viz. Lahnis Donovaiii,

         Gobius miuutiis, Gobiiis iiuipinictaiits, and Syiigiiat/iits

'i       angninois besides many of the treasures you have kindly
ill      sent me, -- our old friend the say-lachc among them, --

1 1 !i!  and the seaweeds which are the subject of my paper in
    1t
         the Annals of Natural Hist^ory for the coming month."
   Mi       In June the Gosses went down somewhat suddenly to

         Tenby, in Pembrokeshire. The Aqnariuvi had just been

         published, and was selling like wild-fire. This book,
                          ;

                                                                      I
         may mention, was the most successful of all my father's

         literary adventures although the coloured plates with
IWS^A- AT THE SEASHORE.  253                                    r 11

which it was lavishly adorned were so costly that no              r

publisher would have faced the risk of their production,              V'
                                                                     i
the profit on the sale of the volume amounted, in pro-                 .' I
cess of time, to more than /"(joo. I'rom Tenby Gosse
wrote as follows to Charles Kin<;sley (June 29, 1854) :--                 ' ;'
                                                                             1.
     "A most lovely place this is : I know not whether to

   "admire most the inland scenery, the noble cliffs and
   " headlands and caverns of the coast line, or the pro-
   " fusion of marine animals which I meet with. It is by

   "far the most prolific place for the naturalist that I have
   "explored, and I expect to get soine treasures here.
   "The ^XQ.\Xy Actinia uivca that I described from a speci-
   "men found at Petit Tor is here the characteristic

   "species, occurring by hundreds; and there is a most

   "charming variety (if it be not indeed si)ecifically dis-
    "tinct) which has the whole disc of a miniate or orange
    "hue, ver}- brilliant, and the tentacles pure white."
    The Aquarium was made the ])cg upon which, in No-

vember, 1854, Kingsley hung an article in the North
British Rcvieiu, afterwards (May, 1855) enlarged and pub-
lished as the charming little volume called Ghiucus ; or, the

WflJiders of the Shore, through the [)ages of which the
lilies of my father's praise are sprinkled from full hands.

   l^owerbank had in 1852 assured Philip Gosse that he
would find Tenby "the prince of places for a naturah'st,"

and Pembrokeshire, though now first visited, had never

been absent from his mind. The vcrv first evening, after

securing lodgings, the family strolled out at low tide to

the island of St. Catherine, and the naturalist saw enough
to assure him that "its honeycombed rocks and dark

weedy basins are full of promise for to-morrow." A few

days afterwards, he wrote to Bowcrbank that " the zoologi-
cal riches of these perforated caverns amply bear out your
laudatory testimony ; indeed, I have not met with any
                                      =54 77/i^ Z//-^ C/^ nilLIP HENRY GOSSE.

                                      })art of our coast which can compare with thcin               it         affonl-
                                                                                                        is in
                                      \w<^ treat to the inarinc naturalist." In liis volume called
                                      Ic
                                      Tcitby he has given an acc(uint, as minute asa                         <;raphic,

                                      of the experiences of these summer weeks, and of thea
                                                                                                 a
              ^!>                     results to his aquarium collections. His very delic^htful
                                      antl ahnost uniformly brilliant and successful visit to
 H' '5M
                                      Pembrokeshire came to                                         close on Auf;[ust iS. These
a
                 I! '<!'J             ci.t;ht weeks were among the most enjo}'able of his life.
                                      His bodily condition was unusually good, and Mrs. Gosse

                                      was in better health than she had been for twc joars past                ;

                                      while he was actively and constantly making additions of

                         ! ! PS       a more or less important character to the existing know-

                                      Igc of seaside zoology. His important discoveries, lead-

                                      ing to redistribution of genera, and the naming of many

                                      new species, of British sea-anemones, belong to this summer

                                      of 1«S54, although they were not then published.

                                      In the course of the sumi.ier, as he was exploring the

i                                     caverns of St. Catherine's Island, he was accosted by
                 i                                                                                  a
                                                                                                        ;
                                      gentleman who introduced himself as the Bishop of Oxford,
                                                                                                                    a
                                      anil who entered with great c^usto into the pleasures of the
                                      seashore. The .acquaintance thus oddl\- formed ri[)ened

                                      into daily companionship as Inng as the}' were both at
                                      a
                                                                 a
                                      Tenb)', and after the}- i)arted. Dr. W'ilberforce and my

                                      father kept up                desultorj' correspijndencc for             while.

                                      -Another and more permanent friendship formed at Tenb)-
                                      was ih.it with Air. iMederick Dxster, the zooloijist from

                                      whom he bought, for /.'jO, the microscope which he con-

                                      tmucd, regardless of modern im[)rovemen;s, to use until

                                      iie.ir the end of his life. lis acipiaintance with Professor
                                             in

                                                                            ;
                                                                                               I
                                      Iluxle)', then a \-oung surgeon whose investigations into

                                      the oceanic Ilydrozoa, on board \\Ps\S. Rattlcsitakr, hat!

                                      recently given him scientific prominence, and whose

                                      contributions to his own collection Gossc records in Tcnb}\

                                      began  this year but his princiiial scientific or literary

                                 .ML
            WORK' AT THE SEASHORE.                      ^%1>

correspondent continued to be Charles Kinji^sley, who in
June had taken a house at Northdown, near Bideford, and

was writing Wcstxi'ard llo! On Gosse's return from

Tenby he had found lulward Forbes in London, shrunken

to a pliantom of his former self, but still cheerful and brave.

lie was to die in November, and thus to terminate jjrema-
turely one of the most brilliant careers of the time. To

Edward Forbes my father was strongly attached by
fricndshi[) as \\z\\ as admiration, and his was in later )'ears

one of the names which he was w i l most affectionately

to recall.

   The autumn and winter of 1854 were almost exclusively

occupied with tin.' stuily of the Rotifcra untler the
microscope, culminating in a treatise of great though
strictly technical imirjrtance, On the StnictitiC, Fiiiictioiis,

and llojnologics of the Minidncatory Organs in the Class
Rotifcra^ published eventual' \' in the Philosophical
Transactions of the Royal Society for 1.^36. This work

is illustrated with a great many drawings of the mastax

and trophi of various species, and "discusses uie changes

that the)' undergo, in passing from the t\-pica! to the most
aberrant forms. It is in this treatise that Air. Gossc
contends that the ilental organs of the rotifera are true

mandibuke iind .-raxilke, and that the mastarc is ,1 mouth ;

and assigns to the class a i)osition among the .Irlicnlata"

says Dr. Mu 'son, who gives this work a hiijh rank in the         s'4

literature concerning the rotifera. lla\ing sent this                        i

monograph in to Ik.e council ol' the Uo\al Societ}', I'liilij)      41

Gosse immediately returned to the revision of his old               ?i

translation of l''hrenberg's J^ic Jnfnsionythiorchcn..  The        /M
                                                                        i
monograph was accc[)ted, anc' ieadi at tin.: Ko\al Soc -ty on

i'ebruary 22, 1S55, and on successive evenings. It began

to seen^ as though it were impossible for Philip Gcjsse,
however, to live in London, or bear the least social e.\cite-
             2;6 r//E LIFE OF rniLiv itexry gjsse.

             mcnt. Quiet as his winter wa.s,  was not quiet enough,
                                              It it
    1        and he began again to suffer from ^-uch excruciating pains
                                                                     it
     fl                                                                                      a
             in the he.'d, that he was forced to abandon ahnost wliolly
Jif
             the exercise of writing. He discovered               possible,
 ·I-i
t ,!         although very irksome, to dictate, but having found a

          i  rapid and symj^athetic amanuensis, he reconciled himself

             to tliis mode of composition.    even exaggerated his

             flowing and confidential style, the characteristics of which

             are seen, almost to excess, in the p;iges of Tcnhy.

                The year 1855 was not marked by any incidents of

             very uni(iue character. The manner of life of the Gosscs
             remained almost unci, mgcd, my falher merely pushing

             further and further along the various paths of scientific

             investigation of which he heUl the threads. In I'ebruary

             was published AbraJiani (vui his Chi/drcii, volume on
                                                        aa
             religious education, the most ambitious work which limily

             Gossc had hitherto produced and Philip Gosse began, at
                                           ;

             the same time, book called The Poitd-Raker, which was
                                a
             to be popular intioduction to th<j study of the Rotifera.in
             It

                         a
                proved difficult to poi)ularizc so abstruse subject, and

             77/<' Poiid-R<rk(T,           spite of enthusiastic encouragement

             from Charles Kingslc)', soon quitted his pond and dropped

             his rake, to be replaced by the Manual of Marine Zoology,

             a  work of reference of real importance. On March 20,

             1855, Gosse read before the Liniuean .Society an "'mportant

             paper on Peachia, a new genus of unattached, cylindrical

ii;i         sea-anemones, buried in sand, which he had characterized

             from specimens secured in Torba)-, and sent to him by

             Charles Kingsley. This paper attracted  a  good ileal of

             attention, and among those present on the occasion of its

             reading was C'harles Darwin, to whom my father wa;3 that

             evening presented for the first time. Gossc was captivated

             at once, as all who met him were, b}- the simplicity,
             frankness, and cordiality of this great ami charming man.
WORK' AT THE SEASHORE.  257

   Late in March the family proceeded ac^ain to Wcj'nKnitli      k
for a month, and Phihp Gossc immediately resumed his
work of collecting on the shore and drcdi^injjj in the bay,
encouraged and cheered through rather bad weather by
the unexpected comjianionship of Bowerbank. The text

of the first volume of the Jfaiinal \\',\^ finished in June and

published in Jul)-, upon which the Gosses, without delay,
started for a second visit to Ilfracombe. Vov some time

previously circulars had been sent out inviting persons
who desired to make themselves acquainted with the living
objects which the shore produced, and who wished to learn

at the same time how to col ect and how to determine the

names and the zoological relations of ilie specimens when
found, to join the writer on the shore of North Devon.

    ]5ut, before these circulars were issued, in the spring
of 1855, Kingsley had alread\' committed a discreet indis-

cretion concerning the project, lie had written in Glaiiciis:
"That most pious and most learned naturalist, Mr. Gosse,

whose works will be so often ([uoted in these pages,
pro[)oses, it is understood, to establish this summer a

regular shore class, . . . and I advise an\- reader whose

fancy such a project pleases, to apply to him for details of

the scheme." The consequence was that Gosse was received

at Ilfracombe by a small party of ladies antl gentlemen, who
formed themselves into a class for the stuily of marine
natural histor\'. An hour or two was spent on the shore

every day on ui)ich the tide and the weather were suit-

able ; and when otherwise, the occupation was A-aricd by
an intloor lesion on the identification of tJK animals

obtained, the specimens themselves affording ilh:strations.
 Ihit the weather was general!}' '^xw^i.,and nut a {cw species
of iiiterest, with some rarities, came umler the ii;;tice of
the class, scatteretl as they were (jver tiie njcks, and [)eep-
 ing into the pools, almost every day for a couple of months.
   wi
          ».'
          S'  <'
                   ·'.
               
               V
    l\\          i:

fa                    :

               r            2-,8 77/y5: Z//7i 0/' PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.
                 ;;
                      1'

               !            Then the prizes were brout^ht home, where each member
                            or group of the chiss Iiad little aquarium for the study
                            of their Iiabits their beauties investigated by the pocket-
               '                       ;
                 '. ;
                      ( 1[                                      a

                            lens, and the minuter kinds examined under the microscope.

                            A little also was effected in the way of dredging the sea-

                            bottom and in surface-fishing but the chief attention of
                                                 1
                            the class was given to shore-collecting, antl very novel;

                            and agreeable the amusement was unanimously voted.

                            Here for the first time can trust my own recollection

                            for one or two of those tletachcil ini[)ressions which remain
                            imjjrinted here and there on the smoothed-out wax of
                                                                    a
                            child's memory.      recall long desultory line of persons      a
                                             I
                                                   in

                                                                 a
                            on beach of shells, -- doubtless at Harricane. At the head
                            a

w                           of the procession, like y\poll(j conducting the Muses, my

                            father strides ahead an immense wide-awake, loose black

                            coat and trousers, and fisherman's boots, with collecting-

                            basket ill one hantl, a staff (;r prod in the other. Then

                            follow gentlemen of e\er)- age, all seeming spectacled and
                            old to me, and many ladies in the balloon costume of I1S55,

                            with shawls falling in point from between their shoulders
                            li) the edge of tlKir lloniiccd petticoats, each wearing
                                                 a
                                                                             ;

                                                                 I
                                                                                                                                 a
                            mushroom hat will) streamers            myself am tenderly

                            conducted along the beach by one or more of these
                            enthusiastic nj-mphs, ami "jumped " over the perilous little

                            watercourses that meander to the sea, stooping every

                            moment to collect in the lap of ni)' pink frock the profuse

                            and lovely shells at my feet. This      one inemor}-, and
                                                                    is
                                                                                                         aa
                            another of my father standing at the mouth of a sort of
                               is
                                              a
                            funnel in the rocks, through w'.iich came at intervals

                            roaring sound,       coi)ious jet of exploding foam, and

                            sudden licpiid rainbow against the dark wall of rock,

                            surrounding him in its fugitive radiance. Without question,

                            this reminiscence of the Capstone S[)out-lIolcs, tois
                            which my f.ither would be certain to take the class, " thea
T

       WORK A T THE SEASHORE.  259

       ragfgcd rock-pools that lie in the deep shadow of the            1^

       precipice on this area " beinfj, as he says in the Devonshire
       Coast, "tenanted with many fine kinds of algae, zoophytes,
       Crustacea, and medusa;."

          Of the members of the class, one of the most enthusiastic

       was Sir Charles Lighton, with whom, on frequent occasions,
       after sending the others home laden to their aquariums,
       my father would start for a dredging excursion off Lee
       or Smallmouth. In August the class dispersed, and on

       vScptembcr 6 the Gosses returned to town, followed by

       hampers of living creatures, most of which bore the journey
       very successfully. Philip Gosse immediately took up the
       composition of his Handbook to the Marine Aquarium, a

       practical su[)plement to the work which he had lately

       been engaged upon ; it was soon finished, and he resumed
       the notes and observati(jns which he had made in

       Pembrokeshire in 1S54, ami began activcl)' to rewrite the
       volume eventuall}' published under the name of Tenby.
       The Handbook was published early in October, and an
       edition of no less than two thousand copies speedily

       exhausted, so great was the interest and curiosity now
       cxcitetl among the educal(-d classes b}' the invention of
       the marine aciuarium. The jear closed uneventful))', except
       that just before Christmas the pains in the head, which had
       left him unattacked now for many months, set in again

       w ith extreme severit\", and threatened to check his work.

          Besides the first volume of the Manual of Afarine Zoology
       and the Handbook to the Marine Aquarium, Philip Gosse
       composed in 1S54 a little gui(le-l)ook to AVa' Carden's,
       and wrote a number of technically scientific papers for the

       Royal Society, the Linna-an Society, the Microscopical
       Societ)', and the" Annals of Natural History." This may,
       then, be ttU<en as one ot his fulkst years, for he was actively

       lecturing at the same time on poi)ular invertebrate zoology

   '^
              26o THE LIFE OF PHILIP HRXRY GOSSE.

              at a variety of institutes and public rooms. lie recovered

              his usual condition f)f health before the close of the year,

              and 1S56 seemed to dawn UfJon his wife and himself
              with a more than common promise of hap[)iness and

              peace. Emily Gosse had bej^aui to undertake a species of

fi i !        reh'f^ious work, in which she was to achieve a sinq;ular
      i ' f!  success. In the autumn of 1S55 was published the Yoiins^
              Gittxrdsnian of tJic Alma, a Gospel Tract issued in leaflet
I'            form by the Weekly Tract Society, and founded on an

              incident of the Crimean War personally known to the

              writer. She had ahead}- printed six of these leaflets, and
              ihe enormous demand for this particular one led her to

              concentrate her attention, during; tlu brief remainder of her

              life, upon this species of composition. Forty-one of these

              tracts were jniblishcil in all, collected after her death in a

              general volume. It has been stated that not less than

              half a million copies of these Gospel Tracts of hers were

              circulated, ami they have been spreatl to the remotest

              corners of the i^lobe, effectiiii;', as one cannot cpiestion, no

              small benefit by their pious candour and their direct

              appeal to the unawakencd conscience.

                 My own memories of her durinc^ this winter of 1S55-56,

              the last which we were to spend toi^ether in peace, are

              vivid enough. I speciall}' recollect sitting on a Sunday

              morning upon a cushion at her knees, one of her long,

              veined hands resting upon mine, to learn a chapter of the

              Gospel of St. Matthew by heart ; and, while her soft voice

              read out the sacred verses, suddenly seeing something in

              her large eyes and wasted features, which gave me a pre-

              monition that I should lose her. Most clearly I recall the

              terror of  the unexpressed anguish.                                                 the more
                         it,

                                 I
                                                                      It

                                                                                              is
              strange, because am sure that this was in the winter,

              and before any one had guessed that she was stricken with

              mortal disease.
A

   IVOKK AT THE SEASHORE.  261

       In March Philip Gosse read before the Royal Society an          ' 't
   important monograph on the Duccions Charactcy of the
   Rotifcra, which attracted a great deal of attention, and            l-l

   led to his election as F.R.S. on the next occasion, the

   4th of June of that year, Dr. Lankester being his proposer.
   In March also was published Tenby, the third of his

   chatty, popular volumes, describing the zoological adven-
   tures of a summer on the British shores, and adorned with

   coloured plates. For some reason or another, in s[)ite of the
   increased distinction of the author, this was not nearly so
   successful as either of its immediate predecessors ; although
   a book which brought in a net profit of over ;i{^500 can
   only be spoken of as relatively, not positively, unsuccessful.
    Tciihy had the disadvantage, as I have said, of being in

   great part dictated, not written, by the author. The
   gossipy and confidential manner, too -- what 'I he Saturday
   Reviczu called " Mr. Gosse's air of taking us upon his knee
   like a grandpapa" -- was carried in certain of its chapters
   to some excess, and, what was after all probably the main
   reason, the style itself and the matter were no longer s(^

   deliciously fresh and novel to the i)ublic as they had been
   in 1S52. None the less, Tenby \^ a charming book, ami
   must be read with A Naturalist's Ramble on the Devonshire

   Coast 7s.x\(\ 'ThcA(]iiariuui,'ds giving the completest expression

   of one most important branch of my father's literary work,

   namely, his picturesijuc introduction of and apology for the

   pleasures of collecting animals and plants on the seashore.
      My father and mother had now been married between

   seven and eight years. Their wedded life, which had
   opened under circumstances which might have seemed

   not wholly favourable to their happiness, had become year

   by year a closer, a tenderer, and a more sympathetic
   relation. As each had grown to know the other better, the
   finer faculties of both had been drawn out. My father,
           262 THE LIFE OF PHILIP IIEXRV GOSSE.

           formerly so stiff and self-reliant, had learned to repose more

           and more easily on my mother's tact and wisdom ; she

           had, by a ma^jnificent eff(jrt, trained herself in mature life

           to take an interest in subjects and in a course of technical

           study which had been foreii^n to her inclination. She was
           now a part of his intellectual as well as his emotional life.

           Not a rotifer was held captive under the microscope, not

           a crustacean of an unknown species shook a formidable
                                                                         "
           clapper at the naturalist, but the cry of " Emily !  Emily
                                                                       !

           brought the keen eye and sympathetic lips on to the scene

           in a moment. Under her care, all that was warmest and

           brightest in Philip Gossc's character had been developed ;

  ills! I  he had ceased to shun his kind ; he had lost his shy-
           ness, and had become one of the most genial, if still one
im
           of the most sententious of men. Iwery year this mellow-

           ing influence became more ap[)arent ; every year brought

           more of sunlight into the circle of their hopes and interests.

           Hut now the gloom was to close again over their life, and

           they were to pass together, through anguish of bod}- and
           mind, into the valley of the shadow of death.

           Late in y\i)ril, my mother became conscious of a local

           discomfort in her left breast, the result, she supposed, of

           some slight bruise. lUit on May I, being with her old

           friends at Tottenham, IVIiss Mary Stacey persuaded her

           to consult a physician, who rather crudely and roughly

           pronounced it to be cancer. She returned very calmly to
           her home, and in the course of the evening she quietly told

           her husband. Next day they called on Dr. Myde Salter,

           F.R.S., and on Mr. (now Sir) James Paget, both of whom
           declared that the presence of that disease was indubitable.

           ICach of these eminent practitioners recommended a

           surgical operation. But from this the sufferer shrank. My

           mother had an excessive dread of physical pain, and in

           those days the modern ingenuities of anaesthetics were
             IVORR' AT THE SEAS/fORE.  263

unknown. Dr. Salter, sympathizin;^ with this weakness            If: m
of nerve, and recoGjnizing her exhausted condition, men-
                                                                    i
tioned to the coujile the name of a certain American who
it,was then in London, professinjjj to cure cancer by a new
          aprocess, without the requirement of excision. It is need-
less for me to enter here into any of the harrowintj details of
his method. Enough to say that he used " a secret medica-

ment," and that he declared iiis treatment to be painless.

In some cases, of a less serious kind, he may have been

successful. Hard words and reproaches are out of [)lace
now after so threat a lapse of years. It is but charity to
hope that in deceiving others he was himself in some

measure deceived.

    On May 12, 1856, my mother began to attend the con-
sulting-room of this person, and to subject herself to his

treatment. So far from the secret ointment being painless, it
caused " a gnawing or aching in the breast, which at times
was scarcely supportable." The doctor livctl in Pimlico,
and the double journey from Islington was not a little

tedious and distressing. Meanwhile both my father and
mother, with that hap[)y unconsciousness of the future

which alone makes life endurable, were buoyed up with

hope, and suffered no depression of si)irits. His literary
work and his lecturing proceeded. The second volume of

the Manila/ of Mayinc Zoology was completed before the
end of May, and Philip Gosse's election and admission to

the Royal Society were ecpially enjoyed by them both.

The diaries of these summer months give little or no

indications of distress. In July he was away for a little

while, dredging off Deal and " anemonizing," as he called

   in St. Margaret's Bay. lie had made arrangements to

meet natural history class, as in 1S55, on the seashore

in August, and this time the rendezvous had been fixed
at Tenby, on the coast of South Wales. " had been
                                       It

                                                                 a

                                                        li
            264 THE LIFE OF FillUP HENRY GOSSE.

            subject of some solicitude with us," he says, " whether that

            sweet companionship, which had never been interrupted

            more than few days at time since our union, would be
            a
                        a                      however, had from time

                                           a
                                                                      ,

                                                      it

                                                                                ;
            vouchsafed to us there. Dr.

            to time encouraged us to e.xpect                                       and, when the time

            arrived, he gave his full and hearty consent, furnishing my

            dear Emily with supply of medicaments, and giving her

            instructions for their application. Mis confidence had by

            this time communicated itself to us, so that our minds

        il  scarcely contemplated      a  fatal issue, except as                   a  very

     !«»',  improbable, or at least very remote, contingency."'

            They went down to Tenby on August 29, and the

            meetings of the class began on September i. The order

            of the day was what had been at Ilfracombe the yearit
            before -- excursions on the rocks, lectures indoors, collec-

1'^         tions in small private aquariums, more limited and
            occasional dredging parties outside in the bay. One
            consideriiblc disappointment, however, awaited the class.
            In the noble perforate caverns around Tenby my father

            had found the most exquisite creatures in abundance in
            1854. "Almost every dark overarched basin hollowed in
            the sides of the caves, or in similar situations, at Lidstep,
            at St. Margaret's Island, and under Tenby Head, each
            filled to the brim with crystalline water, has its rugged
            Avails and floor studded with the full-blown blossoms " of

            these lovely animal flowers. But when he came in 1856,
            these caverns and almost every accessible part of the

            neighbouring coasts had been hacked by the hammers and
            chisels of amateur naturalists. He wrote with justified

            indignation " If the visitors were gainers to the same

            e.Ktent that the rocks are losers, there would be less cause
            for regret but owing to difficulty and unskilfulness com-
            bined, probably half dozen anemones are destroyed for
            ;
                :

                                   a

            one that goes into the aquarium."
IVOR A' AT THE SEAS/IORE.  26s                                 »

    The romantic caverns of the island of St. Catherine-       Ml
were still the main, and on the whole the happiest, hunt-

ing-grounds ; but sometimes the entire class was conducted
to Monkstone and Sandersfoot, or even so far as to Scot-
borough, For the first time Mrs. Gossc was unable to
take part in these rambles, and her days would be spent,
in the long warm Sei^tember, in sitting on the sands, writ-
ing, or chatting to one of those improvised friends whom
her sweet and dignified cordiality created wherever she

went. She had always possessed an unusual [)ower of
attracting the confidence of strangers, and those who were

sad, p(jor, and forlorn could seldom resist the temptation
of pouring the burden of their sorrows into her ear. As
she herself grew more and more the confidant of pain
and weariness, instead of her temper becoming fretful, her

sympathy took a deeper colouring, her interest in the

griefs of others grew more patient and sincere. All this

time she was growing worse, and when they returned to
London on October 2, neither could conceal from the

other their secret sense of dismay at the change in her
power of enduring the fatigue of travel.

    More drastic methods were now recommended by the

doctor, and to carry them out it was necessary that
the patient should be close to him. My mother and her
little .seven years' old son, therefore, moved into bleak and
comfortless lodgings in Cottage Road, Pimlico, the only

advantage of which was the fact that they were next do' <\-
to the doctor's house. My father could only be with us
from Saturday night to Monday morning. During the
rest of the week we two supported and comforted each
other as well as we could ; through dreary days and still
more dreary nights, which have left their indelible impres-
sion on the temperament as well as the memory of the
survivor, wc were alone together. This prolonged illness,
                     .%                                                             //                  .//

                                           IMAGE EVALUATION                                  '£j Mt ^                N>
                                            TEST TARGET (MT-3)
                                                                                                     w..

                                                                                :a Ua

                                                                                       fA

                              1.0           «^ illM       IIM

                                            mi
                                                   III12

                              I.I               M110
                                            It

                              1.25          U 111.6

             <^>p^                                                                            ^t

                      ^m                                                              iV
                                                                                iV
(?.          ^            /A
        c"!                                                                     «
               ^>/
x-n

             ^#.;>/                                                                                                      o'^

             O/^^             Photographic                23 WEST MAIN STREET   V%' "9)
                                 Sciences                 WEBSTER, NY. 14580

                              Corporation                     (716) '>-^?-4J03
fA
             266 THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

             and the heavy fees of the practitioner, made severe drains
             upon the family finances, and demanded ceaseless labour
             on my father's part. Yet there was some work of a different
             and a hitrher kind performed through this distressing
             winter. One of the most brilliant of all his monographs
             -- his own special favourite in later years -- the paper on
             Lar sabcUaniin, was read before the Linn.x'an Society in
             December, and was received with great respect. There

             was much close correspondence, too, and interchange

             of specimens, with Joshua Alder in the North, and with
             Robert Battcrsby in Torquay. Philip Gosse, moreover,
             was engaged at this time in the delightful task of helping
             Charles Darwin to develop his various important theories,
             and the three succeeding letters (now first published) may
             be taken as specimens of this correspondence :--

          :               " Down, Bromley, Kent, September 22, 1856.

*- :           " Mv DEAR Sir,

                        " I want much to beg a little information from

             " you.

               " I am working hard at the general question of varia-

             "tion, and paying for this end special attention to
             " domestic pigeons. This leads me to search out how
             " many species are truly rock pigeons, i.e. do iiot roost

             "or willingly perch or nest in trees, Tenminck puts C.
             " Icncoccphala (your bald-pate) under this category. Can
             " this be the case ? Is the loud coo to which you refer
             " in your interesting Sojourn like that of the domestic

             "pigeon.''  I  see in this same work you speak of rabbits
             " run wild      am paying much attention to them and
                         ;

                           I

             "am making large collection of their skeletons. Do
                              a

             "you think you could get any of your zealous and

             " excellent correspondents to send me an adult (neck
             " 7wt broken) female specimen
                                            ?       would be of great

                                                It

                                                                          I\
IVOR A' A T THE SEASHORE.                                  267

"value to me. It might be sent, I should think, in a
"jar with profusion of salt and split in the abdomen,

"I should also be very glad to have one of the wild

"canary birds for the same  object  ;  I  have  a specimen
" in spirits from Madeira.
" Do you think you could aid me in this, and shall you
"be inclined to forgive so very troublesome a request?

"As I have found the good nature of fellow-naturalists

"almost unbounded, I will venture further to state that           1\
                                                                          Ml!
"the body of any domestic or fancy pigeon which has

"been for some generations in the West Indies would
" be of extreme interest, as I am
                                    collecting  specimens
" from all quarters of the world.
" Trusting lO your forgiveness,
" I remain, my dear sir,

                            "Yours sincerely,

                                       "Cir. Darwix."

          "Down, Bromley,  Kent, September      28, 1856.

" Mv DEAR Sir,
" I thank you warmly for your extremely kind

letter, and for your information about the bald-pate,

which is quite sufficient. When we meet next I shall

beg to hear the actual coo !

 " I will by this very post write to Mr. Hill, and will

venture to use your name as an introduction, which I

am sure will avail me much ; so you need take no

trouble on the subject, as using your name will be all
that I should require. With my sincere thanks,

                                                  " Yours truly,

                                                "Cii. Darwin.

" I am very anxious to get all cases of the transport

of plants or animals to distant islands. I have been

trying the effects of salt water on the vitality of .seeds
268 THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY CUSSE.

   " -- their powers of floatation -- whether earth sticks to
   " birds' feet or base of beak, and I am experimenting
   "whether small seeds are ever enclosed in such earth,
    " etc. Can you remember any facts ? But of all cases
   " whatever, the means of transport (and such I must
   " think exist) of land mollusca utterly puzzle me most.
    " I should be very grateful for any light."

       "Moor Park,  Farnham, Surrey,    April  27,  1857.

"My dear Sir,

            " I have thought that perhaps in course of the

" summer you would have an opportunity, and would be
" so very kind as to try a little experiment for me. I

" think I can tell best what I want by telling what I

" have done. The wide distribution of some species of
" fresh-water molluscs has long been a great perplexity

"to me ; I have just lately hatched a lot, and it occurred

                                  "to me that when first born they might perhaps have
                                     " not acquired phytophagous habits, and might perhaps
jVt "like nibbling at a duck's foot. Whether this is .so I do
                                  " not know, and indeed do not believe it is so, but I

M " found when there were many very young molluscs in
                                 " a small vessel with acjuatic plants, amongst which I
                                    " placed a dried duck's foot, that the little barely visible

" shells often crawled over  and then they adhered so
                             it,
                                     a
" firmly that they could not be shaken off, and that the
" foot being kept out of water in damp atmosphere, the

" little molluscs survived well ten, twelve, or fifteen hours,

" and difezv even twenty-four hours. And thus, believe,a

" must be the fresh-water shells get from pond to pond,I
it

" and even to islands out at sea.         heron fishing, for
                             a

                                       A
" instance, and then startled, might well on rainy day
" carry a young mollusc for long distance. Now }'ou
" will remember that E. Forbes argues chiefly from the

                                                                                                  »
                        wmmmmmmm                                                                                   sMWBWWSinWpWWIJpm

                        ^TO/CA' AT THE SEASHORE.                                                                   269

to " difficulty of imajrining how littoral sea-molluscs could

    "cross tracts of open ocean, that islands, such as Madeira,                                                                       ii

h. "must have been joined by continuous land to Europe ;
    "which seems to
St  " reasoning. Now,       me, for many reasons, very                                                             rash
                                                                                                                   that
                            what I want to beg of you
    "           II
t.     you would try an     analogous experiment with some sea-
    "  mollusc, especially        aany strictly littoral species -- hatching

    "them in numbers in        I         smallish vessel and seeino-

                                                             a
                                                                            a

                                                             It

                                                                                              a

                                                                                         it
                                                                                                         a
                                                                                                              is,
    " whether, cither in larval or yoiuig shell state, they can

    "adhere to bird's foot and survive, say, ten hours in

    "damp atmosphere out of water.                 may seem triflinn-

    "experiment, but seeing what enormous conclusions                                                                                 \
                                                                                                                                         ^Ill 'i
    "poor Forbes drew from his belief that he knew all

    "means of       distribution of sea-animalcules,              seems to
    " me worth
    " different,    trying. My health has lately been very in-

    " cure.       and have come here for fortnight's water-

       " owe to using your name                    most kind and most

    "valuable correspondent, in Mr. Hill of Spanish Town.                                                                             l«.

       " hope you will forgive my troubling you on tiie

    "above points, and believe me, my dear sii.

                                       "Yours very sincerely,
                                                       " Ch. Darwin.

       " r.S. -- Can you tell me, you who have so watched all

    ".sea-nature, whether male crustaceans ever fight for the

    "females    ?        the female sexI           the sea, like  on the land,
                      belli causa?"            beg you not to     answer this
    '" tcterrii/ia  is                       in

    "letter, without you can and will be so kind as to tell
    " me about crustacean battles, such there be."
                                               if

       To this my father replied with ample notes, as, little     a                                                                   Jti
    later, he helped Darwin to collect facts with regard to
    the agency of bees in the fertilization of papilionaceous

    flowers.
's'lil                          270 THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.                           ;
                                   My mother's condition, however, was growing more
                                                                                                                                     a
                                   hopeless week by week, and, under the crrel severity of the                                                 a;
                                       treatment, her anguish had become ab;<okitcly constant.
                                   She now slept only under the inducement of opiates and,                                                         (I
                                   at last, after torturing her delicate frame so savagely for
                                   eight months, the doctor confessed that the malady was
                                   beyond his skill. On December 24 she was taken home,
                                   a wreck and shadow of herself, to Huntingdon Street, and
                                    for the brief remainder of her life she was under the
                                    soothing care of the eminent ho.nceopathic physician.
                                 Dr. John Epps, whose principle appeared mainly to consist
                                    in the alleviating and deadening of pain. Now, for the
                                    first time, these sanguine lovers realized that the hour
                                    of their parting was at hand and they faced the know-
                                    Ictlgc with fortitude. The extreme kindness of cousin,
                                 Mrs. Morgan, was an immense relief to both. This lady
                                    came up from Clifton, unsolicited, and undertook the
                                    night-nursing of tlve patient until near the end. The
                                    harrowing details of these last weeks are given with too
                                    faithful and self-torturing minuteness by my father in his
                                    Memorial. The long-drawn agony, borne to the ver)- last
 1* with an ever-increasing saintly patience, came to close

\i\ at one o'clock on the morning of Monday, I'^ebruary 9,

                                 1857. My mother lies in the remotest corner of Abney
                                    Park Cemetery.

 MWk
    ra                                       5|i

                   ( 271  )

               CHAPTER X.

    LITERARY WORK IN DEVONSHIRE.

                   1857-1864.

    '"T^HE death   of Emily Gosse    marked  a crisis in the
                                   None of   the customary
     J- career of   her husband.

    expressions which are used to denote the grief and despair
    of a bereaved person arc apph'cable in his case. He

    showed few outward signs of distress. His faith in God,

    his impHcit confidence that what was called the death
    of the redeemed was but a passage from the ante-

    chamber of life to its recesses, to that radiant iimer room
    into which he also would presently be ushered, removed

    the bitterness of separation. He was not tortured by that

    dcstdennm, that insatiable and hopeless longing, which saps

    the vitality of those who have loved, and lost, and do not

    hope to regain. Yet when faith, with its clearest and

    fullest vision, has done all it can to comfort, nature will

    assert itself, and grief takes other fomis. My father was

    now completing his forty-seventh year, and had reached

    an age when the first eagerness of life is over, and when

    sympathy and encouragement are necessary, if the strenuous
    effort is to be maintained. It is' probable that he did not

    realize at once, in his determination to be at peace, in his

    violent subjection to the will of God, how much had been

    taken away from his power of sustaining an active             i

    intellectual life. He survived to recover his happiness, to

i)
7%               \'

 <1       272 T//£ LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.
      Jk
          be more happy, perhaps, than ever before, but he never
   ·t *   entirely rec^ained his energy. From this year forward he
          was retrenching, suppressing, withdrawing his forces, and
          preparing for the long-drawn seclusion of his later years.

              Although my mother had shared his views on all
          religious questions, and although on several occasions my
          father has noted that she stirred the embers of his zeal
          and quickened his conscience --" a very blessed revival of
          my own soul through some words which she spoke to mc " --
          she had, nevertheless, an influence over him which was, on
          the whole, opposed to the stern and fanatic tendency of
          his own native temperament. Her mind was a singularly
          gay and cheerful one, and no one could distinguish more
          clearly than she did between piety and misanthropy. She
          was also liberal in her mental judgments, ardent and
          curious in her reception of new ideas ; without pretending
          to enter into the details of pliysiological speculation, she
          was inclined to welcome novelty, rather than to reject it.
          The volumes which my father published during the last
          five years of her life show, unless I am greatly mistaken,
          how wholesome was her influence upon his mind in these
          two directions. Nothing could be more cheerful than
          the Devonshire Coast, while Tenby is positively playful.
          Nor in any of these books, or in the monographs of a more
          technical nature which accompanied them, is there betrayed
          any want of sympathy with the progress of zoological
          thought, or suspicion of its tendency, although the principles
          of Biblical theology are boldly and frequently maintained.
          With Edward Forbes and Charles Darwin he was in
          correspondence, and was exchanging with them memoranda
          which more and more directly tended to strengthen
          evolutionary ideas. In some of the monographs on the
          class of zoophytes v^hich Philip Gosse issued in 1855 and
          1856, passages are to be found which show the author to
LITERARY WORK I.V DEVONSHIRE.                                             273  la Ill

have grasped, or rather, perhaps, to have been prepared

to grasp, the doctrine of biological development.
   But has to be confessed that such evolutionism as he
a it
accepted was timid and unphilosophical, and that sooner
     aor later he would certainly have been brought to halt by
                                           ;
             ;the definite theory of Darwin. The belief in direct
                                                                    aaaa
              itcreative act from without, peopling the world with sudden
                       a
                                        afull-blown efflorescence of fauna and flora, was part of

my father's very being, and he would have abandoned the

entire study of science sooner than relinquish it. He was

aware of his limitations as thinker he knew his mind to

be one which observed closely and minutely, and failed to

take in wide horizon. He once, in later years, referring

to his isolation as zoologist, said to me that he felt him-

self to be disciple of Cuvier, born into an age of successors
of Lamarck and his position could scarcely be defined more
exactly, i'et seems to me possible that my mother
                                              a
had lived, he might have been prevented from putting
                                               if
himself so fatally and prominently into opposition to the

new ideas. He might probably have been content to

leave others to fight out the question on philosophical

basis, and might himself have quietly continued observing

facts, and noting his observations with his early elegance

and accuracy.                                                             is

   That his mind was morbid, and his nerves unstrung,

ofclearly enough to be discovered from reading the singularly

painful little Meviorial tJic Last Days on Earth of Emily
Gossc, which he published in April, 1S57. In this volume,

written with distressing ability, he gives picture of the
                                           it
illness and death of his wife which            is

                                                         a
                                           exceedingly difficult

to describe, so harsh, so minute, so vivid are the lines, so

little are the customary conventions of memoir preserved.a
This little book, which was addressed, of course, to an

extremely limited circle, was received with great displeasure
  w                          274 THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

I                            by its readers, few of whom were well enough versed

              11             cither in literature or life to understand the tenderness and
        M
                             melancholy which were concealed beneath this acrid and
    n
                             positive manner of witing. The reception of the Memo-
 ;'!'                        rial by his wife's friends and many of his own shut him

                             still further up within himself, and he became almost as

                             silent and reserved as he had been before his marriage.

                             He was roused, however, during the spring and summer

                             of this year, by a good deal of lecturing, in Scotland, in

                             the North, in the midland counties. London became inex-

                             pressibly disagreeable to him, and he began to look about
                             for a home in the country. In March he was approached

                "I? ^·1      by the committee of an educational scheme which was
                   4
                             then occupying good deal of public attention, certain
                          I                    a
                                                                                                            a

                                                                                                                 aa
                             Gnoll College, which was to form the nucleus of univer-

                             sity for Wales, and was to be founded on                                              romantic

                             acclivity in the Vale of Neath, in Glamorganshire. It was

                             hoped that this institution would be richly endowed, and

                             the committee was endeavouring to secure the best men in

                             every branch as its professors. This Gnoll project gratified

                             my father's dislike to London, and when, in June,
                                                 a
                                                                                               it
                             proceeded so far as the offer to him of the chair of Natural

                             History, with       residence, he received the proposition
                                        i,
                             with delight. But there was worm at the root of this
                                              a
                             tree, and Gnoll never opened its academic halls. On

                             September         having satisfied himself that the Welsh

                             project would come to nothing, Philip Gosse went down to

                             his old haunt, the village of St. Marychurch, in South
                             Devon. This place had just been seized with building-
                                                 a
                                                                 a
                             craze, and new villas, each in its separate garden, were

                             rising on all hands. Philip Gosse hired horse, and rode

                             round the neighbourhood to see what he could find to suit

                             him, and at last he discovered, near the top of the Torquay

                             Road, what he thought was the exact place.
r                                                                 fV

   LITERARY WORK IX DEVOXSIIIRE.  -/3                                  1I 
                                                                      %
       It was not an attractive object to a romantic eye. It

   is impossible to conceive anythin^t^ much more dispiriting
   than this brand-new little house, unpapered, undricd,
   standing in ghastly whiteness in the middle of a square
   enclosure of raw " garden," that is to say of ploughed field,
   laid out with gravel walks, beds without a flower or leaf,
   and a " lawn " of fat red loam guiltless of one blade of
   grass. Two great rough pc/ilard elms, originally part of a
   hedge which had run across the site of the lawn, were the

   only objects that relieved the monotony of the inchoate
   place, which spread out, vague and uncomely, " like the red
   outline of beginning Adam." Wy taking the house in this
   condition, however, it was a cheap purchase, and my father
   felt that it would be a pleasure to discipline all this form-
   lessness into beauty and fertility. He never repented of
   his choice, nor ever expressed, through more than thirty
   years, the wish that he had gone elsewhere. The Devon-

   shire red loam is wonderfully stubborn, and for many
   seasons the place retained the obloquy of its newness.
   But at length the grass became velvety on the lawn, trees
   grew up and hid the unmossed limestone walls in which

   no vegetation can force a footing, and the little place grew

   bow^ery and secluded. It was on September 23, 1857, that
   the family settled in this house -- named Sandhurst, by the
   builder, in mere wantonness of nomenclature -- and this

   became their home. Philip Gosse's restless wanderings

   were over.

      Before going down into Devonshire he had completed
   two pieces of literary work, which, so far as his scientific

   credit was concerned, he might very well have left undone.
   They represent a mental condition of exhaustion and of
   irritation. The first of these, a volume of collected essays
   which had appeared in the magazine called Excelsior, was

   published in the summer of 1857. The author gave it the
    I                   276 r//E LIFE OF riULIP HENRY GOSSE.

          If            title of Life in its Lower, Lntermediatc, and Higher Forms,
          «l
         1^             and was startled on the day of publication by seeing
                        ticketed in the bookshops " Gosse's Life," as hi^agh some
  i                                                                           ;
                        one had oblij^ed the town with premature biography of
   '?                                         if a                                    it
                        him. These essays were slight, and the religious clement
''t
                        was quite unduly prominent, as vague forebodings of the
113                     coming theory of evolution had determined the writer to

                        insist with peculiar intensity on the need of rejecting all

                        views inconsistent with the notion of creative design.a
                        This book entirely failed to please the public, who had now

                        fur so many years been such faithful clients to him with

                        the scientific class passed almost unnoticed.it
                           No such gentle oblivion attended the other unlucky
                               
                        venture of the year 1857. My attempt in writing this life
                        has been to prese ;^. faithful picture of my father's career,I
                        and dare not CiUt t- chronicle the disappointments and

                        annoyances w?-. ,·'.-,,.'; nded the publication of his Omphalos:

                        An Attempt to u,aie the Geological Knot. Philip Gosse was

                        so profoundly unambitious, so entirely careless of what was

                        thought about his doings and writings, that he can hardly

                        be said to have made  mistake, in the ordinary sense of
                                            is
                                                a

                                                        a
                                                            a
                                                                       it
                        the phrase, in composing book which was fatal to the

                        advance of his reputation as man of science. But others,

                        to whom his fame dearer than was to himself, may

                        bitterly regret that he left his ^wn field of research, that

                        field in which he was gathering such thick and clustering

                        laurels, to adventure in a province of scientific philosophy

                        which lay outside his sphere, and for which he was fitted

                        neither by training, nor by native aptitude, nor by the

                        possession of mind clear from prejudice. Thoroughly
                           a
                                                                                                                 a
                        sincere as he was, and devoted to truth as he believed

            !:          himself to be, he lacked that deeper modesty, that nobler
                   !i-  candour, which inspired the genius of Darwin. The current

                        interpretation of the liible lay upon his judgment with
LITERARY WORK IN DEVONSHIRE.  277

weight that he could never throw off, and his scientific work-  ii

was of value only in those matters of detail which remained     \V
beyond the jurisdiction of the canon. But, as I have said
before, if he could have been content to rest in detail, and     ,;

to have let the ephemeral theories of man spin themselves

out in gossamer and disappear ; if he could have persuaded

himself to endure with indifference what he regarded with
disdain, all might yet have been well. In 1857 evolutionism
was crude and vague ; a positive naturalist might well have
been permitted to ignore it. But, unhappily, my father's

conscience tortured him into protest, n'^d he must needs

break a lance with the windmills of the ; . logists.

   The theory around which the illuslrutive chapters of
Omphalos were embroidered may h' 'Ay be descried. The
xk': craze of the moment was the reconciliation of Genesis
with geology. Most men of science at that date advocated,
or thought it decent to seem to advocate, some scheme or

other for preventing the phenomena of geological investi-
gation from clashing with the Mosaic record. Many ot
them, with Adam Sedgwick, thought that " we must
consider the old strata of the earth as monuments of a
date long anterior to the existence of man, and to the

times contemplated in the moral records of his creation."
Very few were, in 1857, prepared to part company alto-
gether with the cosmogony of Genesis. They preferred to

evade the actual language, to escape into such generalities
as " the six ages of creation," " an antecedent state of the

earth prior to the recorded Mosaical epoch." It was to a

generation not as yet revolutionized or emboldened by
Uarwin and Colenso that my father addressed his
Omphalos ; lie took for granted that his readers were sure
of the fact of creation. He undertook to show them that
the contents of the fossiliferous strata did not prove any
process of cosmic formation which the six literal days of
          IJ f ^-''.TLVB.W!JIU,,-,J---^-'tBis-ii.-iwii.^^iJiLi-ajw*-

          278 T//£ LIFE OF ririLIP HENRY GOSSE.

          Genesis might not h-tvc covered. lie proposed to reconcile

          geology not merely to the Mosaic record, but to an exact

          and inelastic interpretation of it.

          Mis theory is briefly this. Life is a circle, no one

          stage of which more than any other affords a natural

          commcncing-point. Every living object has an omphalos,

          or an egg. or a seed, which points irresistibly to the

          existence of a previous living object of the same kind.

          Creation, therefore, must mean the sudden bursting into

          the circle, and its phenomena, produced full grown by the

          arbitrary will of God, would certainly present the stigmata

          of a pre-existent existence. Each created tree would dis-

          play the marks of sloughed bark and fallen leaves, though

          it had never borne those leaves or that bark. The teeth of

          each brute would be worn away with exercise which it had

          never taken. By innumerable examples he shows that this

          must have been the case with all living forms. If so, then

          why may not the fossils themselves be part of this breaking

          into the circle ? Why may not the strata, with their buried

          fauna and flora, belong to the general scheme of the

          prochronic development of the plan of the life-history of
          this globe? The ingenuity of this idea is great, and if

          once we believe in the literal act of creation, it is very hard

          to escape from the reasoning that leads up to                                  It was an
          a
                   a

                                                                                    it.
          example of the looseness of thought habitual to the

?,;?5 *;  majority of readers that those who desired to hold the

fi^^lU    orthodox view were unable to see that they were on the

m.^       horns of dilemma in rejecting my father's theory. What

          Omphalos really proved was the absolute necessity for some

          other definite hypothesis of the mode in which the world

          came into existence than any which assumed the tradi-

          tional idea of sudden creative act.

          It was the notion that the wrjrld was created with fossil

          skeletons in its crust which met with most ridicule from
                LITERARY WORK IN DEVONSHIRE.                                                           279

readers. Philip Gosse was charged with supposing that God
had formed these objects on purpose to deceive -- in order,

in fact, to set a trap for naughty geologists.                                                         The reply
was obvious, and had occurred to him already.                                                          "Were the

concentric timber-rings of a created tree formed merely to
             "                                                                                         " Were the growth-lines of a
deceive         he  had         asked.
           ?

created shell intended to deceive                                                                      Was the navel of the
                                a
                                                       ?

                                                                         .''
created man intended to deceive him into the persuasion
                                parent " The book, nevertheless, in
that he had had

spite of the beauty and ingenuity of its literary illustration,

was received with scorn by the world of science and

with neglect by the general public. The moment was a

transitional one the world had just been led captive by
           flf
                             ;
that picturesque piece of amateur evolutionism, T/ic

Vestii^cs       Creation. It was whispered here and there that

something stronger and more convincing was on the road.

Hooker was murmuring in the car of Lyell that Darwin
was in possession cf some " ugly facts." The human mind

was preparing for great crisis of emancipation, of relief
a
                          a
from fettering order of ideas no longer tenable or endur-

able, and no one was concerned to give even fair play to                                               a

piece of reasoning, such as Omp/ialos, whose whole purpose

was to bind again those very cords out of which the world

was painfully struggling. The reception of Onipha/os,

especially by the orthodox party, was an extreme disap-

pointment to my father. So certain had he been that the

whole camp of faith would rally around him, and that all

Christians would accept his solution of the problem with

rapture, that he had ordered the printing of an immense

edition, the greater part of which was left upon his hands.

   It may be interesting to print here the candid and

characteristic letter which he received on this occasion

from Charles Kingsley --
(
                                                                                                    :
          aSo THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

          "My dear Mr. Gosse,  "Eversley, May 4, 1858.

                      " I have found time to read Omphalos carefully,

          " and will now write you my whole heart about it.

            " For twenty-five years I have read no book which has

          "so staggered and puzzled me. Don't fancy that I pooh-

          -pooh it. Such an idea, having once entered a man's
          " head, ought to be worked out ; and you have done so
          " bravely and honestly.

             "Your distinction between diachronism and pro-

          "chronism, instead of being nonsense, as it is in the eyes

          "of the Locke-beridden Nominalist public, is to me, as a

          " Platonist and realist, an indubitable and venerable

          "truth. For many years have I believed in that in-

          " tellectualic, of which neither time nor space can be

          "predicated, wherein God abides eternally, descending
          " into time and space only by thc Logos, the creative

          "Word, Jesus Christ our Lord. Therefore with me the

    S.IJ  "great stumbling-block to your book does not exist.
             " Nothing can be fairer than the way in which you
 \ t'^
»;i       "state the evidence for the microchronology. That at
          " once bound me to listen respectfully to all you had to

          "say after. And, much as I kicked and winced at first,
          " nothing, I find, can be sounder than your parallels and
                              I it,
          " precedents.  The one case of the coccus-motherI

          "(though every conceivable instance goes to prove yourit

                                                                   if

                                                                                          a

                                                                    (, wV
          "argument) would be enough for me, assuming the

          " act of absolute creation. Assuming that -- which I
          "have always assumed, as fully as you -- shall I tell you
          " the truth } It is best. Your book is the first that ever

          "made me doubt and fear will make hundreds do

          " so. Your book tends to prove this -- that we accept
          " the fact of absolute creation, God becomes
                                                        Dens

          " quidam deceptor.  do not mean merely in the case
LITERARY WORK IN DEVONSHIRE.  281

" of fossils which pretend to be the bones of dead          Ml '

  animals ; but in the one single case of your newly        iiS!

  created scars on the pandanus trunk, and your newly       It

"created Adam's navel, you make God tell a lie. It is        'A}h%

" not my reason, but my conscience which revolts here ;        %
                                                            11
''which makes me say, ' Come what will, disbelieve what

" ' I may, I cannot believe this of a God of truth, of Him
"'who is Light and no darkness at all, of Ilim who

'"formed the intellectual man after His own image, that
"'he m'ght understand and glory in His Father's works '
" I ought to feel this, I say, of the single Adam's
" navel, but I can hush up my conscience at the single

"instance; at the great sum total, the worthlcssness

"of all geologic instruction, I cannot. I cannot give up
"the painful and slow conclusion of five and twenty

"years' study of geology, and believe that God has

"written on the rocks one enormous and superfluous lie
" for all mankind.

  "To this painful dilemma you have brought mc, and
"will, I fear, bring hundreds. It will not make me throw
" away my l^ible. I trust and hope. I know in whom I

"have believed, and can trust Him to bring my faith
" safe through this puzzle, as He has through others ; but

" for -' e young I do fear. I would not for a thousand

"pounds put your book into my children's hands. They

"would use the argument of the early Reformers about

"transubstantiation (which you mention, but to which
" you do not give sufficient weight), ' My senses tell
" ' me that this is bread, not God's body. You may burn

"'me alive, but I must believe my senses.' Your

"demand on implicit faith is just as great as that
" required for transubstantiation, and, believe me, many
" of your arguments, especially in the opening chapter,

"are strangely like those of the old Jesuits, and those
               2>.2 77/i5' /.//"i^: O/^ PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

               "one used to licar from John Henry Newman fifteen
               " years ago, when he, copying the Jesuits, was trying to
               " undermine the grounds of all rational belief and human
               " science, in order that, having made his victims (among

               " whom were some of my dearest friends) believe nothing,

               "he might get them by a ' Nemesis of faith' to believe
               "anytiiing, and rush blindfold into superstition. Poor
               " wretch, he was caught in his own snare. I do not fear

               "you will be ; for you have set no snare, but spoken
               " like an honest Christian man ; but this I do fear, with
               " the editor of this month's Geologist, that you have given
               " the ' vestiges of creation theory ' the best shove for-

               "ward which it has ever had. I have a special dislike

               " to that book ; but, honestly, I felt my heart melting

            i  "towards it as I read Omphalos, and especially on
ik
               "reading one page where I think your argument
'I' I
Hi             "weakest, not from fallacy, but from being too hastily

'I 'I 1^       "slurred over. You must rewrite and enlarge these in
               "some future edition -- I mean pp. 343, 344. What you
               "say there I think true, but I always have explained it
               " to myself in this way -- that God's imagining one

               "species to Himself, before creation, necessitated the

               "imagining of another, either to take its place in

               "physical uses, or to fill up 'artistically,' if I may so
               " speak, the cycle of possible forms.
                                                      This was my

               " prochronism ; but I don't see how fours differs from

               "the transmutation of species theory, which your

               "argument, if filled out fairly, would, I think, be.

               "This shell would have been its ancient analogue

               "of the Pleistocene, if creation had taken place at the

               " Pleistocene era, and that, again, would have been the

               " Eocene analogue, if creation had happened an a;on

               "earlier again ; and in that case the Eocene shell would

               'have been afterward tyansmuted into the Pleistocene

                                                                            i'l
            iiU".«>>·>JH.'«"J"l< iwaaiw«*inf  ii^^swBsawsr^^^wwwmp*

            LITERARY WORK IN DEVONSHIRE.                                 2S1  I
                                                                              iif
"one, and the Pleistocene one by this time into the                           iiD

" recent : but creation having occurred after the                             !'!,»
" Pleistocene era, fossils representing those (and the
" early) links of the cycle have been inserted into their

"proper beds.
   " Now, I wish you would look ever this thought, for

" it is what you really seem to me to lead to. I am not

"frightened if it be true. Known unto God are all His

' works, and that is enough for me ; but it does trouble
" me, as a disliker of the Vestiges, to find you advocating

"a cyclic theory of species, which, if it is to bear any

"analogy to the cycle of individual growth, must surely

"consist in physical transformation.

  " If you will set me right on this matter, you will do

"me a moral good, as well as justice to yourself.
" Pray take all I say in good part, as the speech of
                                                                                   il!

"one earnest man to another. All I want is God's

"truth, and if I can get that I will welcome  it,  however
                                                      I
"much upsets my pride and my theories. And am
I
"sure, from the tone of your book, you want nothing
        it
"else cither.                       pay you high
   " promised to review your book.
            I

                            I

                             I
                                    I

                                                                      a
"compliment when say that shall tiot do so, and
"solely for this reason -- that am not going to mount

"the reviewer's chair, and pretend to pass judgment,

"where am so utterly puzzled as to confess myself
aI
"only learner and an inquirer writing for light.

"Believe me, yours more faithfully tha.i ever,
                                                     " C. KlNGSLEY."

    V>y the time, however, that Omphalos was published,
November, 1857, the change from London to Devonshire

had wrought its good work upon Gosse's mental health and
spirits. He lost his morbid depression he resumed his
                                    ;

                                                                 in
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     m

                          2S4 T//£ LIFE OF nULIP HENRY GOSSE.

                                 own proper work of observation with enthusiasm ; and he
                                 started what is admitted to be the most serious and the
                                  most durable of his contributions to scientific Hterature.
                                  Since his first visit to Devonshire in 1852 the Hritish
                                 sea-anemones and ccials had attracted his constantly
                                 repeated attention. These curious and beautiful creatures
                                 had hitherto been almost entirely neglected. The sea-
                                 anemones had possessed but one historian, Dr. George
                              Johnston, who had given them a place in his History of
                                 British Zoophytes. Johnston had been a good naturalist
                                 in his day, but the number of varieties with which he was
                                 acquainted was very small, and he was not by any means
                                 careful enough in discriminating species. He lived on the
                              north-eastern coast of England, where these creatures are
                              rare, and the consequence was that for purposes of specific
                                 characterization his work was utterly worthless. Johnston,
                                 even in his latest edition, had been aware of the existence
                              of only twenty-four British species. Gosse increased this
                                     number to between seventy and eighty, and no fewer than
v.a thirty-four species were added to the British fauna by his
                                 own personal investigation. But even more important,
                                 perhaps, than this addition to the record of known forms,
                              was the creation of a complete systematic analysis of the
                              order Actinoidca, a feat which Philip Gosse performed
                              unaided. His system of classification was accepted in all
                                 parts of the scientific world, and is still in force, with but
                                 very slight modification.

                                     The great work in which he embodied these investiga-
                                 tions was entitled Actinologia Britanniar, and professed to

                          be " A History of the British Sea-anemones and Corals."
                            It was begun in the autumn of 1857, and concluded in the

                              spring of i860, having been published in twelve bi-monthly
                               parts, the first of which was issued on March i, 1858.
                                  During these two years, the collection and collation of
   PT*I««UH«HIII

   LITERARY WORK IN DEVONSHIRE.  285

   facts connected with this inquiry formed the main occupa-     .1'
   tion of my father's time. In 1852 he had enjoyed his first     '1
   experience of marine-collecting on the shores of Oddicombe
   and Petit Tor, and he now returned to the same pools and         i:
   coves with a fuller experience. He found the coast but
   little interfered with, although the aquarium mania and

   the prestige of his previous visit had to some degree
   invaded his hunting-grounds. In carrying through the
   great task which he had set before him, a task in which no
   predecessor had laid down the lines along which he was to

   proceed, he found it absolutely necessary to base every
   single observation on personal examination. In order to
   do this, he was obliged to provide himself with a wide
   variety of specimens, and to appeal to local naturalists

   in all parts of the British Islands for help. He printed a
   circular inviting the co-operation of strangers, in which he
   described, with minute care, what he wanted and did not

   want, how specimens should be packed and forwarded, and
   all other needful particulars. The consequence was that
   he stimulated the zeal of fellow-labourers in all parts of
   Britain, from the Shetlands to Jersey, and the morning
   post commonly laid upon the breakfast-table at Sandhurst

   one, if not more, little box of a salt and oozy character,

   containing living anemones or corals carefully wrapped up
   in wet seaweed. In those days, fortunately, the Post

   Office had not yet wakened up to the inconvenience to
   other people's correspondence which such dribbling

   packages might cause.
       But it was to his own exertions that Philip Gosse mainly

   looked for the necessary specimens. Several times a week,

   if the weather and the tide were at all favourable, he would

   clamber down to the shore at Anstice Cove, at Oddicombe,

   at Petit Tor, or take longer excursions, to Maidencombc
   northwards, or to Livermead southwards on Tor Bay. In

f
                                                                        T

                         2S6 THE LIFE OF rillLlP HENRY GOSSE.

                          these excursions I was his constant, and generally his only,
                          companion. lie was in the habit of carrying a large

                                wicker basket, so divided into compartments as to hold two
                                stone jars of considerable capacity, and two smaller glass
                             jars. The former were for seaweeds, crabs, large fishes --
                                the rougher customers generally ; while the latter were
                                   dedicated to rare anemones, nudibranchs, small crustaceans,
                             and the other fairy people of the pools. To me was
H generally entrusted an additional glass jar, in a wicker case,
                               and sometimes a green gauze net, such as the capturers of
                                   butterflies carry, which was to be used for surface-fishing,
                               and for gently shaking into its folds the delicate forms
                               that might be hiding in the seaweed curtains of large
                               still tidal pools.

                                   One important portion of our work on the shore con-
                               sisted in turning over the large flat stones in sequestered
                               places. Great discretion was needed in selecting the
                               right stones. Those which were too heavily set would
                                  contain nothing, resting too deeply to admit the sea to
                               their lower surface. Those which were balanced too
                               lightly would be found deserted, because too frequently
                               disturbed. But the stone sagaciously chosen as being fiat
                               enough, and heavy enough, and yet not too heavy, would
                               often display on its upturned under surface a marvellous
                            store of beautiful minute rarities -- nudibranchs that looked
                              like tiny animated amethysts and topazes ; unique little
 \\'-\ sea-anemones in the fissures ; odd crabs, as flat as farthings,
                              scuttling away in agitation ; fringed worms, like bronzed
                              cords, or strings dipped in verdigris, serpentining in and
                              out of decrepit tufts of coralline.

                                  When our backs ached with the strain of stone-turning,
                           we used to proceed further into the broken rockwork of
                              the promontory or miniature archipelago, and the more
                           serious labour of collecting in tidal pools, or on the retreating
^

    LITERARY WORK LV DEVONSHIRE.                                                                                                                     287               i'r 1

    seaward surface of mimic cliffs, would begin. Protected by

    his tall boots, my father would step into mid-seas, and,

    stooping under a dripping wall of seaweeds, would search

    beneath the algce for such little glossy points of colour as
    Ifrevealed interesting forms to his practised eye.
                                                                                                                                                     these

    would not come away under the persuasion of the fingers,

    he would shout to me, as guardian of the basket, to hand

    over to him the hammer and the cold chisel, and a few

    skilful blows would bring away the fragment of rock, with
    its atoms of animated jelly adhering to uninjured and
    ;

                                    a
                                                  it,
    almost unruffled, to be popped immediately into one or
    other of the jars, according to his decision. This would

    go on until, with splashings from below, the result of
    eager pursuit of objects seen almost out of reach, and

    drippings from above, caused by the briny rain from the

    shaken curtains of the seaweeds, he would be drenched

    almost to the skin and then, by violent revulsion, he                                                                                                              ill

    would seize the net, and sally forth, wading, on to the

    shallow v/aters of the sands, skimming the surface for

    medusae, small fishes, and such other tender flotsam as

    might come within his reach. Two or three hours of all

    this fatigue were commonly as m.uch as he could bear, and

    so much energy did he throw into the business that he

    would often turn away at last, not satisfied, but exhausted

    almost to extinction.

    Even as little child was conscious that my father's
e
                                                  a
                                                                          a

                                                             I

                                                                                                                                                  a
    appearance on these excursions was eccentric. He had

    penchant for an enormous felt hat, which had once

    been black, but was now grey and rusty with age and
    salt. For some I'eason or other, he seldom could be

    persuaded to wear clothes of such                                                                                                                light colour and

    material as other sportsmen affect. Black broadcloth.

    reduced to an extreme seediness, and cut in ancient

nr forms, was tht; favourite attire for the shore, and after

i1

                                                                                                                                                                       nn
                    388 THE LIFE OF r/IILIP HENRY GOSSE.

                    being soaked many times, and dried in the sun on his

                    somewhat portly person, it grew to look as if it might have

                    been bequeathed to him by some ancient missionary long

                    marooned, with no other garments, upon a coral island.

                    His ample boots, reaching to mid-thigh, completed his

                    professional garb, and when he was seen, in full sunlight,

                    skimming the rising tide upon the sands, he might have

                 I  been easily mistaken for a superannuated working shrimper.
          '
                    Our excursions were usually made to points a little
i1"
            ^       beyond the reach of the amateur, but sometimes we crossed

                    parties of collectors, in dainty costumes, such as Leech

                    depicted, with pails or baskets, and we would smile and

                    nudge each other at the reflection that they little suspected

                    that the author of The Aquarium was so near them. On

                    one occasion, I recollect, at Livermead, we came across a

                    party of ladies, who were cackling so joyously over a

                    rarity they had secured that our curiosity overcame our

                    shyness, and we asked them what they had found. They

                    named a very scarce species, and held it up to us to exa-

                    mine. My father, at once, civilly set them right ; it was

                    so-and-so, something much more commonplace.  The

                    ladies drew themselves up with dignity, and sarcastically

                    remarked that they could only repeat that it zvas the
                    rarity, and that " Gosse is our authority."

                    My father was at his very best on these delightful

                    excursions. His blood was healthily stirred by the exer-

                    cise, by the eager instinct of the hunt. Extremely serious

                    all the time, with his brows a little knitted, he was never-

                    theless not at all formidable here, as he so often was at

                    home. His broad face, blanched with emotion, as he arranged

                    his little lens to bear in proper focus on a peopled eminence

                    of wet rock, had no such terrors for me as it sometimes had

                    when it rose, burdened with prophecy, from the pages of

                    some book of exhortation. The excitement in the former
LITERARY WORK IN DEVONSHIRE.  389

case was one which I could share, and we were happy so                                     ^1

long as no strant^er intermeddled with our joy. Ikit the                                    i!r
discovery of some other collector installed on our hunting-
field, or the advent of anybody to disturb us, was sufficient                              \i

to throw a cloud over everything. If we could not escape,
if we pushed on in vain into a district of wilder and more

slippery rocks and deeper pools, if the unconscious enemy

persisted in dogging our footsteps, then the spell was

broken, and home we trudged with empty jars, or with a
harvest but half garnered.

   Most interesting of all were the dredging excursions \\\
Tor Bay, but my memories of them are much more frag-
mentar)'. These were frequent through the course of 185.S,
but after that year my father scarcely ever ventured on the
water. During that last season, Charles Kingsley was
several times our companion. The naturalists would hire

a small trawler, and work up and down, generally in the
southern part of the bay, just outside a line drawn north
and south, between Hope's Nose and l^erry Head. I think
that Kingsley was a good sailor ; my father was a very
indifferent one, and so was I ; but when the trawl came up,
and the multitudinous population of the bottom of the

bay was tossed in confusion before our eyes, we forgot our

qualms in our excitement. I still see the hawk's eyes of
Kingsley peering into the trawl on one side, my father's
wide face and long set mouth bent upon the other. I well

recollect the occasion (my father's diary gives me the date,

August II, 1858) when, in about twenty fathoms outside

Berry Head, we hauled up the first specimen ever observed

of that exquisite creature, the diadem anemone, Buiiodcs
coronata ; its orange-scarlet body clasping the whorls of a
living Tiirritella shell, while it held in the air its purple

parapet crowned with snow-white spiky tentacles.

  When the bi-monthly parts were bound up, the Adi-

                                                                                        U
                          290 THE LIFE OF Fill LIP IlEXRY GOSSE.

                                  no/oi;;i(i Britatmica formed a lai-f^e and liarKlsomc volume,
                                  copiously illustrated with coloured plates of all the known
                               British species and most of the varieties. The text is
                                  constructed on the lucid and elaborated system consecrated
                                  to exact manuals of this kind by the tradition of Yarrell's
                               British Birds. The figures of the various sea-anemones
                                   arc extremely accurate in form, size, and colour, and have
                                  but one artistic fault, namely, the want of natural grouping
                                   in the plate. In order to secure perfect exactitude, my
                                      father drew and coloured each specimen separately, and cut

                                   out his figure and gummed it on to its place in the com-
                               pound illustration. Some of the individual figures suffer
                                   from the hard line which surrounds them, the result of this
                               composite treatment of the full-page plates. The intro-
                               duction, a minute description of the organization of the
                               sea-anemones, and in particular of their unique and extra-
                               ordinary "tcliferous" .system, has been regarded as the
                                most sustained piece of original writing of a technically
                               scientific character which Philip Gosse has left behind him.
                                   Mis anatomical statements in this preface are exceedingly
                                   minute, and are given almost wholly on the authority of
;. his own dissections and observations, but they have never

                                       been superseded.

                                   While this important work was slowly drawn to a
                                conclusion, Philip Gosse occupied his leisure with a volume
                                of a more ephemeral nature. Evenings at the 3Iicroscope,
                                which appeared in ICS59. This was a popular introduction
                                to the study of microscopy. The text of the Actinologia
                                   was finished in June, 1859, although it did not appear
                                in final book form until January of the next year. But
                                   almost as soon as the letterpress was off his hands, my
                                   father turned to the composition of a book which had long

                                   occupied his thoughts, a volume dealing exclusively
                                with the aesthetic aspects of zoology. " In my many
LITERARY WORK I.V DKVOXSfJIRE.                         29 [      i

years' wanderings throu,cjh the wide field of natural history,"  Iit:
"Ihe wrote in March, iSGo,
                            have always felt toward it           if

somcthinf,^ of a poet's heart, thouc,di destitute of a poet's
j,'cnius. As Wordsworth says :--

"'To me the meanest flower that blows can give

    Thoughts that do often lie too deep for tears.' "

    In T/ie Poetry of Natural History (a title afterwards
changed to The Romance) he sought to paint a series of
pictures, the reflection of scenes and aspects in nature,

selecting those which had peculiarly the power of
awakening admiration, terror, curiosity, and pleasure in
b ' own breast. To the composition of this volume he

gave unusual care, and it remains, perhaps, the nearest

approach to an English cla.ssic of any of Philip Gossc's

writings. When the author repeats the experiences of

others, the style is sometimes a little otiose ; but where
he dwells on what has personally pleased or moved him,

where he narrates his own experiences and chronicles his

personal emotions, the pages of this first scries of The
Romance of Natural History \)Yc?,c:vvc a charm which may
never wholly evaporate. The editions of this book have

been very numerous, and after a lapse of thirty years I

believe that it is still in print, and enjoys a steady sale.
   One chapter of this book, the final one, attracted more

notice than all the rest put together, and excited, indeed, a

positive furore. This was the chapter entitled "The
Great Unknown," in which Philip Gosse started the

suggestion that the semi-mythic marine monster, whose

name Avas always cropping up in the newspapers, the

famous sea-serpent, was perhaps a surviving species allied
to the gigantic fossil Enaliosanria of the lias, and, in short,
a marine reptile of large size, of sauroid figure, with turtle-
like paddles. Pic judged it to be a sort of plesiosaurus.
            nil292
                      T//E LIFE OF                   LIP HENRY GOSSE.

            some twelve or fifteen feet in length ; and one of the

            illustrations of TJic Romance of Natural History was a
            conjectural drawing of the living " sea-serpent," constructed
            on the I'2naliosaurian hypothesis. In the body of the book

            he gave a searching analysis of the more or less vague

            reports made by unscientific, but apparently honest persons,
            who had seen " the sea-serpent " from ship-board, and he

            strove to show that all these stories, taken in combination,

            tended to point conclusively to the existence of such a

            survival as he suggested.

            The theory was worked out with great fullness, and the

            ingenuity of a special pleader. The naturalists followed

            it with amusement and interest. Darwin was by no means

            inclined to reject   as a very possible hypothesis, but
                                 is it,
            Professor Owen hotly contested          ain favour of a theory of

                                                      it
                                                                        I
            his own, that the "sea-serpent " would really prove to be a

            very large seal. It  rather odd that after thirty years

            the question should still be left wholly unanswered,

            especially as vague reports of monster seen in mid-ocean

            continue occasionally to reach the papers. am not aware

        .'  that any suggestion more tenable than my father's has yet
^ i
            been propounded, and more extraordinary things have

            been laughed at when they were first foreshadowed and

            have ultimately proved to be true. Considering the stir
            that was made about this " sea-serpent " disquisition when

            was originally published,                not little surprising that
            it
                                                       it

                                                                        a is
                                                                                    a
            fifteen or twenty years later popular \vriter on science

            should have had the effrontery to steal the whole thing,

            plesiosanrus hypothesis, examination of evidence, and even

            the very words of Philip Gosse's arguments, and to put
                                                                                       a

                                                                                             it
            forth as  little theory of his own. The perpetrator
                      a
                                is
                                                 Ia
            survived my father, by strange coincidence, only few

            days, and as he dead, need not mention his name.

            The Romance of Natural History was not published

!
            LITERARY WORK IN DEVOXSHIRE.                    293

until Christmas, i860, but it was finished in the preccdinjj

March. My father had now for three years been settled

in the west, and he was growing more and more, as he
expressed it himself, a " troglodyte," a dweller in a cave.

The composition of the Actinologia Britannica had forced

him into correspondence with a large circle of strangers,

and had kept his human sympathies alive. But after the

publication of that work, a kind of inertia began to creep

over him, and he dropped his correspondents one by one.

Even Charles Kingslcy, with whom he had enjoyed so

long and close communion of interests, seemed to lose hold

over him. His household consisted, at this time, of his

aged mother, whom he had brought down into Devonshire

in March, 185S ; his little son ; and Miss Andrews, a lady
who undertook the housekeeping for the trio.

On February 28 old Mrs. Gosse died, at the age of eighty.

She had been bodily transplanted, with all her furniture,

pictures, and knick-knacks, to an apartment fitted up as

closoly as possible to resemble her own old room in the Poole

house half a century before. She remained, until near the

last, in full possession of her intelligence, rugged, vehement,

slightly bewildered, filled with respect for her son, and recog-

nisant of his kindness, yet pathetically remote from all his

interests. While she was still able, on his arm, to creep

out a little in the sunshine, she visited his new tropical

fcrn-hous.\ lately fitted up in the Sauflhurst garden. The

little conservatory was a great success ; in the moist hot

air the transparent traceries o'' the delicate fronds formed

an exquisite feathery vault, on either side and above the
"Ivisitor.
            wonder," she said, after gazing round, "that

you care to keep  a [jarcel  of  fern   "  and  she turned  away.

                                       ;

To her the fairy adiaiitiiiiis and asplcniimis were no more

than specimens of that wide waste of "fern," of bracken,

which the open moors of Oorsctshire presented in such

                             B^V^H

                                 fli
               nil294       LIP HENRY GOSSE.
               THE LIFE OF

               Iabundance.  remember that I was conscious of these

               bkint traits in my grandmother, and conscious, too, of my

               father's grave and unaltering attitude of respectful con-
               sideration to her. But \vc were a solitary family. For

               hours and hours, my grandmother would be sitting at her

               patchwork, silent, in her padded chair ; my father, almost

               motionless, in his study belcw her ; and I, equally silent,

               though not equally still, free to wander whither I would in
               house and garden, so that I disturbed none of the penates

               of the cloister and the hearth.

               In the autumn of i860 a very happy and wholesome

               change was made in the tenour of our existence. My

               father became acquainted with a lady from the eastern

II             counties, who was staying at Torquay. This was Miss Eliza

     M '^      l^rightwen, whom he married at Frome, in Somerset, on

        .»!!'  December 18 of that same year. This lady happily sur-
V.^l
               vives, and it would not be becoming for me to dwell here

               on the circumstances which attended her married life.

               But, when her eye reaches this page in the biography of

               one so dear to us both, she will forgive me if I record, on

               behalf of the dead, as en my own behalf, our deep sense

               of gratitude, and our tender recognition of her tact and

               gentleness and devotion thiough no less than thirty years.

               It is of my step-mother, of that good genius of our house,
               of whom I think every time I turn the pages o{ A dona is--

               " What softer voice is hushed over the dead ?

                  Athwart what brow is that dark mantle thrown ?
                      * * **

                 If it be she, who, gentlest of ihe wise,

                  Taught, soothed, loved, honoured, the departed one;
                  Let me not vex with inharmonious sighs
               The sdence of that heart's accepted sacrifice."

                  The year 1861 was the last in which my father retained
               his old intellectual habits and interests unimpaired. There
LITERARY V'nRK IN DEVONSHIRE.  295

was, even, a revival of the scientific b^^'rit, a fresh response
to the instinct of the observer. His principal Htcrary work
was a second series of The Romance of Natural History,
carried forth, rather too hastily, in consequence of the extra-

ordinary popularity of the first. It was issued in Novem-

ber, and sold well, but not nearly so well as its predecessor.
The book suffers from the usual fate of continuations. We
feel that the first series was produced because the author

had something which he must say, the second because he

must say something. The most interesting and important
chapter was that on " The Extinct," in which the author
dwells on the depth of species, on the disappearance of the

mylodon, the Irish elk, the icpyornis, the dodo, and the
great auk. In the section on "Mermaids," he tried to
repeat the success of his sensational chapter on the " Sea-

Serpent," and suggested the possibility that the northern

seas may yet hold some form of mammal, uncatalogued
by science, which, if guiltless of green hair and a looking-
glass, may yet ultimately prove to be the prototype of the

mermaid. lie had, however, no such definite hypothesis

to produce as the old plcsiosauriis one, and the public

imagination declined to be greatly stirred about mermaids.
   In the autumn of 1861 Philip Gosse returned with one

of his spasmodic bursts of zeal to the accurate study of the
rotifera. His successive monographs on Stephanoceros,
on the Floscularid^, and on the Melicertid;\i appeared in
the Popular Science Review in the course of 1862, and

supplemented the discoveries he had made and reported

twelve years before. In these papers he begun a general
account of the whole class of the Rotifera, arranged
according to a classification of his own ; but the Popular
Science Reviezu came to an end, and the work was never
completed. This important fragment of a history of the
Rotifera is constantly referred to in the great work pub-

                                                                  1
 n    290 T//E LIFE OF rniLIP HENRY GOSSE.

i;>-  lishcd by Hudson and Gosse a quarter of a century later.

      It only includes the three great families of the Flosculari'ia^,

      the Meliccrtida:, and the Notommatina ; but it is almost a
      classic as regards those sections of the class.

         The next year was the first for twenty years in which
      Philip Gosse was not actively employed in literary work.
      It was a season of sudden transition ; his tastes, his intel-
      lectual habits, underwent a complete change. He ceased,
      almost entirely, to concentrate his attention on marine
      forms. He abandoned his long-loved mistress, zoology,
      and in exchange he began to devote himself to astronomy
      and to botany, lioth of these new interests were awakened
      in April, 1862 -- the former in consequence of the publication
      in the Times of some observations regarding coloured
      stars which greatly excited his imagination ; the latter
      through seeing Lord Sinclair's collection of tropical
      orchids. He began, with his accustomed energy, to devote
      himself to these novel interests, and he built an orchid-
       house, in which he presently collected and arranged a very
      valuable collection of these singular and fascinating plants.
       He imported them from the tropics on his own account,
       and in October, 1862, the first of many consignments
       arrived, in the shape of a rough assortment of orchids from
       the forests of lirazil.

           Once more he was persuaded to take up the pen in
       18G3. As a popular illustrated magazine of quite a nev,-
       class. Good Words was just then at the height of a well-
       deserved popularity. Dr. Norman Macleod had freq .lently
       invited Philip Gosse to contribute, but without avail ; until
       in the first da)'s of 1863, being in South Devon, he called
       at Sandhurst, and did not leave until my father had
       undertaken to write a serial for the magazine, a series of

       consecutive papers, to cover a whole year, describing
       month by month, in a sort of sea-shepherd's calendar,
LITERARY WORK IN DEVONSHIRE.              297                     y

what work a naturalist could undertake at each season on      i

the shore. These papers were to be illustrated by at least     \\
three plates in each number, engraved in black and white
in the pages of Good Words, but originally executed in         l\\
I'hilip Gosse's most exquisite style, in water-colours. This
serial was entitled A Year at the Shore, and the first         I!

instalment appeared in the magazine in January, 1S64,
running through the entire year. These papers were very
happily written, quite in the old enchanting style of the
Devonshire Coast and The Aquariiiin, with the freshness of
that contented and wholesome period. They were full of

practical advice to persons engaged in zoological collec-

tion ; and they proved, so he was constantly assured, very

stim.ulating to the readers of the magazine.
   His orchids largely occupied Philip Gosse's spare

moments in the course of 1863, and in the autumn he
was corresponding a good deal with Charles Darwin, to
whom he had communicated in June some observations he
had made on the strange and morbid-looking blossoms of
the Stanhopea. From this correspondence I select his two
earliest letters, and the replies received from the eminent
biologist. They will be of interest, perhaps, to others

than botanists, and are now for the first time published.

r. IT. GossE to Cii.vRLKS Darwin.

"My dear Sir,  "Sandhurst, May 30, 1863.

" Will you kindly vouchsafe me a little word

of help? With your charming book before nie, I have

been trying to fertilize the orchids of my little collec-
tion, as they flower. With some 1 succeed, with others
there is difficulty. Let me tell you of the present ' fix.'
 " Stanhopea ocnlata opened four great blooms on
Thursday ; to-day they begin to flag, and I delay no
298 THE LIFE OF PHILIP HEXRY GOSSE.

                            "longer to impregnate. I reach down your book, turn

\ 1 " to your figure at p. 179, and recognize the parts well
                                 "enough. Then, with a toothpick, I lift the anther

"and out come the pollinia, very well depicted by you

"at p. i(S5, Fig. C, except that in this my species the
" pollinia masses arc much larger in proportion to the
" viscid disc. The disc is viscid enough, and I carr)' the
" whole on a toothpick. Now I want to find where to
" deposit it. I take for granted that it is in the hollow
" (marked a in my sketch), which is the stigma. Ikit
" there is no viscosity there, nor anywhere near, up or

"down, not the slightest; and I cannot get the pollen
" to adhere. I low can this plant be fertilized ? And how

"would any insect do it And what would an insect
" be about to touch the tip of this isolated projecting
         }

                                        is .''
"column  Supposing the great bee, or Scolia, or what

" not, wants to get at the hollow hypochil (though                    I

" don't find any honey there', he would alight on the                                 I

" epichil (whose surface                        already three-quarters of an

" inch from the rostellum, and which, being movable,

" would bend away still further), and creep between the

" horns of the mcsochil how thus could he touch the
         is

             } if
                        if

                                         ?;
                                                               ;
"anther? and he did, how could he lodge the pollen                it
" on the stigma And he did, how could stick, seeing
" the place not sticky

   " Do resolve mc these doubts and believe mc,

                                 " My dear sir,
                                          " Ever yours truly,

                                                                     " P. 11. GOSSE.
   " The disc at the end of the caudicle adheres to the
" stigma, but the pollen masses project, and won't touch
" thougli pressed against with force."
it,
                                             it
1.

    LITERARY WORK IN DEVONSHIRE.             299

                 C. Darwin to P. 11. Gosse.

    " My dear Sir,  " Down, June 2, 1863.

    " It would give mc real pleasure to resolve your

    "doubts, but I cannot. lean give only suspicions and
    " my grounds for them. I should think the non-viscidity
    " of the stigmatic hollow was due to the plant not living
    " under its natural conditions. Please see what I have

    "said on Acropcra. An excellent observer, ]\Ir. J. Scott,

    " of the Botanical Gardens, Edinburgh, finds all that I

    "say accurate, but nothing daunted, he with the knife

    " enlarged the orifice, and forced in pollen-masses ; or
    " he simply stuck them into the contracted orifice
    " without coming into contact with the stigtJtatic surface,

    "which is hardly at all viscid ; when, lo and behold,

                       "pollen tubes were emitted and fine seed capsules
                     "obtained. This was effected with Acropcra Loddigcsii ;

I "but I have no doubt that I have blundered badly about

    ''A. lutcola. I mention all this because, as jMr. Scott

    "remarks, as the plant is in our hot-houses, it is quite
    " incredible it ever could be fertilized in its native land.
    " The whole case is an utter enigma to me. Probably
    " you are aware that there are cases (and it is one of the

    "oddest facts in physiology) of plants which under
    " culture have their sexual functions in so strange a
    " condition, that though their pollen and ovules arc
    " in a sound state and can fertilize and be fertilized
    " by distinct but allied species, they cannot fertilize

    "themselves. Now, Mr. Scott has found this the case

    "with certain orchids, which again shows sexual dis-

    " turbance.  He had read a paper at the Botanical

    "Society of Edinburgh, and I daresay an abstract which                    ili.
    " I have seen will appear in the Gardener's Chronicle ; but
    " blunders have crept in in copying, and parts arc barely

                                                                              (li;
                    3C0 THE LIFE OF PHILIP IIEXRY GOSSE.

                    " intcllij^iblc. How insects act with j'our StaiiJiopca I
                    "will not pretend to conjecture. In many cases I believe

                    "the acutest man could not conjecture without seeing the

                    " insect at work. I could name common English plants

                    " in this predicament. Ikit the musk orchis is a case in

 Ml I               "point. Since publishing, my son and myself have
                    " watched the plant and seen the pollinia removed, and
             %h     " where do you think they invariably adhere in dozens

                 ^  "of specimens.-* -- always to the joint of the femur with

-A^ II              "the trochanter of the first pair of legs, and nowhere
                    " else. When one sees such adaptation as this, it would
   ^\ V
    M<              "be helpless to conjecture on the Stanhopca till wc
                    " know what insect visits it. I have fully proved that

                    "my strong susi)icion was correct that with many of our
                    " English orchids no nectar is excreted, but that insects
                    " penetrate the tissues for it. So I expect it must be

                    " with many foreign species. I forgot to say that if you
                    " find that you cannot fertilize any of your exotics, take

                    " pollen from some allied form, and it is (]uitc probable

                    "that will succeed. Will you have the kindness to look
                    " occasionally at your bee ophrys near Torquay, and
                    " sec whether pollinia are ever removed. It is my
                    " greatest puzzle. Please read what I have said on
                                                                        it,

                    " and on O. arachnites.  have since proved that the
                                             is I
                                                          I
                                                                    I
                    " account of the latter correct.                wish could have

                    "given you better information.
                                                    " My dear sir,

                                                                  Yours sincerely,'

                                                            "Charles Darwin.
                      " P,S. -- If the flowers of the StanJiopca arc not too

                    " old, remove pollen masses from their pedicels, and
                    " stick them with little liquid pure gum to the stigmatic
                    a

                    "cavity. After the case of the Acropera, no one can
                    " dare positively say that they would not act."

;
                 LITERARY WORK IN DEVOXSHIRE.                         301

                 P. H. GossE to C. Darwin.

   "My dear Sir,                          " Sandhurst, June 4, 1863.

               " I am exceed infijly obliged for your kind and

   "full reply. Will the following additional facts throw
   " any light on the matter ?

      " The four flowers of StanJtopca oculata became
   " thoroughly withered and flaccid by 1st inst., the 4th

   "day after opening; yet I allowed them to remain till
   "this morning, when I cut off the raceme just before I

   " received your letter. As one of the gcrmens (and this

   "one of those that I had tried to impregnate) came away

   "with a touch, I took it as certain that no impregnation

   " had taken place ; and so threw the whole on the rubbish

   "heap without further examination. l^ut, on reading

   "your remarks, I thought I would examine them again ;

   "chiefly to see by piercing the stigmatic surface, whichif,

   "had been so perfectly dry, could find any viscosity
   " within. Looking first at one of those to which had
                                          I

                                                    a

                                                              ;

                                                           I
                                                                        I

                                                                                             a
   "affixed the pollen masses by means of their viscid disk,
   " was surprised to see they were half imbedded in
   "mass of viscous fluid. The other which had treated
   I

             in
   "was precisely the same condition the viscum having

   " exuded copiously, and oozing in great globule, when
   " used pressure with my thumb and finger lower down
   I

   " the column. Let this, then, be fact the first, that though

   " no viscum be visible at first on the stigma,  it  issues

   "copiously after tJic floi^'er lias faded, from the interior,
   " at the extreme point of the rostcllum.
   " But secondly
                 I                        day or two after my attempt at
                                       :
                                A
   " impregnation (which affected only tico of the four                                         m
   " flowers), was surprised to see the pollinia of one of the
                                                                                                    '

   ^^untouched ^QWQ.x's, adhering to the point of one of the

i

                                                                                                m
                     302 THE LIFE OF nilUP HENRY GOSSE.

                     " ivory-likc horns of the mcsochil.       I wondered, but

                     "could not account for as felt sure had not acci-
                     " dentally detached and attached them in such manner,
                     " while operating on the others. But, just now, in my
                                                  it,

                                                       I
                                                                       I

                                                                                            a

                     "examination of the faded spike, observed, not only
                                                               of
                                                                       I

                                                                                                         ;

                                                                                                    is
                                                                                                         it
                     " that the poUinia of that flower remained still on the tip
                     " of the horn, but that one
                                                               the horns of the other un-

                     " touched flower has lifted its own anther, and carries

                     "the pollinia in triumph on its point. If this                            acci-

                     " dental,           it       surely a remarkable coincidence. But

                                              is

                     "suggests to me the following hypothesis -- That the
                     " movable lip of this curious flower, agitated by the
                     " wind, brings the tips of the horns now and then into
                     " contact with the rostellum, so as to lift the anther, and

                     "carry away the pollinia by touching the viscid disk.
                     " That as soon as the viscum exudes from the stigmatic

                     "cavity and spreads over its surface, similar agitations

                     "of the lip would cause the pollinia to swing across the

                     " stigma, and brushing the exuded globule of viscum, to
                     " adhere. If this tenable, here
                                         I                     use for these c.xtra-
                                                               is
                                                 is                a
                                                            a                     ! it
                     " ordinary horns. Tell me what you think of the thought.
                     " egret that was so hasty in cutting away the faded         I
                     I

                           1
                                      ;
                     ''spike possibly, with little more obstetric manipula-

                     I"tion, or even an agitation of the flowers with my breath,
                     " might have succeeded in impregnating, and in settling
                     " the point.

                       " If my hypothesis should be correct, will not show

                     "that Stanhopead^^^ord?, another example of self-fertiliza-

                     " tion  1           For the horns of any blossom can rifle only its

                     " ozvn anther, and can deposit on only its own stigma.

                     " But what an unexpected mode of proceeding                               enclose

                     "you one of the pollinia carried on the horn.

                                                               "Yours faithfully,
                                                                                " P. H. GossE."

.;,»cna^?.?'Tr-9sij          L mM,.mm^
                        i
                           .\p
LITERARY WORK LV DEVOXSIIIRE.         303

" C. Darwin to P. H. Gosse .

" Mv DEAR Sir,  "Down, June 5, 1863.

" If you would prove the truth of your hypo-

thesis, it would be extremely curious and quite new.

It certainly seems very suspicious you having found

the poUinium attached to the horns of the labellum so

often. I am prepared to believe anything of these

wonderful productions. But if I were in your place, I

would wait till I could observe another spike, and then

you would, I have no doubt, definitely prove the case.
Why I should act so is because I have so often noticed

the poUinia removed in an unexpected manner. Dr.

Hooker published in PltiL Transactions that Listcra

ejected its pollinia to a distance, which is an entire

mistake. The conjecture (and it was founded on

nothing but despair) occurred to me that the vibrating

labellum in Acropera might remove the pollinia ; but

Dr. Hooker tried on a living plant and failed to make

it act.
 " Nevertheless your case may prove quite true ; the

dried labellum seems very thin, as if it had been flexible.

It is really a very curious case. I have some Stan-

hopes in my stove (I know not what species), but I fear

they will not flower this summer : should they do so, I

will observe them and communicate the result to you.

If you thought fit to communicate your facts now to

any periodical, it might induce otliers to observe ; but

many persons arc such bad observers that I doubt

whether you would profit by it.                              w

"I would suggest to you to get to know (if you do

not already do so) the appearance of the viscid matter

from the stigma which abounds with isolated elongated

                                                             ii
                                                                         T

         nil304       LIP IlEXRY GOSSE.
         THE LIFE OF

         "cells, called by 15ro\vn utriculi : these I find never

         "present in viscid matter of rostellum ; and when these
         " parts are close, it is imi)ortant to distiiif^uish them.

         "You could have then probably told whether the fluid

         "which exuded from your decaying; flowers was a true

         " stii^matic secretion. I heartily hope  your  pretty little
         " discovery will prove [rood and true.

                                " My dear sir,

                      " Yours very sincerely,

                                                  " C. Darwin."

!l ^           A month later my father notes that he has been busy
      \   "examining bee orchis for Darwin at Petit Tor," and send-

          \\v^ liim notes and drawings on Cyaticea. Another interest-
         ing correspondence this autumn was with I.ady Dorothy
          Nevill, who su[)plied him with ailanthus plants, and with
         a brood of caterpillars of Boinhyx Cynthia, the exquisite
          Indian silkworm moth, whose sickle-shaped wings of clear

         apple-green, marked with pink moons and scimitars,

         emerged in due time, to our infmite delight, from cocoons
         of the pale Tussore silk. WwX. in the next chapter I shall
         dwell more at length on the amateur pleasures which now

         began to absorb my father'.s extended leisure.
            In the course of 1S64 my father collected some old

         papers and revised them, destining them to form a volume
         which he presently publislu'd under the title oi Land and
         Sea. Of this book the iir^c hundred pages were well
         worthy of preservation , il.ey contained the record of the

         author's stay twelve years previously on the picturesque
         island of Lundy, in the Bristol Channel. But some of the
         other sketches were rather trivial and diffusely told, besides

         possessing the disadvantage that they seemed like discarded
         chapters from other books, which indeed they were -- The

         Ocean, A Naturalist's Sojonrn in Jamaica, and A Year
'

   LITERARY WORK IN DEVONSHIRE.  305

   at the Shore, all having' sui)plicd, from rejected or super-
   fluous sections, matter for chapters in Land and Sea.
   The fact cannot be shirked that the author was becomintr
   lan^ruid, inattentive to the form of what he published, and

   interested in matters outside the range of his professional

   work. V>y a curious coincidence, A Year at the Shore and
   Land and Sea were published in book form on the same

   day, January 24, 1865, and this may be taken as the date
   when Philip Gossc ceased to be a professional author.

                                                                   ;i

                                                                 !
<y                                                                                                                                                                                            T

       ji^                                                                                                                 306
          *iii
      n                a                                                                                                        )
                                I
                                                (1 (CHAPTER XI.                                                                     I

                                                       LAST YEARS.                                                                                    a
                                                                                                                                                                     1
I                                                   864-1 888.)
                                                                                                                                                                  5,
            THE remainder of Philip Gosse's life, spent in extreme                                                                                                                    1
                      retirement in his house at St. Marychurch, does not
                                                                                                                                                                                           :
            present many features which are of striking interest to the

            general reader.  shall not attempt to follow chrono-

            logically the events of this calm quarter of a century. To

            give them  history would be to disturb their peaceful

            sequence, and to destroy their relation with those more

            stirring facts which have preceded them. A reflection of

            the even tenour of my father's existence will be found in

            the narrative which my step-mother, his sole constant

            companion, has been so kind as to prepare in the form of

            an appendix to this volume. After 1866, he came but

            once to London, in 1873, when he spent day or two in

            town on business. On this occasion he visited Lloyd's

            great aquaria in the Crystal Palace, but they failed to

            interest him to any great extent. Since 1864 he had

            strangely ceased to feel any curiosity in invertebrate

            zoology. The first breath of revival in this direction was

            awakened by letter of my own to him, in which de-
                       a

            scribed to him some rarities which had observed at the

            south point of the Lizard. He replied (August                                                                       1874) --
                   " Years and years have passed since
                                                                                                                                saw any

            "actinia: living in profusion; the ladies and the dealers
                                                                  1

                                                                  1^

LAST YEARS.                                        307

"together have swept the whole coast within reach of
" this place (St. Marychurch) as with a besom. Even
'' Mcseinbryantheinuui occurs only in wretched little

"examples, few and far between. . , . From all that you
" say, 1 imagine that the point of Cornwall and the Scilly

"Isles, being beyond railways, would offer many a scene

"such as you have beheld, rich to profusion in marine
" zoology, and unrifled by the rude hands of man ; and.
"old as I am, I am stimulated to try. As soon as we

"had read your letter, mother suggested whether we
" might not run down ourselves for a few days ; and I

"am not sure that we shall not put the posse in esse.
" Please to give mc a little more detail on the practical

"aspects. . . . Could I reach the cleft knife-like point of

"rock which }-ou found so [)rolific in uivca and viiniata ?
" The pale-green anemone, with banded tentacles and a
" Sagariia habit, which you found on the rock that you
" reached by swimming -- was not this Sagartta chryso-
" spleuimu ? This is a spcics which I have never seen.

..."Refer to plate vi. o^ Actiiio/ogia Britainiicci, and tell me  ill

"whether it was this.  I am all agog as I read.

"The case of the launce you found swallowed by an
" Aiithca is not without parallel in my own experience."

   It was only a flash in the pan, however ; in the next
letter I was told that " even early September is no time for

elderly persons to be away from home, in a wild remote

country." The real zoological awakening had not come.

   These years were not, however, in any ser-s  quiescent.
They were amply filled with amateur occupauons -- the
cultivation of orcl;ids and the study of astronouiy being

the most prominent. When Philip Gossc had passed sixty

years of age, his health became settled, and he enjoyed

life to a higher degree than perhaps ever before.  On
February 18, 1875, he wrote: --
                                    308 T//E LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

                                                     " Old age creeps sensibly upon me, and makes
                                               " its advance perceptible in many little ways ; yet,

                                       "though I have occasional reminders that I must be
                                       "cautious of overwork, I am remarkably free from
                                           "pains, and life is full of enjoyment to me. In many
                                           " things --in enthusiasm, in the zest with which I enter
                                           " into pursuits, in the interest which I feel in them, even

                                               " in the delight of mere animal existence, and the sense

                                    "of the beautiful around me -- I feel almost a youth

                                           "still."
                                            This sense of health and capacity for enjoyment in-

                                           creased as time went on, and the intellectual vigour was
                                       gradually turned back into the old professional channels. In
                                           November, 1875, after having wholly neglected the marine
                                           aquarium for fifteen years, he began to collect and keep sea-
                                           beasts in captivity once more. He commenced with nothing
                                           more ambitious than an old shallow flat-bottomed pan of
                                           brown earthenware, and for some time he was content to

                                           buy specimens from the men who made it their business to

                                           sell seaweeds and anemones to winter visitors at Torquay.
                                           But in February, 1876, he ceased to be satisfied with
                                           pleasures so tame to an old sportsman, and, armed with

                                           a new collecting-belt and his ancient water-proof boots, he
                                       sallied down to Petit Tor at the low spring tide, and began
                                       to search for himself in the fearless old fashion. This

                                           was the beginning of a revival in zoological enthusiasm,
                                           which steadily increased, and was sustained almost to the

                                           close of his life, culminating in his remarkable aftermath
                                           of scientific publications. Me determined to establish at
                                           Sandhurst an aquarium of large size and on modern
                                           principles, and he was finally moved to undertake this
\m project from the disappointment he experienced in failing
                                           to keep alive some specimens of the scarlet and yellow
                                           BahDiopJiyHia in his eartlien jars. On June 23 Mr. VV. A.

'®

m%

    -riTf l|n
LAST YEARS.  309                                                m

Lloyd and Mr. J. T. Carrinf^ton, whom he had summoned             k ];
to his aid, came down to St. Marychurch to make su^-
f^estions and plans for the tank, the main characteristic of
which was to be that it should have a constant current,
like those in the Crj'stal P.'.lace. As it was spring tide, my
father took his old friend from Oddicombe beach in a

boat to the Bell Rock and to Maidencombe ; but, thouc^h
they were out three hours, there was a tiresome swell, and

thc\' worked in the lovely gardens of red seaweed with
but little success.

   Lloyd's visit had, however, its direct results. His eye

was quick and his engineering sense prompt and astute.
]^y his recommendation, Philip Gosse had a slate reservoir
sunk to the level of the earth, in a coal-shed in his back

garden. In this he stored two hundred and ten gallons of
brilliant sea-water dipped at Oddicombe beach. In the
roof over the kitchen was fixed another slate cistern of

.1 hundred and twenty gallons, and an unused lumber-room
was devoted to the reception of the show-tank, to hold

fifty gallons, made of slate, with a half-inch plate-glass

front. A glass pump and vulcanite pipes completed the

establishment, which was fitted up under Lloyd's super-

\ ision. ^Vhen all was put together, an hour's pumping,
once a week, was sufficient to lift the hundred and t\vent\'
gallons of sea-water from the reservoir into the cistern,
wlion'-e it flowed by a pipe with a fine jet into the tank,
at the regulated rate of about seventeen gallons a day, while
a similar quantity flowed from the bottom of the tank into
the reservoir, thus securing a constant circulation.

   The construction of this tank, which, after one or two

slight hitches, worked in a most satisfactory manner,
greatly revived Philip Gosse's interest in zoology. He
began, once again, to haunt the shore, undeterred by the
i.iborious exertion required, or by the exhausting climb up
 iW:     310 T//E LIFE OF nilLIP HENRY GOSSE.

   V     and down the cliffs which each visit to the beach entailed.

      p  Roundham Head, in the centre of Tor Bay, and IVIaiden-

;':1!    combe, half-way between Hope's Nose and the estuary of

m        the Teign, were at t)-.is time his favourite hunting-grounds
                                                   1
                                                                                                                                        ;
         but he went even further afield, running down by boat to

         Prawle Point and Berry lead, or to the rocks that front

         the black creeks at the mouth of the Dart. Regardless of

         his sixty-seven summers, he would strip, on occasion, and

         work like youth in the cold pools of the slate, balanced
                a

                          >a
                                 v
                                                s
         carefully on     -.'ippery foothold '^f oar-weed or tulse.

         Here arc some                             taken at random from his journal

         of 1876:--       -- went to Dartmouth by earliest train,
                ^^August  7.
                                I
                                          a
         " intending to hire                       sailing-boat to run down to the
         " Prawle. Old Jone.'', however, declared
                                                                             it  to be im-

         " practicable, from wind and swell                                  therefore made him
                                                                      a

                                                                         ;I
         " pull me out to 151ack Rock, and thence to Combe Point.

         "Near this latter obtained                                   group of the loveliest
         " Coryuactis     I
                                  I

                                                          ;
                          ever saw the whole body and disc of
         " the richest emerald, the colour very positive and (so
         " to say) opaque, tentacles rich lilac-rose. Returning,
         " examined some overhanging rocks near Compass
         " Cove. On one ledge of yard square, saw nearlyI
                it                                           IS if a         1

         "a dozen of white daisy-like anemones; but eighteen

         "inches below the sur'"acc, and thus beyond reach,

         *' though easily procurable                                  the tide had been good,
         " but
                    was very poor.                                  -^.r the same place  saw
                                                                                         I

                                                                                                        1
         "others, and tried to get some, but fiilctl. At length

         " obtained' two noble specimens of Sagaiiia sphyrodcta,
         " with bright orange disc. From pool of fuci had
                                                             I                           I
                                                                         a
                                                                                                   a
         " dipped a rare prawn, which would not keep, and

         "number of llippolyte varians.
            '"November -- wrote Harris yesterday to meet me

         " v/ith boat this morning at 10.50. But on my arrival
                a
                                  3.

                                              1
LAST YEARS.              3"

" at the beach, there was no one ; and so I scrambled

" across to Babbicombc.  There I found Thomas just

"come in from fishing, who had been delegated by

" Harris to take me. So he pulled mc along shore to

" Hope's Nose, and proved a very agreeable and service-
" able young fellow, entering heartily into my wishes.

"There were some good crevices just below the rifle
" targets, and some at Black Head. Yet I got but little,
" till Thomas suggested some little pools which he knew

'· to be rich on the islet called Fir.'. Rock, about a mile

" off Hope's Nose. I accordingly climbed the rock, and

" soon found the rough leprous-barnacled surface hol-
" lowed in dozens of little shallow pools, overspread

" W' ith fucus. The bottoms of these were studded with
" numbers of the pretty Sagartin ///rcv?, which I have not
" seen for years. They were all burrowed in the honey-

" combed limestone, and hard to chisel out; however, I

"obtained seven. In one pool there was a colony of
'' Biuiodi's gcinmacea, unusually large; I took three of
"these. Many pools were still unexplored. I had pre-

" viously taken a nice mass of the emerald variety of

" Corynactis viridis, and many good masses of fine
"altix-. The weather was mild, and fairly fine; very
" calm ; the sea smooth, and brilliantly clear. I enjoyed

" the trip greatly."

He made no pause through the depth of this winter, but

collected on the shore during every fine day. December

29 saw him stalking " an immense-disked \^Sagartia\ hdlis
versicolor'' under Oddicombe Point, and Jantiary 1 found

him turnintr stones on the beach at Livermead. The re-

fluent tide of his zoological ardour was at its height, nor

can it be said to have slackened through the greater part

of 1877. When he worked on the shore, Mr.s. Gosse, as
she will relate, was commonly his companion ; when he

                                                             m
. ¥^ '1             312 T/rE LIFE OF riTILIP HENRY GOSSE.                             I

      I             took sailing excursions, he often had the advantage of the        (!

      % ?? i.f      company of Mr. Arthur Hunt, of Torquay, a young                    \

    J5 i -S         naturalist of knowledge and enthusiasm, who then pos-

  ViW               sessed a yacht, the Gauiiet, in which the friends undertook

                %1  frequent scientific excursions, especially over the sand\-

                    Zostera-beds in Torbay, among the little archipelago

                    wliich lies off Hope's Nose, at the mouth of ]3rixham

                    Harbour, and off Berry Head. His letters of this period

                    usually contain some pleasant reference to his beautiful

                    tank and its inmates.  For example (June 11, 1877), he

                    writes :--

                       " Have I told you of a young lobster, which, about
                    " two montl\s ago, I caught in Petit Tor great pool with

                    "my finger? after more than an hour's effort.^     He was
                    " a beau'cifu. feiiow then, just six inches long,  without
                    " reckoning his claws ; but after a week or        two he

                    "sloughed one night, to my dismay next morning, for J

                    "supposed the slough to be my pet dead, so perfect was

                    "it in every member; but presently I saw the gentleman

                    " in duplicate, safe ensconced in a dark corner, and at

                       "least one-third longer. He is now very saucy and
                       " fierce ; quite cock of the walk ; docs me some damage
                       " by killing and gnawing now and then one of his fellow-

                      " captives ; but this I put up with, for he is such a beaut}'.
                         " I have been out dredging several times lately again

                       " with Arthur Hunt, who is very kind to me, urging mc
                       " to go out frequently, and putting his boat and two

                     /" dredges, and himself, and a boatman, at my entire

                       " command, and then, forsooth, taking all as if had

                      " done ///;;/ a great favour ! The worst of it is, I can't
                      " stand any toss -- old sailor as I am --without a rebellion

                       " within. But the bottom of Torbay is so rich in zoolog)-,

                       " that it is worth the scraping ; and Hunt is himself a

                    . " naturalist."

                                           a
                      LAST YEARS.  3' 3

In the course of 1S78 a new hobby began to interfere a

little with the exclusive interest in the marine aquarium.

It was, more strictly speaking, his earliest hobby resusci-

tated. He met with a French gentl.man, resident in

London, who made it his business to import fine exotic

Lepidoptera in the pupa condition. It was nearly twenty          |:A

years since, in response to a suggestion from Lady Dorothy    sm

Ncvill, Philip Gosse had made a brief attempt to breed the            ,i

great Indian moths. He first purchased a few chrysalids       I

of continental butterflies, amongst others Papilio Poda-

lirins, Thais Polyxeiia, and Lyacna Idas ; but he soon

became chiefl\- interested in the great moths of America

and India, the Saturniada; and their allies. He writes

(May 14, 1878) :--
       " You will perhaps recollect the great atlas moth in

   " the midst of the box of Chine; e insects on the wall of

"our breakfast-room. Well, I have a living cocoon of

'·this species, and of a number of others akin to it.
" Two noble specimens have already been evolved, and

" are preserved. Then I have c\Q;gs of several of the

"species, from one set of which {Attacus Yamma-vun of

"Japan) I am now rearing beautiful caterpillars, on oak.

" Some of these insects are North American, and were

"objects of my desire and delight when I collected in

"Canada and in Alabama ; and this casts an extra hah^

" around them. But their size and beauty make them

" all very charming.  ' Naturain cxpcllcs, tanien usque
"' reatrret.'' I am most thankful to say that God con-

"tinues to me such health and buoyancy of spirits that I
" enter into all these recreations with as much enthusiasm
" as I felt forty years ago. And so does my beloved wife,
" who adds tenfold to my enjoyment, both of work and
" play, by her hearty sharing of both, and an enjoyment as

" keen as my own. Thus are we two happy old fogies."

                                                              m
  M               nil314 THE LIFE OF LIP HENRY GOSSE.

            ;" %     And again (June 26, 1878) :--
   !. 1                  " This purchase of a cocoon or two of Satnniiadce has

'Im                  "grown into a much greater enterprise than I antici-

                     "pated. I am at last gratifying the desire of more than
                      " five and forty years, namely, the rearing of some of
                     " the very elite of the Lepidoptera. Yesterday I had the
                      " beautiful male Purple Emperor evolved from a chrysalis,

                     "reared from the caterpillar. Another will probably be
                     "out to-night, a distinct species, closely allied. I have
                     " now around me the larva, attaining vast size and great
                     " beauty, of many of the very principcs of the moths ;

                    " and several I have evolved from cocoon. One of the
                     "very finest I ever saw was produced in great perfection

                     " a few days ago ; I inclose you an accurately measured
                     "paper-cutting of it. It is of cxqui-ite delicacy; the

                     "wings of the tcndcrcst pca-grecn, merging into snow-
                      " white at the body, and the front edge chocolate-purple.

                     " It is the noble TropLca sclciic of the Himalayan slopes.

                     " These are samples which ought to make your mouth
                     "water, if you retain any of your boyish enthusiasm."
                     And again (April 7, 1879) :--

                       " If you are still entomologist enough to know the

                     "splendid Morphos, most lustrous, dazzling blue, great

                     "butterflies of South America, ycju will like to know

                     " that I have recently been accumulating a fine collection
                     "of these and other tropical Lepidoptera ; including the

                     " great Ornithopteric of Malasia, a large number of fine
                     " Papilioiies, and half a dozen species or more of the
                     " noblest of these Morphos, enough already nearly to
                     "fill a cabinet of twenty-four drawers. They afford me

                     "great delight, gratifying the yearnings of my earlier

                    " years, which I never expected to gratify."

                     During all this time, however, and in spite of all the

                  incentives to intellectual labour which his pursuits gave
/

   LAST YEARS.                    315                             IB

   him, Phih'p Gossc showed no inclination to take up the               I

   pen which had sHpped from his fii.^crs fifteen years before.
   It seemed now wholly improbable that he would ever

   resume authorship, but with the approach of his seventieth
   year this instinct also was reawakened. In March, 1879,

   he published as a separate brochure a memoir on Tlw

   Great Atlas JSIoth of India {Attaciis Ada ), with a coloured

   plate of its transformations.  In October of the same year

   he became a member of the Entomological Society, and in

   June, 1880, he printed a monograph on the velvet-black

   butterfly, with emerald bands and crimson spots, which
   swarms in the forests of Jamaica, Urania sloanus. This

   again was followed by a pamphlet on The ButterJIies of
   Paraguay.

   These small memoirs were but the preliminaries to

   an entomological work of wide e.xtcnt, demanding the

   expenditure of a great deal of leisure and laborious
   research. For a considerable time past the attention of

   Philip Gossc had been increasingly drawn to the singular

   forms and the variety of function of the prehensile api)a-

   ratus employed in reproduction by the large butterflies

   which he had reared under his close personal observation.
   The only authority on this subject of the genital armature
   of the butterflies had been Dr. Buchanan White, who had

   expressed regret that he had been unable to examine any

   but European species. He had added : "It is much to be

   desired that some one, who has at his command a large

   collection of the butterflies of all regions, should investi-

   gate, more extensively than I have been able to do, the
   structure of the genital armature." My father had followed

   this recommendation, and in examining his great tropical

   specimens had discovered so much that was singular, and

the wholly new to science, that he became anxious to give

   publicity to his observations. He carried, moreover, his

                                                                  ill
                 nil!l6
                 T//E LIFE OF  LIP HENRY GOSSE.

             i!  investigations to a length whicli no one who preceded him,
                 not even Dr. White, had attempted to reach.
     'I
                    Among the younger zoologists of the day, few of whom
   n             were personally known to my father, there was not one in
                 whose discoveries and career he took a livelier interest than
    )1
                 in those of Professor E. Ray Lankester, for whom, from
            i    his earliest publications, he had predicted a course of high
                 distinction. For the judgment of this distinguished
w\               observer Philip Gosse entertained an unusual respect, and
                 it was owing to his advice that the elder naturalist, in his
¥4               seventy-second year, started upon a course of laborious
                 investigations, which were not terminated until two years
                 later. In April, 1881, on the very evening of a day which
                 had been marked in white to the recluse by a visit from
                 Professor Lankester, Gosse noted that, "encouraged b}-
                 E. R. L., I have begun my monograph on the Prehaisorcs."
                 In October of the same year he forwarded to Professor
                 Huxley, for the consideration of the council of the Royal
                 Society, the manuscript of his volume on T/ic Clasping

                 Organs ancillary to Generation in Certain Groups of the
                 Lepidoptera, accompanied by nearly two hundred figures,

                 exquisitely drawn under the microscope, illustrating these
                 recondite organs with such an accuracy and delicate full-
                 ness, that I have been assured that a query was raised
                 on the council of the society as to the authorship of the
                 drawings, which it was hardly possible to conceive had been
                 made by a man of between seventy and eighty. An
                 abstract of the memoir was presently read at the Royal
                 Society by Professor Huxley, in the absence of the author.
                 There arose, however, a difficulty regarding its being
                 published in full in the Proceedings of the Royal Society,

                 the subject being excessively remote from general interest,
                 even to savants, and the illustrations, which my father
                 considered essential to the intelligibility of the monograph,
                                                                                             s

LAST YEARS.                                  3«7

threatening to be very expensive to reproduce. My

father, however, met with threat kindness on this occasion

from his youn<;er confreres. The manuscript was finally,
in March, 1882, submitted by Professor Michael Foster to

the council of the Linnaean Society for publication, the

Royal Society offering ^50 towards the expense of printing
and engraving. The Linniean Society, thereupon, waiving

their usage of not publishing papers which had been read

elsewhere, undertook to bring it out, and, to my father's

extreme gratification, this child of his old age was finally

issued in May, 1S83, as a handsome quarto, in the form of
the Transactions of the Linnajan Society, and with all his

plates carefully reproduced in lithography.

Philip Gossc had made it an invariable practice, in

by advancing life, to qualify every public expression of his
                                        views on natural phenomena by an attribution of the

beautiful or wonderful condition to the wisdom of the

Divine Creator. He had done so in his monograph on

Tltc Clasping Organs ancillary to Generation^ appending to
that memoir a paragraph embodying those pious reflec-

tions which his conscience conceived to be absolutely de

rigtieur. Rightly or wrongly, these sentiments appeared

to the council of the Linnaean Society to be out of place

in a very abstruse description of certain organs, which are

curious, but neither beautiful nor calculated to inspire

ideas of a particularly elevating nature. In sending to

him the proof of his memoir, the secretary was directed

to ask the author, in making some other trif '.-.ij excisions,

to be kind enough to put his pen througu this little

passage also. To the surprise of every one concerned, he

absolutely declined to do this. The council was then

placed in a most embarrassing position. A great deal of

money had already been spent, and here was a paragraph                                       I i-
which could not be issued, by the rules of the society,                                      ;!!'
           Si  318 77/E LIFE OF PiriLlP HENRY GOSSE.                           I

  h , .1       that forbid all contentious matter on the subject of

 :l' 1         rclitjion, and which yet the author was prepared to sacrifice
               the whole volume rather than resign. The knot was
    ? " <,     cleverly untied by Professor E. Ray Lankester, who suej-
m^
               gested that it should be represented to Mr. Gosse that
               an atheist should wish, in future, to defend his atheism in
               the Traiisaciioiis of the society, the council could scarcely
               forbid him to do so, if it had yielded to a Christian writer
               the privilege of defending his faith in Christianity. My
               father saw the force of the argument, and gave way,
               though with great unwillingness.

                   Meanwhile, he had for some years been engaged in a
               course of studies highly gratifying to his earliest instincts,
               and absorbing in its demands upon his attention. In an
               earlier chapter of this biography I have described the
               manner in which the observation of the Rotlfcra, or whec
               animalcules, became a passion with my father. On
               whole this may, perhaps, be consideicd as having been the
               branch of zoological study which had fascinated him longest
               and absorbed him most. In spite, however, of the import-
               ance of the discoveries which he had made, in the course of

               his life, in this neglected province of zoology, he had never
               found an opportunity of publishing them, except partially
               and obscurely. He retained, in his portfolios, the buried
               treasures of half a century in the form of unpublished text

               and plates. Since Philip Gosse had corresponded with
               Dr. Arlidge, and had lent his help to the publication of

               the latest (i86i) edition of Pritchard's History of the

               Infusoria, hardly any use whatever had been made of his
               vast storehouse of information.

                   Since 1867 Dr. C. T. Hudson had been at work on the
               same subject, independently collecting materials towards a
               final work on the little known and yet charming Rotifcra.
               In 1879 Dr. Hudson was advised by Professor E. Ray Lan-

                                                                               i
   LAST YEARS.  3'9

                kcster, who was aware of the great mass of data collected         I

                 by my father, to place himself in relation with the latter,

              lie did so, and the elder naturalist, with complete unselfish-

                 ness, hastened to lay all that he possessed at the disposal
               of the younger. It was, indeed, a singular gratification
               to Philip Gosse, at this the close of his career, to find

                 his work appreciated, and to be able to help one who
                 was progressing along the same little-trodden path as
                 himself. Dr. Hudson was the latest and one of the
                warmest of my father's friends, and the compilation of
                 his share of the two splendid volumes on The Rotifcra,
                which, have their combined names on the title-page, became

                the principal, as it was the most delightful, occupation of
                 my father from 1879 until the publication in 1886. The
                 issue of the final periodical part^ of this work was greeted
                 with a melancholy satisfaction by my father, who recog-
                 nized very clearly that the real labour of his lifetime was
                 closed. He was in his seventy-seventh year, and he was
                 thoroughly conscious that he rould never again hope to start
                 another undertaking of this serious nature. Yet he was

                 delighted to handle these volumes, the children of his old
                 age, and to realize that he had lived to complete the pub-
               lication of all his main discoveries. In reply to the objec-
               tions of a member of his family, who cavilled at the fact
               that more prominence was given on the title-page of The

                 Rotifcra to the younger than to the elder naturalist, the
               latter replied as follows :--

                    "Your judgment will probably be modified, when you

                    " are better acquainted with the facts. I\Iy position on the
                    "title-page was the subject of much discussion between
( " Dr. Hudson and me ; and I chose decisively that
                   "'assisted by P. H. Gosse ' should be the vao^c, contrary
                   ''to his ivish. He has, throughout, been most lovingly
                     " considerate of my wishes, and only too ready to put

k
                                    ^5!^SW  mi          mmsmgm    p«pi

                                                320 .''"/£ L/FE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

                                                " me into prominence and honour. The labour, the

                                                "plan, the publication, all the drudgery, have been his       ;

                                                "so that to put his name prominent only the merest
                                                "justice. We have worked all through in the fullest
                                                                                ;

                                                                                      is
                                                "harmony. Every line that he has written has been

                                                "subjected to my severe criticism and, with hardly an
                                                " exception, all my amendments he has implicitly adopted.

                                                " must say admire vciy warmly the introduction."
                                                I
                                                   During the years in which the volumes on The Rotifeni
                                                         it,were being prepared, my father exerted himself in an in-
                                                          it
                                                tellectual direction with the zeal of young professionala
                                                               Iman at the height of his career. He was up at five or

                                                six in the morning, and often spent eight or nine hours in

                                                uninterrupted work at the microscope, merely breaking

                                                through      so far as to come down from his study with

                                                knitted and abstracted brows, to swallow hasty meal in
                                                                                   a
                                                silence, and then rush up again. This excess of intellectuala

        r                                       work, combined with his neglect of exercise, seemed, in the
                               111              face of to be extremely imprudent in man approaching

                                                eighty. But we could not, at that time, very distinctly

                                                observe any harm done to his health, and in some ways

                                                the ardent occupation seemed to keep him well. As soon

                                                as the manuscript had finally gone to the printers, bow-

                                                ever, early in 1886, he suffered from nervous attack of an
 4J;' 1;                                                                        a
                                                alanning nature, which appeared to point to overwork.
';lf;                                                                                  ;
                                                Nevertheless, his great elasticity of constitution enabled

                                                him, as seemed, entirely to recover and Dr. Hudson,
                                                a
                                                       it

                                                                             a
                                                like housewife in fairy story, who finds fresh labour for

                                                her f;iant to perform, set his colleague on the mitigated

                                                work of helping to prepare a Siipplonciit. This was even-

                                                tually published, in 1889, by Dr. Hudi:on, and contained

                                                the description of one hundred and fifty additional species,

                                                sixty of these being ne:w British forms discovered by Philip

                                                Gossc.   ll  completed the great work, by describing every
LAST YEARS.  ?2I

known foreign rotifer, as well as all the British species

which had been discovered since the original woik went to

press in 1885. This Siippkniciit my father did not live to
see published, and Dr. Hudson alludes to that fact, in h's
preface, in these graceful and generous terms :--

      " The natural pleasure, with which I see the observa-
   " tions and studies of thirty-five years thus brought to a

   "successful conclusion, has been indeed marred by the
   'sad loss of my deeply lamented friend. His great
   " knowledge and experience, his keen powers of observa-
   "tion, his artistic skill, and his rare gift of description
   "are known to all, and have made \\\va fadle priiiccps
   " among the writers on the rotifera ; but it is only those
   " who, like myself, were privileged to know him inti-
    " mately, that are aware how much more he was than an
   " enthusiastic naturalist. I shall never forget the hearty

    "welcome (when 1 first met him) that the veteran gave
   " to the comparatively unknown student, or the gracious

    "kindness with which he subsequently placed at my

    "disposal his beautiful unpublished drawings and his
    " ample notes.

     " A happy chance had led our observations to differing

    " parts of the same subject, and our united labours have
   "produced, in consequence, the now completed work;
    "but I shall ever count it a still happier chance that gave
    " me not only such a colleague, but also such a friend."

    So late as the last autumn of his life my father continued

his occasional rambles on the shore with hammer and col-

lecting basket. September 19, 1887, will long be m.emo-

rable to his family as the latest of these delightful excursions.
He spent several hours of that day upon the rocks in the
centre of Goodrington Sands, surrounded by his wife, his
son and son's wife, and his three grandchildren -- a compact

family party. No one on that brilliant afternoon would

                                                                   ,,:
32-^ THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

have c^uesscd that the portly man with a grizzled beard,
who stood anklc-dccp in the salt pools, bending over the

treasuries of the folded seaweeds, lustily shouting for a

chisel or a jar as he needed
                          It           and strirling resolutely
                               :
over the slippery rocks, was in his seventy-eighth year, andit,
still less that his vitality was so soon to decline. To the

rest of the family, who remained at Paigntor he wrote the
next day from his own house --

'' Many thanks for making y(;stcrday so happ;        lay

'"to me, though felt somewhat unwell last night, pos-
                  I
"siblv from exhaustion.Ia     was delightful to see around

" me your dear selves and the sweet eager children

" engaged in diligent and successful search for my grati-

" fication. When you all come over again, you will
" think the tank busy scene worth looking at. For,

"in addition to our captures of yesterday, there have
" arrived four new sea-horses and several very fine and

" large troglodytes and bcllis, all in capital condition.

"The Hippocampi poured into the tank in moment
                                       Ia
"the Sagartice carefully seriatim this morning.      And,
                                                                    ;;
" as say, the tout ensemble   is  worth looking at.
a
  "Of our Goodrington lot of yesterday, the crabs are
  I
" climbing about the stone, the long pipe-fish glides like
" slender brown cord through the water, the little

" black-and-white cottiis scuttles about, and just now

" saw the goby creep out from under one of the stones
" while the crimson weeds and the green ulva give

"brilliant colour to the picture. The scarlet and blue
" GalatJica lobster don't see this morning, but no doubt
a

                       I
"he's all right.  The children will be interested in these
" details."

In October my father and mother, under the stimulus

of visit from the Rev. F. Howlett, Rector of Tistcd,

resumed their astronomical researches on clear nights,
                                                                                                                     RRMMI  1

  arc                                       LAST YEARS.
 like
 ittlc   " We arc busy," he writes on the 22nd, " among the fixed
 now     stars, as w^-. were more than twenty years ago, especially
Dncs ;   hunting for the charming double stars. There arc no
         planets visible in the evenings now." No definite appre-
  ^rivc  hensions crossed our minds, although he was occasionally
         more feeble and notably more silent than of old. Hut near
 blue    the close of the year 1HS7, while he was examining the
 oubt    heavens late one very cold night, a newly purchased portion
these    of the telescope apparatus became dislodged and fell into
         the garden ; the agitation produced b}- this little accident,
         and some exposure in leaning out to see where th'; lens had                                                           I ':!
         fallen, brought on an attack of bronchitis, and although this
         particular complaint was overcome, he was never well again.

             Yet, through the months of December antl January,
         there seemed nothing alarming in his condition. He was
         kept indoors, but not in bed, and he was as busy as ever,
         writing, drawing, and reading. One of the last books which
         he read with unabated interest was the Life of Darzuiii.

         All went on much in the old style until March, i<S(S8, when
         a disease of the heart, which must for a long while past

         have been latent, rather suddenly made itself apparent.
         Under the repeated attacks of this complaint, his brain, his
         spirits, his manifold resources of body and mind, sank lower
         and lower, and the five months which followed were a
         period of great weariness and almost unbroken gloom.
         After a long and slow decay, the sadness of which was
         happily not embittered by actual pain, he ceased to breathe,
         in his sleep, without a struggle, at a few minutes before
         one o'clock on the morning of August 23, 18.SS. He had
         lived seventy-eight years, four months, and seventeen
         days. He was buried, near his mother, in the Torquay
         Cemetery, attended to the grave by a large congregation
         of those who had known and resi)ected him during his
         thirty years' residence in the neighbourhood.

                                                                                                                            \
wesH  .1^.1..JJUI

( 324 )

                                                 CHAPTER XII.

                                                            GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS.

                    IN the preceding chapters T have not, I trust, so com-
                                              pletely failed as to have left upon the reader's mind
                                  no image of what manner of man my father was. But the
                                   ' portrait is still a very imperfect one, and must be com-
                                      pleted by some touches which it is exceedingly difficult to
                                   give with justice. I have hitherto dwelt as slightly as
                                      possible upon the religious features of his character, that
                                   I might not disturb the thread of a narrative which is
                                       mainly intended for the general public. But no portrait
                                       of his mind would be recognizable by those who knew
                                   Philip Gosse best, which should relegate to a second place
                                       his religious convictions and habits of thought. They were
                                       peculiar to himself, they were subject throughout his life
                                       to practically no modifications, and they were remarkable
                                       for their logical precision and independence. I have never
1! met with a man, of any creed, of any school of religious
                                        speculation, whowas so invulnerably cased in fully developed
                                    conviction upon every side. His faith was an intellectual
                                        system of mental armour in which he was clothed, ar/>-d-/>ie,
                                        without a joint or an aperture discoverable anywhere.

                                     He never avoided argument ; on the contrary, he eagerly
                                        accepted every challenge ; and his accuracy of mind,
                                        working with extreme precision within a narrow channel,
                                        was such that it was not possible to controvert him on his
i-
       GENERAL CHARACTERISriCS.  325

hid,   own ground. What his own ground was it may be well to
|ncl,
       state in his own words, and those for whom these nice
  his
       points of theology have no attraction may be invited to

       pass on to a subsequent page : I cannot, as a biographer,

       omit so essential a portion of my task, because it is abstruse.

       This, then, is my father's confession of faith, taken from a
       letter written in ivS/S :--

             "The whole of my theology rests on, and centres in,

           " the Resurrection of Christ. That Jesus was raised from
           " the dead, is an historical fact, the evidence for which is,
          " in my judgment, impregnable. I ask no more than

          "this; everything else follows inevitably, A suffering,

           " dying Christ, and yet an ever-reigning Christ, was the
           " great theme of the Old Testament ; and Jesus did, on
           " numerous occasions, during Mis life, predict His own

           "death and resurrection, in order 'That the Scripture
           " ' might be fulfilled, that thus it must be.'

              " That He was raised from the dead was distinctly the
           " act of God the F"ather ; ' but God raised Him from the

           "'dead.' It was the solemn witness borne by God to
           " His mission. It did not prove Him to be God ; but
           " it proved Him to have been the Sent One of the

           " Father ; it was the Father's seal to Him,
              " Now, then, every act and word of His comes with the

           " authority of God ; for He is God's accredited delegate
           " and spokesman. I must not pick and choose which
           "of His sayings I will receive; I dare refuse none ; for
           " He never ceases to present the credentials of the Father.
           " All the wondrous scenes through which He passed, the
            " Temptation, the Transfiguration, the Agony, the Cross ;
           " His transactions with a personal devil, and with personal

           "demons; His revelations concerning His own pre-

            " existence, His unity with the Father, the covenant of
            " election, the perseverance of His saints, His advent and
                -UV»l-,.I-Jll«-it4.-,

                ',26 r/Zi!? Z/i^y? OF rniLIP HENRY GOSSE.

                   ·'judgment, the kingdom of heaven, the unquenchable
                  " fire of hell ;-- all these come to mc with all the force

                  " of dogmas, not one of which I have the option of
                  " refusing, unless I refuse God ; for they have the authority
                  "of Him whom God has scaled.

                                                      "The Old Testament.

                                          " The Lord Jesus constantly cites the numerous books
                                       " of the Old Testament as a unit-- ' the Scriptures,' and
                                       " He constantly appeals to it as an ultimate authority ;

                                       "'the Scripture cannot be broken,' etc. He cites the

                                       " words of Moses, of Isaiah, of David, but, withal, as

                                       " spoken ' by God ' (Matt. xxii. 31), by ' the Holy Ghost '
                                       " (Mark xii. 36). He refers to the ancient narratives, as
                                       " indubitable verities ; to the marriage of Adam and

                                       " Eve (Matt. xix. 4) ; to Sodom and Gomorrha (xi. 23,
                                       "
                                               ;  to  the  manna,  to the brazen  serpent ; to Noah,
                                          24}
                                       " to Lot, to Lot's wife, to Elijah, to Elisha. He taught

                                       "His disciples that 'all things in Moses, the Prophets,

                                       '"and the Psalms 'were about Him, and must be fulfilled

                                       " (Luke xxiv. 27, 44-47). Now, since the Lord Jesus
                                       " thus honours the Old Scriptures, and never gives the

       (                               " least hint that there is any exception to this honour ;
                                       " never speaks of them as containing, but always as being,
                                       " the authoritative Word of God ; I must so receive them,
             '                         " every word.

lf{- ·                                                     "The New Testament.

                                       " But how can I be sure that the Gospels, the Acts,

                                       "the Epistles, the Apocalypse, are true? are wholly

                                       " true, wholly trustworthy ; free from admixture of

                                       " human error       A question, this, of vast importance
                                       " since    it
                                                       is

                                                                    .-'
                                                                                                                                                                                 ;
                                                           in the Epistles that the great scheme of
                  GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS.                                     327

    ' Christian doctrine is unfolded to faith, with dogmatic

    "completeness. One may confidently say, a priori,
    " that these could not be left to the indefinite admixture
    " of human opinion, without frustrating the very purpose
    " for which the Father sent the Son ; it would be to

    "undermine that edifice for which He                            had  hitherto laid
    " the most solid and stable foundation.
       " But we are not left to conjecture here. The Lord
    "Jesus, engaging to build His Church upon the Rock,
    "and conferring on Peter the
    " unlock the kingdom (Acts                         privilege of the k-eys to
                                                         and x.), promised first
    " to him (Matt. xvi. 19), and then to all the Apostles; ii.

    "(xviii. 18), that whatsoever they .should bind or loose,    ;
    " He would ratify from heaven. For this end lie pro-

    "mised them the Holy Ghost, to abide with them; to
    "guide them into all [the] truth; to take of His, and
    " the Father's, and show to them
    " words to their remembrance to                                  to bring all Jesus's
                                                                    show them thintrs to

    "come to      enable them to be witnesses for                        Him   (John
    " xiv.-xvi.,  passim). He sent them into                                   world,
       i. ;                                                              the
                                 in

                                                    '
    " exactly as the Father                          had sent Him (xvii. 18).  witness
       " The Holy Ghost
                                                      due time was given, the
    " of Jesus-Messiah's ascension to the Divine Throne
                                                                               ;

    ..." and they, thus endowed, and distinctly accredited
    " (Acts 8), went forth witnesses to Him,                                   to the
    " uttermost part of the earth.'
    '

       " Here, again, my confidence finds an impregnable

    "fortress. Whatever                                read in the Evangels, or the
    " Epistles,   I is
                              ;
                              it

                              it is I

                                              is
                  no longer the utterance of mere man,
                                                                    a

    " however pious          not Luke or John, or Peter or                                 (

    "Paul, that hear;                                  God the Holy Ghost from
of  " heaven, bearing witness to the Sent of the Father, now
    " that the Sent Son has gone up in resurrection life and                                      ^
                                                                                           i
                                                                                               i

    " power to the Father's Throne.
                  328 T//E LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

                  "Thus, in The Mysteries of God, do not ask tliis
                                                            I              is

                  "dogma probable or improbable                                    if

                                                                                                        :
                  I                                         ;              tJiis worth)' <^r
                              a
                                                              if
                                  is
                  " unworthy of God, as fashion Him in my imagination
                                             ?  I
                  " simply ask, How                is       written  ?     What saith the
                                                        it

                  " Scripture Assured that God has not raised Christ

                  " from the dead, in order to tell us lies "
                                                                        !

                  Put in nutshell, then, his code was the Bible, and the

                  l^ible only, without any modern modification whatever       ;

                  without allowance for any difference between the old world
                  and the new, without any distinction of value in parts,

                  without the smallest concession to the critical spirit upon

                  any point an absolute, uncompromising, unquestioning
                  ;

                              is
                  reliance on the Hebrew and Greek texts as inspired by the

                  mouth of God and uncorrupted by the hand of man. The

                  Bible, however,               full of dark sayinf;s, and needs, as he

                  admitted, an interpreter. But my father did not doubt his

                  own competence to interpret.              He had some reason to

                  hold this view. His knowledge of the Bible can hardly

                  have been excelled. His verbal memory of the Authorized

                  Version included the whole New Testament, all the Psalms,

                  most of the Prophets, and all the lyrical portions of the

                  Historical Books. The condition of his memory fluctuated,

                  of course, and was being daily refreshed at various points
                                                            ;
k        I but liave his own repeated assurance that, practically
     ;;'.                                 speaking, he knew the Bible by heart. Nor was this init
                  I                                                                                 ;
                              a
                                                                                            is

                                                                                     I;
                  any sense parrot-feat or trick of memory. He knew the

                  text of Scripture in this extraordinary way, partly because

                  his mind had an unusual power of verbal retention partly

                  because, for nearly sixty years, whatever other occupations

 B might have been in hand, no day passed in which he did
r'] not read and meditate upon some portion of the Bible.
§
          i       have called his creed invulnerable and when              con-
              ·.
W sidered that he could not be assailed on the side of

                  sensibility or sentiment, which he tossed to the winds, nor

nL
         GEXERAL CHARACTERISTICS,                                                       329

on that of scholastic or accepted interpretation, which he

never preferred to his own where the two differed, that liis

memory could promptly supply him with an appropriate

text at every turn of the argument, and that he never

accepted the most alluring temptation to fight on theoretic

ground outside the protecting shadow of the if^sissiiiia
verba of the Bible, it will perhaps be understood that he

was an antagonist whom it was easy to disagree with, but

uncommonly difficult to defeat.

This being the fcnmdation upon which Philip Gosse's

religious edifice was based, it is not difficult to jjerceive

how certain radical peculiarities of his character, to which                                      :li

the reader's attention has alread}' been drawn, flourished
under its shelter. His temper was unbending, and yet

singularly wanting in initiative, and this was a system

which provided his mind with the fully develoi)ed osseous
skeleton it demanded. Revelation had to be accepted as a

whole, and so as to leave no margin for scepticism. At the

same time, the detail of Biblical interpretation opened up a
field of minute investigation which was absolutely boundless,

and which my father's near-sighted intellect, so helpless in

sweeping a large philosophical horizon, so amazingly alert

and vigorous in analyzing a minute area, could explore,

without exhaustion, to an infinite degree. Hence what                                        i !t
                                                                                                \i
fascinated him more than any other mental exercise,                                                v\
                                                                                                  \\<.
especially of late years, was to take a passage of Scripture

(in the Greek, for he never mastered Hebrew), and to

         as under the microscope, word by word,
dissect  it,

                  if

                                                                          is
                                                                                     a
particle by particle, passing at length into subtleties where,

undoubtedly, few could follow him.
   Protected by his ample shield, the text of Scripture, he

was quite calm under the charge of heterodoxy which

sometimes reached him in his retreat. It not matter for

surprise that with his remarkable temperament, his isolated                                       fi::
       !           330 T//E LIFE OF nilLIT HENRY GOSSE.

               H!  and self-contained habit of mind, he found it impossible
                   to throw in his h)t with the system of any existinjj^
I                  Christian Church. In middle life he had connected him-

  kt               self with the I'l}mouth lirethren, principally, no doubt,
                   because of their lack of systematic organization, their repu
 pi-               diation of all traditional authority, their belief that the Bible
                   is the infallible and sufficient guide. 15ut he soon lost
W
                   confidence in the Plymouth Brethren also, and for the last

                   thirt)' N'ears of his life he was really unconnected with any
                   Christian body whatever. Wliat was very curious was that,
                   with his intense persistence in the study of religious ques-
                   tions, he should feel no curiosity to know the views of others.

                   In those thirty years he scarcely heard any preacher of

                   his own reputed sect ; I am confident that he never once

                   attended the services of any unaffiliated minister.
                       He had gathered rountl him at St. Marychurch a

                   cluster of friends, mostly of a simple and rustic order, to

                    whom he preached and expounded, and amongst whom he
                   officiated as minister and head. This little body he called
                    " The Church of Christ in this Parish," ignoring, with a
                    sublime serenity, the claims of all the other religious
                    institutions with wh.-,i St. Marychurch might be supplied.
                    His attitude, without the least intentional arrogance or
                    unfriendliness, was exactly that which some first apostle of

                    the Christian faith in Ceylon or Sumatra might have
                    adopted, to whom his own conver*^s were "the Church,"
                    and the surrounding Asiatics, of whatever civilization, of

                    whatever variety of ancient and divergent creed, merely
                    " the world." He made no attempt, however, to prosely-
                    tize ; he alternated his expositions to the flock under his

                    care by addresses, of an explanatory and hortatory cha-
                    racter, to outsiders, in " the Room," as his little chapel was

                    with severe modesty styled. But his view was that the
                     light was kept burning in the small community, and that
              GENERAL CHA RA CTERISTICS.                        331

on those in the darkness around lay the solemn responsi-
bility if they were not attracted into its circle of radiance.

   Over such a mind, so earnestly and deeply convinced,
external considerations could have little sway. " My mind

to me a kingdom is," my father used often to rc|)eat,

but not at all in the sense of the jwet. Society had no

court of appeal against any course of action which my

father's consciuiicc prompted, and it was rather a subject

of congratulation that, having chosen to lead a retired

and meditative life, he really did not come into collision

with the world. He belonged to the race from which,

passive martyrs are taken. He had no desire to eo out
with a trumpet and a sword, but in his own (juicter way

he was as stubborn as any of the victims of Bloody Mary.

If he had happened to object to any of the modes in which

government, as at present C(Mistituted, operates in social           n W \\

discipline ;  for instance, he had formed con.scientious
              if,
scruples against paying rates, or being vaccinated, hea

would have offered the absolute maximum of resistance.

Fortunately for his domestic peace, he did not come into

collision with the law on any of these points. But he had

peculiarities which showed the iron rigidity of his con-
science. He had very singular objection to the feast of

Christmas, conceiving this festival to be heathen survival
                                    if

                                            a

                                                             ;

                                                           a

                                                        if
to which the name of Christ had been affixed in hideous

profanity. This objection showed itself in amusing and

bewildering ways. He regarded plum-pudding and roast

turkey as innocent and acceptable,  the fatal word had

not been pronounced in connection with them but once
they were spoken of as " Christmas turkey," or " Christ-

mas pudding," they became abominable, " food offered to

aidols." Biblical students will observe the source of this
idea -- most ingenious adaptation to modern life of an

injunction to the Corinthians. Friends who knew this
  ^            333 T//E LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

I^ 1           singular prejudice were particular to send gifts for New
 m
               Year's Day; and well recollect my father's taking ofif the
 -HM                                I
     .4.                                                 magnificent goose at dinner,
                                                      a
               disli-cover and revealing

               while he paused to remark to the guests (none of whom,
               by the \\a\', shared this particular conviction), " need not
                                                                    I
               assure you, dear friends, that this bird has not been
                                                                                                ;
               offered to the idol."

                  This was case in which, we may all admit, the de-
               licate scruples of Philip Gosse's conscience were strained in

                  somewhat trivial direction. A graver question may be
               Ia

                                Ia
               raised, though will not be so impertinent as to attemi)t
               an answer, by my father'.^ rigid attitude toward those who

               were not at one with him o^>^essential points of religion.
               " could never divide myself from any man upon the

               difference of an opinion," said Sir Thomas lirowne, and

               modern feeling has been inclined to applaud him. But

\              my father was not modern, and                  would not merely be
       :^^                                iIf
            :  absurd, would be unjust,
                                                       it it
               it                                        were to pretend that he was

               liberal, or would have thought                 godly to be liberal.

               Towards those who differed from him on essential i)oints
               of religion, his attitude was as severe as his masculine

               nature knew how to make it. He was not sympathetic

               he had no intuition of what might be passing through the

               mind of one who held views utterly at variance with what

r;             seemed to himself to be inevitable. He could be indulgent
    1
               to ignorance, but when there was no longer this excuse,
               when the revealed will of God on certain point had been
               it

                     a
                                                                             a
                                                                                             a

                                                                                          'f
               lucidly stated and explained to the erring mind,                                 thc^

               were still rejected, no matter on what groun< tb .re was

               no further appeal. To that kind question             .icr's, " Is

               there no way to bring home                wandering  cep bit by

               worrying him to death?" my father would ha\u an wered

               by mournful shake of the head. The fold was open, the

               .shepherd was calling, the dog was hurrying and barking,

as
                   G EX ERA I. CHA RA C TERIS TICS.       333

       and the wickedness of the sheep in refusiivj to return

       seemed ahnost inconceivable.

       The reader cannot but have ah'cady observed how

       few and how e[)liemcral were my father's intimate
       friendships with those whose station, tastes, and acquire-

       ments mit^ht have been supposed to tally with his own.
       In the world of literature and science he scarcely kept

       uj) a single close acquaintanceship.  Of friendship as a

       cardinal virtue, as one of the great elements in a happy life,

       he had no conception. He could make none of those
                                                     a
       concessions, those mutual acceptances of the inevitable,
                                                          if
       without which this, the most spiritual of the passions,                                   r,
                                                                      rI ^
       cannot exist. Even those who were most strongly                                        ii.  ·

       attracted to him, fell ofifat last from the unyielding surface

       of his conscience ; this was the secret of his brief and

       truncated intimacy with lulward Forbes, whom he had

       seemed to love so well. The ardent patience and sym-

       pathy of Charles Kingsley, the friend from the outer world

       whom he preserved longest, wearied at length of an

       intercourse in which principles were ever preferred to

       persons. In later years one example may suffice. Dora

       Greenwell precipitated herself on the friendship of Philii:
       Gossc with an impetuosity which at first bore everything

       before  ; it,and in copious correspondence laid open to
                                     a
       him her spiritual ardours and aspirations.    He was

       gratified, he was touched, but to respond was impossible

       to him he had the same purely didactic t(juch, the same

       logic, the same inelasticity for every one, and friendship

       soon expired in such vacuum. A phrase in letter to
was                                     Ia
   Is  myself gives its own key to the social isolation of his life.
 by    " am impatient and intolerant," he writes, " of all resist-
       I
 the
       ance to what       see to be the will of God, and  that
                   is
       resistance
                       I
                   sustained, have no choice but to turn away

       from him who resists."
    fn          334 THE LIFE OF FillLIP HENRY GOSSE.

ill ...              His extraordinary severity tovards those vvno occupy
                the extremes of Christian dogma, towards the Church of
          iiii  Rome and to\v<u'ds the Unitarians, was a result of this

  I             idiosyncrasy pushed to its extreme. In 1859, when he was
                lecturing in Birmingham, before the Midland Institute, he
         ·It
                was invited to meet some of the principal personages of

                the town at dinner, and, in particular, a well-known

                gentleman, who is now dead. Philip Gossc accepted the

                invitation with pleasure ; but shortly before the party met,

                the host received a note saying th?*" it had just been men-

                tioned to Mr. Gosse that I\Ir.  was a Socinian. Had Mr.

                Gosse been unaware of this, he should have desired to ask

                r.o questions, but, the information having been volunteer d,

                he had no alternative but, with extreme regret and even
                distress, to explain that he could not " sit at meat with

                one waiom I know to deny the Divinity of the blessed

                Lord." To realize what this sacrifice to cotiscience in-

                volved, it must be recollected that my father was a man

                of elaborate and punctilious courtesy, and extremely

                timid. I could multiply examples, but it is needless to

                do so.

                It will perhaps be assumed from this sketch of my

                father's religious views, that he was gloomy and saturnine

                in manner. It is true that, at the very end of his life,

                wrapped up as he grew to be more and more in meta-

                physical lucubrations, his extreme self-absorption took a

                stern complexion. But it had not always been so in earlier

                years. He was subject to long fits of depression, the
                result in great measure of dyspepsia, but when these

                passed away he would be cheerful and even gay for

                weeks at a time. Never lonely, never bored, he was

                contented with small excitements and monotonous amuse-

                ments, and asked no more than to be left alone among his

                orchids, his cats, and his butterflies, hapi)y from morning
GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS.  335

till night. On the first day of his scventy-cightli year, he     n
wrote to me in these ter'iis :--

      '' My health is fair and my vigour considerable. I am
   " free from pains and infirmities. My zest and delight
   "in my microscopical studies is unabated yet, .-J that

    "every day is an unflagging holiday."
   This description of his feelings, at a time when the
shadow of death had almost crossed his path, is significant,
and migl^t be taken to characterize his inward feeling, if
not always his outward aspect, through the main part of

the last thirty years of his life. lie could even, on occasion,

be merry, with a playfulness that was almost pathetic,
because it seemed to be the expression of a human

sympathy buried too far down in his being to reveal itself

except in this dumb way. I cannot exactly describe what

it was that made this powerfully built and admirably

equipped man sometimes strike one as having the im-
matureness and touching incompleteness of the nature of
a child. It was partly that he was innocent of observing
any but the most obvious and least complex working of
the mind in others. But it was mainly that he had nothing

in common with his age. lie was a Covenanter come into

the world a couple of centuries after his time, to find society

grown too soft for his scruples and too ingenious for his
severe simplicity. He could never learn to speak the
ethical language of the nineteenth century ; he was soven-

tcciith century in spirit and manner to the last.
    No question is more often put to me regarding my

father than this -- How did he reconcile his religious to his

scientific views? The case of Faraday may throw some

light, but not very much, upon the pnMjlem. The word
" reconcile " is scarcely the right one, because the idea of
reconciliation was hardly entertained by my father. He
had no notion of striking a happy mean between his
H^'

                          336 r//E LIFE OF PHILir HENRY GOSSE.

                      impressions of nature and his convictions of religion. If

                                the former offered any opposition to the latter, they Avere
                                swept away. The rising tide is " reconciled " in the same
                               fashion to a child's battlements of sand along the shore.
                                Awe, an element almost eliminated from the modern mind,
                             was strongly developed in Philii) Gosse's character. He
                            speaks of himself, in one of his letters, as having been
                             under "the subjugation of spiritual awe to a decidedly
                             morbid degree " during the whole of his life. He meant by

                          this, I feci no doubt, that he was conscious of an ever-

                      present bias towards the relinquishing of ar/ idea pre-

                          sumably unpalatable to his inward counsellor. It was

                               under the pressure of this sense of awe that, when his
                               intellect was still fresh, he deliberately refused to give a
                               proper examination to the theory of evolution which his
                               own experiments and observations had helped to supply

                          with arguments. It was certainly not through vaguenc^:;

                               of mind or lack of a logical habit that he took up this
                               strange jiosition, as of an intellectual ostrich with his head
                            in a bush, since his intelligence, if narrow, was as clear as

                          crystal, and liis mind eminently logical. It was because a

                               " spiritual awe " overshadowed his conscience, and he could
                               not venture to take the first step in a downward course of
                            scepticism. He was not one who could accept half-truths

                          or sec in the twilight. It must be high noon or else utter

                               midnight with a character so positive as his.

                             It followed, then, tiiat his abundant and varied scientific

                               labours were undertaken, whenever they were fruitful, in
                               fields where there was no possibility of contest between
                               experimental knowledge and revelation. Where his work
                               was technical, not i)opular, it was exclusively concerned
                               with the habits, or the forms, or the structure of animals,
                               not observed in the service of any theory or philosophical
                               principle, but for their own sake. In the two departments
GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS.  337

 where he accomplished the greatest amount of orighial
 work, in the Acfinorjoa and the Rotifcra, it was impossible

 for hypothesis of an anti-scriptural tendency to intrude,
 and if the observations wliich he made were used by others

 to supi)ort a theory inconsistent with the record of creation,
he was not obli^^ed to be cognizant of any such perversion
 of his work. He used, very modestly, to describe himself
as " a hewer of wood and a drawer of water " in the house
of science, but no biologist will on that account under-
rate what he has done. His extreme care in diagnosis,
the clearness of his eye, the marvellous exactitude of his
memory, his recognition of what was salient in the charac-

teristics of each species, his unsurpassed skill in defining

those characteristics by word and by pencil, his great

activity and pertinacity, all these combined to make Philip
Gosse a technical observer of unusually high rank. In the

article which the Saturday Revieiv dedicated to my father
at the time of his death, a passage was quoted from the

preface to his Actijiohi^ia Britannica (1859), as giving in

excellent terms the principles upon which his analytical
labours in zoology were performed :--

       " Having often painfully felt," he there said, "in studying

   "works similar to the present, the evil of the vagueness
   "and confusion that too frequently mark the descriptive

  " portions, I have endeavoured to draw up the characters
  "of the animals which I describe, with distinctive pre-
  "cision, and with order. It is reported of Montagu that,
  "in describing animals, he constantly wrote as if he had

   " expected that the next day would bring to light some
   " new species closely resembling the one before him ; and
   " therefore his diagnosis can rarely be amended. Some
   " writers mistake for precision an excessive minuteness,

   "which ouly distracts the student, and after all, but the

  "portrait of an individual. Others describe so loosely
is,

      i
318 THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

   "that half of the characters would serve as well for half
    " a dozen other species. I have sought to avoid both
    "errors : to make the diagnosis as brief as possible, and
    "yet clear, by seizing on such characters, in each case, as
    "are truly distinctive and discriminative."
    As early as 183 1 Philip Gosse began to be a minute and
.systematic zoologist. I have attempted to describe how,
in the remote wilds of Newfoundland, with no help what-
ever towards identification, except 'the brief, highly con-
densed, and technical generic characters of Linna^us's
Systeina Natune," he attacked the vast class of insects, and

struck out for himself, specimens in hand, a road through
that trackless wilderness. The experience he gained in
this early enterprise could not be overestimated. Long

afterwards, when complimented on the fullness and pre-
 cision of his characterization, he wrote of his struggles with

 the Linn.'uan Genera I/isectorinn, and added that it was then
 that he " acquired the habit of comparing structure with
 structure, of marking minute differences of form, and

 became in some measure accustomed to that precision of
 language, without which descriptive natural history could

 not exist." If I may point to one publication of my

 father's in particular, the acumen and accuracy of which in
 technical characterization have been helpful to hundreds
 of students, I will select the two volumes of the Manual of
 JSIarine Zoology, which so many an investigator has paused
 to take out of his pocket and consult when puzzled by

 some many-legged or strangely valved object underneath
 the seaweed curtain of a tidal pool.

     As a zoological artist, Philip Gosse claims high con-
 sideration. His books were almost always illustrated, and
 often very copiously and brilliantly illustrated, by his own
 pencil. It was his custom from his earliest childhood to
  make drawings and paintings of objects which came under
              GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS.           339

his notice. In Newfoundland he had seriously becjun to

make a collection of dcsii^ns. In July, 1855, he stated (in
the preface to the Manual of Marine Zooijgy) that he had

up to that date accumulated in his portfolios more than

three thousand figures of animals or parts of animals, of
which about two thousand five hundred were of the in-

vertebrate classes, and about half of these latter done

under the microscope. During the remainder of his life

he added perhaps two thousand more drawings to his

collections.  The remarkable feature about these careful

works of art was that, in the majority of cases, they were

drawn from the living animal.                    I have
   His zeal as a draughtsman was extraordinary.

often known him return, exhausted, from collecting on

the shore, with some delicate and unique creature secured
in a phial. The nature of the little rarity would be such

as to threaten it with death within an hour or two, even

under the gentlest form of captivity. Anxiously eyeing

it,   my father would march off with to his study, and,
     a        it

not waiting to change his uncomfortable clothes, soaked

perhaps in sea-water, but adroitly mounting the captive

on glass plate under the microscope, would immediately        »i
                                                                     \
prepare an elaborate coloured drawing, careless of the

elaims of dinner or the need of rest. His touch with the

pencil was rapid, fine, and exquisitely accurate. Mis eye-

sight was exceedingly powerful, and though he used spec-

tacles for many years, and occasionally had to resign for

a  while the use of the microscope, his eyes never wore out,

and showed extraordinary recuperative power. He was

drawing microscopic rotifers, with very little less than his

old exactitude and brilliancy, after he had entered his

seventy-eighth year.                             Coast
   In uL Naturalisfs Rambles on the Devonshire

(1853) he first began to adorn his books with those beau-
340 THE LIFE OF riTILIP ITENRY GOSSE.

tiful and exceedingly accurate coloured plates of marine

objects which became so popular a part of his successive

works. These were drawn on the stone by himself, and

printed in colours by the well-known firm of Hullmandel

and Walton with very considerable success. The plates of

sea-anemones in this volume, though surpassed several

years later by those in the Acfinoloi^ia, were at that time

a revelation. So little did peo[)le know of the variety and
loveliness of the denizens of the seashore, that, altlu^ugh

these plates fell far short of the splendid hues of the

originals, and moreover depicted forms that should not

have been unfamiliar, several of the reviewers refused

altogether to believe in them, classing them with travellers'

talcs about hills of sugar and rivers of rum. Philii) Gosse
himself was disgusted with the tameness of the colours, to

which the imperfect lithography gave a general dusty

grayness, and he determined i "^ try and dazzle the indo-

lent reviewers. Consequently, in 1854, in publishing T/ie

Aquixrinin, he gave immense pains to the plates, and suc-

ceeded in producing specimens of unprecedented beauty.

Certain full-page illustrations in this volume, the scarlet

Ancient Wrasse floating ill front -^f his dark seaweed cavern ;

the Parasitic Anemone, with the transparent pink curtain of

                         the black and orange brittle-
addcsscria fronds behind

        ;

                       it,
                                                       in
star at its base and, above all perhaps, the plate of star-

fishes, made positive sensation, and marked an epoch in

the annals of English book illustration. In spite of the
ingenuity and abundance of the " processes " which have

since been invented, the art of printing                   colours can

scarcely be said to have advanced beyond some of these

plates to TJic Aquarinui. Philip Gosse was never again

quite so fortunate. Even the much-admired illustrations

to the Actinologia^'xn i860, though executed with great care

and profusion of tints, were not so harmonious, so delicate,
GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS.  3M

or so distinj^uishcd as those of 1S54. To compare the           ·1
author's ori,L;inals witli the most successful of the chromo-

lithographs is to realize how much was lost by the
mechanical art of production.

    Philip Gosse as a draughtsman was trained in the school
of the miniature painters. When a child he had been

accustomed to see his father inscribe the outline of a
portrait on vhe tiny area of the ivory, and then fill it in

with stipplings of pure body-colour, lie possessed to the
last the limitations of the miniaturist. lie had no distance,

no breadth of tone, no perspective ; but a miraculous ex-
actitude in rendering shades of colour and minute peculiari-
ties of form and mariving. In late }-ears he was accustomed
to make a kind of patchwork quilt of each full-page illus-
tration, collecting as many individual forms as he wished

to present, each separately coloured and cu" out, and then

gummed into its place on the general plate, upon which a
background of rocks, sand, and seaweeds was then washed
in. This secured extreme accurac)-, no doubt, but did not
improve the artistic effect, and theief"ore, to non-scientific

observers, his earlier groujjs of coloured illustrations give
more pleasure than the later. The copious plates in A
 Year on the Shore, though they were much admired at the

time, were a source of acute disappointment to the artist.
There exists a copy of this b(jok into which the original
water-colour drawings have been inserted, and the difference
in freshness, brilliancy, and justice of the tone between

these and the published rei)roductions is striking enough.
The submarine landscapes in many of these last examples
were put in by Mrs. Gosse, who had been in early life a
pupil of Cotman.

   between 1853 and i860 my father lectured on several

occasions in various parts of ICngland and Scotland, with

marked success. He was perhaps the earliest of those
        r^  34a THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRI GOSSE.

iJi         who, in public lecturing, combined a popular method with
            exact scientific information. He was accustomed to use
'|l-        freehand drawin^^ on the black-board, in a mode which
            was novel when he first began, but which soon became
            common enough. He gave up lecturing mainly because of
            the extreme shyness which he never ceased to feel in
            addressing a strange audience. Had he not expressed
            this sense of suffering, no one would have guessed it from
            his serene and dignified manner of speaking on these
            occasions. His fondness for romantic poetry, and his
            habit of reciting it at home with a loud, impressive utter-

            ance, naturally produced an effect upon his manner in
            public speaking and lecturing.

               It was a subject of constant regret to us in later years

            that he would not cultivate, for the general advantage, his
            natural gift of elocution. He needed, however, what he
            certainly would not have accepted, some training in the
            conduct of his voice, which he threw out with too monoto-
            nous a roll, a rapture too undeviatingly prophetic. Ikit his
            enunciation was so clear and just, his voice so resonant, and
            his cadences so pure and distinguished, that he might easily
            have become, had he chosen to interest himself in human
            affairs, unusually successful as an orator. But it would
            doubtless always have been difficult for him to have stirred
            the enthusiasm, though he would easily have been secure
            of the admiration and attention, of an audience. Of late

            years, as long as his health permitted, he preached every
            Sunday in his chapel, always with the same earnest im-
            pressiveness, the same scrupulous elegance of language ;
            but apt a little too much, perhaps, for so simple an
            audience, to be occupied with what may be called the
            metaphysics of religion.

               His public speaking, however, was highly characteristic
            of himself, which is more than can justly bo said of his
GENERA L CIIAKA CTERISTICS.  343                               I

letters. These were usually very disappointing. This           !f
did not arise from lack, but from excess of care ; the             \\ .'i

consequence being that his letters, even to the members of

his own family, were often so stiff and sescjuipedalian as
to produce a repellent effect, which was the very last thing
that he intended. Letters, to be delightful, must be
chatty, artless, irregular ; anything of obvious design in
their composition is fatal to their charm. My father had a
theory of correspondence. He arranged the materials of
which he wished to compose his letter according to a
precise system, and he clothed them in hinguage which
reminded one of The Rambler. Hence it was rarely indeed
that any one received from him one of those chatty, con-
fidential epistles which reveal the soul, and touch the very
springs of human nature. Letters should seem to have
been written in dressing-gown and slippers ; my father's
brought up a vision of black kid gloves and a close-fitting
frock-coat. The absence of anything like pictun stjue detail
in them is very extraordinary when it is contrasted with
the easy and romantic style of his best books. In his

public works he takes his readers into his familiarity ; in
his private letters he seemed to hold them at arm's length.

   The fullest expression of Philip Gosse's mind, ind'^ed, is
to be found in his books, and some general estimate of
the character of these may at this point be attempted.
Viewed as a whole, his abundant literary work is of very
irregular character. Much of it bears the stamp of having
been produced, against the grain, by the pressure of pro-

fessional requirements. A great many of his numerous

volumes may be dismissed as entirely ephemeral, as con-
scientious and capable pieces of occasional work, effective
enough at the time of their publication, but no longer
of any real importance. Another considerable section of

his popular work consists of hand-books, which are not to
344 THE LIFE OF rillLIP HENRY GOSSE.

be treated as literature. Yet another section consists of

books in which the reh'gious teacher is pre-eminent, in

which the design is not to please, but to convict, admonish,

or persuade. When these three divisions of his vast

library of publications are dismissed as valuable each after

its kind, but distinctly unliter.iry, there remains a residuum

of about eiirht or nine volumes, which are bouks in the

literary sense, which are not liable to extinction from the

nature of their subject, and which constitute bis claim to

an enduring memory as a writer. Of these The Canadian

Naturalist oi 1S40 is the earliest,^! Year at the SJiorc of
1865 the latest. Charles Kingsley's criticism of these

volumes, expressed thirty-tivc years ago, may still be

([uoted. Surveying the literature of natural       history,
Kingsley wrote, in Glauciis : --                   Gosse's

      " First and foremost, certainly, come I\Ir.

"books. There is a playfid and geni.'d spirit in them,

"a brilliant power of word-painting, combined with deep

"and earnest religious feeling, which makes them as
" morally valuable as they are intellectually interesting.
" Since White's Jlistory of Sclbornc few or no writers on

"natural history, save Mr. Gosse and poor Mr. Edward
" Forbes, have had the power of bringing out the human

"side of science, and giving to seemingly dry disquisi-

"tions and animals of the lowest type, by little touches
" of pathos and humour, that living and personal interest,

"to bestow which is generally the special function of
" the poet. Not that Waterton and Jesse are not excellent
"in this respect, and authors who should be in every
" boy's library : but they are rather anecdotists than

11 "systematic or scientific inquirers; while Mr. Gosse, in

                                   " his Naturalist on the Shores of Devon, his Tojir in
                                       '' famaica, and his Canadian Naturalist, has done for

"those three places what White did for Selborne, with
GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS.  345

   "all the improved appliances of a science which has

    "widened and deepened tL-iifold since White's time."
    The style of Thilii) Gosse was scarcely affected by any
other external influences than those which had come

across his path in his early youth in Newfoundland. The
manner of writini; of the most strikin,; authors of his own

generation, such as Carlyle and Macaulay, diil not leave

any trace upon him, since he was mature ix-fore he met
with their works. The only masters under whom he
studied prose were romance-writers of a class now wholl)'
neglected and almost forgotten. I'enimore Coo[)er, whose

novels were appearing in (piick succession between 1S20
and 1840, introduced into these stories of Indian life

elaborate studies of landscape and seascape which had a
real merit of their own. The Canadian Naturalist shows
evident signs of an enthusiastic study of these descriptive
parts of Cooper. John I5anim, the Irish novelist, whose
O'Hara Talcs captivated him so long, left a mark on the
minute and graphic style of Philip Gosse, and there can be
little doubt that the latter owed something of the gorgeous-
ness and redundancy of his more purple passages to the
inordinate admiration he had felt for the apocalyptic
romances of the Rev. George Croly, whose once-famous
Salat/iicl \\c almost knew by heart. After the year 1S5S
he ceased to read new prose books for enjoyment of their
manner, and his style underwent but little further modi-

fication.

   The most characteristic of my father'.s bof)ks, as types
of which yi A'atiiralist's Sojourn in Jamaica and the
Devonshire Coast may be taken, consisted of an amalgam

of picturesque descrijotion, exact zoological statement,
topographical gossip, and easy reflection, combined after a
fashion wholly his own, and unlike anything attempted
before his day. White's Selborne, alone, may be supposed
 i                                                                        I

\..i   346 THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSE.

    t  to have in some measure anticipated the form of these
       books, in which the reader is hurried so pleasantly from
       subject to subject, that he has no time to notice that he is
       acquirinj^ a great ([uantity of positive and even technical in-
       formation. A single chapter of the Devonshire Coast opens
       with a picture of the receding tide on the north shore at the
       approach of evening ; proceeds to a particular account of
       two remarkable species, the one a polyp, the other the rare

       sipunculid Harvey's Syrinx, each so described that a mere
       tyro ought to be able to identify a specimen for himjclf ;
       describes the Capstone Hill and its attractions, like a sort
       of glorified hand-book ; tells a thrilling story of the loss of a
       child by drowning ; gives a close analysis of the physio-
       logical characteristics of a fine sea-anemone, gcininacea, of
       a singular marine spider, and of an uncouth sand-worm ;
       recounts an entertaining adventure with a soft crab ; care-
       fully depicts the scenery of the hamlet of Lee ; and ends
       up with an elaborate account of the habitat, manners, and
       anatomy of the worm pipe-fish {Syiigiiat/uts biuibriciforinis).

           So much is pres'seH into one short chapter, and the others
       are built up on the same plan, in a mode apparently art-
       less, but really carefully designed to mingle entertainment
       with instruction. The landscape framework in which the
       zoology is set will be found to bear examination with

        remarkable success. Every touch is painted from nature ;
        not one is rhetorical, not one introduced to give colour to

       the composition, but each is the result of a scries of
        extremely delicate apprehensions retained successively in
       the memory with great distinctness, and transferred to

       paper with fine exactitude. I know of no writer who has

        described the phenomena of the falling tide on a rocky
       coast with as much accuracy, or with more grace of style,

       than Philip Gossc in the passage which I have alluded to
        above in my accidental synopsis of a chapter taken at
                 GENERA L CIIA RA CTERIS TICS.                                          347

random from the Devonshire Coast. I quote it here as a
^^ood, yet not exceptional example of his style :--

      " How rapidly the sea leaves the beach! Yonder is

   "an area distiny[uishcd from the rest by its unruftkd                                           NI ,  .
   " smoothness on the recess of the wave ; presently a                                                           )<
   " black speck ap[)cars on
                      it,              now two or three more wc
                          a                                                        ;
   " fix our eyes on                                                                 ;
                                  it,
                          and presently the specks thicken,

   " they have become     patch,                            a  patch of j^ravel the

'  "waves hide as they come up, but in an instant or two
                 it

   "we predict that will be covered no more.it                                     Mean-
   " while the dark patch grows on every side                                          now
                                                                        ;

                                                                           it
                                                                               a is
   "connected with the beach above, first by                                         little

   "isthmus at one end, cnclosinfj pool of clear per-
   " fectly smooth water, miniature lac^oon in which the
                          a
                                is

                                                      a
   "youni^ crescent moon                                    sharply reflected with in-

   " verted horns; the isthmus widens as wc watch it;                                              I It

   " we can see      grow, and now the water                   is is    running out                     r
                   it, it                                           is
                               a

                                                        ;;
   "of the lakelet in rapid the ridges of black rock
   " shoot across
                      they unite -- the pool                          gone, and the

   "water's q([^q. that was just now washing the foot of the

   "causeway on which we are sitting,                          now stretched

   " from yonder points, with great breadth of shingle
                     it

                                            a
   "beach between     and us. And now the ruddy sea                                     is

   " bristling with points and ledges of rock, that are
   " almost filling the foreground of what was just now
                      ;

                                                       is
                                                                                 a

                                                                                      a
                                                                                                a
   " smooth expanse and what were little scattered islets

   " now look like the mountain-peaks and ridges of con-

   "tincnt. The glow of the sky fading to ruddy

   "chestnut hue; the moon and Venus are glittering

   'blight; the little bats arc out, and are fiitting, on

   'giddy wing, to and fro along the edge of the'cause-

   "way, ever and anon wheeling around close to cuir feet.

   "The dorrs, too, with humdrum flight, come one after
   " another, and passing before our faces, are visible for
          I.
             /

                348 77//i L/FE OF PHI LIT HENRY GOSSE.

                "a moment aj:^.iinst the sky, as they shoot out to seaward.
                "The moths are phiying round the tops of the budding
                "trees; the screaming swifts begin to ch'sappear the
                                                               a

                                                                                               ;
                "stars arc coming out all o\-er the sky, and the moon,

                "that sliort time before looked like thread of silver,
                a

                                  of a
                ''now resembles bright and golden bow, ;Mid night

                "shuts up for the [)resent the book of nature."
                In the obituary notice of my father i)ublishcd, in 1SS9,

                in the /'/v'tvvv////^'-.v  the Koval Socirfy,  remarked by
                                                               it
                                                                   is
                                                                                              a
                the author, Mr. II. Ix linHly, that he wis "not only

i::!            many-silled anil exiierienced n.Uuralist. but one who did

                more than .all his scientific contemporaries to poi)ularize

                the study of natural objects." Until his da)- very little

                indeed was gener;dl)- known on the subject c)f marine

                zoology. The existing works on these lower forms, cx-

                ccetlingl}' limited and imperfect as they were, gave little

                or no impression of the living condition of these creatures

                in their native waters.                was l'hili[) Gosse's function to
                                           n

                                                   It
                take the public to the edge of the great tidal pools, anil

                bid them ga/e dow for themselves \\\mv\ all the miraculous
                animal and vegetable beauty that waved and lluttered there.

                In doing this, he \\as immensely aided by his own inven-

                tion of the aipiarium, which was instantly accepted b\'

                naturalists and amateurs alike, and became to the one
                                                               ;

                                                                  a
                                                                                                    a
                portable studio of biolog}', to the others charming and

                fashionable toy.

m                  The volumes of PiincJi for thirt}'-n\-e )'ears ago reflect
                the sudden jiopularit) of this invention and, in adilition
Iff)
                to the innumerable private \ivaria. large [)ublic tanks,
                fitted up in accordance witli Philip Gosse's prescri[)tions,

                were started all over lairope. The late l\lr. \V. Alford

                Lloyd, whose affectionate devotion to my fither deserves

                the warmest recognition, was the agent         in     hose haiuls
                                                                   v

                the practical development of ihc scheme spread to the

      ii
                                                                                                              M

GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS.  349

construction of great public aquaria. These institutions

achieved, perhaps, their highest success at Xaples, under
the admirable superintendence of Dr. Anton l^ohrn ; but

it is to the initiative step taken by I'hilip Gosse in 1852
that science owes the elaborate marine biolo^^ical stations
now established at various [jo'nts alonsj^ the luiropean

coast. lie woukl not be ecpially proud to witness the

most modern expression of the aquarium philosophy.
When he vvMs eai^erly proposin;:^ the preservation of marine
animals alive in mimic seas, he cer.Maly diii not anticipate
that within forty years an aquarium would conie to mean

a place devoted to parachute monkeys, performinjj; bears,
and aerial queens of the tight-rope.

   His interest in natural objects was mainly aesthetic and
poetical, dependingon the beauty and ingenuity of their forms,
lie regarded man rather as a blot upon the face of nature,
than as its highest and most dignified '.levelopment. His

attention, indeed, was scarcely directed to humanity, even
in those artistic amusements to which he dedicated a Urge

part of his leisure. His second wife's predilection for land-

scape painting led him, about 1 870, to learn the rudiments
of that art, and he amused himself by taking a variet)- of
studies in the open air, on Dartmoor, in the \allc\' of the

J.Teign, and by e -.bore, always selecting a point of view

from which nothing which suggested human life was visible.
These la ^-Is apes, if they were not very artistic, were often

marked by his keenness of observation and originality of
aspect. It is curious and highly characteristic that, not-

withstanding all his familiarity with animal shapes, and
his extraordinary skill in imitating them, l^o was absolutely
unable to copy a human .e ')r figure. When a was
child, was for ever begging him to thaw luc " man," but
he could never be tempted '.o do it. " No " he would say,
" humming-bird much nicer, or shark, or zebra.
a

    I

                                 is

                                                                    fr.

                                                                   a

                                                                                                           !

                                                                                         aa

                                                                                       Ia
                w^UFT            350 T//E LIFE OF PHILIP ILENRY GOSSE.

                  1              will draw you 7x-bra." And among the five tliousand
                                                a
             mI
                                                                   I
                             ii
                                                                                            is
             "i ·                illustrations which he painted. do not think that there                               is

            m'i                  one to be found in which an attempt made to depict the
                                 human form, I'.Ian was the animal he studied less than
            M
                                 any other, understood most imperfectly, and, on the
             111
                                 whole, was least interested in. At any moment he would

                                 have cheerfully given wilderness of strangers for a new
                                                      a

                                 rotifer.

                                 His appreciation of the plastic arts, notwithstanding his

V <l1                            training and his skill, was very limited. He was positively
  hfiIp' i'!
                                 blind to sculpture and architecture, to the presence of

                                 which his attention had to be forcibly drawn,                                         was
                                                       a
                                                           a

                                                                                                                    ;

                                                                                            if
                                                                                                    it
                                 to be drawn at all. After lecturing in some of the

                                 cathedral cities of England, he has been found not to have

                                 noticed that there >vas minster in the place much less

                                 could he describe such  church or appreciate it. He

                                 occasionally visited the Royal Academy, and exhibited

                                 considerable interest, but invariably in the direction of

                                 detecting errors or the reverse in the drawing or placing of

                                 natural phenomena, such as plaius, animals, or heavenly
                                 bodies. Of the drama he disapproved with vehemence
                                                                                                it
                                                                                                          a
                                 which would have done credit to Jeremy Collier or

                                 William Law, and he would have swept out of existence
                                 had he possessed the power to do so. With all his passion

                                 for poetry, he would never consent to read Shr.kespearc.

                                 He was inside  theatre but once; in 1853, on die first
                                                a
                                 night of the revival of Byron's Sardanapnlns at Drury
                                 Lane, he was present in the pit. l'\'iraday -- as little ofI
                                 playgoer as himself, suppose -- was spectator on the same

                                 occasion. To my father, the attraction was the careful

                                 antitjuarian reproduction of an Assyrian court, founded
                                                         Ia
                                                                                                      a
                                 upf)n the then recent discoveries made at Nineveh by
                                 Botta and Layard. In after years asked him what effect

                                 this solitary visit to theatre had produced upon him. He
                                                a
                               GENERAL CHARACTERISTICS.  351

        answered, with his usual severe candour, that he liad

        observed nothing in the sh'ghtest degree objectionaljle,

        but that one such adventure would satisfy him for a

        lifetime.

        The one art by wliich he was vividly affected was poetry.

        The magic of romantic verse, which had taken him captive
        in early boyhood, when he found it first in the pages of
        Lara, never entirely lost its spell over him. Milton (thoug.i

        with occasional qualms, hcc^iwsc Paradise Lost \\^.s "tainted
        with the Arian heresy"), Wordsworth, Gray, Cowper, and

        Southey, were at his fingers' ends, and he had certain

        favourite passages of each of these which he was never

        weary of intoning. He liked Southey, because he was, as

        ahe put             " the best naturalist among the ICnglish poets,"
                       it,
        and had described sea-anemones like zoologist    Thalaba,
                                         aa
        He was much more interested, towards the c\\i\, in portionsin

        of Swinburne and Rossctti, than he had ever been in        I

        Tennyson and Browning, for neither of whom he had the

        slightest tolerance. Almost the latest conscious exercise of

        my father's brain was connected with his love for poetry.
        During his fatal illness, in July, iS8<S, when the gloom of

        decay v/as creeping over his intellect, he was carried out for

          drive, the last which he would ever take, on an afternoon
        of unusual beauty. We passed through the bright street of
        Torquay, along the strand of Torbay, with its thin screen

        of tamarisks between the roadway and the bay, up through

        the lanes of Torre and (lockington. My father, with the

        pathetic look in his eyes, the mortal pallor on his chcijks,

        scarcely spoke, and seemed to observe nothing.   Hut,                 li It

        as we turned to drive back down  steep lane of o;er-

(licet  hanging branches, the pale vista of the sea burst upon
   He   us, silvery blue in the yellow light of afternoon. Some-
        thing in the beauty of the scene raised the sunken brain,

        and with little of the old declamatory animation in head
                            a
352 THE LIFE OF PHILIP HENRY GOSSt.

and hand, he began to recite the well-known passage            in
the fourth book o{ Paradise Lost --

               " Now came still evening on, and twilight grey
                 Had in her sober livery all things clad."

He pursued the quotation through three or four lines,
and then, in the middle of a sentence, the music broke, his
liead fell once more u[)on his breast, and for him the
splendid memory, the self-sustaining intellect which had
guided the body so long, were to be its companions upon

earth no more.
re in   APPENDIX I.

lines,  Mv step-mother has been so kind as to contribute some
c, his  notes of that constant companionship with the subject of
I the
I had   this memoir which she enjoyed throu^^h nearly thirty years.
upon    I think her intimate recollections will be appreciated by
        all readers of this book ; they certainly will be prized
        by that narrower circle for whom they were primarily                    I

        intended.                                                              I

        RllMINISCENXES OF My IIuSU.VND FROM iSCo TO lS88.

           ISTy first acquaintance with rhili]) Henry Gosse was made early in
        March, i860. My sister and I had come from the eastern counties

        to spend the winter in Torquay. We came in February as strangers,
        never having been in this part before. Wo were recommended
        to Upton Cottage, in the suburbs of Torquay, where some kind
        friends, Mr. and Mrs. Henry Curtis, were living, who made us

        very hapiiy for some months. One morning in March, the late
        Mr. Leonard Strong came into the Cottage and said, " 1 am just

        come from the Cemetery, where I have been conducting the

        funeral service over Mr. Gosse's mother, who had lived with him

        ever since he left London about two years ago." I nt once asked.
        "What Mr. Gosse ? Is he the noted naturalist?" " Yes," said

        Mr. Strong ; "and he lives in St. Marychurch, close by you. The
        name ' Sandhurst,' in plain letters, is on his gate. He is the
        minister of a small church at the east end of that village." I

        knew him to be an eminent naturalist, but had formed no idea

        where he lived. Our curiosity was awakened, and we agreed that,
        when some opportunity occurred, we would go to this chapel,

        which proved to be, more properly speaking, a public room for

        meetings, in order to see and hear him. The friend.s with whom

        we were living were equally interested.

                                                 2 .\
           ^  jd4 APPENDIX I.

I             After two or three weeks we planned to go on a Sunday evcning^

              t"oriythmisouti)hublIicJretrhoroemn,"  where a section of the   Christians called
                                                     were meeting, according  to the simplicity

              of the New Testament Scripture principles, without ritual, choral

              adjunct, or outward adornment. Here we found Piiilip Henry
              (josse addressing the meeting from a high desk in llie corner of

              the room next the window. There were about thirty or forty

              people present. It was a gospel address from a part of the

              story of l)oaz and Ruth, wliich history he was going through on
              successive Sunday evenings. It is a singularly beautiful type of
              Christ and His Church. I found, afterwards, it was a favourite

              method with Mr. Gosse to illustrate the New through the charac-

              ters of die Old Testament. He would say, "There is but one
              key, whereby we are able to unlock t)' · hidden treasures contained
              in the Bible, and this one key -- winch is Christ --aided by that

              spiritual discernment of sacred things, which the Holy S[)irit
              alone can give, will enable us to untold antl open many hidden

              truths, lying far beneath the surface of apparently simple narrative,

              but which will be found to be highly typical of our Saviour, the

              Redeemer of His Church, of His person, a. id of His work."
                 After the meeting was over, my friend and I walked with Mr.

              Gosse and his little son as far as Sandhurst gate. Before we

              parted, he told Mr. Curtis that there were Scripture-reading meet-

              ings held at his house, and that he would be pleased to see him

              and any friends who liked to accompany him. We returned to

              the cottage, well pleased with the minister and his courteous and

              kind manner to us as strangers. At this time, he was deeply

              engaged in literary work, bringing out his Romance of Natural
              History and completing his Adinolo^ia .Britanuka. He was in the
              full vigour and swing of his useful life, ard-.-nt and enthusiastic in

              every movement. Two or three times a week he and his son, who
              was always witli him -- "the little naturalist," as he had been called
              in one of his flither's books -- would go, when the tide was fittest,

              with a basket, filled willi many bottles and jars of various size,

              chisel, hammer, and other implements, to the shoreS far and near.

              They might often be seen, running .and jumping down the

              declivities of the rocks, till they reached the jjebbly shores at

              Uddicombe or Babbicombe.

              His study, which I was permitted to look into on a later visit,
            '

               ATPEXDIX I.  355

ur, llic       was the largest sitting-room on the lower floor of his house, and      i

th Mr.         was his workshop. Shelves surrounded the walls, filled with            III

Dre we         i)ooks ready for reference on eacli branch of his many literary        I
  iiieet-      studies; a large glass-fronted bookcase stood against the wall,
   1 him       opposite to the chair in which he sat always, during the winter,
   ctl to
   s and       with his back to the fire, at a large table covered with books,
   Iccply      papers, and implements. On his left hand, close to tiie window,

  itiiral      was a long narrow table, upon whi( h were shallow a(iuaria of
               various sizes, round, long, and square ; one with three tall glass
   in the
 islic in      sitles and a slate at the back to keep out the strong light from
Dn, who        the window looking south-east -- the first sea-anemone tank made
               for private use. These tanks were all filled with salt water, which,
   called      being kept mechanically in agitation, did not need frequent re-
   finest,     newal, but strict attention to take out the dying animals. The
  IS size,     clearness of the water was aided by seaweeds of brilliant hues.
  d near,      Into these tanks he brought the sea-anemones, small fish, and
   ·n the
  ores at      divers curious things, whose habits he closely watched, and whose

               forms he examined and drew faithfully.

                  He was an accomplished and most delicate draughtsman. His

               rapid eye would discover the various and minutest characteristics,
               and then classify them, ready to write their future history in his
               attractive manner. Some of his books he lent us to read, which
               formed an interesting topic of conversation during his increasingly

               frequent visits to the Cottage.

                  Mr. Gossc's most intimate friend at this time was Dr. J. E.
               Gladstone, cousin of the late Premier, who was the clergyman (>f

               the Furrough Cross Church, a free church built a few years before
               by Sir Culling Eardley Smith anil others, in conseiiuence of the
               very High C'hurch doctrines then held in the parish of St. Mary-
               church. Mr. Gladstone and Mr. Gosse t0L;ether instituted Bible

               readings, at which many intelligent Christians from Tonjuay and St.
               Marychuich met to read and have conversation over the Word of
               God. Tiiese were held at Sandhurst once a week, and continued,

               with but few intermissions, until my husband's last illness.
                   He manifested the same eager ana enthusiastic spirit in his

               study of Divine things, as in his scientific pursuits. He studied
               the IJible as he would study a science. He must know what each

                separate portion was about, who the insjiired writer was, what he
               was wishing to say, and for what purpose it was written ; also how it
                                  35^' APPENDIX I.

                                         was connected by prophecy or quotation witli the New Testament,
                                         cither in the (lospels or in the Kpistles. He was microscopic in
                                     his readint^s, and in his interi)rc'tations of the Word of dod.for he
                                         most im])ii(-itly i)eHcvcd every word of the original hingiiagcs to be
                                         Divine, and dictated and written, through tlie writers, l)y the Holy

                                         Ghost. These languages, through their antiquity, are necessarily

                                         obscure; thus he was content to leave many passages and even
                                         chapters unexplained, satisfied that they never contradicted each
                                         other. 'Where two sides of a doctrine or subject are decidedly
                                     stated, he would reverently stand, and say, " 'I'here they are !

                                 I cannot put them together, but God can. I leave it to Him

                                         and am silent. Only through the Holy Sj)irit can it be received
                                    into the heart." This mode of thought was characteristic of Pliilip
                                         l^lenry Gosse. He had a wide gra'si) of the Holy Scriptures. He
                                    spoke of them as if the key had been given to us, and he sought
                                        to unlock their stores. He was familiar with the letter from a
                                        child, and, having been brouc;ht up in the old Puritan school,
                                        he was thoroughly sound in all the cardinal points of Evangelical
                                              doctrine.

                                    On July 9, i86o, I see noted in his diary, " Tiiere was a large

                                        meeting at the new room in Fore Street, St. .Marychurch." This
                                        chapel, which he had built, being now finished, the Church and

                                             congregation removed to it ; and henceforward the meetings were
                                        continued there. The routine was the "breaking of bread,"

                                        prayer, singing hymns, and a discourse by Mr. Gosse as the pastor
                                    of the Church. In the evenings, a gospel sermon by him.

                                            During this summer he occasionally brought u[) to the Cottage
                                        his microscope or some natural history objects, and gave a familiar
                                        lecture on them. Some young friends were staying willi us, and
                                        wc all benefited by bis interesting and cheerful remarks. These
                                             occasional visits were looked forward to by us all with great jjlcasure.
                                        The party sometimes accompanied him to the beach at Oddicombe

'if or Babbicoinbe, when he always took great pains to show his mode
                                        of collecting, and sometimes brought out new and curious and
                                        lovely creatures, when we gathered around and exclaimed, in our
                                 ignorance of such matters, "How beautiful! how wonderful!"

                                             and at the end agreed that we had spent a delightful morning.

                                        My sister, in July, left Tonpiay, and I remained at Upton
                                        Cottage the rest of the summer, as we had let our house at
mtF

                                       APrEXDlX 1.                                          357

         Saffron Walden for two years. I resolved in my mind that for the

         remaining Sundays, I would go with my friends to the little

         meeting in Fore Street, St. Marychurch. Many years before, whilst

         paying a visit at Clifton to an old friend, we had together attended

         the Church led by Mr. George Miiller, of the Or|)lianage, Bristol,
         whose princiijles were those of "IJrethren;" and op another

         occasion I had been the guest of Sir Alexander Campbell at

         Exeter. Their views liad taken considerable hold on my own
         mind, and made a strong and lasting impression. Thus, I was

         I)repared, even after the lapse of many years, to attend like meet-

         ings witli pleasure and profit; es])e(ially as they were led by one

         so able, so intelligent, anil so spiritually minded, as was Mr. Cosse.

            On September 3, i860, 1 left Toripiay, as I supposed finally,

         and returned to the house of an uncle ami aunt at Frome, as to

         a temi)orary home. I took leave of my friends at the Cottage,
         and of Mr. Ciosse and his son at .Sandhurst, after a most pleasant

         stay of eight months. However, as God had jjlanned                       in : it,  on

         Se[)tcmber     had letter from Mr. Gosse, pro[)Osing and urging,
                     I6

                                    a

                                 I
     I in  strong terms, that should become iiis wife. Tliis certainly

         was no little surprise to me. However, after week or two of
                                                    1
                                                               a
         consideration and consulting my friends, accepted the offer of

         his hand.

           Un the 1st he came to Frome to visit me. We were married
                     2

         "Iat Frome on L)ecenil)er 18, i860, and came direct to Sandhurst.
            see our marriage notetl in his diary, date December 18
         was married at /ion Chapel, Frome, by the Rev. I), Anthony,

         to my beloved Eliza Hrightwen and after refection, we left by
                                       ;

                                                     It

                                                                               a
         train and got to Sandhurst about nine.''   had been fine                         the

     morning, but by tlie time we arrived at Sandhurst                            deep snow

     had fallen and tlie next morning, geraniums and other plants,
                     ;

     carefully stored, were all ilrooping their heads and almost killed.

     So ends this memorable time.      had hearty welcome from my
                                       I
                                                1
                                                            a
                                                                               a
     dear little stepson, of whom had already seen good deal, and

     who was warmly attached to me. My l)eloved husband and he

     made me quite at home, telling me many of their okl traditions

     and amusing family stories, with much fun, and we had quite
                        I

                                                                                                          a
                                                                                                                      a
     merry breakfast.   soon found out that Mr. Gosse had good                                                           ti
                                                                                                                            i

     deal of humour and fun when (juite in the intimacy of his home,
     notwithstanding that to his circle of friends and neighbours he
       358 APPENDIX I.

       was grave and somewhat stern, as became one who had taken

       the position of pastor.

       It was liis custom to call the servants in for rcadint; the Scrip-

       tures, and for jiraycr, every morning after breaktast. We all had

       our Hihles, to follow him in the reading ; he made many remarks

       illustrating the subject in hand, which rendered it a very interest-

       ing and instructive Bible lesson. The same routine was carried
       on every evening, before sui)per, at about nine o'clock. His

       manner with tlie servants was kindly, but always firm ; and

       I soon learned that he bore rule in his family. He always had
       a "good night" for the servants and "(Jod bless you," and a

       greeting in the morning. He kept early hours, breakfasting at

       7.30 even all through the winter nionihs, which hour we kept
       up to the end. He was a most industrious man, generally in

       his study between five and six o'clock. 1 fountl no difticulty in
       falling in with his habits of early hours, or with his punctuality

       throughout the day, having been brought up in somewhat homely
       and orderly habits ; so that after we got settled together, I soon
       fell into his ways. When the weather was fine, we used to w;Uk

  V'l  together, and when the tides were suitable, we made expeditions

ri     to the rocks to collect the sea-animals.

i^l       In the mornings I used to sit with him in his study, copying or

       rendering some necessary help. After a time, he began to take

       me round to the cottages of the sick and poor of his congregation.
       We had thus an insight into the life of the Devonsiiire i)eople,
       which was very interesting to us both. He was a great favourite

       among his people, and a visit from Mr. Gosse was always con-

       sidered an honour, and a profit too, as he would discuss some

       instructive (generally liihle) subject, and thus place himself on
       easy terms with them. This practice he kept up for a few years,

       until, the numbers of his flock having become more numerous, he
       found visiting too fatiguing. He had few friends of his own rank,

       but there were some with whom we exchanged visits, and who

       came to the Scripture-reading meetings at Sandhurst one morning

       in each week.            <

       He never opened out to general visitors. He always spoke of

       himself as a shy man. Some might think him stern and unsocial ;

       he was a recluse, and a thorough student in all his ways, and a

       true "home bird." Often when, in after years, I remonstrated
APPENDIX r.                                 359

with him on his isolation, and urged him to go out more among
his friends, he would say, " My darling, ' my mind to me a kingdom
is,'" which might seem a trifle selfish, if selfishness could be (on-

sidered at all a constituent in the heart of my beloved luisl)aiKl.

He was of a remarkal)ly even dis[)osition.  I never saw him give

way to those frailties or minor faults that are so often exhibited

in the lives of less exalted, or of uncontrolled characters. His

life was given to studies of a grave and more or less religious

nature, or else to closely thouglit-out scientific studies, especially

those of natural oI)jects. His mind lieiug habitually occujiied

with this higher order of thoughts, he seemed to find it impos-

sible to unbend to tiie lighter topics of everyday conversation.

He was wont to excuse himself by saying, " I have no small talk."
   In 1864, when he was writing A Year at the Slunr in the

spring, we three had great pleasure in walking or driving, as the

case might be, to the various bays and rocky shores of the
Devonshire coast. My dear husband and son would rusli down,

with strong india-rubber boots or se.a-shoes, and work hard, with

hammer and chisel, carefully taking off the anemones and other

sea-animals from tiie rocks, or fishing in the pools for wrasse,

bleunies, pipe-fish, or other sea-creatures, while I would sit on a

camp stool, either watching them, sometimes with a field-gla^s,

or reading, or drawing some of the lovely sea-views in my
sketch-book. Then, when we got home, there was the eager

looking over the haul, and putting the creatures in large basins

to be watched and drawn, till they could    finally be i)laced in
the tanks. Thus, subjects were jirepared
the year, and this gave us much occupation   for each month in

                                            before A Year at the

Shore was completed.

   That year, 1864, I, had a considerable accession of jiroperty,

which was valuable as giving my husband more rest and enabling

him to have more leisure ; so that he did not need any longer to
work, either in writing or in lecturing. In 1866 he began to take
a great interest in some of the rarer kind of plants, especially

orchids, which he had always greatly adnu'red, and had collected

to hang in his house, when he was in Jamaica twenty years earlier.
This remembrance brought afresh the interest before him. He

had built a small plant-house against the westerly side of our

dwelling-house. The boiler for heating the pipes was put on the

                                                                        ^i
                IMAGE EVALUATION
                TEST TARGET (MT-3)

                1.0                           M
                I.I
                                   ·^  lilM 2.2

                                       1^

                1.25                               1.8

                              JA IIIIII.6

           "/}                                                             4^>^
                5.
      w
                                                          \
'<^.                                                                    V         :\

      ^>. ^':>                                                   qv

                                                                           ,.<^"

                                                                 « 6\

                Photographic               23 Vk'ESTMAIN STREET  %
                   Sciences                WEBSTER, NY. 14580

                Corporation                     (716) 872-4503
     4=  ,<?

7a
360 APPENDIX 1.

foundation of the cellar under the drawing-room ; this had the
additional value of warming our house, which before was a very
cold one. This he afterwards enlarged, and eventually our

garden contained no fewer tlian five hothouses or conservatories.
    After the first small importation of orchids, which was not, by

the way, very successful, though of great interest to us, and helpful
in teaching the gardener the management and culture of these
difficult and rare plants, he continued to make additions, partly
througli sales at plant auctions, and partly through orchid
gardeners ; buying small plants and growing them on, till they
are now become good specimens, and interesting objects of
instruction and pleasure. His gardener was specially facile in
reception of his instructions, and in a few years learned the
treatment, and was so successful, both in growing the orchids, as
well as other rare plants, tliat his master left them very much to
his knowledge of the treatment and care.

    In 1867 Captain l]ulger, an Indian officer, who afterwards
 went to the Cape, repeatedly sent a small cargo of valuable
plants ; one plant among them especially, which we have kept
until the present time, greatly interested my husband, but it was
 not until 1889 that it flowered for the first time. The bulb above
 ground is a very large onion-shaped one ; the long narrow and
 stiff leaves from it are of a peculiarly wavy and fan-shaped growth.
 The flowers, which are bright pink and small, come upon a wide
 flat stem, about twelve inches high, in a bunch spreadmg out to

 fourteen inches in diameter, and over one hundred in number,

 and are of the Hexandria order. It is extremely rare in England,
 and has been named by the Horticultural Society Bruits7vii^ia
Josephine. Captain Bulger, whom my husband had never seen,
 was greatly attached to Iiim through his books, and entered into
 correspondence, whic-h lasted until the captain's death in Canada.

     In i860 my dear husband went to London -- the first time since
 our marriage tiiat he had left me for more than a day. He took
 his son to enter the British Museum, and to settle him in

  London.

    In 1868 my husband and I paid an interesting visit to Poole,

 in Dorsetshire -- the place where he had been brought up by
 his parents from two years old. We walked around to see all
 the familiar places -- the home of his parents, in Skinner Street,
f-

                            ArPENDIX 7.    361

    which was a narrow cul-dc-sac, with the Independent Chapel

    on the oi)posite side of this little street, where tiie family-
    attended. He and his brother had been in the choir, William

    having played the violin. We obtained leave to go inside his old

    dwelling ; and there he searched all the rooms, and endeavoured
    to see if any traces existed of sentences and aphorisms, which

    he and his brothers used to write under the chimney-slab or
    other places. At length, he found, in a corner of the ceiling, some
    lines of his own writing, fifty years old, but still unobliterated by

    cleaning or whitewash. The old familiar water-butt in the corner

    of the little back-yard, and other reminiscences, brought back
    many of his youthful thoughts, occupations, and amusements ;

    the harbour and quay, from whence, as a boy, leaving the parental
    roof, he went out to Newfoundland.

    We walked to see the old oak tree in a field outside the town,

    in which he used to sit on .Saturday afternoons and half-holidays,

                    with his great friend antl favourite school-fellow, John 15rown,

I reading and discussing their histories and their little empires and
                     infant zoological studies, thus sowing the seeds of that incipient

    life, which afterwards  developed into his great, extended, and

    accomplished mind.      He made a sketch of the fine Poole
    Harbour and Brownsea
                            Island, sand rocks, Old Harry Cliff, from

    Parkstone, where we walked several times to visit our kind friend,

    Walter Gill, who kept a large school there. This view we painted

    together in water colours, and finished when we got back to

    Sandhurst; it is framed and hangs in the dining-room to this day,

    with many other landscapes, which his skilful hand drew from the

    spots.

       A little later, when the interest of the orchids wore off, and his

    gardener had attained sufficient skill to cultivate them indepen-

    dently, he began to form a collection of foreign butterflies, for

    which he had considerable facilities.  Through his scientific

    knowledge, he had large acquaintance with men who, in this line,

    were able to help to secure valuable and choice specimens.
    These he obtained chiefly from the tropics, by writing to jjersons
    and collectors named to him, who would send considerable

    numbers of butterfiies, their wings folded when life was just

    extinct ; being put in three-cornered envelopes, they would travel
    well, being packed together in cigar and similar boxes. He
                   t  362 APPENDIX I.

 t:i                  would make his selection of half a dozen or so, and send the
  [lii
                      remainder to London, or to dealers in other places, who would
      j; , 1          make their principal remuneration out of them. He would

  |j                  frequently write to missionaries and others, desiring them to

      1^              collect for him at their leisure, liberally refunding them for time

     1, ; i           and labour.                         intercourse  of this kind was

  if i                   A very interesting and intimate

   :^'\               thus opened up with a family of young brothers in the Argentine
II V'I                Republic ; four young men, the Messrs. Perrcns, relations of

                      some dear friends of ours in Torrpiay, with whom we have for

                      many years kept up a bright and happy friendshi]).
                         The relaxing these butterflies and fixing them in the cabinets

                      was an occupation of deep interest to us. The strict order and

                      arrangement, with the name of every insect and its habitat,

                      written in his beautiful handwriting, makes these cabinets most

                      valuable. Many an hour has been spent in looking them over

                      with our friends ; his eagerness in opening the drawers of the
                      cabinets, with his valuable remarks, information, and the inci-

                      dents attaching to individual specimens, made these visits most

                      instructive as well as interesting. He was always willing to impart

                      amusement and information when he saw that it was valued.

                          My husband could very rarely be induced to leave home, but
                      in 1869, at the end of September, we decided to make a short
                      outinti:, and we started in a carriage for Havtor, on Dartmoor.

                      We stayed at the Rock Inn, and took several excursions ; and
                      Mr. Gosse made drawings of various scenes. The Haytor Rock
                      he sketched most enthusiastically after his usual manner. The

                      weather changed to wet and very misty, but he was very desirous

                      of getting several sacks full of sphagnum moss for his orchids. 'I"he

                      stpieezing of the water out of this moss gave him cold, and produced

                      violent pain in his hands. He became so unwell that we were

                      obliged to return home at the end of a fortnight. After a few

                      days his physician, Dr. ImhcIi, pronounced him suffering from

                      rheumatic gout in his hands ; it also attacked his knees. Several

                      treatments were applied, and he kefit his room some weeks, but
                      gradually got worse. In November he went to Torquay to try

                      the Turkish baths. He took them twice a week, and continued
                      them to the end of the year. He gave up the Hible-reading

                      meetings, and also all the chapel services for a while; but he
mm

    APPENDIX /.  363

                                               found at length that his Hmbs became easier, and by tlie end
                                          of the year he resumed his work.

                                         In 1874 he had attacks of wliat seemed to be a form of
                                          aphasia, and though they were not alarming, he was prevailed
                                      upon to make another excursion. A trip to Derbyshire was

                                                selected ; th(jugh it was rather late in the year, we started for
                                           Matlock Ilath. We left home November 12, 1874, slept at
                                           Gloucester, and went on the next morning to Matlock, where we
                                           got lodgings on a vrry high pomt overlooking the winding river,
                                           the Dove, and with a charming view on to the hanging woods the

                                           other side. Though these trees were leafless, the branches were

                                          often so covered by the light and white frost, that on several of the

                                           November mornings they looked like fixiryland. We made some
                                           very interesting excursions in the neighbourhood, which all

                                           tended to re-establish health. One of my sisters made us a visit

                                           here on her way home to Manchester, which greatly heightened
                                           our pleasure. We returned homo in the early part of December.

                                          In 1875 the diary shows that my husband had become interested
                                           in a variety of evangelical missions. Many letters were written,
                                           and donations given to colonial objects and others. We were
                                       made acquainted with Miss Walker Arnott's work in Jaffa. In
                                           the diary notice is made of Katrina Abou Sitte, a Mahomedan
                                           orphan and Syrian child, ten years old, selected by Miss W .
                                           Arnott as our fivtcgcr for ten [)uunds per annum, to be given by
                                           us for her board and schooling at Jaffa. This was continued for
                                           several years, till she left; she has since been married to a

                                           Christian Jew. We have frequently had very sweet and grateful
                                           letters from her, calling us her " English parents," often with
                                       small presents made of products of the country and from Jeru-
·cd salem, where they were living. Mr. Gosse also took up with con-
                                           siderable eagerness Mr. Pascoc's mission -work in Toluca, Mexico,

                                                 and carried on a pleasant corres[)ondence with that gentleman,
                                           helping him to continue his printing work in that place. He
                                           became a liberal contributor to the China Island Mission. Mr.

                                            Guinness's work and institute had also a large share of his help and

                                                 interest.

                                           At this time we engaged a Bible woman of our own to visit
                                       in St. Marychurch. My husband took up once more, for a while,
                                            the consecutive and orderly visiting of the poor a'.iu sick of his
          r^       I) ... ll.J.IUi

                                    3H APPENDIX                        a I.
                                                                                       it
                                    flock, to all of whom h^ wrs kind and liberal. He was the sole

                                    pastor and conductor of a'l the meetings, both at the Table of

                                    the Lord, in worship, and in the preaching.            His discourses

                                    were mainly expository. He was accustomed to take whole
                                                                                           a
                                    chapter or chapters of Gospel or an Epistle, focussing all thea
                                           a

  ift!                              salient points, and then turning to other portions of Scripture

1^ I                                which would shed light, or to (juotations that would explain the
                                    subject in hand. In tho Old Testament he would take cha-
M
                                    racter, bringing out the important features, or might he those
 J I'                               prophetical of the futrre, thus making IJiblical figure stand out,
 I
                                    with all the motives that actuated him, either for good or evil,

                                    as the case might be. These discourses were most attractive

      5.,                           and enjoyable. He always kept very close to Scripture, knowing     a
               1^
                                    good deal of the Greek and something of the Hebrew language.
                                       All this labour, besides his scientific work, collecting at the

                                    shores, his tanks, his cabinets, his plant-houses, are minutely

                                    tabulated in folios and diaries; histories of many specimens

                                    written in full contributions to scientific societies, which occu-
                                        ;

                                    pied his mornings in examinationsa        the microscope and other
                                                                          in
                                    work. All this tells what an industrious man he was. In
                                                                                           I
                                    letter to friend, who sent him manuscript to look over andIa
                                    criticize, he says, " am sorry to have kept your manuscript so           is a
                                           I

                                                   it

                                                      I
                                    long, but could read only at caught intervals, for my time

                                    most pressingly occupied.  am generally in my study soon after

                                    five a.m. and, what with the work of the Lord and some scientific
                                    ;

                                    investigations, which, hope, will bring glory to Him, know notI
                                    what leisure means." And this letter was written in June, 1881,

                                    when he was in his seventy-second year.

                                       My son has described the manner in which, in 1876, his fother

                                    returned to the study of marine animals. This led him once more

                                    to take frequent excursions to the sea-shore, which was his
                                                               a
                                                                               a

                                                                                  I in

                                                                                                   in

                                                                                               I
                                    constant companion. The living objects which he discovered

                                    were brought home and placed in the large show-tank, which

                                    about this time he fitted up in small room at the back of our

                                    dwelling-house. When he went out dredging, or collecting on

                                    the rocks which he had to approach in boat, was not so com-
                                    monly his companion. The filling of the tank and the watching

                                    of the animals as they made themselves at home         its corners

                                    and crevices was an unceasing source of pleasure to us both. In

      .1
                             AFPEXDIX I.               3^5

1878 I recollect that an octopus was offered to lis by the son of

a Bahhicombe fisherman, who bad taken it in a trammel-net. We

hesitated, but at last decided to buy it for the large sum of fifteen-

])ence. In the afternoon the boy brought it up, and my husband
turncil it into the lobster's corner of the large tank. It was

indeed a hic'eous beast, the body about the si/e of a large lemon.
It was very vigorous and active, yet not wild. After an hour or
two, while I was present, it pushed up into the further angle of

the glass partition, and managed to s(|ueeze its body through into
the area of the tank, and presently found a place for itself near

the bottom of the middle of the glass tank, clinging with coiled

arms to the glass. A month later, the best tide of the whole
year, my husband and I drove to Goodrington Sands, where, at

the central ledges, he made a good collecting. A young lady

who was catching prawns gave us some, and our driver-boy found
a hole in which my husl)and took a wonderful number of fine

large prawns, scjuat lobsters, with others, and a large plant of
Tridcca cihdis. All the above were lodged in the tank in good
condition. A crab we gave to the octopus, who instantly seized

and devoured             together with the head of large fish and
a                                         a
                    it,
                                               It

                                                                             a
dead giant prawn. In November the octopus became languid
for few days, hiding in the remotest corners -- we thought

shrinking from the severe cold that had set in.     died on the

8th, after having lived with us nearly ten weeks.
   All these recreations were great rest to Philip Gosse's active
                             a

brain, as the exercises and air were healthful to his body, and to

me they were source of very great enjoyment. My husband
a
                    a
was true naturalist, and the fiict that for many years he got

his livelihood by writing books on natural history, wandering

among the rocks and pools, mingling all his thoughts and sympa-
thies with the God \\\\o formed these wonderful varieties of

creation, gave           zest lu his life which sedentary reading or
                a
authorship in bis study could never have realized.a    He has
   As Kingsley has said, " Happy truly the naturalist
                                          is
                                                                             !
                                                                                                    ;
no time for melancholy dreams. Tiie earth becomes transparent

everywhere he sees significance, harmonies, laws, chains of cause
and effect endlessly interlinked, which draw him out of the narrow

sphere of self into          pure and wholesome region of joy and

wonder." My dear husbanil was essentially        a  religious man.
           "^Tf  r,*'»<m'[..'-'''vOimiM *rt^M)):L                                      P"

       1/        366 APPENDIX I.

      ''         The attitude of his mind was heavenly ; and only in the face of
                 God, as a Father in Christ, could he enjoy the marvels of nature.
m;               'I'hc psalm was often on his lips, " Tiiy works are great, sought
                 out of all them that have pleasure therein."
 1. '!
                    About this time (May, 1877), 1 was paying a visit to arelativ- in
  r:
     i           Somersetshire, and in an evening walk found a spot in a lane

  ^              where were a number of glow-worms, some of which I sent home.
                 He put them on some grass in the garden, and in his next letter

                 he asks me to send him some more. He says, " Can you not per-
                 suade your cousin or some gentleman to go with you a night vv-alk,

                 and get some more glow-worms, for I think I can keep them lumi-

                 nous for some while? You ask what they are? Glow-worms are

                 beetles ; but the female sex has neither wings nor wing-sheaths,

                 and it is the female alone that is luminous. They belong to a
                 family of the great class Beetles (Coleoptcra), which are remark-
                 ably soft-bodied all their life. Tiie cantharides or bhster-ilics
                 belong to the same family. Tliere is scarcely any visible differ-

                 ence in form between the grub and the perfected female \ the
                 male, however, has large, but flexible, parchment-like wing-cases.

                 In most of the foreign species (there are many in Jamaica, for
                 example) both sexes are luminous." Having lived in Jamaica

                 so long begat in him the love for animal and insect life, as also
                 vegetable life in the tropics.

                     Before he went to Jamaica he met with some dear friends,
                 in intercourse with whom, as previously related in the former

                 part of this life, his religious views underwent an entire change.
                 He speaks of them in a late letter to Mr. George Pearce, now
                 engaged with his wife in missionary labour in the north of Africa :

                 " It is always pleasant to receive a letter from you, and with you

                 to go back along the memories of more than forty years, to

                 those happy days, so loaded with blessing for my whole life since,
                 when we met, a loving and happy band, around the table of dear
                 W. Berger and his wife M. Berger in Wells Street night after
                 night, wliile tlie Holy Ghost poured into our receptive hearts ' the
                 testimony of Jesus,' and began at last to make ' the word of the

                 Christ to dwell in us richly in all wisdom.' A few weeks ago our
                 beloved and bereaved brother, \V. Berger, kindly came down on

                 purpose to stay a few days with us, to renew that happy intercourse

                 which is ever vivid with myself."
                        APrENDlX I.                       367

   In another letter to tlie same friend, he recurs to that happy
period of his younger life : " How sweet the assurance of your

undying love, and how sweet the recollection of that iiappy early

time, when (k)d gave me the precious gift of personal ac(}uaint-
ance with you and other dear brethren. What ^ piinctuiii saliens

was that in my life 1 I had been reared by godly parents
{Indepeu dents). About a year before I knew you, my friend

Matthew Habershon had lent me his two volumes on i>rophecy,

which first opened my eyes to the prc-millennial Advent of our
Lord. Tiie first volume I began after closing my sciiool on a

suuuner evening (June, i.'^42) ; and before I went to bed, I had read
it right through. I possessed a very full knowledge of the letter

of Scripture from childhood, so that the proofs of the doctrine

commended themselves to me as I read without cavil. It was a
glorious truth to me. I hailed the coming Jesus with all my
heart. So absorbed was I, that when at length I finished the
book, I could not, for some considerable time, realize where I

was J it seemed another world I From that time 1 began to pray

that I might be privileged to wait till my Lord should come, and

go up to Him without having been unclothed. Forty long years

have passed. I am now a man of grey hairs ; but I never cease

to ask this privilegu of my loving God (Luke xxi. 36), and every
day I ask it still. Of course, I have no assurance that so it will be.
I have no such revelation as Simeon had (see Luke
                                                          26) but
                                                          in
wait,  hope,  pray." This hope of being caught \\\^ before      in
       I
                  I                                                     ii.
                                    It                                               a;
death continued to the last, and its non-fulfilment was an acute
                                                                                I
disappointment to him.                  undoubtedly was connected with the

deep dejection of his latest hours on earth.

In another letter he wrote to this same friend in North Africa,

88 he says, '* Within few years back, wiien the sole ministry in
1
          1,
            a
                                               a

                                            (I
Marychurch and the pastorale there had become somewhat too

much for my advancing years                       am now  my seventy-second

year), loving Christian gentleman, Mr. William King Perrens,

who had had experience in the same work, came to reside in our

neighbourhood, and he has now, with my wishes, become sharer

with me in the oversight, and we labour together fullest harmony.

There are now about one hundred and twenty in fellowship and
in 'the breaking of bread,' mostly poor and working people in

the midst of much worldliness and Popery, and we wait for our
     wr^^  368 ArrEXDix I.
 ;d'1it1
           Lord's promised return in those views of Divine prophcry wliich
m\^        you knew 1 held diverse from those held usually by ' Brethren ' so

           called fifty years ago."
               Mr. I'errens, though looking for the return of the Lord Jesus,

           did not accept the "year-day" system or the historical fulfdment
           throughout the age, or dispensation, of the jjrophecies, either
           of the Book of Daniel or the Revelation; but this divergence
           of opinion did not hinder their mutual regard and united labour
           for the Lord. My husband followed the old-fashioned Protestant

           scheme held by Scott the commentator, Bishop Newton, Elliott,
           ])0san(iuet, and, lastly, H. Grattan Guinness, who has so ably
           written The Approacliiiig End of tlw A^e, viewed in the light
           of history, proimecy, and science. This motle looks on "the
           times of the Gentiles" as starting from Nebucha I'lezzar, into
           whose hands (]od gave the kingdo.ns of the earth, after He had
           taken the kingdom from Israel, " who shall be led away captive
           into all nations, and Jerusalem shall be trodden down of the
           Gentiles until the times of the Gentiles shall be fulfilled."

              These subjects of prophecy from the Scriptures were, in detail,
           imder the constant study of my dear husband in some form or
           oilier. Lie had a large number of books in his library, both
           ancient and modern, dealing with these prophecies. He was a
           daily reader of the Tiiius newspaper ; he used to say the great
           object of his reading this paper was to see " the decadence of the

           nations, both Eastern and Western, in their downward progress."

           He always kept his I'olyglot Bible on the chimney-piece at his

           right hand, and that was continually brought down on any new
           event -- war or collision among the nations -- to see if it could

           be possible to glean any fresh light from the Prophets on the
           occasion of this fresh outbreak ; especially the Eastern Question
           would give eager aspirations towards the break up of the Turkish
           emjMre, and the setting Palestine free for the return of Israel

               This year, 1884, he brought out a new edition of his Eveniti^s
           at the Microscope, correcting and enlarging some portions of the
           book. This was not his own property, as he had written it some

           twenty years earlier for the Society for Promoting Christian
           Knowledge.

              This year also he began to write expositions of Scripture ;
           some were from notes of his Sunday morning discourses taken by
                  APFEXDIX I.                                  y-9

a friend at the time, afterwards published in a small volume as

T/ie Mysteries of God. This was to him a deeply interesting

work for God, and written with much i)rayor that it might be
blessed to His children. He had so often been requested by

members of his congregatiun, and otiicrs, to write and publish

his discourses, that at length he consented. As he went on with

these expositions, they were of the deepest interest to us botii,

unfolding so much of .Scripture that had not, in its fullest depth,

been   previously discovered to  us, especially in the  three   chapters
      The Psalms." He says       at the commencement           An effort
on "                                                      :"

is here made, in the fear of God, to search for heavenly wisdom as

for hid treasure beneath the surface of the Word; to examine the

lively oracles as with a microscope, persuaded they will be found

well worthy of the closest research. Some of the essays may

seem to some abstruse, and may be thought to be mere idle

speculation.  But, if carefully weighed, I hope they will be

found to rest on the revealed mind of God in every particular.

I have advanced nothing. I have antici])ated nothing on mere
speculation. For every statement that I have made I have
aimed to rest on the inspired Word. I have desired strictly to

limit myself to the elucidation of what is written in the Book.

The constant reference to the very words of the Holy Ghost will,

I trust, plead my apology for what may seem a dogmatic tone.

As His trumpet gives no uncertain sound, so, as the whole tenour

of Scripture shows, believers are expected to kmnowwh confidence

the things which are freely given them of God. We have the

mind of Christ."

My dear husband was especially scriptural on the atoning

sacrifice of Christ, who suffered, "the just for the unjust ;" also

Ion the supernatural             and sinlessness of the Son of
                                  hold that, uniler the righteous
Man. He expressly
                  humanity

                  states, "

government of God, suffering of any kind or degree is impossible,

save as the just wages of sin. But since the holy Child Jesus

suffered as soon as He came into the world, as He was made

under the Law, and since in Him was no sin, of what was this

suffering the wages, but of that ini(|uity of us all, laid on Him,

exacted, and for which He became answerable? (Isa. liii. 6, 7).
   " The Psalms reveal to us that the Holy One was vicariously

bearing throughout His life the iniciuily and reproach of man,

                                                        2R
                                                                                                               \

370 APPENDIX I.

and various pains of body, though all of these in varying measures,                                            V<
and probably witli longer or shorter intermission. The Father's                                                   \

l)ersonal complacency in Him, and His loving confidence in the
I'ather, were in no sense inCG...-.istent with vicarious enduring.

All sulfenng He ever bore, He bore as our vicarious Substitute,

as second Adam, with culmination of pressure at the garden and

the Cross ; but he never lost sight of the love of tiie Father. All,
all helped to pay the ' ten thousand talents ' of our debt to God.
In Him is no sin ! "

   In 1884 my dear husband had the fust symptoms of diabetes.
He was sometimes much depressed, but the doctor's good care and

a prescribed diet strengthened him, and lie recovered. Notwith-

standing depression, 1 see by the diary of that year that his

great energy of mind enabled him to get through much general
reading. In the autumn and winter months he subscribed to

                                        Mudie's Library, as had been his habit for some years. He was
                                        ci 'apid reader, aii<l guL iV.rough a large number of books of
                                        ^ ,;>ous interest, chietly in the evenings -- travels of naturalists;
r t histc-i s of all parts of the world; missionary exploits largely
                                              ^T  atched with great interest the development and opening
                                        of that wonderful quarter of the world, the " Dark Continent."

By these means his general depression wore off, and he grew

more cheerful. He was more indoors than usual, being afraid

of the inclemency of the weather, until the summer of 1885 came,
when he resumed his usual outdoor exercise.

   It was always a great delight to him to watch the signs of

s|)ring and early summer. He was up early in the morning, with

his study window open for the fresh air, listening for the first

voice of the cuckoo, or for the songs of the many birds which

used to congregate .n the trees around. There was one which
we called " the cuckoo tree " in a near meadow, which we could

see from the upper windows of our house. He always tried to

be the first who heard or saw this bird, which for many years

came there. In the diary I see frec^uently, " I walked round by

(or through) the cuckoo meadow and sat under the tree, the bird
voicing over my head." Of late years there were so many

inhabited houses that this bird almost ceased to appear : quite a

disappointment to him.

  I find by the end of this year The Mysteries of God was
                              /(                             APPENDIX I.                      37'

 I'mid                            published. It was received very favourably by the religious

lis of                            press, and there ^vcic many interesting letters from those who
 with
  first                           a|)preciated the book.
 hich
 hich                                The   following years,  from 18S5 to  1SS7, saw him returning to
 ould                             the old  occupation and    study of the  Kofi/era, or " wheel-animal-
 d to
                                  cules." He became acquainted with Dr. Hudson, of Clifton,
   (,'ars
                                  and with him brought out the two volumes of I'he Rotifcra, or
  :1 by
  bird                            IVheel-Aninialcuks.     His ardour and persistency in the micro-

    was                           scopical study of these minute animals at his advanced age were

                                  remarkable. He was whole days with the microscope before

                                  him in his study, inl,crrui)te(l only by correspondence with

                                  various students over Englaul l'3urr)pe, and America.
                                     In our frequent drives, wh. n this study could be intermit;cd,

                                  we would, with bottles in baskets, search the dirty ditches, and

                                  sundry pcids and putl s, for tliese tiny, almost invisible, animal-

                                  cules. Three young ladies, d.iughters of some intimate friends
                                  about thr;c miles distant, wcie enlisted into the work of pro-

                                  curing "ditch-water" to be examined, and it was a great amuse-

                                  ment in their various walks to boLtle up the water.

                                    I must not omit to sav that, during parts of 'h^..se years, he was

                                  occupied in the study of the h Mvenly bodies. We had a good

                                  telescope, through which, on clear and starry nights in the

                                  autumn, we obtained a very fair idea of the principal constella-

                                  tions, double stars, and nel)uUc. An accident happened to this

                                  telescope, and it was rendered useless ; but through The Bazaar

                                  he obtained, from a clergyman in Worcester, a more powerful one,

                                  which gave us further vision into the wonderful space of these

                                  far-off worlds. The sequel of this deeply interesting study towards

                                  the end of 1887 brings me to the close of this valuable life. The
                                  winter nights became cold, and his ardour to stand adjusting the

                                  instrument at open windows brought on an attack of bronchitis,

                                  which at the beginning of 1888 settled into a serious illness.

                                  Mischief at the heart was discovered by the doctor, and although

                                  we still took short walks and drives together into the country

                                  for some little time, his health soon proved to be broken.

                                  January 8 was the last time he was able to expound the

                                  Scriptures at Uic chapel. He gradually gave uj) all study, .uul,
                                  indeed, all reading. It seemed that his brain was entirely unable

                                  to receive mental impressions. He was obliged to spend nearly
                         373 APPENDIX L

                         the whole night sitting in his chair by the fireside, his breathing
                         being so clitticult that he could not lie down in his bed. He

                         became unal)lc to walk upstairs, and therefore two of our good

                         carriage-drivers always came in about eight o'clock, and carried

                         him u|) to his room. Friends frccjuently dropped in to see him in
                         the morning; it seemed to give him some satisftiction to receive

                         them, thougli he was not able to converse much. His son's wife

                         came down to us from London, and we had the comfort of her
                         help and company every day. In his calmer and more lucid

                         moments he described himself as still expecting the personal

                  ,- !'  coming of the Lord. Even within the last fortnight, seeing me
                         distressed, he said, " OIi, darling, don't trouble. It is not too
         LiL
                         late ; even now the Blessed Lord may come and take us both
\A.U
                         np together," I believe he was buoyed up almost to the last with

                         this strong hope.

                            I was often surprised to find how entirely he had lost interest

                         in all his beloved studies. Lor the last two months he entered
                         his study but twice -- once to glance at his accustomed Greek

                         New Testament, which he left open at the Gospel of John xvii. ;
                         and again, for the last time, to look cursorily round. The last

                         evening it happened that he was carried upstairs by our kind and

                         diligent Bible reader for the villagers. This was a week before he

                         died. He never came downstairs again, but remained, with but

                         little intelligent expression, until August 23, 1888, at one o'clock

                         in the morning, wlien he passed in his sleep to be with his

                         expected Lord. He was very restless nearly the whole of that

                         night, but towards midniglit he became quiet. To the nurse who

                         was with him he said, " It is all over. The Lord is near ! I am

                         going to my rewanl ! " Early in this evening, a kind neighbour,
                         Mr. Bullock, had come to his bedside and asked to pray. At

                         the end of his i)rayer the precious sick one seemed to respond
                         distinctly, in prayer for all the dear members of his Church,

                         Ithat " I may present each of them perlect in Christ Jesus."

                               will insert a slight notice of my husband's character which was

                         written by one who knew him        well in the latter part of his life,
                         published in the Cliristuxn.       " ' To every man his work.' A
                                                            to separate man's work into two
                         question arises -- Is it possible

                         parts, and to say this is secular and scientific, and this is religious?

                         We think not. Philip Henry Gosse proved that a man might live
AFPENDIX I.  373

all his life in the service of God, and, in doing so, serve his own
generation in the best possible way. His chief glory, indeed, is
 that he so combined science with religion, that we cannot detect

where the one ends and the other begins, so beautifully are they

woven together in his works. It is as a inisler in, and a revealer
of God, that he stands forth prominently ; not only God as
revealed in His Word, but God as declared in His works. To

him this God was one God, and he was perfectly persuaded that
the written and the unwritten books could not contradict each
other. First anchoring himself to God and His Word, he was
able safely and profitably to explore the wonderful works of the
Creator, without drifting away into unknown wastes, and losing
his way altogether.

    " He had learned to distrust his own intellect, and to relv on
the intellect of God. As a describer of what men call ' natural

objects,' which are really manifestations of God, Mr. Gosse had
few equals. His vivid pictures, fitly framed in graceful and

sparkling language, cajitivate the mind at once, while his reverent

spirit cannot but make his readers feel that he is describing what
he loves as the handiwork of his Father in heaven.

   " Equally happy was his method of expounding the Word of
God. His sentences were terse, vigorous, and pointed ; his
illustrations apt and unstrained ; while his knowledge of the
Scriptures, both of the Old and New Covenants, was aston-

ishing.

   " To say that he never erred in his interpretations of the Word
would be to say that he was not human. His impulsive, eager
spirit, combined with tiie warmth of his imagination, sometimes

led him, perhaps, into an untenable position, and carried him

beyond what is written.

   " It is not possible to over-estimate the value of the testimony

which he has left behind him. Gifted with an extraordinary
intellect, admired as an author looked u[) to as an authority on
all subjects connected with natural science, having admirable
conversational powers, Mr. Gosse might, if he had so chosen,

have occupied a very high and distinguished position in worldly
society. But he did not so choose. ' Esteeming the reproach of
Christ greater riches than the treasures of Egypt,' he preferred to

bury himself in a little country village, and quietly and unobtru-
                                              ^^.-^^- .a..-it3a»»<S»»«P,-'

   374 APPENDIX I.                                                                                               II n

   sively to serve the Lord Christ. All that he was, and all that he

   had, he laid  at the feet  of Jesus.       in these days, is the living
      " Another   testimony,   most valuable

   proof which he has afforded that it is possible to be a man of

   science and yet to be a devout believer in the inspired Word of

   Clod.

      " He believed ' all that the prophets have spoken,' and could

   not tolerate any departure therefrom, either in himself or others.

   This made his utterances sometimes seem stern and dogmatic.

   Having formed an opinion on any matter, he clung to it

   tenaciously, almost to the point of being unyielding, and even
   combative. The inflexibility of his submission to Ciod and Plis

   Word has, in some quarters, earned for him the epithets of
   ' Puritan,' ' ascetic,' ' recluse,' and so on. But how refreshing

   and invigorating is such a decided form of godliness, compared

   with that flaccid, flavourless Christianity and monkish agnosticism

   that is so fashionable in these days. The Lord keep us from being
   neither ' cold nor hot.' As to the influence of his life and teaching

   on earlier, present, or future generations, 'the day' alone will
              If salt,' light,' and 'living water have any preserva-
   declare  it.
                        '
                                       '
                                                                                                '

   tive, beneficial, and fructifying influence on the sons of men,

   then, surely, when the day comes, many will rise up and call him

   blessed."

                                                                                                   Eliza Gosse.

   July, 1890.

m
                    APPENDIX II.

   An account of the religious experiences of my father in
   the year 1842 and onwards I have thought it proper to give

   here, in his own words and without comment. The follow-

   ing passage, written in February, 1888, it maybe interesting

   to note, was only just concluded when his fatal illness
   attacked him, and is the latest of his compositions :--

      A great crisis in ray spiritual life was approaching ; for the Holy
   (Jhost was about to unfold to me the hope of the personal Advent
                    of the Lord Jesus, of which hitherto I had not the slightest concep-
, tion. Two of the most valued of my pupils were I'.dward and

   Theodore Habershon ; the elder of whom, Edward, a thoughtful

   and very amiable youth of fifteen, had already secured a large
   place in my affections, fie had occasionally spoken to me of his
   father, Matthew Habershon, as an author, and had suggested that

   I might feel interested in his works on sacred prophecy. But I

   had never heard of them or him ; and Edward's words met with

   litde response. One day, however, Mr. Habershon sent for my

   acceptance his Dissertation on the Prophetic Scriptures, second

   edidon. It was in Jnne, 1842, when days were at the longest.

   I began to read it after my pupils were dismissed in the afternoon,

   sat in the garden eagerly devouring the pages, and actually finish-

   ing  the work  (of four hundred  octavo pages) before darkness set
   in.            closed the boc^,
        When I                      I knew not where I was ; I had

   become so wholly absorbed in the great subjects, that some
                    before I could recall my surroundings, before
   minutes elapsed                                                 the
   new wodd of      ray consciousness did " fiide into the light     of

   common day."

     Of the Restoration of the Jews, I had received some dim inkling

a
          376 APPENDIX II.

          already, perhaps from Croly's Salathid ; but of the destruction

          of the Papacy, the end of Gentihsm, the kingdom of God, the

          resurrection and rapture of the Church at the personal descent of

          the Lord, and the imminency of this, -- all came on me that even-

          ing like a flash of lightning. My heart drank it in with joy ; I

          found no shrinking from the nearness of Jesus. It was indeed a
          revelation to a spirit prepared to accept it. I immediately began
          a practice, which I have pursued uninterruptedly for forty-six
          years, of constantly praying that I may be one of the favoured

          saints who shall never taste of death, but be alive and remain

          until the coming of the Lord, to be "clothed tipon with my house

          which is from heaven."

              Subsequently, Mr. Habershon gave me his Historical Exposi-

          tion of the Apocalypse., two volumes. This also is a work of
          great value, though, as increasing study made me more critical,
          I found numerous matters of detail to which exception might be

          taken ; and though his confidently anticipated dates were not

          realized, as, indeed, those of none others are yet, the grand out-

          line of interpretation of Divine prophecy given is beyond dispute.

          But to me, who had known nothing higher than the narrow and          M«

          bald lines of Wesleyanism, it was, as I liave said, a glorious un-

          veiling. Its immediate effect was to deliver me from Arminianism,

          on behalf of which I had hotly disputed with my flither, only a few

          months before.

          Tiie enlargement of mind and heart thus effected was, doubtless

          operative in the preparation for another important spiritual
          change, -- the perception, and then the reception, of what are
          known as " Brethren's principles." And this though there was no

          definite or sensible connection between the two movements in my

          mind. There was living in Hackney a young gentleman, a class-

          leader in the Methodist society, with whom I was on visiting

          terms. His wife was preparing a little brochure for publication,

          and they recjuested me to give her, professionally, some literary

          assistance in the work. Thus I was thrown much into their

          society; and as they were both earnest believers and both of

          engaging manners and of amiable disposition, the accjuaintance

          became unrestrained and very agreeable. One day, Mr. Berger
          observed, " I wish you could know my brother Will ; you would be
                                             "
          much interested  in  each  other      And soon after he managed
                                            !

    I. I
1^;-
JT^JUIIWnPi..ilI , ".

                                          APPENDIX II.                                                           377

                       that his brother should be present on one of my evenings. I was

                       charmed with William Thomas Merger: his meekness and gentle-

                       ness, his exceeding love and grace-- the manifest image of Ciirist
                       in him-- drew to him my whole heart ; and then began a mutuol

                       esteem and friendship, which no cloud has ever shadowed from

                       that day to this.

                          It was about the beginning of the year 1843 ; and presently
                       William Eerger told me that he was on the eve of marriage, and was

                       then just about starting on a wedding tour, but tliat on his return

                       he would be pleased to welcome me to their house. Accordingly

                       he and his bride   (who had   been Miss  VIanbeScoammme eri)mmreendeiwateedly             the
                       invitation in the  following  May, and                                                        a

                       welcome visitant. She was a very sweet, simple Christian lady,

                       very lowly and very loving ; they were indeed true yoke-fellows,
                       of one heart and soul, constantly overflowing in kindness towards

                       me. Both of them had been for some time prominent in the little

                       band in Hackney who, discerning the evil of sectarian division
                       in the Church of God, had associated together in the Name of

                       Jesus only,     reofuf s"inBgretahnryend,i"stianncdtiviencltuitdleingbuut ntdheart  one   common to
                       all believers,                                                                      this  appellation

                       all who, in every place, love the Lord Jesus Christ, whalevcr their                                    is li
                       measure of light or scripturalness of practice. That the Church of
                       Cod, and every believer in particular, was called to separation

                       from the world, they perceived ; and hence, the connection of the
                       Church with the State was totally repudiated. The energy of the
                       Holy Spirit in the assembly of the Church was acknowledged, and
                       maintained to exist now in the same amplitude as in the

                       Apostolic age ; and it was inferred that the liberty of ministry in

                       the Church at the [present age is exactly that seen in i Cor, xiv.
                       In this I judge they were in error ; for this supposes that the

                       miraculous gifts {xapLojiara) are still extant, of which there is no

                       evidence.

                       All this, however, became known to me only by degrees.                                     Until
                       I knew the dear Bergers, I was not aware that a movement                                  of this
                       Icharacter was in existence ; nor had                                                     during
                                                                so much as heard,

                       my three years' residence in Hackney, that in a little retired

                       building, called Ellis's Room, a body of Christians holding these
                       views met every Lord's day.

                       Quite early my new friends invited me to take part in a meeting
                                                                                 mfm                 imm,/ii ^m

378 APPENDIX 11.

held  weekly at their house, for                             studying the Holy   Word.* Of           I
such  a " Scripture reading," now                                                never heard.
                                                             so common, I had
I found, sittin,' round a large table in their dining-room, each with
a Biljle before him, about ten persons -- William and Mary Berger,

Cieorge I'earse, Cape! Berger, Eilward Spencer, Edward Hanson,

James Van Sommcr, and perhaps one or two more ; and I took

my place in the little company. They were engaged on Rom.
                                                             a
                                                                                                ;

                                                                                           a i.,
and the seventeenth verse occupied the whole evening. Such

close and minute digging for hid treasures was novelty to me as

was also the deference and subjection to the Word of God, and the

comparing of Scrijjture with Scripture. The company present were

pretty uniform in mental power and education almost all could
                                                             !
refer to the Greek original and there was unrestrained freedom        ;
of discussion, and perfect loving confidence. Many points were
                  ;                                                  II
                                                          ;
examined for the converse was necessarily somewhat desultory.

Only one prominent topic has fixed itself in my memory, viz. the

"heBaevceanulyse  citizenship.  This so                      ama/.ed me that           exclaimed,
                                                                 am not less an  Englishman "
                  am Christian, surely
I                                                                                     !
   I

        I
             I

                               ;

                             a

                        I

                                              a

                                       I
                                           I
Hanson, at whom looked as spoke, only shook his head, and

   was silent till, just before the meeting closed,                              emphatically
said, ' have learned great truth to-night "

      had already formally severed my connection with the

Wesleyan society, and now took my place on Lord's day morn-

ings with the little company (some forty or fifty lowly believers)
who met to break bread at Ellis's Room -- change for which
*
                                                             c

                                                                                            :
                                                                                     a

                                                                                                 It

                                                                              in I
have ever since had reason to thank God.

        My father's memory fails hiin when he says "quite early."                was
A pril, 1S47, that he began to tu. part in these meetings. -- K. G.

                                                                                                                 i:

                                                                                                     k
                  INDEX,

                                               Bermuda, 205
                                               Best, Hannah, afterwards Mrs. Thomas

Abaco, Bahamas, ii8                            Gosse, 3, 4 ; marriage, 5 ; gives birth to
                                               Pmi.ii' IlKNKY, il'. ; contributes to
Abraham and his Children, Mrs. Emily
                                               family maintenance, 6 ; loneliness in
    Gosse's, 256
Academy of Natural Science, Philadelphia,      Poole, 9 ; care and solicitude,    13 ;

    113                                        strength of character, 16 ; visits her
                                               parents, 18, 19 ; in Wimborne, 153 ;
Actinia. Sir Sea-Anemones                      keeps house in ILickney for Philip,
ylctinologiii Jtri/anniia, ifi.                167 ; removes to Kentish Town, 172 ;
Alabama, life and scenery in, 124-148
Alder, Joshua, 243, 2 )6                       return to Hackney, 179 ; association
American itleas of British, 140, 141
Andrews, Miss, 293                             with daughter-in-law, 221 ; c|uits son's
Aquarium. Stv Marine .Aquarium
                                               residence, 234 ; rejoins her son at St.
        , Gosse's 77u\ 246, 251, 252, 261,     ^hlrychurch, 293 ; her death , //^

    288, 297, 340                                 , Philip, grandfather of P. H. Gosse,
Arlidge, Dr., 318
Asplanchna, 226                                   4
Assyria ; her Manners and Customs,             Bethune, Rev. G. W. , 114
                                               IMble, knowledge of the, 328, 329
   Arts and Arms, Gosse's, 231
                                               P.irch, Dr. Samuel, 211

                                               Birds, Gosse's, 219, 221
                                                      of Jamaica, Gosse's, 211; Illustra-

                                                   tions to, 218, 219
                                               rsiandford school, Gosse enters, 21

               B                               Bluefields, Jamaica, 185, 186, 188, 201
                                               Bohanan, Mr., of Jamaica, 126, 129, 131
Babbicombe in 1852, 237                        Botta, at Nimroud, 231
lidird. Dr. William, 172
Balanopkyllia, 241                             Bowerbank, James Scott, 223, 230, 243,

Banim's O'Hara tales, 55, 345                     2(5. 2.'3. 257         Mrs. Piiihp
Bate, (,". Spence, 252                         Bowes, Emily, afterwards
Battersby, Robert, 266
Battle of Hastings, Ao. i, Cliatterlon's,  17  Gosse, 215 ; ancestry, //'. ; education,
Bear, curious case of shooting a, 134          216 ; meets Philip Gosse, 217 ; personal
                                               appearance, ib. ; portrait painted by G.
Beavers, 65, 66, 108
                                               v. Joseph, A.R.A., ib. ; marriage with
                                               Pan. 11' llKNUV, 218; temperament,

Bell, Mrs. Susan, "Aunt Hell," 12.             221 ; married life, ib., 2(:ii,zti2; assists
-- -- , Thomas, F.R.S., their son, 12, 156-
                                               in translating Ehrenberg's Die Infu-
                                               sionsthierschen, 224 ; death of her aunt,
158, 170, 250

Berger, Mr. William Thomas, 212, 376           223 ; death of her mother, 227 ; litcraiy
                                               assistance to husband, 242 ; feeble
378
                                                                           'WMWWNMMMIWi

                                                                                              I

    380 INDEX.

    health, 251 ; bonofitod by Tenby, 254 ;     151. T5S. 171. "ill' t94. 344. 34.T ; suc-
    publishes Aliraham and his Children,        cessful sale of .MS., 157; publication

    256 ; issue and great success of her           and style, 159-162 ; its success, 162
    Gospel Tracts, 260 ; distressing illness,   Carbonear, Newfoundland, Ijosse at, 31,

    262-264 ; sympathy with others, 265 ;          33. 73. 75. 81, 83, loi, 113 ; book club,
    final illness and death, 270; traits of        38, 39; winter in, 44; Gosse leaves,

    character, 272 ; Memorial, 273, 274         89

    Howes, Hannah ncd Troutbeck, niotlicr       Carrington, Mr. J. T. , 309
       of preceding, 215, 227                   Cayo lioca. West Indies, iig
    , Nicholas, of FJoston, U.S., 215
                                                Centipede, Note on an Electric, 171
    , Lucy nr^ Hancock, his wife, 215           Claiborne, Alaliaina, 114
I:

    , William, father of limily, 215, 227       Cl.irke of Liverpool, William, 151
                                                Chnient, Father, its effect on Gosse, 19
    Rrady, Mr. H. H., 348
    Brightwen, ICli/.a, afterwards Mrs. P. H.   Colenians, the, of Hluefields, 185, 186,

    Gosse, her marriage at Frome, 294 ; on         20 r, 208
    sea-shore expeditions, 311 ; pupil of       Compton. See Canada
    Cotman, 341 ; Reminiscences
    Husband, App. I.                  of my            , Cajjtain, 73
                                                Comptoniensa, /.epidofitera, 100
    Bristol, Thomas Gosse at, 5           233   Conception Bay Mercury, The, 76
    British Birds, Yarrell's, 290               Conrad, Timothy A., conchologist, ir4
                                                Content, Jamaica, visit to, 192
             Museum, 170, 172, 226, 231,        Cooper, Fenniniore, works of, 55, 345

    collections for, 178, 210                          , Dr. Samuel, of Boston, 215
                                                Creation, The Vestiges of, 279, 282, 283
    British Quadrupeds, liell's, 156            Croly, Rev. George, 76, 345, 376
                                                Crystal Palace Aquarium, collects for,
    Hrixhani, 239
    Brook Farm, co-operation at, 87                 250
    Brown, Mr., of Poole, 11

    , John Hammond, 17, 22, 2 35i

      iii,54                              112         , Lloyd's aquaria, 306, 309   178
                                                Cuming, Hugh, of Gower Street,
    Burlington, U.S.A., Gosse at,
                                                Cuvier, 273
    Bus, Vicomte du, 211                        Cyclopedia Pantologia, 11

    Butler, Bishop, 14
    Butterflies, Camberwell beauty in Xcw-

    foundland, 71 ; in Alabama, 129, 130 ;          D
    swallow-tail in Newfoundland, 89 ;

    I'2nglish, 167; Heliconia in Jamaica,

       183 ; velvet-black [Urania Sloaniis),    Dallas, Al.abama, 123, 125, 146
    · of Parai^iiay, Gosse's, 315               Didston, residence in, 209
    Byrne, Old Joe, a trapper, 65-68            Darwin, Charles, 150, 161, 230, 256, 272,

    Byron's Tales, 15, 25, 351                  276, 277, 279, 292, 297, 323 ; character-
                                                istic letters, 266-269 ; fertilization of

                               C                   orchids, 299, 300, 303, 304
                                                Davy's Salmonia, Sir Humphrey, 102
    Cahawba, Alabama, 132
    Camden Town, lodgings in, 243               Devonshire, vi.-its to, 236 243, 257-259 ;
    Campbell, Sam, Gosse's negro assistant,        settles in, 272-323. AVt' also St. Mary-
                                                   church

                                                         cup coral [Caryophyllia Smithii),

        187, 190, 107, 201                      240                                              I
    Campbell's Last Man, 28                          Coast, Naturalist's Ramble on the,

    Canada, 89-109, 130 ; voyage to, 8g, 90 ;      240-242, 249. 250, 259, 261, 272, 297,
       autunui scenery in, 98 ; description of
       a winter tempest, 161, 162 ; Gosse's        339. 344. 345 : ^profits on publication,
                                                   245 ; synopsis of a chapter, 346 ; speci-
       emigrant life at Compton, 91-104, 110       men of its style, 347
    Canadian Naturalist, Gosse's, 96, 102,      Dohrn, Dr. Anton, 349

                                                                                                 .(
                                         INDEX.                                          381

   Dolphin [Coryphcena psiffarus), capture,        (iambic, T. , of Carbonear, 47        of
                                                   Garland and Co., Messrs. George,
      and changciiijio colour in dying of, 121
                                                       I'oole, 24, 29
   DouljJL'day, Edward, 171, 170, 233              Gi!ology and Genesis, 277
          , Henry, 171                             Glaucus, or the Wonders of the Shore,

   Drew, Mrs., of Foolt-, 17                          Kingsley's, 253, 257 ; projects of Gosse
   Dtijardin's SystoliJes, 231
   Dyson, David, 179
   Dyster, Frederick, 254

                                                   noticed in, 344

   Egypt, Monumrnfs of Aurirnf, 311                Glimpses of the Wonderful, 178, 179
   Etirenberg's Die Infusionstkierclun , 224,      Good Words, contributes to, 296, 297
                                                   (joodrington sands, 321, 322
       226, 255                                    Gossic f;uiiily, 2
   Elson, Mr., merchant of Carhoncar, 34,
                                                   , Elizabeth, afterwards Mrs. Gre('n,
      37. 38, 43. .S7. f'l. *'8, 71. 75. 79. S8;
      decline of his firm, 105                     sister of I'liilip Henry, 71-73, 103, 156,
   iMiiigrant life in Canada, 92-96
   Encyclop(rdia I'ertliaisis, earliest study, 11  162 ; her death, i'i3
                                                      , I'vtienne, author of /,<·Mddisant, 2
   Entomologiii Alabamcnsis, an unpublished
      work, 130                                    , Mrs. Emily. See Bowes, Emily

             Terrce-nov(C, 79-80                   , .Mrs. Hannah. See Best, Hannah

   Entomological Jounial, 71, 80, 96 ; ex-         , Philip Hknky, ancestors, 2; birth,
      tracts from, 100, loi, 10O-109
                                                   5 ; earliest recollection, 6, 7 ; first ill-
            Society, 31 ^                          ness, 10 ; attends dame's school, 10 ;
   Entomologiit, The, lulward Newman's,
                                                   IIfirst impression of natural objects, 10,

                                                       ; love of natural history aroused,

                                                   II, 12 ; rebuffs, 13 ; strength of memory,

                                                   16, 17 ; attends Sells' school, 17 ; love
                                                   of books, 18 ; enters Blandford school,

       171                                         21 ; thinking powers, 21 ; rambles and
   Entomologist' s Text Book, Westwood's,
                                                   zoological studies, 22, 23 ; appearance
   172                                             at age of fifteen, 24 ; enters mercantile
                                                   house, 24 ; leisure hours, 26, 27 ; love
   Entomology of Ncwfoninlldnd, 102                of lepidoptera, 27 ; appears in print, 28 ;
                                                   escape from drowning, 28 ; accepts a
   Kpping Forest, v^-j, 171
   Ivpps, Dr. John, 270             273, 276,      clerkship in Newfoundland, 29 ; friend-
                                                   ship with W. C. St. John, 34-37, 39-42 ;
   Essays of E Ha, 38                              life in Newfoundland, 37, 38, 42, 43 ;
                                                   attachment to Miss Jane Elson, 45 ;
   Evolutionism, position towards,                 clerical work, 48, 51, 57-59 ; remunera-

       277. 336
   E.xcclsiur Magazine, 275

                                                   tion, 51, 52 ; change from boy to man,

   F'airbank, Dr., 202                             54 ; attempts novel writing, 57 ; keeps

                                                   a journal, 59 ; gains inform.ation on

                                                   seals and seal-fishing, 57-60 ; suscepti-
                                                   bility to ghostly fears, 60 ; moved from

   Faraday, 335, 350                               Carbonear to St. Mary, 61, 62 ; life at

   Eishes, Gosse's, 225, 227                       St. Mary's, 62-64 '>return to Carbonear,
   Florida Reef, 118, 119
   ElosiulariJcc, the, 295               62        65 ; altcniins poetry, 69 ; commences
   Fog-bow or circle off Xew foundland,            serious study of natural history, 70 ;
                                                   becomes _a Christian, 70; visits Eng-
   Forbes, Edward, 243, 252, 255, 268, 27s,        land, 70 ; sister's illness develops re-

       333. 344                                    ligious feelings, 72, 73 ; return to New-
   F"oster, Frof. Michael, 317                     foundland, 76 ; letters exhibiting eager-
   Fourierism, 87                                  ness of natural history observations,

h
                                                                                             mm^

                38a INDEX.

                76-79; "collection," 70; amateur in-                              voyage, 202-205 appearance in 1846,
                striiiin'nts, 80; first insect cabinet, 82,
                                                                                  206, 207 accidental portrait, 207
                                                                                  example of his s( verity of reproof, 208,

                                                                                  209 slow growth of means, 210
                                                                                  thoughts of visit to Azores, ih. literary
                110, 112, T48 rciif^ioiis fervour and;                            ;                                      \
                ri^i'lnt^ss of tlioui,'lii, 83, i.)9, 150, 21.},;                            ;                                         ;;
                276-283, 324-332 buoyant Canadian                                                         I
                anticipations, 86, 87 quits Newfound-
                land, 89 becomes Canadian settler at
                (,'ompton, 91; farm, 92-95, 97, 103;
                his Canadian A'aturalisI, 96 teacher

                in a township school, 99, 100 recog-
                                       ;                                          ;activity, 211, 212, 218, 219, 227, 231,
                                            ;                                     232 courtship and marriage to Miss
                                                             ; ;;                 E. Howes, 217, 218; residence in Uo
                                                                  ;
                                                                                  Beauvoir Stpiare, 219; seclusion of

                                                                                  home life, 221 buys                    microscope,
                                                                                                    ;
                                                                                                          ;

                                                                                                            \
                                                                                                                    a
                nized by Canadian Scientific Societies,                           222 its effect, ih, starts study of
                100; temporary ill-health, 103, 104,                              ; if ;
                                                                                  Rot era, 222, 223 birth of his son,
                197, 212, 233, 234, 256, 259 tired of                             223 daily division of studies, 224
                Canada, what prospect for a school at                                                                                 \;
                                                                                  member of Linn.T.m and Microsco[)ical
                I'oole? 104; change of intention, re-                             Societies, 225 imiiroved fortune, it.
                                                                                                    ;
                                                                                                                ;

                                                                                                                               ;
                solves for Southern States, ih. sells                             inaugurates new method of natural

                farm, 105 position at age of twenty-                              history observation, 228, 229 arclia'o-
                         ;;
                iit,eight, 105 journey from Canada to                             logical studies, 231 social life, 232,
                United States,             112; welcome by                        233 marine researches on shores of;;;
                                                                                  Devonshire, 238-243; return to London,
                scientific men of Philadelphia, 13-115
                                                 ;                        a ;; ;
                                                        1
                voyage to Mobile, 115-121 reflections,                            243 experiments towards, and estab-
                                                                                  lishment of, marine aciuariums, 243,
                121-123; passage to King's Landing,
                123 engaged by Judge Saffold, ih.
                ;;                                                                244 agrees to collect for Zoological
                up-country experience,                   124, 125                 Society's atiuarium, 244 becomes a

                                                                                  popular lecturer, 245 visits Weymouth,
                                                                                  ih. dredging and collecting expedi-
                school-house.          Mount Pleasant, 126,                                                  ;
                                                                                                                      ;

                127 daily routine, 127-129                           ento-
                                                         ;                        ;
                                                            ;
                mological activity, 129-132; skill as                             tions, 244-249; returns to London                                  \
                                                              ;;
  h             zoological artist, 130 subjected to;                              (Islington), 252; visit to Tenby, new
                social peculiarities, 140, 141 morbidity;;
        SiJ:..  of mind, 144, 145 farewell to IXillas                             friends, 253, 254 conducts classes on
\?i'.i .        and the Saffolds, 146 quits America                               sea-shore at Ilfracombe, 257-259 and
                and arrives at I-ivcrpool, 148 sale of                            at Tenby, 264 activity in 1855, 259
  ml'                                                                             elected F. Fi.S. 261 wedded life, 261,
                eiitoniologieal collection, i/>. Atlantic
                                                                                  262 correspondence with Darwin, 266-

                                                                                  269 death of first wife, 270 its effect,
                                                                                  270-274 position as a zoologist, 273
                                                                                  premature hopes of an abortive Welsh
                voyage, 150, 151 refuses a museum;;                               ;;
                curatorship, 151-153; attachment to                                       ;

                                                                                                     ,;
                                                                                                          ;

                                                                                                               ;
                                                                                                                               ;

                                                                                                                                        ;
                                                                                                                                                 ;;

                Miss Button, 15s seeks fortune in                                 professorship, 274 finally c|iiits London
                London, 155, 156; unexpected good                                                   ;
                fortune in sale of Canadian Xatiiralist                                                 ;

                MS. to Van Voorst, 157 gives instruc-                                                        ;
                                                                                  for South Devon, 275 study of sea-
                tion in flower-painting, 158, 162 pur-
                                       ;                                          anemones, 284-290           working garb,
                                                ;
                                                                                  287, 288 literary work, 284, 289-293
                                                                 ;                         ;                                          ;;
                                                                     ;                           ;
                suits in 1839, 159 sketches of Sher-                              household at St. Marychurch, 293
                borne, 163 sister's death, 163, 164 ill                           second marriage, 294 abandons zo-
                            ;                                                                                ;
                                ;;
                fortune, 164 starts an academy in                                 ology, 296 cultivates orchids, ih.                  ;; ;
                ILackney, ih. process of self-education,
                                                                                  correspondence with Darwin, 297-304
                167-169 opening up of                       literary
                         ;             ;;                                         coases professional authorship, 305
                                                ;
                                                   ;                              marine zoological enthusiasm revived,
                                                         a
                career, 169, 170, 177, 178 gains valu-

                able friends, 171, 172 removes to                                 307-309    excursions described, 310-
                                                                                  ;;
11:                                                                                       ;
                Kentish Town, 172 nocturnal pursuits                              312 study of astioiiomy, 307, 322,

                leads to arrest, 173 suggested visit to                           323 resuscitation of Lepidoptcra
                Jamaica for British Museum, 178
                                                                          ;;      studies, 313-317; publication of Roii-

                voyage,     179-182        occupation in                          fcra, the joy of his old age, 319, 320
                                       ;;                                                                                             ;;
                                                       ;                          final family ramble on sea-shore, 321
                Jamaica, 183-202 father's death, 189

                bitten by a scorpion, 202 homeward                                bronchial attack, coupled with heait
                                           INDEX.                                                             383

       disease, proves fatal, 323; burial at      Howard, Mrs. Robert, 218
       'rorquay, ib. ; social isolation, 333 ;
       contradictionsof tpmporamont, 334, 33:; ;  Howlett, Rev. F. , 322
       scope of scientific labours, 336, 337 ;    Hudson, Dr. C. T.,
        claim as a zoologic-al artist, 338 341 ;  Hunt, Mr. Arthur,     25^5,29''>,318, 37t
       characteristics as a lecturer and public                       of Tor(|uay, 312
       speaker, 342 ; as a letter writer, 343 ;   Huron Lake region, 91, 97
       criticism of his books, 343-348 ; unable   Huxley, Professor, 234, 316
       to depict human li<jure, 349, 350; soli-   Hyena, South African, 23

       tary visit to a theatre, 350 ; love of                                 I
        poetry, 351, 352
   Gosse, Thomas, miniature painter, i ;          Ilfracombe, 239, 257
      father of I'llII.IP Hf.nky, 2 ; birth and   Infiidonslhienhen, I':hrenberg's Die, 224,

       training, ih. ; courtship and marriage,        2.S5
                                                  Infusoria. Vx\\.c\\Mi\'f, llistorv nf the 222
      35 ; wanderings, 5, 6 ; located at
                                                  Insect cabinet, 82, tio, 112, 148
       I'oole, 7 ; voluminous writer of un-       Islington, residence in, 252
                                                  Israel, The Restoration of, unpublished
       published works, 14, 189, 190 ; love of
      reading, 15 ; joins his son in Kentish      poem, 7'i
      Town, 172 ; removal to Hackney, 179 ;
       his death, 189                             Jamaica, 180 205; starts for, 178; orni-
                                                     thology, rSo; apjiroach to, iSi, 182;
          , Wilham, of Ringwood, 2 ; his
                                                  scenery, 186, 199, 200 ; natural history
       daughter Susan, 12                         observations by K. Hill, 194 196
                                                      , Birds
        , William, brother of Piiilii' Hf.nky,     ,
                                                                 (/,
      5. 24, 43, 84, 163 ; sails for Newfound-                                         ;
      land, 20 ; welc(jmes his brother on                      211, 212 Illustrations to,
       arriv.U, 33
   Gould, John, 211                               219
   Gray, George Richard, 172
                                                       .\atiiralist's Sojourn in, 193, 196,
         , John l->iward, ih.
   Green, Mr. and Mrs., of Worcester, 3           225, 227 -229, 344, 345

          , Mrs. Elizabeth. Sec Gosse, Elizabeth      Society, the, 198, 200
   Greenwell, Dora, 333
   Griffen's The Collegians, 56                   Jaques, G. E. and .Mrs., of Carbonear,

                                                  43. 83,      85, 87, 88, 151 remove to
                                                  Canada,       89; their farm, 95, 105, no,
                                                               0/
                                                  in                                 ;

                  H                               Jardine, Sir William, 2ir
                                                  Jans, History the, 2i<), 220
   Hackney, residence at, 158, 164, 16:;, 167,    Johnston, Dr. George, 243, 284
                                                  Joseph Andrews, 26
   172, 213, 234                                  Jo.seph, G. F., A.R.A., portrait of Mrs.

                                                      Gosse, 217

   H.affenden, Mr., of Jamaica, 184                                   K
   Hamburg insect cabinet, 82, no
   Hampton, Captain, 79, 82
   Hancock, Governor John, 216                    Kcndrick, M.ajor, 135
                                                  Kentish Town, residence
   Hankey, John A., 210                           Kcw Gardens, 178, 233                   in, 172, 173

   Harbour (Jrace, residence  of St. John              Guide to, 259
      family, 34, 55, 68, 81                      ,
                                                    ;;

                                                                                 ;
                                                                                                           ;
   Harrison, Samuel, 75, 76                       Kingfisher's nest, discovery of a, 19
                                                  Kingsley, Rev. Charles, 151, 251, 252.
        , Slade and Co., of Poole, 29, 47         255. 25'5. 293, 333 germ of GLiucus,
   Hayti  seen from the sea,
   Hill,  Richard, Jamaica    203                 253 letter on Gosse's Omphales, 280-
                              naturalist,            283 dredging for specimens, 289 criti-
                                           194-      cisms of Gosse's works, 344, 345
   198, 202, 212, 267, 269                        Knight, Rev. Richard, Wesleyan minister,
   Hofne Friend, The, 242
   Hooker, Sir William, 178, 303
                                                  70

t
                                             I I I piWI !^»^»«»i»--^W        i_p i^ >im i>ii \PmmHm^mmifg/fmm

               384 IXDEX.

               l-iibrador fleet, 33, 44                  316, 318,     243 ; its inventor, 244 ; first private, 250 ;  I
               l.acerta viriUis lU I'oolo, 13                          its popularization, 252, 348, 349 ; at St.      1
                                                                       Marychurch, joy, 312, 320
               l.aiiiarck, 273                                      Marine Aijuarium, Handbook to the, 259
               /.and and Sea, Gosse's, 304
               LiUikuster, Prof. l'^. Kay, 261,                             biologic. d stations, 349
                                                                    Martin of Poole, O2
                  3 '9
               Laru, Hyroii's, 25, 351                                    , John VV. , of St. .Mary's, Newfound-
               I.ar sabillariim, papiT on, 266
               I.ayrird at Niinroud, 231                                land, 62 65
                                                                    MelieertidiC, 295
               I.camington, 225
               Loidy, Dr. Joseph, zoologist, 113                    Melly, Mr., insect buyer, 148
                                                                    Mi-mory, training of the, I'jj, 166
               l.i'pidi>p/i->'ii, Campion icnsa, 100. Sec also
                                                                    Methotlisni, Gosse and, 153, 154, 37 '>
                   liultcrllii's                                    Microscope, Atlams's Essays on the, 70
                      , Gosso on The Clasping Ori;a/is
                                                                           , (josse's Evenings at the, 290
                  ancillary to Generation of certain,
                                                                    Microscopical Society, 223, 224, 230, 232,

                                                                       243. 259                           to,

                                                                    Mitchell, D. W., 211, 244
                                                                    Mobile, voyage from Philadclphi.i

                   316,  3M17r.,  M.P.  for  Poole,  28                 115-121 ; visit to, 148, 149
               Lester,                                              Molloy, Dr., of Carbonear, 81

               l^ever's exliibition, Sir Aston, 27                         , Dr. P. K., of .Montreal, 92
                                                                    Montego liay, Jamaica, 197
               Lewin, Mr. and Mrs. J. L. , 197           and        ·Montreal nmscum, too
               Life in its Laiuer, Intermediate
                                                                    Moravians, 186, 191, 192
                  livelier Forms, Gosse's, 276                      .Morgan, Mrs., of Clifton, 270
               1.iglitning, description of effect on a              Mount Pleasant, Alabama, Gosse's

                  house .struck by, 53                                                                    school
               Lighten, Sir Charles, 259
               Liguanea Mountains, Jamaica, 199                     at, 126
               Linno-'an Society, 225, 232, 256, 259, 266,
                                                                    Murray, John, 225
                                                                    Museum. See British, Montreal, Phila-

                  317                                               delphia
               Linnieus's Systema /\atur<c, 82, 338
                                                                                               N
                       Genera Inscctorum, 338
               Lisby, Edward, 24                                    Natural History, Annals and Magazine
               Liverniead, Tor Hay, 285, 288
                                                                        of, 226, 248, 252, 259
               Liverpool, Goss(; at, 151, 153                              , Gosse's Romance (or Poetry of),
               Lloyd, W. Alford, 306, 348
               l>o,ader, parish clerk of Carbonear, 84, 85              291, 292 ; second series, 295
               Loddiges, George, florist, 158                               , views on study of, 227, 228
               London district, Lake Huron, 91, 97
                                                                    A'aturalist' s Sojourn in yamaica, Gosse's,
               lA)ni^icorns, 204
                                                                        19O, 225, 227 229, 304, 344, 345
               l>ongnians, .Messrs., 225, 229                       Nevill, Lady Dorothy, 304, 313
               Low, Hugh, 179                                       Newell, Mr., of Carbonear, 43, 46, 54, 57
               Lundy Island, 242, 304                               Newfoundlaial, 30-88 ; voyage to, 30, 31 ;

               Lush, W. F., 44, 113                                     scenery, 33, 107, 163 ; Irish element, 42,
                                                                        81, 86; planters and their course of
I'                                                M                     business, 47, 48 ; fisheries and fishing
                                                                        poptdation, 48-50; "North Shore,"
m              Macleod, Dr. Norman, 296                                 49 ; winter, 56, 57, 66 ; overland winter
               Mammalia, Gosse's, 212, 220                              journey, 66-68 ; contrast to Dorsetshire,
          lN.  March, Mary, of Newfoundland, 60                          74 ; meteorological notes issued in, 76 ;
               Marine Aquarium, first germ, 235 ; natural               landscape, 78, 79; entomology, 81, 86;
                                                                         party spirit and outrage (1833), 81 ;
                   one, 237 ; first serious attempt to create.
                                           IXDEX.                                                     3^5

    (losso its first iiMtiirnlisf, 82, 338 ; papers    I'liblif /.(</;V'( of N'ewfo\in(ilan(l, Ki
    on tftii])! raturi', 100 ; state of its .lOtii'ty  Puerto kieo, uoast scenery, 203
   (i8j8), 105
.Vcwfoitntlhind, /intomolo^yof, loi, 102                     , S.inJ.'an, 203, 204
.N'ewm;in, Ivlward, 171                                I'ldicli and the .Marine .\(|n;irintn, 348
New York, (jossc at, 112
                                                                                           (.»
Nincvt'h, winged hull of, 22O, 231                     Quehee, its approacli dcicrilied, 90. ^4
Noscwortliy, Brother, 145, 14'j
                                                       Qilok<'tt, John, 223
AoluHiniiitiiiii, 2q(j

Nuttall, 'I'lionms, botanist, 113

Ocean, T/if, (josse's, 173 178, 304                    R.uudn, chasing the, 13S, 131)      213,       3^4
Oddicombc, 237, 285
O' llara J-'ami.'v tales, Hanint's, 55                 Religion-, feelings, 31, 32, i()9,
Omplhtlo!., Closse's, 276 283
l)l)ossuin luint in Alab.iTna, 135 140                   334, .\pp( ndi.\ II.
Oreliids, J.iniaiea, 1S4, 187; fertihz.ilion
                                                       Remingtons of Massachusetts, 216
    of, 297 304                                        Remor.is, (;r sucking tisli, descril)ed, 120,
Ornithohi^y, Gosse's /'op/iLir Dri/i.^li.
                                                       121
    220, 221
                                                       Reiioiiard, Rev. (J. C. , 211                  193
      , \\'ilsf)n's Amtiicni, 160                      l\'cl>orlcr, Roval .Xgricullural Society's,
                                                       h'cptiles, Ciosse's, 221
Osborne, .\lr. , of Jamaica, 198
Otter slides, 66,. 67                                     Reynolds, Sir Joshua, ^                     I )r,
Owen, .Sir Richiird, 230, 292                             Ringwood, Gosse family at, 2
                                                          Robinson's drawings of birds, etc.,
P
                                                             Antliony, 198, 2oj, 202
                                                          Rocky River, NewloiiMdlanil. 00
                                                       I Ross, Sir James, 173
                                                          Rossetti, iJante (i. , 226

I'aget, Dr. Sir j.imes, 262                            Rotifers. Gosse's studies of, 222 224,
I'arkstone, 73, 74                                         226, 235, 252, 255, 256, 295, 318, 337,
Parnell, Dr. , 195
                                                           350
Pcachia. Sec Sea-anemones
                                                       Rotifera found in /lrif,:in. Gosse's Cu/a-
Peale, T. R. , zoologist artist, 113
                                                           /oX//e of, 23 1
Pennant, 159                                                  , (Josse's Diceciiuis C/iaracter of the,
Penr\y, R.A. , Edward. 3
Philadelphia, 104, 113, 114                               261
Phippard, sailmaker, 30
                                                       , (Josse's O/i l/ie Structure, etc., of,
      , J. P., William, of ."^t. Mary'.s,
                                           02.             255
                                                              , Hudson antl tio-se's, /'/>,, 318 321 ;

                                                           Su/^fitement, 321
                                                       Royal Society, ProeeeJings of, 171, 255,

   63                                                  259, 16
Pimlico, Mrs. Gosse in, 265                                , tjosse's election, 261, 263 ; obituary
Plessing, Mr. and Mrs., 186
Plymouth Brethren, theology of, 213, 214,              notice of Gosse, 348

   330                                                      S
Poole in 1812, 8 ; Gosse family in, 6, 7.
                                                       Sacred Streaiif'. (josse's, 224, 227           121
   20, 26 ; Philip Henry leaves, 29 ; re-              Saffold, Hon. ('hief Justice Rueben,
   visited, 71, 73 75. 103
I'cpiiUir Science Revie-w, 295                             123, 146
Prickly pear, 122                                             , Rueljen, junr. , 125

Pritchard's History of Infusoria, 222, 318                                                        2C
                                                                                                                                       H

   ?86 INDEX.

   Satnunttj, or Diiys of Fly /'is/iini;. Sir          warm friendship for (iosse, 36, 37
      Humphrey Davy's, 102
                                                      death, 37 letter recounting early walks,
   Salter, Dr. Hyde, 262                               39, 40; burlesc|ue poem on Gosse, 41,
                                                       42 niiirriage. 63
        , Tom, (iosse's cousin, n, 75
                                                    St. John, Hannah and ("harlotte, 55
   Siif/trdijy Review on Gossc's death, 337         St. Mary's, Newfoundland, Gosse clerk
   Saunders, VV. VV., letter to. 209, 210           ;                             I.
   Savannali-le-Mar, Jamaica, 184, 185, 188,                    ;                                    ;
                                                                                                        a
                                                                                                                  ;;
                                                        in, 61 described, 62, 63;
                                                    St. Marychurcli, Devon, visit to, 236, 239
     in189
                                                       buys a house and settles at, 275 life in,
   Saw-wiiotter, Sound of tlie,
                                                        306, 307, Appendi.N
   Scarron's RoiiiiUi Coini<iiie, 26
   School Seventy Years ago, A Country Day,         St. Thomas, West Indies, visit to, 204
                                                    Stacey, Miss Mary, 262
        17
   Scorpion on ship in Xortli .Atlantic,      77 ;  Stanley, Rishop, 250
                                                    .Star crane fly of Newfoundland, 101
      and off Kingston, r>02
                                                    Stephanoceros, 222, 295
   Scott, J., of Ivlinhurgh, 299                    Stoddnrds of M.assachusetts, 216

          , Sir Walter, works of, 55                Sucking tlsh. See Renioras
   Sculpen (tW///,v), 114
   Sea and Land, 2J,'2                              Surrey Zoological Gardens, collects for

   Sea-anemones [^Actinia], 241 ; >~oieaand            Aquarium of, 250
                                                    Swallow, Jamaica green, 223
   nivea, 239, 253 ; biinodes coroiiata, 289 ;      Swanage, at, 20
   Sagartia, 241; bunodes, ih., gastro-             Systema Xatunr of Linmvus,

   nomic test of crassicornis, 241, 242;                                                                                   82, 338

   peachia, 256                                                         T
        and Corah, Gosse's Ifistoty of the

   liritisli {Actinologia Jiritanntca), 284,

       290. 307. 337. 340                           Tarrant .Monkton, 22
   .Sea-serpent, theory of the, 291, 292, 295
   Sea-side /'/eas/ires, (josse's, 242              Tegg's London F.neyelopcedia, 82
   Seal fishery, departure from and return to,      Tenijy, its attractions, 253, 254 revisited,
                                                                                                                           ;
      Newfoundland, 48                                                                                                         ;
   Seal pelts delivered, method of checkini^^,      264
           A .S8                                          (josse's, 254, 256, 259, 272 profits
       57.                                        I I:
   Sedgwick, .Adam, 277                                        ,of, 261                                                                   ·'1
   Sells, Charles, of I'oole, 17, 39                                                                                                           ^
   Selma, Alabama, 146                              Thomas, Luke, 30, 32
   Serpentine, Asplanchna in, 226                   Thoreau, Henry, i6i

                                                    Titton I'rook, early recollections of,                                        6

   Sherborne, 157, 163                              Tow Cringle's Log, Michael Scott's, 185

   Shore,         Year at the, 296, 305, 34{        Toole, Ned, and the (jhost, 63, 64
                                                    Tor Bay, Kingsley and Gosse on, 289
   Sinclair, Lord, 296
                                                    Torc|uay, 351 Gosse's burial place,                                           324
                                                    Tramp, am-'cdote of a, 15
                                                    Troutbeck, Hannah, 215
   Slade, I'.lson and Co., 47, 93; decline    of    ,
                                                                     ;
       the firm, 105                                              Rev. John, 215
   .Slavery in Southern States (1838), 142, 143
   Sly, Mrs,, 10                                    Trumpet Major, Hardy's The, 22
                                                    Twohig, Mr., 69
   Smith, Anker, A.R. \., 2'

   Society for Promoting Christian Know-

       ledge, Gosse writes for, 169, 170, 173,      Van Voorst, John, purchases MS. of
                                                       Canadian A'aturalist, 157 friendship
       21 1, 219, 231, 242
   Southey's Thalaba, 351                               to (josse, 158, 170, 211, 245
   Sparrow, America, 115                            Vivarium, its inventor, 243, 244
   Sprague, Mr., 79
   Squirrels in Alabama, 133

   St. John, William Charles, 34, 54-57, 7O
      his father, Oliver, 34 portrayed, 34
                        ;
                                                        3;6 ;

                                                                                                                        ;

m
         ^i                                                                      INDEX.                                            387

                                 I                        W                                 Wimborne, Philip Henry and mother at,
                                  I!
                                         Walsh's Brazil, 151                                    '53
                                         Ward, William, A.R.A., 2                           Winthrop. Governor, 215
                                                                                            Winton, Henry, outrage on, 8i
                                         Waringion, Robert, 243                             Wombwell's menagerie, 22, 23
                                         Waterton, Charles, Wundentigi, 160                 Wood, Mr., of St. John's, 47
                                                                                            Woodpeckers {Phiis principalis and
                                         Wesleyan Society, joins the, 83, 84 ;
                                            thoughts of the ministry, 153, 154;                J'ic/is a unitus), 131
                                                                                            Worcester, Thomas (jossc at, i, 3-5 ; his
                                         local preacher,  169 ; severs connection
                                         with, ib.                                             marriage, and birthplace of FlULll'
                                                                                               Henrv, s
                                         West Indies, visit to, 180-205 ; revisit

                                            contemplated, 227

                                         Westwood, John Obadiah, i'rof. , 17a
                                         Weymouth, marine researches at, 246,

                                            247. 25J. 257                                   VarrcU, William, 20, 290
                                         Whale, Ucliii^a or white, 73 ; toothless of        Youth's Magazine, contributes to, 28

                                         Havre (De/phi/tor/iy>tchns mUropterus),

                                         i8i

                                         White, Adam, 172, 233                                        7.
                                                , Dr. Buchanan, 315,
                                                , Gilbert, of Selborne,  316     160, 180,  Zoology, views on study of, 228, 229
                                                                           to6,
                                                                                                  Jor Schools, Text-book of, 221, 222.
                                             344. 345
                                                 Oiik, passage to Mobile in the, 115        224, 227

                                         Whymper, J. W., 172, 173, 177, 212                 ,  Introduction to,  48,   169, 170    259,
                                                                                            ,  Manual of Maj     inc,   256, 257,
                                         Whitneys of Massachusetts, 216

                                         Wight, vi'it to Isle of, 234                          263, 338
                                         Wilberforce, Bishop of Oxford, 254                 Zoological artist, Gosse as a, 338, 339
                                         Wilkes, Lieut, t'harles, 113
                                         Wilson, Alexander, ornithologist,                            Gardens Atiuarium, 244 ; Gosse

                                                                                 114.       collects for, 246 ; dispute re-conditions,

                                         11;, 160, 329                                      248, 249

                                      '                                       TIIp; KNI>.

US. of                                        IKIMKL. ;V VVILLI.X.MCl.l)V\K,S AND SdNv, I I.MITKD, LONDON AND lll'.CCI.HS.
 ndship

